DRN-3219906
The complaint
Ms P says S.D. Taylor Limited trading as Loans at Home (LaH) lent to her irresponsibly. She 
says that she was in a debt spiral and so LaH shouldnt have lent to her. 
What happened
This complaint is about 14 home collected loans LaH provided to Ms P between June 2007 
and September 2012. Some of the information I have been provided about the lending is in 
the table below. 
loan date taken amount instalments date repaid
1 21/06/2007 £300 50 23/04/2009
2 04/06/2009 £100 32 01/10/2009
3 01/10/2009 £375 41 17/06/2010
4 03/12/2009 £200 32 05/08/2010
5 17/06/2010 £375 41 23/12/2010
6 05/08/2010 £200 32 10/03/2011
7 12/08/2010 £100 32 03/03/2011
8 23/12/2010 £375 41 14/07/2011
9 10/03/2011 £200 32 15/09/2011
10 10/03/2011 £100 32 15/09/2011
11 14/07/2011 £375 41 20/09/2012
12 15/09/2011 £200 32 20/09/2012
13 15/09/2011 £100 32 20/09/2012
14 27/09/2012 £600 52 written off
LaH has said that this Service shouldnt consider any of the loans as Ms P complained more 
than six years after they were started. So, it doesnt think the lending is within the jurisdiction 
of the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our adjudicator firstly said that she thought Ms P had complained in time. This is because 
whilst she made her complaint later than six years from when she started the loans there 
was no evidence that showed Ms P was aware she could complain three years before she 
actually did. And this meant her complaint had been made in time. 
Our adjudicator then looked at the merits of the complaint and went on to partially uphold it. 
She didnt think that LaH had irresponsibly lent for loans 1 to 4. But she said that by loan 5 
the lending pattern itself looked to have become harmful, and so LaH shouldve stopped 
lending at this point. 
LaH responded to the adjudicators opinion about the jurisdiction of this complaint only. It 
said that, essentially: 
We havent asked Ms P when she became aware she could complain, and this is 
necessary to decide if we can consider the complaint. 
Ms P was in arrears with her lending as early as 2012 and LaH says she had 
significant debt problems between 2012 and 2017. 
So, she would have been aware that the loans were causing her problems more than 
three years before she made her complaint. And she should have been aware that 
she could complain about them much earlier than she did. 
The decision is different to other outcomes LaH, and its parent company, have 
received on other cases.
Ms P agreed with what the adjudicator said. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
Why I can look into this complaint
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments provided by Ms P and LaH to 
decide whether we are able to look at all loans being complained about. Having done so, I 
have reached the same conclusion as the adjudicator  that I have the power to consider all 
the loans being complained about. Ill explain why. 
The rules I must apply say that, where a business doesnt agree, I cant look at a complaint 
made more than six years after whats been complained about, or if later, more than three 
years after the complainant (in this case, Ms P) knew, or should really have known she had 
reason to complain. This is set out in Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R and can be found online 
in the FCAs Handbook. 
Its clear all of these loans were complained about more than six years after they were taken. 
However, Ive not seen anything to persuade me Ms P was aware or ought to have been 
aware more than three years before she raised this complaint, that she had reason to 
complain. LaH has said that when Ms P struggled to repay the lending this shouldve caused 
her to realise she had reason to complain. But I dont think this is enough in this particular 
case to demonstrate that.
I say this because whilst struggling to repay the lending would no doubt have led Ms P to 
realise there was a problem (in terms of the financial difficulty), Im not persuaded this would 
have (or ought to have), in itself, made her aware that these problems were caused by LaH 
doing something wrong when it agreed the loans. If fact the severity of the problems Ms P 
seems to have faced would lead me to conclude that her focus would be on resolving this, 
rather than thinking about whether or not LaH was responsible for irresponsibly lending. 
And I havent seen anything else to persuade me that Ms P was or should have been aware 
earlier of cause to complain more than three years before she complained. I dont think I 
need to clarify this with Ms P. 
So, like our adjudicator, I think all of these loans were raised within the time limits I need to 
apply and that I do have the power to consider them. Ill now go on and consider whether or 
not I think all the loans complained about were lent responsibly. 
And, as Im sure LaH is aware, we do look at each case individually and so outcomes can be 
different in cases where the circumstances may seem similar. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
LaH needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms P could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that LaH should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive decided to uphold Ms Ps complaint in part, and Ive explained why below.
Ms P accepted our adjudicators opinion about loans 1 to 4. Because of this I dont think 
there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. And for the avoidance of doubt I 
agree with what the adjudicator said, for the same reasons. And these loans were part of the 
borrowing relationship Ms P had with LaH. So, they are something I will take into account 
when considering the other loans she took.
I havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks for loans 5 to 14 because I 
dont think that it is necessary to do so. Ive looked at the overall pattern of LaHs lending 
history with Ms P, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which LaH should reasonably 
have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so LaH should 
have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Ms Ps case, I think that this point was reached by loan 
5. I say this because:Ms P had been indebted to LaH for around three years now. This is a long time to be 
using this type of credit and its notable that Ms P took 96 weeks to fully repay loan 1, 
which is in itself is a sign of financial difficulties. 
Ms Ps first loan was for £300 and loan 5 was £375. And Ms P hadnt repaid loan 4. 
So, there wasnt any sign of Ms Ps indebtedness, or reliance on this type of lending, 
decreasing. 
Right from the start Ms P was provided with a new loan within a very short time of 
settling a previous one. There was a short break after loan 1 but she was 
continuously in debt after this
So LaH ought to have realised it was likely that Ms P was having to borrow further to 
cover the hole repaying her previous loan repayments was leaving in her finances. 
And at loan 5 LaH ought to have known that Ms P was not likely borrowing to meet a 
temporary shortfall in her income but to meet an ongoing need. It should have 
realised that Ms Ps indebtedness was unsustainable.
And going forwards Ms P wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed 
LaH. Loan 14 was taken out over six years after Ms Ps first. And it was for a larger 
amount. Ms P had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to LaH 
over an extended period.
I think that Ms P lost out because LaH continued to provide borrowing from loan 5 onwards 
because:
These loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Ps indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive credit over an extended period of time.
The number of loans and the length of time over which Ms P borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on Ms Ps ability to access mainstream credit and so 
kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im upholding the complaint about loans 5 to 14 and LaH should put things right.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress LaH should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Ms P from loan 5, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Ms P may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between her and this particular lender which she may not have had with others. If this wasnt 
a viable option, she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how she would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Ms P in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Ms P would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce LaHs liability in this case for what Im satisfied 
it has done wrong and should put right.
LaH shouldnt have given Ms P loans 5 to 14.
A) LaH should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms P towards interest, fees 
and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party where applicable, but 
not including anything it has already refunded.
B) LaH should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms P which 
were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms P originally made the payments, 
to the date the complaint is settled.
C) LaH may  if LaH choose to  use the total of A plus B to repay any principal which 
LaH has written-off.
D) LaH should pay any remaining refund to Ms P. If there is no refund left and still a balance 
outstanding made up of written-off principal, it would not be fair for LaH to pursue this 
further.
E) The overall pattern of Ms Ps borrowing for loans 5 to 14 means any information recorded 
about them is adverse, so it should remove these loans entirely from Ms Ps credit file. If LaH 
has sold any of the loans LaH should ask the debt purchaser to do the same.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires LaH to deduct tax from this interest. LaH should give Ms 
P a certificate showing how much tax LaH has deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Ms Ps complaint.
S.D. Taylor Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman