DRN-2052378
The complaint
Mr T complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund disputed transactions made from his 
account. 
What happened
Mr T explains that almost £4,000 worth of transactions were carried out on his HSBC 
account to an online gaming merchant, Ill call M, between November 2018 and March 2019. 
Mr Ts complaint has been brought by a representative but for ease Ill refer to any 
comments made by Mr Ts representative as if they came directly from Mr T. 
Mr T says that he loaded his card details to his computer console and authorised M to take 
some payments prior to November 2018. But he didnt authorise the almost £4,000 worth of 
payments between November 2018 and March 2019. 
Mr T complained to HSBC, but they didnt uphold his complaint. Initially they said that Mr T 
needed to be more specific about what transactions he was disputing, and on Mr T providing 
further details the bank said they thought it more likely than not he authorised the 
transactions. But said if Mr T was able to evidence the transactions didnt appear on his 
account with M then theyd reconsider their position. 
Because Mr T didnt accept HSBCs response he asked our service to look into his 
complaint. 
On looking at Mr Ts complaint, our investigator didnt uphold it. In summary he thought on 
balance Mr T authorised the disputed transactions. He reached this conclusion because 
Mr T had accepted he loaded his card details to M, made genuine transactions before and 
after to M, had been using his account for other activity, whoever carried out the transactions 
appeared to know the balance of the account and bank statements had been sent every 
month to Mr T. He also though the account activity wasnt unusual so didnt expect HSBC to 
step in. 
Mr T didnt accept our investigators outcome. In summary he said:
-The statements werent provided monthly but every three months.
-Because hes a minor the bank should have made it clear to his parents that they 
wouldnt notify them about unusual activity.
-527 transactions in one month cant be regarded as normal account activity. 
Out investigator went back to HSBC to ask for proof that statements had been sent monthly. 
He didnt change his outcome and in response said:
-HSBC have provided him with evidence that the statements were sent monthly. 
-The terms and conditions which Mr T agreed to when signing up to the account make 
it clear it is his account and he has sole authority. 
-Mr Ts authorised a number of genuine transactions to M in the past.
Mr T didnt accept our investigators second view  and said he doesnt accept statements 
were sent every month. And he made contact with the bank as soon as he received his bank 
statement and saw the disputed transactions to M. He also said the disputed transactions 
were larger than the genuine transactions and HSBC have a duty of care to notify customers 
about unusual activity.
 
As Mr T didnt accept our investigators outcome its been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator previously set out and for much the same reasons.
 
Generally, HSBC can hold Mr T liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence suggests 
that its more likely than not that he made or authorised them himself. 
Im satisfied from HSBCs technical evidence that Mr Ts genuine long card number and 
three digit security code were used to make the disputed transactions. But the regulations 
relevant to Mr Ts case, the Payment Service Regulations 2017,  say that is not  on its own 
 enough to enable HSBC to hold him liable. So I also need to think about whether the 
evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Mr T consented to the transactions being 
made.
From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for HSBC to conclude that Mr T 
authorised the transactions. This is because:
-Mr Ts proposed that his account with M was hacked into. Although I accept this is a 
possibility Ive not seen any evidence to demonstrate how this occurred. 
-Mr T advises that he loaded his card details to his account with M. And carried out 
genuine transactions from December 2017 through to November 2018. Its therefore 
clear that the account activity Mr Ts disputing, although for more transactions than 
hes previously carried out, isnt unusual for his account.
 
-Since the disputed transactions Mr T has carried out further genuine transactions to 
M. 
-The only activity that Mr Ts disputing are transactions carried out to M. If a fraudster 
did gain access to Mr Ts card details Id expect them to carry out transactions to 
more than one merchant. And Id also expect them to spend as much money as 
quickly as possible  but this isnt the case when looking at Mr Ts bank account. 
Instead the transactions carried on for a period of over four months before Mr Ts 
entire balance was used. 
-On the 23 and 24 February 2019 a high number of attempted transactions to M were 
rejected because of his account having insufficient funds. Then no further 
transactions are attempted on Mr Ts account until his salary is paid in on the 
1 March 2019. This indicates that whoever was carrying out the transactions on the 
account was aware of Mr Ts balance. -Mr T reported the disputed transactions to HSBC on the 30 March 2019. He argues 
that he didnt receive a bank statement until this time but HSBC have provided 
evidence these were posted monthly. Mr Ts also carried out undisputed ATM 
withdrawals on a number of occasions during the period of the disputed transactions. 
HSBC havent been able to provide me with evidence that balance checks were 
carried out during these withdrawals but on balance I find it unlikely Mr T didnt check 
on at least one occasion. And overall, I find it very surprising Mr T didnt notice the 
disputed transactions until he reported them at the end of March 2019. 
Mr Ts responded to our investigators view by saying that the transactions to M had 
increased in size and number and this should have HSBC to contact him. And theyve 
got a duty of care to their customers. But, Im afraid I dont agree with Mr T here. Mr Ts 
made numerous previous undisputed transactions to M, over an extended of time. And 
although there were a large number of disputed transactions made, these werent 
significantly higher in value. Therefore I dont agree it should have triggered HSBCs 
fraud prevention system. Even if I did, because I think Mr T consented to the disputed 
transactions Im satisfied this wouldnt have changed the account activity. 
I realise this will be disappointing to Mr T but for the reasons Ive outlined above, I think 
on balance Mr T authorised the disputed transactions. And therefore HSBC are entitled 
to hold him liable for them. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2020.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman