DRN-2025473
 
The complaint
Miss S says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a regular payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy to cover her store card repayments.
What happened
Miss S took out a store card in 2000. At the same time she took out a PPI policy to cover her 
card repayments. The policy cost £1 per £100 of the balance on Miss Ss store card. A 
successful claim on the policy wouldve paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the store 
card if Miss S was unable to work due to accident or sickness or lost her job. The benefit 
would continue to be paid until Miss S returned to work or the balance was cleared.
Our adjudicator thought Miss Ss complaint should be upheld because she didnt think Miss 
S was given enough information on the exclusions on the policy in relation to pre-existing 
medical conditions (PEMC). And because Miss S has told us she suffered from a PEMC she 
didnt think Miss S wouldve agreed to take out the policy if shed understood the PEMC 
exclusion. 
So the complaint came to me for a decision. I issued my provisional decision in June 2020. 
In my provisional decision, I explained why I was proposing not to uphold Miss Ss 
complaint. I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a 
final decision and neither AXA or Miss S have added anything further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said that:
The PPI was applied for in store when Miss S applied for a store card. AXA have given us a 
copy of the original store card application form. I can see that the sections on the application 
form that deals with card protection and additional card holders have been left blank and 
been struck through. 
But I can see that Miss S has signed for PPI in the section Payment Protection under the 
words Yes, I want my Account covered by Payment Protection. 
If Miss S didnt want to take out PPI she couldve left this section blank like the others and 
not signed to take the cover. Because she signed within the PPI section rather than leaving it 
clear, I think its likely Miss S knew she had a choice about taking out PPI. And I think she 
signed within the box because she wanted the cover.
I dont think Miss S was advised to take the cover. What this means is that AXA didnt 
recommend PPI to Miss S, they just gave her information about PPI and it was up to her to 
decide if her circumstances were such that she needed the policy. This information needed 
to be given in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading so she could make an informed 
choice about buying PPI.
AXA say that sufficient information wouldve been provided at the point of sale to allow Miss 
S to make an informed choice on whether to add PPI to her account. But I cant say whether 
this information was good enough. That being said even if AXA did give all the information 
Miss S needed to make an informed choice on taking out the policy, I think she wouldve still 
taken the policy because at the time of sale:
She was eligible for the PPI.
And even though Miss S has told us she suffered from a PEMC there is no 
information to show when she started suffering from this condition or that it led to her 
having significant time off work because of it or that she mightve thought she would 
need to take time off because of this condition. So I dont think the exclusion relating 
to PEMCs wouldve put her off buying the policy. And it doesnt look like she 
wouldve been caught by any of the other main exclusions in the terms and 
conditions of the policy which couldve made it difficult to make a successful claim.
At the time of the sale Miss S says she had no other means of making her 
repayments if she couldnt work. The policy wouldve covered her payments if she 
was unable to work due to accident or sickness or lost her job. I dont think knowing 
this information wouldve changed her mind about taking the policy. 
The premiums charged on the policy during its lifetime amounted to around £100. 
Theres nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Miss S and if she no longer 
wanted the policy she was able to cancel it.
So I dont think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Miss S on 
the PPI. I think she wouldve still taken out the PPI policy as it was of value to her.
As neither party has provided any further evidence or arguments for consideration, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision. It follows that I do 
not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold Miss Ss complaint against AXA France 
IARD. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 August 2020.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman