DRN-2372600
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Indigo Michael Limited, trading as SafetyNet, lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
In late 2017 Mrs A applied for a credit facility from SafetyNet. This was a running credit 
account where a consumer could either request funds up to their credit limit, or funds would 
be deposited into their bank account once their account balance fell below a safety net 
amount of the customers choosing.
Mrs A had the account for a couple of years. But in July 2019 she complained that SafetyNet 
ought not to have approved her for the credit account in the first place, and that it ought not 
to have continually raised the credit limit over the time she had the account. 
SafetyNet sent to her its final response letter (FRL) in September 2019. It made an offer to 
write off her outstanding balance. It stated that was a total sum of just over £1,051. Mrs A did 
not accept that and referred her complaint to this service.
SafetyNet sent to us its assessment documents and submissions and one of those is 
described as a truncated statement. I refer to this later in the decision. According to that it 
shows what the outstanding balance was at December 2019: £783.60 principal sums. The 
other columns are labelled as interest charged and interest paid.  
Mrs A explained why she felt that SafetyNet had done wrong. One of our adjudicators looked 
at the complaint and thought that SafetyNet ought not to have approved the credit facility 
from the start. SafetyNet agreed and made a calculation on the redress. It is that which 
Mrs A does not agree with and has asked that an ombudsman has a look.
The complaint about the irresponsible lending has been resolved, as both parties have 
agreed about that part, and so I plan to review the redress issues only. The complaint was 
passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
SafetyNet has agreed with our adjudicators opinion which was to uphold the complaint and 
has agreed that it ought not to have approved the credit facility for Mrs A at all. The redress 
section set out by our adjudicator was clear and having checked the wording it is in-line with 
what I would expect to see in an uphold for cases such as this. There were no calculations 
carried out by our adjudicator as we leave the calculations to the respondent business. 
I set that out the redress section which was in our adjudicators letter here to be clear. 
SafetyNet had to: 
A.    Remove all interest, fees and charges from the account relating to any drawdowns taken from 
6 October 2017.
B.    Treat all payments Mrs A has made towards her account since 6 October 2017 as though they 
had been repayments of outstanding principal.
C.    If at any point Mrs A would have been in credit on her account after considering the above, 
SafetyNet needs to refund any overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on these payments, 
from the date they would have arisen, to the date the refund is made.
D.    If there is an outstanding principal balance, then SafetyNet can use any refunds calculated as 
part of C to repay this. If a balance remains after this then SafetyNet should agree an affordable 
repayment plan with Mrs A. If SafetyNet has previously written-off
any principal, then it shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up only of principal its already 
written-off.
E.    SafetyNet should remove any adverse payment information recorded on Mrs As credit
file from 6 October 2017.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires SafetyNet to deduct tax from this interest. It should give
Mrs A a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted, if she asks for one.
SafetyNet sent a brief calculation table to us which we forwarded on to Mrs A. I duplicate 
that table here: 
Principle [sic] Outstanding £783.60
Interest Repaid £720.41
Extra Interest £135.76
Customer 80% £108.61
HMRC £27.15
Refund £45.42
Mrs A has sent to us a lot of points arising out of this calculation table to describe why she is 
not happy with these figures and wants them to be reviewed and redone.
I accept that the calculation table is not clearly set out and not easy to understand. And I do 
not have the full details of exactly what Mrs A drew-down on the credit facility, paid back and 
exactly how much interest she would have paid over the two years she had the facility. So, I 
am not able to see if these figures, broadly, are correct.
The truncated statement sent to us by SafetyNet for the purposes of investigating the 
complaint shows that the outstanding balance at December 2019 was £783.60 principal 
sums. The other columns are labelled as interest charged and interest paid. But as its 
truncated then I do not think that the parties can rely on this for calculating the redress.  I think that Mrs A has misunderstood the type of credit she had with SafetyNet as it was not 
a series of individual loans but a credit facility in which Mrs A was able to draw-down sums 
up to the agreed limit and then was expected to repay it. 
Mrs A also seems to think that our adjudicator has directed that the outstanding balance 
should be written off  but that is not the case. And it is rare for this service to direct that a 
respondent business should do this and I do not think its right for me to direct that in this 
case. And thats because Mrs A has had the benefit of the sums she drew down on the 
facility and so its only right that she repays the principal sums. 
But Mrs A is correct to say that the outcome of the agreed uphold of her irresponsible 
lending complaint is that she only needs to repay the principal amounts borrowed. All the 
sums taken as credit are to be  effectively  interest free. And I do not think that the 
calculations are satisfactorily explained both for this service to check them and for Mrs A to 
be satisfied with them. 
So, my decision is that SafetyNet ahs conceded that it should never have approved this 
facility for Mrs A and it must put things right for Mrs A in the way I have set out below. 
Putting things right
The calculations need to be set out clearly for Mrs A and to correspond with each of the 
labelled paragraphs below  A to E - plus the HMRC deduction. This is so that Mrs A can 
see what each section adds up to, with the cross referencing to a full and complete set of all 
her transaction details and draw downs, interest (and any charges) charged and repaid by 
her, so that she can see it all. And the calculation will need to be redone to reflect that they 
must be done up to the date of the refund. So, it will be in SafetyNets interest to get it right 
and clearly set out this time. If Indigo Michael Limited fails to do as I have set out here, and 
Mrs A has accepted this Final Decision, then she will be able to enforce it. 
SafetyNet must do the following:
 A. Remove all interest, fees and charges from the account relating to all drawdowns from 
the inception of the credit facility; and
B. Treat all payments Mrs A has made towards her account since 6 October 2017 as though 
they had been repayments of outstanding principal.
C. If at any point Mrs A would have been in credit on her account after considering the 
above, SafetyNet needs to refund any overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on 
these payments, from the date they would have arisen, to the date the refund is made.
D. If there is an outstanding principal balance, then SafetyNet can use any refunds 
calculated as part of C to repay this. If a balance remains after this then SafetyNet should 
agree an affordable repayment plan with Mrs A. If SafetyNet has previously written-off any 
principal, then it shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up only of principal its already 
written-off.
E. SafetyNet should remove any adverse payment information recorded on Mrs As credit file 
from 6 October 2017.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires SafetyNet to deduct tax from this interest. It should give 
Mrs A a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted, if she asks for one.My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold Mrs As complaint as already conceded by Indigo Michael 
Limited, trading as SafetyNet, and I direct that it does as I have set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman