DRN-2759851
The complaint
Mr B complains that Aon UK Limited mishandled his motor insurance.
  
What happened
For some years, Aon had acted as an intermediary between Mr B and his motor insurers.
For the year from 13 January 2019, Aon arranged a policy at a cost of about £485.00.
By 7 January 2020, Mr B hadnt received a renewal letter. So he contacted Aon. Aon said it
would check and ring him back - which it did on 10 January 2020. Aon said it had a backlog
and the previous insurer had increased its premiums. So Aon needed to approach other 
insurers.
On 13 January 2020, Mr B contacted Aon. It said the policy would end at midnight that day 
but Aon would extend cover for 14 days. The next day, Aon rang Mr B. It said the previous
insurer had quoted over £3,000.00. Aon said it had contacted other insurers, but they had
declined to quote for Mr Bs postcode.
Mr B complained that he had to make his own arrangements urgently to find insurance  and
it cost him a lot more than the previous year.
By a final response dated 9 March 2020, Aon offered £100.00 compensation to apologise for
the inconvenience caused.
Unhappy with that, Mr B brought his complaint to us later in March 2020. He said £100.00
wasnt enough to compensate for the financial loss. So he would like Aon to increase the
offer of compensation to at least £500.00 to cover the additional cost of the premium and for
the stress and inconvenience caused by the situation.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that the
£100.00 offered by Aon for their sub-standard customer service was fair to cover the stress
and inconvenience caused by needing to arrange alternative cover at very short notice.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr B 
and to Aon on 10 April 2021. I summarise my findings:
The shortcomings in Aons service caused Mr B to worry about his insurance and to 
spend time on calls and on arranging cover. I agreed with the investigator that 
£100.00 is fair compensation for this inconvenience and distress.
Subject to any further information from Mr B or from Aon, my provisional decision was that I 
upheld this complaint in part. I intended to direct Aon UK Limited to pay Mr B  insofar as it 
hasnt already paid him - £100.00 for distress and inconvenience in line with its final 
response.
Mr B accepts the provisional decision. Aon says it has no further comments to make. So I 
see no reason to change my view.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B was expecting Aon to arrange his insurance for another year at the same sort of cost
as the previous year.
Aon has said that it knew in November 2019 that it wasnt going to be possible to continue
with the same insurer on the same scheme. So it shouldve started looking around much
sooner than 7 January 2020. Aon is, of course, responsible for the systems issues and
backlogs it has mentioned.
There is some evidence that some insurers quote a lower premium a few weeks before the
renewal date and a higher premium a few days before the renewal date.
Mr B says he ended up having to pay about £785.00. That was a large increase on the
previous year.
But the evidence from Aon is that the previous insurer had changed its price for the risk. And
other insurers declined to quote for motor insurance in Mr Bs postcode at all. 
So I find it likely that there had been an unusually adverse history of claims connected with 
that postcode. That history would tend to push up quotes from insurers who were prepared 
to quote.
So Mr B has fallen short of showing that  if Aon had communicated sooner and better - he
couldve got insurance at the same cost as the previous year.
Therefore Mr B hasnt shown that Aon caused him a financial loss. And I dont find it fair and
reasonable to direct Aon to pay Mr B compensation for the increased cost of his motor
insurance.
The shortcomings in Aons service caused Mr B to worry about his insurance and to spend
time on calls and on arranging cover.   
Putting things right
I conclude that £100.00 is fair compensation for this inconvenience and distress. 
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
intend to direct Aon UK Limited to pay Mr B  insofar as it hasnt already paid him - £100.00 
for distress and inconvenience in line with its final response.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2021. Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman