DRN-3649698
The complaint
Mr C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) wont reimburse money he lost to an 
investment scam.
What happened
The details of what happened are well-known to both parties, so Ill only provide a brief 
overview of some of the key events here.
In October 2019, Mr C made several payments totalling approximately £151,000 to a 
business Ill refer to as R. The payments were made using his HSBC debit card. At the 
time, Mr C believed that the payments were to fund an investment. But he now believes that 
R was operating a scam. 
In July 2020, Mr C requested HSBCs assistance in recovering his funds. He also 
complained that it knowingly allowed him to make payments to a fraudulent business. 
HSBC didnt agree that it had done anything wrong and refused to provide a refund. It also 
said that Mr C had been too late in making a chargeback claim.
Our investigator didnt agree that R was operating a scam, so HSBC didnt do anything 
wrong in letting the payments through. They also concluded that a chargeback claim was 
made too late.
I issued my provisional decision earlier this month and explained that I intended reaching the 
same overall outcome as the investigator, but for slightly different reasons.
I gave both parties an opportunity to provide any more comments or evidence. Mr C said 
that he didnt have anything further to add. HSBC didnt respond, so Ive assumed it has 
nothing further to add.
What follows is my provisional decision made final.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that Mr C is going through a difficult time. Losing a large amount of money 
in this way is distressing. Id like to reassure him and HSBC that although Ive only 
summarised the background above, so not everything thats happened or has been argued 
is covered, Ive considered everything thats been submitted in its entirety.
Im aware that R was regulated in another jurisdiction at the time of Mr Cs payments. It was 
also able to passport into the UK and offer its services here. Generally, businesses that 
submit themselves to regulatory oversight  even if in another jurisdiction  tend to be 
legitimate. In this case, I note that the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) published a 
warning in June 2020 that R was using unauthorised celebrity endorsements as part of its 
marketing strategy and was enticing consumers into scams. The FCA revoked Rs 
permissions to operate in the UK.
While these events happened after Mr C had made both the payments he disputes, they 
help build an overall picture of Rs operations. It is my judgement that R was likely operating 
illegally with dishonest intentions. 
Recovery
While I think that R was likely operating a scam at the time of Mr Cs payments, the 
chargeback scheme rules dont automatically entitle him to a refund based on these 
circumstances.
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme run by card issuers whereby the card 
scheme operator  Visa in this case  will ultimately arbitrate on a dispute between a 
merchant and a cardholder if it cant be resolved between them. 
There are rules to the scheme  set by the card scheme operator  which means that there 
are only limited grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback 
to be considered valid, and potentially succeed. Time limits also apply to when a chargeback 
can be raised by the card issuer. 
Under Visas scheme rules, for issues such as the one pertinent to this dispute, Mr C would 
have only been able to make a chargeback claim under Reason Code 13.5. It allows claims 
for misrepresentation for investments where the merchant refuses to allow the cardholder to 
withdraw available balances. In order to make a valid claim, Mr C would have needed to 
evidence that:
he attempted to resolve the dispute with the merchant and, if that was unsuccessful, 
he cancelled the service; 
his investment account had funds to withdraw on the date he requested the 
withdrawal; and
he requested a withdrawal equal to or less than the funds available in the investment 
account.
In addition to this, Mr C would needed to have submitted his claim within 120 days of when 
he was expecting to receive the service, and within a maximum of 540 days from the 
transaction processing date. 
From the information Ive seen, the earliest I can see Mr C contacting R about failed 
withdrawal requests was on 31 October 2019 when he sent an email seeking assistance. It 
is clear from his complaint letter to R dated 10 March 2020 that he hadnt received the 
service he was expecting, that being the withdrawal of his funds. Mr C didnt request HSBC 
to raise a chargeback until 27 July 2020. This is outside the 120-day time limit. Given Mr C 
was out of time, I dont think that HSBC could have reasonably attempted a chargeback 
claim on his behalf.  
For completeness, even if Mr C had requested a chargeback within the relevant time limits, 
Im not persuaded that it would have been deemed valid by Visa. From the information Ive 
seen so far, it doesnt appear as though Mr C was in possession of the required evidence 
(mentioned above) when he contacted HSBC. The three screenshots hes provided of his 
trading account dont show the date they were taken, and they dont show the withdrawal 
amount he requested on the day of these balances.Prevention
While I dont think that HSBC could have done more with regards to the recovery of Mr Cs 
funds once it was made aware of the situation, Ive also considered whether it ought to have 
intervened before allowing any of the payments to be made.
Under regulations, and in accordance with general banking terms and conditions, banks 
should execute an authorised payment instruction without undue delay. The starting position 
is that liability for an authorised payment rests with the payer, even if they were duped into 
doing so, for example as part of an investment scam. 
However, in accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank has a 
duty to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far as is reasonably 
possible. If, in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which ought reasonably 
to alert a prudent banker to potential fraud or financial crime, it might be liable for the losses 
incurred by its customer as a result.
What this means is that as a starting point Mr C is liable for these transactions unless theres 
evidence that HSBC could and should reasonably have done more to protect him and that 
this would have made a difference to his decision-making. 
Ive taken into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice, 
and what I consider good industry practice at the time (some of which Mr C has referred to in 
his submissions). HSBC ought to have been monitoring accounts to counter various risks, 
have systems in place to identify unusual transactions, or other indicators, that its customers 
were at risk of fraud and, in some situations, make additional checks before processing 
payments, or declined them altogether, to protect its customer from possible financial harm 
from fraud.
The FCAs warning about R wasnt published until after Mr C had made the payments. Ive 
considered the information Mr C has provided about R which includes warnings and alerts 
published by various regulatory authorities before he made the payments. Some of them 
state that R was offering services in without being registered in that jurisdiction. Others are 
indicative of questionable sales and marketing techniques which the regulator in that 
jurisdiction had some concerns about. But theres no mention of R operating a scam in any 
of these warnings. 
Given this, I wouldnt have expected HSBC to have picked up payments to R as being 
suspicious solely based on the merchant name. 
Thinking about the value and the frequency of the disputed transactions next, its arguable 
that multiple same-day transactions of a high value to the same payee ought to have flagged 
as unusual to HSBC. But even if it had intervened at the time, Im not persuaded that this 
would have prevented Mr Cs losses. Additional checks carried out at the time would have 
shown that R was regulated in a European Union country and had permission to undertake 
regulated activities in the UK. HSBC did not have a duty to protect Mr C from a poor 
investment choice or give investment advice.
In summary, I dont think that HSBC ought to have prevented Mr Cs authorised payments 
from being sent. And I dont think that chargeback was an option. 
I realise that this will come as a considerable disappointment to Mr C. Not least because the 
matter has been ongoing for some time. But in the circumstances, Im not persuaded that 
HSBC can fairly or reasonably be held liable to reimburse the money he lost. Any failure on 
HSBCs part in relation to not spotting the disputed payments as unusual or out of character is not the dominant, effective cause of Mr Cs loss. So, I wont be telling the bank to take any 
action.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2022.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman