DRN-3216079
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) have accepted and actioned a direct debit 
(DD) instruction without her prior knowledge or agreement.
What happened
Lloyds acted on a DD instruction they received and paid the DD amount to the requesting 
business on 15 December 2020, 15 January and 15 February 2021. Mrs T contacted Lloyds 
in February 2021 to raise a complaint that the DD was set up without her consent.
Lloyds responded to Mrs Ts complaint and explained that when they receive a request to 
carry out a DD instruction, they are of the understanding that the customer has agreed to 
this. Lloyds advised Mrs T to call their helpline to cancel the DD and also advised her that 
they could raise a DD indemnity under the DD guarantee scheme, to try and get the funds 
back.
Mrs T was unhappy with Lloyds final response and felt she should be compensated for their 
error in accepting the DD instruction without her knowledge. One of our investigators 
considered Mrs Ts complaint and explained that they didnt find that Lloyds were wrong in 
accepting the DD instruction for the originator. It would have been the originating financial 
institution that were responsible for requesting the funds paid by Lloyds under the DD 
scheme.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should confirm that this decision is solely based on Lloyds acting on a DD instruction. I 
appreciate Mrs T had other complaint issues which have been dealt with separately.  So, I 
wont be considering them in this decision.
Mrs T says Lloyds have acted on a DD instruction that she hadnt authorised, and therefore 
what Lloyds have done is illegal and against regulations. However, in order to set up a direct 
debit, customers have to give the payee authority to claim for the funds. Lloyds have 
provided evidence that the mandate was set up on receipt of an instruction from the 
originating business. So, Im persuaded that Mrs T either signed a form or provided her 
account details to allow the payee to set up the DD using the AUDDIS system (Automated 
Direct Debit Instruction Service). I say this because, Lloyds received instructions to do so 
from the originating business. So, Im satisfied Lloyds did receive it and therefore the DD 
hasnt been set up incorrectly on Lloyds part.
All DDs are covered by the direct debit guarantee. If the bank, building society or payee 
has made the error, then the customer is guaranteed a refund. Mrs T first contacted Lloyds 
about this by email, raising a complaint that theyd set up the DD without her authority. 
Lloyds have sent me the contact notes for Mrs Ts account. I can see from the notes that 
Lloyds responded to Mrs Ts email by attempting to call her to talk about what had happened 
and get her consent to submit a DD guarantee claim. As the call wasnt answered, a 
voicemail was left. Lloyds tried calling Mrs T again the next day, but this call also went 
unanswered. 
Lloyds sent Mrs T their final response on the complaint and offered to submit a DD indemnity 
claim on her behalf, but they explained they would need to speak with Mrs T over the phone 
to do this. Mrs T didnt contact Lloyds, so they tried calling her twice more. No answer was 
received, and a further voicemail was left. It was at this point Mrs T emailed Lloyds saying I 
never discuss financial matters by phone. Please note and stop ringing me.
Mrs T didnt take up Lloyds offer of submitting a DD claim on her behalf as she feels its no 
fault of her own that this has happened, and that she shouldnt have to wait for the money to 
be refunded by submitting a claim. I dont know when the DD was cancelled but this isnt in 
contention. I appreciate Mrs Ts frustrations and the reasons why she says the responsibility 
doesnt lie with her to fix this mistake. But had a claim been submitted, its likely Lloyds 
wouldve investigated the error and attempted a refund where possible.
So, for the reasons Ive explained above, having looked at Lloyds actions, I dont think 
Lloyds have done anything wrong or treated Mrs T unfairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 
Helen Giles
Ombudsman