DRN-4154877
The complaint
Mrs B has complained about her property insurer AA Underwriting Insurance Company 
Limited (AAU) regarding a subsidence claim.
What happened
Mrs Bs daughter noticed cracking in 2019 and a claim was made to AAU. An engineers 
report was completed in December 2019 which said the property, at the rear corner, had 
suffered subsidence movement. Reference was made to clay sub-soil likely being influenced 
by surrounding vegetation but with a leaking gutter and likely failed underground pipes also 
having an impact. Further investigations were recommended before a full report could be 
completed. 
In February 2020 some soil investigations and drain repairs were completed. It was then 
February 2021 when an arboriculture report was completed  this said a neighbours hedge 
was likely influencing the soil conditions. AAU wrote to the neighbour, enclosing a copy of 
the arborists report, formally asking them to take the hedge down. The hedge was 
subsequently reduced but was never removed. In April 2022 AAU completed a further scope 
of repair for the property (the first having been done in early 2021). The scope said expected 
repairs would cost less than the £1,000 policy excess. In May 2022 AAU wrote to Mrs B. It 
said it felt the damage had not been caused by subsidence, and even if it had been the 
repair cost was below the policy excess. AAU said there was nothing more it would do on 
the claim. Mrs B wasnt happy and, in August 2022 AAU sought an external experts review. 
The expert, referring to himself as a chartered surveyor and loss adjuster, said he didnt 
think there was any recent movement, that there was likely an issue with the walls of the 
property not being tied.
Also in 2022 Mrs B was told that AAU would not renew her cover. Then, shortly before the 
current policy was due to expire, AAU did agree to offered renewal and Mrs B was told 
thered be a loading on the premium to account for the subsidence claim. She was unhappy 
about renewal initially being refused and about the premium being loaded. 
Given Mrs Bs concerns she complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our 
Investigator felt the surveyors report was not persuasive, certainly not in light of the wealth 
of other expert opinion which said this was subsidence damage. He felt AAU should settle 
the claim and pay Mrs B £300 compensation. 
Mrs B wasnt happy with the compensation. AAU said it felt its experts report from 
August 2022 could and should reasonably be relied upon  so it wasnt prepared to the 
recommendation to settle the claim under the policy. The complaint was passed to me for an 
Ombudsmans consideration.
I was minded to uphold it. But my reasons for doing so went further than those expressed by 
our Investigator, and I felt slightly different redress was due. I also needed to answer Mrs Bs 
concerns about the 2022 policy renewal. So I issued a provisional decision, giving both 
parties a chance to comment on my findings and suggested redress before making a final 
decision on the complaint. My provisional findings were:
The claim
I think AAU failed Mrs B initially in 2019. As I understand it, she had contacted it in the 
autumn, in the first instance, to make a claim under the policy for cracking but it told her she 
had to go and get an expert report to show it was likely subsidence. That is not in line with 
good industry practice. Subsidence is a highly technical area. As such good practice is for 
insurers to appoint a suitably qualified party to carry out an initial assessment. AAU left 
Mrs B, a vulnerable lady, to do this herself, I dont doubt it was difficult for her to arrange 
that. Mrs B was though able to instruct a suitably qualified person to provide a view on the 
cracking at her home. She appointed a firm of consultant structural and civil engineers and 
an appropriately qualified civil engineer completed the report. And I note it was 
December 2019 before the report was produced. That could likely have been done sooner if 
AAU had acted appropriately to arrange the assessment. Ill keep all that in mind when 
I consider compensation. Further, if she had a cost for that, then AAU should, subject to 
proof of payment, reimburse her outlay plus interest* from the date she paid for the engineer 
until settlement is made. 
Ive briefly detailed the engineers findings in my background above. And I find his report 
persuasive. Seemingly AAU did too because on the basis of that report it effectively 
accepted Mrs Bs claim.
The engineer did recommend other tests and investigations though. And AAU went ahead 
with those. There were soil tests and an arboriculture report. All of which pointed to the 
property suffering subsidence as had been reported by the engineer. At no time did AAU feel 
or suggest that there was no movement occurring at the property or that there had not been 
any subsidence damage. And AAUs file shows that it was constantly referring the results of 
the various investigations to its in-house subsidence engineers, surveyors and specialists, all 
reviewing the claim. So it had ample opportunity, expert consultation and chance to review 
all of the pertinent evidence in a contemporaneous fashion as the situation was evolving. 
And none of AAUs experts said it was likely that Mrs Bs home was not suffering 
subsidence. Not until 2022  three years later and after mitigation works were done  did 
AAU have any concern. I think this alone shows that AAU accepted this claim.
Further all of AAUs other actions show that it had accepted this claim under the policy cover 
for subsidence. I say that because AAU completed drain works at the property  following 
drain investigation works recommended by the engineer. It also embarked on action against 
the neighbour whose hedge was implicated by the engineer and arborist as causing Mrs Bs 
home to subside. Everything AAU did, once having received the report it unfairly made 
Mrs B obtain herself, until it did an about turn in 2022, was as an insurer covering and 
handling an accepted subsidence claim under the policy. 
AAU will be aware that once a claim has been accepted by the actions of an insurer and it 
has acted to repair the property  for example, repairing drains and acting to remove the 
cause of the damage such that structural repairs can be done  it cannot reasonably just 
change its mind and say it isnt liable for the claim.
Now I suspect that AAU will say it had good reason to change its view here as it obtained 
new evidence. I accept that AAU did obtain an external expert report in August 2022. But it 
had already changed its mind on the claim in May 2022. And despite my having asked it why 
and how that change came about  based on what expert opinion  AAU hasnt satisfactorily 
explained that decision. It said it was based on the surveyor/loss adjusters findings. But the 
report from that professional was dated August 2022  theres nothing to suggest that review 
was undertaken or began in May 2022. So Im not persuaded that AAUs May decision was 
reasonably made. And the professionals report from August 2022, which in theory might show the May decision was fair and reasonable, is not persuasive evidence of that. Not in 
light of the wealth of contemporaneous evidence gathered during the course of the claim by 
various experts in their field. Also the author of the August 2022 report doesnt seem to be a 
qualified engineer or surveyor  only a fellow of certain technical institutions, referring to 
himself as a chartered surveyor and charted loss adjuster. And AAU whilst seeking to 
validate the appropriateness of his evidence only said that he is a highly experienced 
Structural Specialist, also commenting that he is a fellow of institutions denoting excellence 
in the industry/field of subsidence. In assessing subsidence an engineer is usually seen to 
be the most appropriately qualified expert and Mrs B presented an engineers report at the 
start of the claim which AAU accepted and acted upon. And AAU had its own in-house 
engineers review the claim as it was on-going, with no concerns raised. Im not persuaded 
that AAU can fairly or reasonably decline the claim at this stage.
Im also mindful that, despite AAUs August report suggesting the property is likely not 
currently moving, Mrs B has concerns that it is. She had some repairs done to the external 
cracking last summer  which AAU will have to reimburse her for, plus interest*  but 
believes the cracks are opening up again. And whilst the (neighbours) hedge, felt to have 
been a cause for the subsidence at the property, was reduced, it wasnt removed completely 
as recommended by the arborist. So it isnt clear if this is still having an effect on the 
property. 
I know Mrs B would like the hedge removing. But AAU cant force the neighbour to do that. 
In theory it could take legal action against the neighbour with a view to obtaining a court 
order dictating removal of the hedge  but that is a long, costly process, the outcome of 
which is not certain. That process would also likely create ill-feeling between Mrs B and her 
neighbours, which as a vulnerable individual, might cause Mrs B significant problems. Where 
a property suffers subsidence and remains subject to movement where the cause for 
movement cannot reasonably be curtailed, then an insurer will have to look to other methods 
for ensuring the property is stable such that lasting repairs can be done. At the minute it is 
not clear if the property is still the subject of subsidence movement or not  although the 
repairs potentially having failed might suggest that it is. But it could also be, if they have 
failed, that they werent completed well. 
Im also mindful at this point that despite other investigations completed during the course of 
the claim, AAU did not seek to monitor the property for movement. That would often be a 
first stage of most subsidence claims, running alongside other investigations such as those 
undertaken by soil specialists and arborists. And it helps an insurer not only validate a claim 
under the policy but also ensure that any repairs which are done are long lasting. Because 
an insurer must complete lasting repairs and repairs will not last if a property is still moving. 
Im really unsure why AAU didnt complete this type of investigation, although Im mindful 
that, in 2020, following it completing drain repairs, it did instruct Mrs B to monitor her 
property for signs of ground recovery. I think its disappointing that AAU seems to have 
chosen to ignore good industry practice and put most of the usual activity carried out by 
insurers in connection with technical specialists, in this type of claim, onto Mrs B.
So I think further investigations are required at this stage to determine if movement is 
continuing and, if it is, what is needed to stabilise the property such that further repairs can 
be done. Therefore, I am going to require AAU to undertake monitoring at the property  the 
form of which, possibly crack and/or level monitoring, and over what period this will need to 
be done being determined by a suitably qualified expert  to see if it is currently moving. And 
I think it should also, now the hedge has been reduced, ask the previous arborist for an 
updated report, assessing the likely impact of the reduced hedge. As I understand it, it has 
been reduced to little more than stumps and it may well be it hasnt grown back. I know 
Mrs B is concerned about root activity none the less, and I think that the revised state of the 
hedge, along with its likely impact on the property, is something an expert should review. If the further investigations show the property is still suffering subsidence, then AAU will need 
to determine what is needed to stabilise the property and undertake that work, such that 
lasting repairs can be done. If the property is shown to be stable then AAU can move to 
complete the necessary repairs.   
I know Mrs B would like me to just direct AAU to underpin the property. But that wouldnt be 
fair, even at this late stage in the claim. That is because underpinning is not something that 
is always necessary or appropriate in subsidence claims. It is one method of stabilisation, 
sometimes used by insurers where the cause for movement cant be forestalled. But even 
where the cause for movement cant be forestalled, underpinning is not always the most 
appropriate method for otherwise achieving stability. And if used inappropriately, 
underpinning can cause more damage to occur. What is needed to stabilise a property has 
to be properly considered by suitably qualified experts taking into account all the necessary 
technical information. So it wouldnt be fair or reasonable on Mrs B or AAU, for me to make 
that direction here when, not only has no expert assessment of stability or what is needed to 
achieve it been undertaken, but it isnt even clear the property is still moving.
Renewal
I asked AAU about renewal. But it didnt answer my questions. Mrs B has said that AAU 
initially said it would not renew the policy in 2022. That she had several months of worry 
thinking she would not be covered and trying to find cover elsewhere, until renewal was then 
offered. Ive no reason to doubt what shes said in this respect. And AAU knew she had an 
ongoing subsidence claim. So it shouldnt have been even thinking about refusing her 
renewal. Thats not in line with what the industry, and this service, considers to be best 
practice when theres an ongoing claim. Ill take the upset caused to Mrs B into account 
when awarding compensation.
Mrs B also said though that when renewal was offered, a loading was applied to the 
premium on account of the subsidence claim. She provided a document from the broker 
which confirms AAU did do that. Whilst an insurer usually wouldnt negatively rate a policy in 
respect of subsidence specifically, having any claim on your record will likely affect your 
insurance premium. But it is also fair to say that most premiums will go up a little each year 
in any event. Having seen Mrs Bs cover in 2021 and the renewal, when it was agreed, in 
2022, I dont think the premium has been increased to such a degree it seems unfair. The 
difference in the cost of cover is only £22.96. So Im not going to make any finding against 
AAU in this respect. 
Compensation
I think AAU made this claim far more difficult for Mrs B than it should have been. As I said, 
from the outset AAU did not follow good industry practice and it put extra pressure on Mrs B 
by making her obtain an expert report. Then there seem to have been unreasonable delays 
in 2020. Whilst the pandemic was on-going at that time, Ive seen no good reason why 
external investigations at the property could not have been on-going. Yet the arborist did not 
make their report until 2021. And whilst it may not have been possible to fully monitor the 
property during some of 2020, as access inside would likely have been required, AAU hasnt 
acted since the initial severe pandemic restrictions were lifted to check if the property is still 
moving. Rather, in 2022, it unfairly and unreasonably declined the claim.  
Mrs B has explained how worried shes been during this time. She has seen her house 
damaged by cracking and has seen it deteriorate and/or been worried that it would. I know 
that because some cracks were full thickness, leaving holes in the propertys wall, shes felt 
unsafe. The property has also been colder than it otherwise would have been. All of which 
prompted Mrs B to arrange repair of the cracks herself in summer 2022. With further upset also being caused by AAU in 2022 when it initially said it wouldnt renew the policy for the 
coming year. I think AAU should pay Mrs B £1,250 compensation for the upset its poor 
handling of this claim has caused. 
AAU did not comment on my findings or redress. Mrs B said she was happy with the findings 
 but that she wanted to point out that the hedge had grown back considerably. She 
provided photos.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Mrs Bs comment. I can see from the photos provided that cutting the hedge down to 
stumps has not killed it  theres quite tall and extensive regrowth. 
Having reviewed matters, Ive no reason to change my views stated provisionally. My 
provisional findings and redress are now those of this, my final decision.
Putting things right
I require AAU to:
Undertake further investigations at the property to determine if it is still subject of 
subsidence movement  in line with my comments above  including a review by the 
arborist who reported before (if theyre available, if they arent or arent willing to engage 
further then another will need to be sourced) on any likely influence from the hedge.   
If its felt the property is stable then it should arrange and complete any necessary repair 
of the property, including the cracking previously recorded as part of the claim. 
If its felt that movement is still occurring, in line with my comments above, decide whats 
needed to stabilise the property and undertake that work before completing other 
necessary, lasting repairs, including to the cracking previously reported as part of the 
claim.   
Reimburse Mrs Bs cost for the 2019 engineers report, plus interest* from the date the 
report was paid for until settlement is made, subject to Mrs B providing proof of payment.
Pay Mrs B £655 plus VAT, as reimbursement of her repair costs in 2022, plus interest* 
from 9 June 2022, the date of payment, until settlement is made.  
Pay Mrs B £1,250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. HM Revenue & Customs may require AAU to take off tax from this interest. 
If asked, it must give Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to provide the 
redress set out above at Putting things right.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman