DRN-3705160
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund him for transactions he
didnt make or authorise. Hes also unhappy about how Lloyds handled things and wants 
compensation.
What happened
Mr M had an account with Lloyds, which had an overdraft limit of £1,000.
Mr M says that four ATM transactions totalling just under £1,000 were carried out on his
account without his consent between 19 and 23 February 2022. The transactions led to 
Mr Ms account being overdrawn by just over £980.
I wont be listing the disputed transactions as both parties are aware of which transactions 
are in dispute.
On 13 February 2022, Mr M called Lloyds and told the bank that his bank card for his 
account wasnt working properly. He told Lloyds that he hadnt been able to take out cash 
using the card for around a month and as of 13 February 2002 he wasnt able to use the 
card to make contactless payments.
Lloyds said it couldnt explain why Mr Ms card wasnt working but to rectify things, it would 
send Mr M a new bank card. During the call Lloyds also asked Mr M if hed like to keep the 
same PIN. In response, Mr M asked the bank to send him a new PIN. Mr M asked the bank 
how long hed have to wait for his new card and PIN. Lloyds told Mr M hed receive 
everything within three to five working days. And that the PIN and card would be sent to his 
home address separately. Mr M says he didnt tell anyone else he was expecting a new card 
and PIN. And that he never received the new card and PIN.
Lloyds say it sent Mr Ms PIN to his home address on 14 February 2022 and that he would 
have received the new bank card no later than 19 February 2022.
Mr M has explained he lives in an apartment building which has six flats. Each flat has a 
separate letter box, which are located on the wall outside next to the car park close to where 
he puts out his household rubbish. Each letter box is locked. But sometimes the letterboxes 
are over- flowing with leaflets and on occasion Mr M says his mail has gone missing. So, 
Mr M says his new bank card and PIN was either picked out of the letterbox or intercepted 
by someone, who then used them and carried out the disputed transactions.
Mr M says the same thing happened to him in December 2019 and May 2021  he reported 
that hed lost his bank card and contacted Lloyds to organise a new bank card and PIN. On 
each occasion Mr M said he never received either of the cards and PINs. And he later 
discovered that theyd been used to make withdrawals at cash machines, which he reported 
to Lloyds. The bank refunded Mr M the disputed transactions on each of these occasions. 
Following these fraud claims, Lloyds provided Mr M with information about how to keep his 
account secure and protect himself from fraud. It told Mr M to regularly check his account 
and contact the bank if he noticed anything unusual. It also said he should contact the bank 
if he didnt receive his card or PIN in the expected timescales. And that he should report the 
issues with his mail.
Mr M says that he didnt notice the disputed transactions in February 2022 until he checked 
his account online at around 9pm on 23 February 2022. Once he realised money had been 
taken out of his account, he immediately rung the bank to report what had happened. During 
the call Mr M told Lloyds hed never received his new bank card and PIN. And that it wasnt 
him whod carried out the transactions. He told the bank that hed been looking out for the 
new card and PIN and had been checking his mail. And said he had cut up his old damaged 
card and thrown it in the bin when hed reported the card wasnt working on 13 February 
2022. 
Lloyds investigated and initially refunded the amounts back into Mr Ms account. But on 
further investigation it decided not to refund Mr M. In summary Lloyds said:
Mr Ms genuine card and PIN were used to make each transaction
Mr Ms new bank card and PIN were sent in plain envelopes, days apart
and Mr M hasnt offered a plausible explanation as to how someone else would have 
been aware hed ordered a new card and was then able to gain possession of both 
his new bank card and then his PIN
Mr M had previously been given education regarding keeping his card and PIN 
secure following previous fraud claims hed made in December 2019 and May 2021
In May 2021, following Mr Ms second fraud claim, and issues he said hed have with 
his post, Lloyds arranged for him to go into branch to arrange for a new bank card 
and PIN to be delivered to branch. But Mr M didnt do this
Mr M wasnt happy with this and complained to Lloyds. He said hed asked Lloyds not to 
send his bank card and PIN to his home address when he spoke to the bank on 13 February 
2022. And that the bank told him it wasnt able to do this. He said that he had previously 
asked the bank to send his card and PIN to a branch to keep it safe. So, felt that the bank 
had let him down and not helped prevent him becoming the victim of fraud. 
Mr M also complained about how Lloyds had handled things and the service he received, he 
said he had to make numerous phone calls, advisors deliberately cut him off during calls and 
when he spoke to Lloyds he was repeatedly given incorrect and misleading information.
Lloyds accepted it had given Mr P poor service and offered him £60 compensation. But 
maintained its position regarding not refunding Mr M the disputed transactions.
Mr M disagreed with Lloydss decision. He wants the bank to refund the transactions. So, he 
brought his complaint to our service where one of our investigators looked into the matter. 
Having looked at the evidence, he said it was more likely than not Mr M had made the 
disputed transactions or authorised a third party to carry them out. Mr M disagreed. In 
summary he said:
He didnt make the disputed transactions
He didnt order new cards and PINs without explanation. And had been offered a new 
PIN by the bank
He didnt notice the transactions until he logged into his online banking and called the 
bank straightaway
The disputed transactions were made at a cash machine he uses which is close to 
his home addressThe bank should have been alerted by the unusual activity on his account as he 
doesnt usually make large cash withdrawals
The investigator is biased and has just sided with the bank
As Mr M didnt agree, the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Mr M has said he is concerned that the investigator is biased and has simply sided 
with the bank  with the implication being that the bank is influencing our conclusions 
inappropriately. Whilst I do recognise his concern, as an ombudsman service our approach 
is to consider what both parties say and then reach our own independent conclusions on that 
evidence. That is what we have done in this complaint. If Mr M does not agree with our view, 
he does not have to accept it, and if he does not accept this final decision he will be free to 
continue to pursue his concerns by other means should he wish to do so. I cannot, however, 
advise him on how to go about doing that.
I should make it clear to Mr M that the Financial Ombudsman Service is an informal dispute 
resolution service acting as an alternative to the courts. We dont consider fraud complaints 
in the same way as a criminal court might. It is not my role to prove exactly what happened. 
Where there is a dispute about what happened  as there is here, and the evidence is 
incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, we reach our conclusions on the basis of what we 
consider is most likely to have happened having considered the available evidence and 
wider circumstances.
I appreciate Mr M was disappointed by the investigators opinion and I can see that he has
provided a detailed response to what he said about his complaint. Id like to reassure Mr M
that Ive considered the whole file and whats hes said. But Ill concentrate my comments on
what I think is relevant. So, I wont be addressing every point in detail which Mr M has raised
in his submissions. My findings will focus on what I consider to be the central issues. If I
dont mention any specific point, its not because I failed to take it on board and think about 
it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a fair outcome.
Did Mr M authorise the disputed transactions?
Lloyds is required to refund the amount of unauthorised transactions if Mr M didnt make
or authorise them. The relevant regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services
Regulations 2017 (the PSRs 2017). 
The basic position is that Lloyds can hold Mr M liable for the disputed transactions if the 
evidence suggests its more likely than not that Mr M made them or authorised them. The 
PSRs also say that someone acting as an agent on behalf of Mr M can be treated as acting 
with apparent authority when making transactions on his account. And that the person to 
whom the card has been issued must notify the firm which provided the card if they become 
aware of its unauthorised use. This must be without undue delay. 
For each transaction Lloyds has been able to provide evidence to show the payments were 
appropriately authenticated using Mr Ms bank card and PIN. But thats not enough to hold 
Mr M liable. I also need to consider whether the evidence suggests he consented to the 
transactions. Or whether he is the victim of fraud as hes alleged.
 Having looked at all the evidence and considered Mr Ms explanation carefully Im afraid Im 
not persuaded by what Mr M has said.  I cant say for sure who was making the cash 
withdrawals. But on balance Ive ruled out that a third-party fraudster was responsible. Ive 
considered what the PSRs say about apparent authority too and Im satisfied that Mr M did 
consent to the transactions he is disputing. So, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to 
say Lloyds needs to refund him. I say this for the following reasons:
Im satisfied first that whoever made the disputed transactions was able to do so 
because they had both Mr Ms card and knew his PIN. Mr M has suggested that his 
card could have been intercepted by someone tampering with his post. Hes also 
said that post does from time to time go missing. And that the post boxes at his 
address have been broken into previously. But most post is correctly delivered, and 
so I think it more likely than not that Mr Ms new card and PIN did arrive safely at his 
home address.
I accept that Mr M does as he says, live at an address which is split into six flats. But 
Ive not seen any evidence that anyone else would have known he was expecting a 
replacement bank card, and it wouldnt have been obvious that one had been sent. 
The bank has explained that Mr Ms new bank card and PIN were sent separately, in 
plain envelopes. So, Im not persuaded that an unknown third party, managed to 
intercept both Mr Ms card and PIN.
The disputed transactions dont fit the usual pattern of fraud. Usually a fraudster 
would try and maximise the usage of the account to get the greatest benefit from the 
account before the account holder notices their funds are missing and the card is 
cancelled. But this didnt happen. Here the disputed payments were made over a 
period of five days at a cash machine where Mr M had previously made numerous 
genuine transactions. 
I find it unlikely that a fraudster would wait and carry out transactions over a five -day 
period and run the risk that Mr M might have realised he hadnt received his card or 
PIN. And alert the bank. But that person appears to have been confident theyd be 
able to access the account over several days. And I note that no transactions took 
place on 20th February 2022  theres no plausible explanation why a fraudster would 
take a day-off from fleecing an account they had full access to.
Ive also kept in mind that no further transactions were made or attempted after Mr M 
reported the fraud, which again is unusual for fraudulent activity and suggests to me 
that whoever was using the card knew it had been cancelled  from the evidence Ive 
seen the only person aware of this information was Mr M.
Its also significant in my view that Mr M reported the transactions after the last 
disputed transaction was made. Mr M says he did so after checking his online 
banking on 23 February 2022, but up until 13 February 2022, Mr M had been 
checking his account online regularly on 13, 14 and 15 February 2022. And 
undisputed payments were debiting his account. So, I find it unusual that Mr M didnt 
check his account between 16 and 22 February 2022.
On 23 February 2022, when Mr M reported the disputed transactions he told Lloyds 
that hed cut up his old card and thrown it in the bin the same day he called to tell the 
bank his card wasnt working properly, which was on 13 February 2022. But this is 
contradicted by the evidence provided by Lloyds. I can see from Mr Ms account statements that the damaged card was used to make a £6.00 transaction on 15 
February 2022. I can also see that the same card was used to make three 
undisputed cash withdrawals on 13, 24 and 29 January 2022 despite Mr M telling 
Lloyds he was unable to take out cash for around a month.
This was the third fraud claim Mr M made to Lloyds. In December 2019 and 
May 2021, he told the bank hed lost his bank card. On each occasion Lloyds sent 
Mr M a new bank card and PIN. Mr M told Lloyds he never received either of the 
cards or PINs. They were subsequently used to make disputed cash withdrawals 
over several days at the same machine that was used in February 2022. 
Ive listened to a call between Mr M and Lloyds that took place on 26 May 2021 when 
Mr M reported the second batch of disputed transactions. During the call Mr M 
explained that hed been having problems with his mailbox and that it wasnt safe. 
And that hed previously not received a bank card and PIN that the bank had sent to 
his address. Because of the post issues Mr M said he was having, during the call the 
advisor said hed arrange for Mr M to go into branch and collect a new card and PIN. 
But I cant see that he did that. I find it strange that given the issues Mr M said he 
was having with his post and that hed already not received a previous card and PIN 
he didnt take Lloyds up on this offer. 
Ive also noted, that during the call on 13th February 2022 when Mr M called Lloyds to 
report the problems he was having with his bank card, he asked when he would 
receive his new card and PIN. The advisor told him both would be with him at the 
latest within three to five working days. Based on this Mr M wouldve received them 
by 19 February 2022.  I find it telling that Mr M didnt contact Lloyds to say he hadnt 
received them  despite being told the importance of doing so in May 2021, being the 
victim of fraud not once but twice, and having issues with his post. He didnt contact 
the bank until after the last disputed transaction had been made on 23 February 2022 
 which was ten days later and twice as long hed expected to wait for his card. 
Considering the number of times Mr M says his card and PIN have gone missing, 
and the instructions hed received from the bank about protecting himself from fraud, 
theres no reasonable explanation for why he would wait ten days to contact the bank 
to tell them he hadnt received his card and PIN for a third occasion.
Mr M has said he thinks the bank should have done more to protect him from fraud. 
And that when he called the bank to order a new card in February 2022, he asked for 
his bank card and PIN to be sent to the branch. But the bank told him this wasnt 
possible. I dont agree. Ive listened to the calls Mr M had with Lloyds on 13 February 
2022 and at no time did Mr M ask the bank to send his card to branch. He also didnt 
mention the issues he says he had been having with his post. Lloyds had also 
previously told him in May 2021 that they could send his card to branch  he just 
needed to go into a branch to change his correspondence address to the branch 
address to facilitate this.  
So, theres no plausible explanation for why Mr M continued to allow Lloyds to send 
him a new bank card and PIN to his home address in February 2022  especially if 
as Mr M says hed already been the victim of fraud twice by someone taking his post. 
And he was aware he could go into branch and collect a new card/PIN. This leads 
me to doubt the credibility of Mr Ms version of events.When I weigh everything up, in my view the most likely explanation here is that Mr M either
made the transactions himself or allowed someone else to make them, using his card and 
PIN. So, in the circumstances it wouldnt be fair for me to ask Lloyds to refund the disputed
transactions.
I then turn to Lloydss decision to close Mr Ms account. Its generally for financial 
businesses to decide whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking 
facilities to any particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service 
wont usually say that they must keep a customer or compensate a customer who has had 
their account closed. Having looked at all the evidence, Im satisfied that Lloyds acted in line 
with the account terms when it decided to close Mr Ms account. So, I cant say it treated 
Mr M unfairly. 
Service issues
Mr M says he had to repeatedly tell Lloyds what had happened and feels he had to go round 
and round trying to explain things. He also says that advisors he spoke to kept cutting him 
off and he had to spend hours on the phone. So, he wants Lloyds to pay him compensation. 
Lloyds has accepted its service fell short. It has apologised to Mr M and offered him £60 
compensation. Mr M says this isnt enough to reflect the stress and anxiety he suffered. And 
says his mental health was impacted, Ive no doubt that having to speak to the bank on more 
than one occasion and being cut off caused Mr M a good deal of frustration and 
inconvenience. But I think the banks offer is a reasonable reflection of what went wrong and 
the impact on Mr M. So, Im not going to ask Lloyds to do anything more regarding this 
aspect of Mr Ms complaint. I think the offer of £60 is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I wont be asking Lloyds Bank PLC to do anything further to 
resolve Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman