DRN-1704767
 
Complaint
Mr O complains that Virgin Money plc treated him unfairly when it removed a promotional 
rate of interest after hed made a late payment to his account.
Background
Mr O had a credit card account with Virgin. The account had a promotional rate of 0% 
interest for balance transfers. 
Mr O made three balance transfers to the Virgin account in December 2018 and completed a 
further balance transfer in March 2019. The promotional rate of 0% on the balance transfers 
completed in December 2018 was due to expire in January 2021. The promotional rate on 
the balance transfer completed in March 2019 was due to expire in January 2020.
Mr O says that he overlooked making the minimum payment which was due in April 2019. 
He says that Virgin didnt send him a text before the due date and as soon as he received a 
letter from it in May, he made the missing payment. He says that despite this Virgin withdrew 
the promotional rate of interest. This meant that his minimum payments increased 
significantly. 
Since this happened Mr O became unemployed and experienced health and family issues. 
Mr O says that Virgin hasnt agreed to accept a repayment proposal that he made to it.
Mr O says that Virgin treated him unfairly when it withdrew the promotional rate of interest. 
He says that it shouldve taken into account the fact that this was an oversight on his part.  
And, he says that Virgin hasnt been fair or reasonable in the way its treated him when he 
experienced financial difficulties. So, he complained to Virgin.
Virgin investigated his complaint about its decision to withdraw the promotional rate of 
interest. It said that its terms and conditions made it clear that the promotional rate would be 
withdrawn if a payment was missed.
Virgin also wrote to Mr O when he told it about his financial difficulties. It said that it would 
stop applying interest and charges to his account. But, it said that it couldnt accept the 
repayment proposal which hed made since the amount he was offering to pay was too low. 
It said that he needed to make the minimum payment on the account and if he didnt do that 
then it could mean that the account would be defaulted.
Mr O didnt think that this was fair and so he complained to our service. Our investigator 
looked into his complaint. He said that Virgin had made it clear in the terms and conditions 
that the promotional rate wasnt permanent and it could be withdrawn if payments were 
missed. He said that forgetting to make a payment wasnt an exceptional circumstance and 
so he wouldnt expect Virgin to have treated Mr O differently to its other customers whod 
missed a payment. He didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr O didnt agree and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
At the outset, I think its important to make clear that this decision wont be covering Mr Os 
concerns about how hes been treated since he told Virgin about his financial difficulties. 
That issue needs to be raised separately. So, I wont be making any findings in relation to it. 
Instead I shall be dealing only with Mr Os complaint about Virgins decision to withdraw the 
promotional rate of interest.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions for the account. These state that if Virgin doesnt 
receive the minimum payment when its due then it will withdraw the promotional rate of 
interest. Ive also looked at the monthly statements that Mr O was sent. These also state that 
if the minimum payment isnt made by the due date then the promotional rate of interest will 
be withdrawn. So, Im satisfied that Virgin had brought this term and condition to Mr Os 
attention and that he had been informed about the consequences of not making the 
minimum payment on the due date.
Ive also considered the reason that Mr O has provided for not making the monthly payment 
on time. He says that it was an oversight on his part and that Virgin didnt send him a text 
before the due date to remind him to make the payment. I can see that the monthly 
statements were made available to Mr O online but Virgin also sent him an email each time 
to inform him that the statement was available. So, Mr O wouldve been alerted to the fact 
that the statement was available and he wouldve known that a payment was due to be 
made. 
Id also expect Virgin to act reasonably in a circumstance where a payments been made 
after the due date. Virgin says that unless theres an exceptional circumstance it always 
withdraws the promotional rate of interest when a payments been missed or paid late. Mr O 
says that he overlooked making the payment. But, I agree with our investigator that 
forgetting to make a payment isnt an exceptional circumstance. So, I dont think Virgin was 
unfair or unreasonable when it decided to withdraw the promotional rate of interest when the 
payment was missed. 
Mr O has told us about the difficulties hes had with his health as a result of losing his job 
and also family issues. Im very sorry to hear about these difficulties and I can see that this 
has been a very difficult time for him. Mr O has made Virgin aware of his change in 
circumstances and his financial difficulties. In these circumstances, I would expect Virgin to 
treat him positively and sympathetically in discussing his situation and agreeing a repayment 
plan with him. But, I dont require it to change its decision about withdrawing the promotional 
rate of interest.
So, having considered everything Mr Os said, although I can see that this will be 
disappointing for him, I think Virgin was acting reasonably when it applied the terms and 
conditions and withdrew the promotional rate.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint against Virgin Money plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July  2020.
  
Irene Martin
Ombudsman