DRN-2650011
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) wouldnt remove his ex-wife 
from being a trustee for his life insurance policy. He is also concerned with the application 
process for a new policy and with the premium increase. Additionally, he says Aviva didnt 
provide reasonable adjustments. 
What happened
In June 2012 Mr S took out a term assurance policy through an insurance broker. A trust 
deed was drawn up and the policy was underwritten by Aviva. In the trust deed, his ex-wife 
was named as joint trustee and beneficiary.
 
Mr S contacted Aviva in December 2018 and November 2019 because he was getting 
divorced and didnt want his ex-wife involved with the trust. Aviva arranged for the Deed of 
Appointment and Retirement of Trustees and Expression of Wishes to be sent to Mr S. 
In January and February 2020, Mr S contacted Aviva because his ex-wife wouldnt agree to 
be removed as trustee. As the policy holder, Mr S felt Aviva should be able to make this 
change under his instruction. Aviva responded to his complaint on 26 February and said they 
needed the consent of all trustees. They said he could cancel his policy or incur the cost of a 
Deed of Removal. 
In March 2020, Mr S emailed Aviva and explained his concerns that he had no other option 
but to cancel. He asked whether Aviva would offer a new policy with the same terms. Aviva 
responded saying they wouldnt be able to. Mr S expressed his disappointment but gave 
instructions to cancel the existing policy. He made a new application over the telephone. 
However, Aviva wrote to Mr S in April 2020 and explained they couldnt provide cover 
because of the difficulties getting medical information during the Covid-19 pandemic. They 
said they would consider the application once the pandemic was resolved. 
Mr S complained about this on 22 April 2020. He also felt the telephone application was long 
and exhaustive. Aviva offered a new policy in June, but the premium was higher than what 
hed previously been paying. Mr S felt this was unfair in the circumstances. 
Aviva responded on 12 June 2020. They didnt uphold the complaint but did offer to reduce 
the premium, although it was more than what Mr S had previously been paying. Mr S 
remained unhappy and asked us to investigate. 
The investigator issued their view and explained that they felt Aviva had acted fairly and 
reasonably. Aviva agreed, but Mr S didnt. Therefore, the case passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Removing the trustee
In response to the view, Mr S said that a high number of marriages end in divorce and he 
should have been advised about how this could impact his policy. I understand Mr S took out 
the policy in June 2012 through an insurance broker and that the broker created the trust 
deed. As Aviva werent involved in the sale of the policy, I cant say they shouldve provided 
such advice at the time the policy was taken out.
 
Ive listened to the calls from December 2018. The call handler explained that Mr Ss ex-wife 
was named as a trustee. She also went on to explain that they could remove his ex-wife as 
trustee providing all trustees agreed. But Mr S said it was unlikely that his ex-wife would 
agree. The call handler said they would send him the necessary documents. 
Ive seen a copy of the letter dated 5 December 2018 and note its correctly addressed. Mr S 
says he didnt receive it and I cant explain this, but Im satisfied that it is likely it was sent 
based on what Ive seen. Aviva also promptly re-sent the forms when Mr S notified them in 
November 2019.
Ive listened to the call and reviewed the letter from November 2019. In order to remove the 
trustee, Aviva provided a Deed of Appointment and Retirement of Trustee. They explained 
they couldnt provide a deed to remove a trustee without their consent. 
Ive also reviewed email correspondence from January and February 2020 including Avivas 
response on 26 February. Aviva explained they needed consent from all existing trustees, 
and they told Mr S that he could obtain legal advice. They reiterated that they couldnt 
provide a deed which would enable a trustee to be removed without consent. They also 
explained that Mr S may have to cancel the policy and take out a new one or incur the cost 
of a Deed of Removal. Im satisfied this explanation was in line with the provisions set out in 
the trust deed and the process for removing trustees. 
Aviva have made a business decision not to provide a Deed of Removal. This is a legitimate 
exercise of their commercial judgement and its not something this service would interfere 
with. I can see Aviva told Mr S that they wouldnt do this, and that he could obtain one 
through a solicitor. So, Im satisfied they treated him fairly. 
I understand how strongly Mr S feels that he had no other option but to cancel the policy and 
I appreciate this was a particularly difficult time. However, the evidence shows that Aviva 
reasonably explained why they needed his ex-wifes agreement. As they also outlined his 
other options, Im persuaded Aviva have acted fairly and reasonably. 
Application process and reasonable adjustments 
I can see from the file that Aviva were aware of Mr Ss request for reasonable adjustments. 
For example, Mr S emailed Aviva on 26 January and asked if instructions to remove the 
beneficiary could be taken over the phone or via email. He explained completing the forms 
and posting them would cause him pain and distress.
Aviva responded on the same day and explained that the Expression of Wishes form did 
need to be completed and kept with the original trust deed. They suggested that Mr S could ask someone to fill it out on his behalf and he could then sign it. Also, Mr S asked for the 
forms to be sent in an email and Ive seen Aviva did this on 10 February 2020. 
Mr S also asked for the policy details to be sent via email. He explained he found it difficult 
receiving post and wouldnt be able to scan the paperwork. Aviva initially said they couldnt, 
but they then apologised and sent a copy in their email of 20 February. Having reviewed this 
correspondence, Im content that Aviva were mindful of Mr Ss request for reasonable 
adjustments. 
In respect of Mr Ss concerns about applying over the telephone for the replacement policy, 
Ive thought carefully about what hes said, and I know there was a lot of information to 
discuss. In March 2020 Mr S emailed Aviva asking for assistance setting up a new policy. He 
thought that because they already had a lot of information then this would save time and he 
asked for help. 
 
Aviva responded on the same day. They recommended Mr S go through a financial adviser, 
but also said one of their sales team could call him. Aviva confirmed that they would have to 
go through all the health and lifestyle questions because it was a new application. Whilst I 
appreciate the telephone call was lengthy, Im satisfied Aviva responded reasonably to Mr 
Ss requests for adjustments. 
Ive also reviewed Avivas letter which was sent to Mr S in April 2020. I understand how 
disappointing it wouldve been for Mr S that the application couldnt proceed at this time. 
Aviva explained that this was because of the Covid-19 pandemic and the strain on medical 
services which effected their ability to get information such as medical records and 
screenings.  
Im not persuaded that Aviva wouldve been able to make this decision or inform Mr S any 
sooner. This is because the impact of the pandemic hadnt been fully realised when Mr S 
cancelled his previous policy and applied for a new one. It was also reasonable that they 
wanted updated medical information before providing a new policy and an offer for cover 
was made in June 2020 when this could be obtained. 
Price of the premium 
I can see from the policy schedule that Mr S was offered a higher premium for his new 
policy. Although Aviva did offer a reduction in June 2020, it was still more than Mr S had 
previously been paying. I can see Mr S understood this might happen when he cancelled the 
previous policy. For example, he expressed concern about a higher premium in his email of 
19 February. He also asked whether Aviva would provide a new policy on the existing terms 
in his email of 5 March. Aviva replied and said this wasnt something that they could offer.
 
The evidence Ive seen doesnt persuade me that the premium was wrongly calculated. Also, 
Aviva explained why the premium increased in their response to Mr Ss complaint in June 
2020. Theyd received medical information about Mr Ss conditions and medication he was 
now on which meant they were unable to provide life cover on their standard premium rates. 
Im content that Avivas explanation of the price increase is reasonable and its not unusual 
to see such factors taken into consideration. Therefore, Im satisfied they would treat all 
consumers in the same situation as Mr S in the same way and Im not persuaded they acted 
unfairly by offering the higher premium. 
My final decisionFor the reasons outlined above, Im not upholding this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 May 2021.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman