DRN-3501940
The complaint
Mr F has complained that Lantern Debt Recovery Services Ltd are pursuing him for a debt 
which he says is not his.
What happened
This complaint is about a short-term loan that was taken out in 2017 and sold to Lantern in 
2021. The original creditor has gone into administration.
Mr F says he never took out the loan. He explained it was probably his ex-partner, who took 
out debts in his name and intercepted the post.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr F asked for an ombudsman to look at things 
afresh, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I sent Mr F and Lantern a provisional decision on 28 April 2022, to explain why I thought 
the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
With a complaint like this, wed often look at things against the original creditor, as theyre 
the ones who originally did the lending thats now in dispute. But the original creditor went 
into administration. So it seems most appropriate to look at this against Lantern, who are the 
debts current owners. What I need to consider is whether they are entitled to pursue Mr F 
for this account or not.
Broadly speaking, the onus is on Lantern to show that they are entitled to pursue Mr F for 
this debt. 
Lantern were able to provide a credit agreement and statements. But the agreement only 
contains basic details of Mr Fs like his name and address, which would have been relatively 
easy to obtain. And Ive not seen anything to show that the electronic signature was made by 
Mr F. So theres little there to substantially say this was Mr Fs account.
The statements do not show where the loan funds were paid to, nor where any repayments 
came from. So Ive got nothing to show that Mr F received the loan or benefitted from it, nor 
that he acknowledged it through making repayments himself.
Normally, in this kind of situation Id need the debt owner to provide some substantial 
evidence that this particular person owed the debt. For example, this could be things like a 
credit agreement with a corroborated signature, records of the checks that were carried out 
at the time, records showing that the loan was paid to that customers bank account, records 
of historic successful contact with the customer, and so on. But Lantern dont appear to be 
able to provide such evidence here.
I do understand that Lantern have had trouble getting documents from the original lender, 
given that they went into administration. But if Lantern cant reasonably evidence that this 
was Mr Fs account, then I cant fairly say that they can continue pursuing him.
Further, Mr Fs current account provider confirmed that back in 2017, theres no record of 
him receiving the loan funds into his current account or making any repayments. While I do 
acknowledge its possible that the funds went to a different account of his, it does tend to 
indicate that this loan might not have been Mr Fs.
So based on what Ive seen so far, Im minded to direct Lantern to stop pursuing Mr F for this 
debt. Of course, if Lantern provide substantial evidence that Mr F owes them this money  
and before this provisional decisions deadline  then Ill be open to reconsidering this.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
26 May 2022.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lantern didnt add any further evidence or arguments. So for the reasons set out in my 
provisional decision above, I find that Lantern havent been able to show theyre entitled to 
continue pursuing Mr F.
Mr F raised concerns about the debt being sold on and a new company chasing him instead, 
and I understand what hes coming from. To be clear, I expect Lantern to disassociate the 
account from Mr F such that hes no longer chased for it at all.
Putting things right
I direct Lantern Debt Recovery Services Ltd to:
Take the account out of Mr Fs name and cease him pursuing for it; and-
Remove their related entries from his credit file.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Fs complaint, and direct Lantern Debt Recovery Services Ltd to put things right 
in the way I set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman