DRN-4052765
The complaint
Mr F and Ms F complain that AWP P&C SA has turned down a claim they made on a travel 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr F and Ms F have travel insurance as a benefit of a packaged bank account.
In March 2022, Mr F and Ms F booked a multi-centre holiday abroad. They were due to 
travel between 30 May and 10 June 2022. Their holiday included a planned five day stay in a 
country Ill call S.
However, shortly before Mr F and Ms F were due to travel, the Foreign, Commonwealth & 
Development Office (FCDO) advised against all but essential travel to S. They say they 
contacted AWP to check whether their policy would cover them if they travelled to S and 
were told that it wouldnt. So Mr F and Ms F rearranged their travel plans and missed their 
planned stop in S, with a new planned return to the UK on 6 June 2022. They incurred a 
flight amendment fee of £898. They made a claim on their travel insurance policy for the 
costs theyd incurred.
AWP assessed the claim under the cancellation or curtailment section of the policy. It turned 
down the claim, as it said that cover for a government directive prohibiting travel to a 
policyholders destination only applied if the directive came into force after a policyholder had 
left the UK. In this case, the FCDO advice had been issued around 10 days before Mr F and 
Ms F had been due to depart on their trip.
Mr F and Ms F were unhappy with AWPs decision and they asked us to look into their 
complaint.
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld. She felt that AWP had 
misinterpreted the policy term it had relied on, and that the section it had relied upon only 
applied to curtailment claims. So she recommended that AWP should pay Mr F and Ms Fs 
claim, together with interest.
AWP disagreed. It maintained that the cover only applied if a government directive came into 
force after a policyholder had already started their trip. It said the government directive had 
to prevent all travel, not just advice against all but essential travel. And the expenses Mr F 
and Ms F had claimed for were neither for cancellation nor curtailment  they were for a 
flight amendment.
I issued a provisional decision on 27 February 2023. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I didnt think it had been fair for AWP to turn down this claim. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of Mr F and Ms Fs policy and the circumstances of their claim, to decide whether 
AWP treated them fairly.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Mr F and Ms Fs policy, as these form the 
basis of their contract with AWP. It assessed Mr F and Ms Fs claim under the cancellation 
or curtailment section of the policy and so Ive carefully considered the cover this part of the 
policy provides.
The policy says:
What is covered
We will pay you up to £5,000for any irrecoverable unused travel and accommodation 
costs (including excursions and other pre-paid charges) which you have paid or are 
contracted to pay together with any reasonable additional travel expenses, due to any of the 
following necessary and unavoidable events:
  Cancellation of the trip; or
 You fully curtail (cut short) your trip before completion or partially curtail (interrupt) your trip 
for more than 48 hours
As a result of the following events occurring:..
A government directive prohibiting all travel to, or recommending evacuation from, 
the country or area you were planning to visit or were staying in provided such a 
directive came into force after you have left the United Kingdom.
In this case, AWP turned down Mr F and Ms Fs claim because it said that as the FCDO 
advice had changed prior to their departure from the UK, it wasnt covered by the policy 
terms. Its also now said that the FCDO didnt advise against all travel to S, in line with the 
policy terms, and that Mr F and Ms F didnt cancel their trip in any event. So Ive gone on to 
decide whether I think AWPs conclusions are fair.
Ive initially considered the applicable policy term Ive referred to above. The way that 
cancellation or curtailment cover is laid out suggests that all eight insured events listed are 
covered in the event of cancellation or curtailment. If I were to accept that cover only applied 
if, for example, FCDO advice changed after a policyholder had already left the UK, then it 
seems to me that this particular term can only apply to curtailment claims. Thats because, 
necessarily, if a policyholder has already left the UK, then they will already be on holiday. It 
doesnt seem to me that a policyholder could be considered to have cancelled their trip after 
theyve already travelled abroad. If such FCDO advice was issued once a policyholder has 
already left the UK, it seems to me that their choices would be limited to either cutting short 
their trip or staying abroad. If AWP intended this cover to only apply to curtailment claims, it 
was free to set this out specifically and clearly in the contract terms. But it didnt do so  this 
cover applies to cancellation or curtailment claims.
So I agree with our investigators interpretation of this term. The first part of the clause states 
cover is provided in the event of a government directive prohibiting all travel tothe country
or area you were planning to visit  which suggests a future travel event. So it appears to 
me that the first part of the clause applies to cancellation claims. And I think the remainder of 
the clause following or relates to curtailment claims  given it specifically refers to the 
country or area a policyholder is staying in at the time of the advice. And I think its the 
second part of the clause only which requires a policyholder to have departed the UK before 
curtailment cover will apply. Even if Im wrong on this point though, I dont find that this 
clause is drafted in a clear or unambiguous way, for the reasons Ive given above. So I 
consider it would be fair for AWP to interpret this term in Mr F and Ms Fs favour.It's common ground that Mr F and Ms Fs whole trip wasnt cancelled. Neither did the FCDO 
advise against all travel, in line with the policy terms. So on a strict interpretation of the 
policy, Mr F and Ms Fs claim may not be covered. But I can depart from a strict application 
of the contract terms if I conclude they produce an unfair result. And thats the case here, for 
reasons Ill go on to explore.
The FCDO advised against all but essential travel to S shortly before Mr F and Ms F were 
due to travel. Mr F and Ms F say they called AWP and were told that if they travelled to S, 
they wouldnt have any policy cover. This accords with the general exclusion in the policy 
terms for travel against FCDO advice or recommendations. The general exclusion isnt 
limited to travel against FCDO advice against all travel only. I dont think a holiday could 
reasonably be considered to be essential travel and I think such trips to S were exactly what 
the FCDO was advising people against. The FCDO itself says that it advises against travel 
when the risk to British Nationals is unacceptably high. So I think regardless of whether the 
advice was for all travel or non-essential travel, the impact of the advice on both Mr F and 
Ms F and AWP and the level of risk posed by travel to S was the same. As such, it seems 
unfair for AWP to distinguish between the two types of FCDO advice when assessing this 
claim.
Im mindful that Mr F and Ms Fs claim was for an amendment fee, rather than trip 
cancellation. However, its clear, from their original booking, that theyd originally intended to 
stay in S for a five day period. Following the FCDO advice, they effectively cancelled this 
part of their trip and returned to the UK a few days earlier than planned, via another route. It 
seems to me too that had Mr F and Ms F decided to cancel their whole trip as a result of the 
advice, they may well have been entitled to recover their full cancellation costs under the 
policy terms. Instead though, they chose to mitigate their losses and rearrange the trip  
cancelling one stage of their multi-centre journey. I think it would produce an unfair and 
unreasonable result were Mr F and Ms F to lose out simply because they decided against 
cancelling their trip as a whole.
On that basis, I currently think that the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint is for 
AWP to settle Mr F and Ms Fs claim, in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy. I also think it should add interest to the settlement at an annual rate of 8% simple, 
from the date of claim until the date of settlement.
I asked both parties to send me any additional evidence or comments they wanted me to 
consider.
Neither AWP nor Mr F and Ms F had anything more to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, as neither party has provided any further evidence or comments for me to 
consider, I see no reason to change my provisional decision.
So my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint.I direct AWP P&C SA to settle this claim, in line with the remaining terms and conditions of 
the policy. AWP must add interest to the settlement at an annual rate of 8% simple, from the 
date of claim until the date of settlement.
If AWP considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest it should tell Mr F and Ms F how much it has taken off. It should also give Mr F 
and Ms F a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 April 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman