DRN-2456197
The complaint
Mr Ds representative has complained, on his behalf, about advice given to him by Argent 
Wealth Limited to transfer his benefits from a defined benefit occupational pension 
scheme (OPS)  the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS)  to a flexi-drawdown pension 
policy.
The representative has said that the advice was unsuitable, and that it failed to take into 
account the regulatory requirements in place when the advice was given. Its further said 
that the advice wasnt in Mr Ds best interests and that he would therefore like to be placed 
in the same position as if suitable advice had been given.
  
What happened
Mr D sought financial advice from Argent Wealth in July 2016 regarding his options for 
his deferred pension benefits in the BSPS. In March 2016, the board of Mr Ds employer 
had announced that it would looking at options for restructuring the business, one of 
which included separating the BSPS from the company.
Mr D has said that he was concerned that the BSPS would be moved into the Pension 
Protection Fund (PPF) at that time. My understanding is that any details for the possible 
alternative of the BSPS 2 were at this stage very much in their infancy and werent 
common knowledge.
It wasnt until May 2017 that the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a 
Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said 
that, if risk- related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a 
new pension scheme sponsored by Mr Ds employer would be set up  the BSPS 2.
This was, however, intended to receive deferred benefits only. The main defined 
benefit OPS had been replaced by a new defined contribution scheme.
As at 4 July 2016, Mr Ds circumstances were as follows, as recorded in a pension 
transfer attitude questionnaire:
He was 56 years old, single, with no dependants.
He was in good health, and had no reason to think he wouldnt reach normal 
life expectancy.
He owned his home, valued at around £150,000, and encumbered by a 
£58,000 mortgage. He had others loans amounting to about £3,000.
He had £2,500 in savings.
He was earning £34,000 pa - a net monthly figure of around £2,000 - with
expenditure of approximately £1,400 per month. He therefore had disposable 
income of around £600 per month.
His BSPS benefits were his only source of (non-state) pension income, 
having accrued just over 38 years of service at the time of the advice.
He had a cautious attitude to risk.
Mr D also confirmed that the following attributes applied to him from a prescribed list:
I have no dependants and therefore I do not feel that the provision of a lump 
sum death benefit on my death is important
I am already aware that I will be able to retire early owing to 
my existing arrangements
Whilst a higher lump sum would be nice it is not a priority for me
I would like access to the widest possible range of funds, irrespective of 
the charges levied
I am aware that my employer or ex-employers arrangement is in deficit/is 
closed to new members and I would require my preserved benefits to be 
reviewed in order to protect them, be it in the current scheme or in a new 
contract
I do not feel that the provision of a spouses pension should have any 
bearing on my recommended course of action
I wish to break all ties with my ex-employer and would prefer to move my 
funds to an individual plan which is under my control
In terms of Mr Ds deferred benefit entitlement, he had a normal retirement age of 65, 
at which point Argent Wealth estimated that he could expect an annual income from 
the scheme of £24,592.
Mr D received a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) from the BSPS for his 
deferred benefits of £251,530 on 8 July 2016.
The suitability report dated 2 September 2016 said that Mr D had expressed concerns 
about the BSPS and that its funding status was in deficit.
Mr Ds priorities were described as follows:
The potential to retire early and repay his mortgage with the maximum tax free 
cash
Flexibility of accessing his pension funds through drawdown
Improved lump sum benefits for the benefit of his sister
Argent Wealth recommended that Mr D transfer his BSPS benefits to a new arrangement 
for the following summarised reasons:
Mr D was concerned about the financial future of the BSPS.He wanted to access flexible income drawdown and to benefit from the range of

funds available from the recommended product, a collective retirement account.
The BSPS benefits would cease upon his death. But transferred benefits 
could be passed to his sister.
The transfer value analysis indicated the amount of growth required by the transferred 
funds to match those being relinquished in the scheme. It concluded that the collective 
retirement account would need to grow by 14.3% pa to match the BSPS benefits at a 
retirement age of 65.
Argent Wealth said that this required yield would be regarded as high, and that the 
requirement to achieve this to match the OPS benefits would place too much stress on the 
pension funds. But it said that there were other drivers behind Mr Ds willingness to transfer 
his deferred benefits. Mr Ds objectives couldnt be met by remaining in the existing 
scheme, it said. Furthermore, the funds chosen by Mr D would provide him with the 
portfolio structure and diversification he required and which suited his investment risk 
profile.
The fee to complete the transfer value analysis was £7,546 if Mr D proceeded and this 
would be taken by way of a product facilitated adviser charge, which would be paid by the 
receiving product provider. A further ongoing advice fee of 1% of the fund value would also 
be charged.
Mr D accepted the recommendation and transferred his BSPS benefits.
Mr D has since complained to Argent Wealth on the basis set out above. Argent Wealths 
representative, on its behalf, didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint, saying that, although it agreed 
that the value of the transferred benefits was unlikely to be able to match that of the 
benefits in the ceding scheme, Mr D was fully aware of this and there were other key 
drivers behind his decision to transfer.
In support of this position, it said that Mr D hadnt ever contemplated taking an annuity, but 
instead wanted to take his tax free lump sum immediately in order to repay his mortgage 
and other loans amounting to approximately £61,000, and then be able to access his 
income flexibly. This was a common driver behind decisions to transfer away from a defined 
benefits OPS, it said.
Had Mr D retired earlier than 65 within the BSPS, it said there would have been a 
swingeing income reduction, amounting to over 40% for retirement at age 56. And 
any income would then have been fixed for life.
As Mr D was single with no dependants, the spouses/dependants benefits from the 
scheme were irrelevant to him. Rather, Mr D wanted to be able to leave a lump sum benefit 
in the event of his death to his sister.
Mr D was also very concerned about the future of his employer and the BSPS, and 
although he was aware of the possibility of the PPF, he preferred the idea of having 
personal control of his pension funds.
Following the initial meeting, during which the advantages and disadvantages of 
transferring were discussed with Mr D, he had two months in which to reflect on the 
proposition. He wasnt rushed into making a decision, the representative said.Summarising, the representative said that, although the BSPS offered a guaranteed 
income from age 65, given Mr Ds other objectives and concerns about the future of the 
scheme, he wanted to be able to take control of his pension funds.
Dissatisfied with the response, Mr Ds representative referred the matter to this service.
Our investigator considered the matter and recommended that the complaint be upheld. 
In summary she said the following:
The regulator said that, when considering a transfer of defined benefits from an 
OPS, an advising business should assume that it was unsuitable and not in the 
clients best interests, unless it could be clearly demonstrated otherwise.
She noted Mr Ds cautious attitude to risk and the critical yield of 14.3%, and said 
that this was far higher than the discount rate  3.7% pa for a further nine years 
to retirement - used for loss assessments where a complaint about a transfer of 
defined benefits had been upheld. This was also much higher than the regulators 
mid band of expected growth - 5% pa - used in illustrations.
Given Mr Ds attitude to risk, the investigator was confident that he would attain a 
significantly lower value of benefits than had been available from the ceding 
scheme.
The investigator also considered Mr Ds capacity for financial loss. She noted 
that he was transferring just over 38 years of accrued benefits in the scheme and 
that he only had other assets of around £2,500 in savings. She therefore didnt 
think that Mr D had any capacity to absorb a financial loss on the transfer.
On the basis of the small likelihood of the transfer to exceed, or even match, the 
transferred OPS benefits, along with Mr Ds lack of capacity to absorb the 
associated loss, she didnt think the transfer was suitable.
But she also considered whether there were other factors here which mitigated 
this. She noted the regulators view that specific client objectives needed to be 
identified to justify, for example, accessing cash from a pension. Simply 
recording a desire to access the cash was insufficient.
The investigator thought that the majority of the objectives recorded by Argent 
Wealth here seemed to be stock or generic motives, which lacked the detail 
required by the regulator. She used the desire for early retirement and control 
of a pension as examples of this.
Mr D was also given pre-selected options of objectives to tick, rather than 
recording his own specific objectives. She also noted that objectives such as 
retiring at age 55, given that Mr D was already 56, didnt seem to be tailored to 
him.
The only two objectives which she considered to be specific to Mr D were those 
relating to the desire to access tax free cash to repay his mortgage and to leave 
a lump sum benefit to his sister in the event of his death. But there was little 
further detail about these  for example any indication that Mr D was struggling 
to repay his mortgage. So the investigator didnt think that those more specific 
objectives in any case warranted the transfer of guaranteed benefits away from 
the BSPS.In her view, the investigator thought that Mr D simply wanted to know the best 
option for him. And even though she accepted that Mr D might have had concerns 
about the prospect of the PPF, with a 10% reduction in the benefits payable, she 
thought that remaining in the BSPS would still have been the suitable 
recommendation, given the high risk strategy in terms of likely loss though 
transferring and bearing in mind his cautious risk attitude and little or no capacity 
for loss.

The investigator was confident that, had Argent Wealth advised him to remain in 
the BSPS, he would have accepted this, and then when the availability of the 
BSPS 2 arose, he would have opted to be transferred into this.
As such, she recommended that Argent Wealth conduct a loss assessment in line with 
the regulators guidance. She recommended that this be undertaken on the basis that Mr 
D would have opted to later join the BSPS 2.
Argent Wealths representative disagreed, however, saying the following in summary:
The investigators assessment dealt with the fact that the transferred sum would 
be unlikely to provide an income higher than the anticipated income from the 
BSPS. But this missed the point of the transfer. The objectives were to ensure a 
benefit for Mr Ds sister upon his death and to retire early if circumstances 
allowed.
Mr D was aware that he wouldnt be able to replicate the relinquished income 
benefits outside of the scheme. But it was never his intention to purchase an 
annuity.
Mr Ds income needs in retirement were modest, and taking a reduction in early 
retirement was affordable. It therefore made more sense to take advantage of 
the CETV and transfer this out of the scheme as it would be able to support that 
level of income and also meet Mr Ds other objectives.
The figures for the pension available from the BSPS were in any case irrelevant, 
as they were for a retirement age of 65, not the much reduced figures for the 
intended retirement age of 55/56.
The representative said that, in the hundreds of defined benefit transfer cases it 
had dealt with, it had never seen a client whod been advised to transfer for the 
prospect of them being able to secure an annuity better than the income 
available from the ceding scheme. The critical yield was therefore a red herring, 
as evidenced by the regulators move away from this to the Appropriate Pension 
Transfer Analysis (APTA).
It also didnt accept that, for a transfer to be deemed suitable, there needed to 
be a real possibility of improving on the benefits that an individual could expect 
from their scheme. COBS 19.1.6 deliberately didnt prescribe what might be in 
an individuals best interests or that suitability could only be demonstrated if it 
could be shown that the income from the transfer would exceed that from the 
ceding scheme, it said.
It further contended that it was the standard response of this service to these 
types of complaints that suitability could only be assessed by reference to the critical yield and whether income in retirement could be bettered through the 
transfer. And that none of the other reasons for transferring could trump this. 
This was an unwarranted position and showed no regard for other financial 
circumstances and objectives, it said.
The representative further asserted that the investigator had taken a dismissive 
approach to the clear aims and objectives of Mr D at the time of the advice, 
instead taking at face value the claims made years later on the instruction of his 
own representative.
It noted that the investigator had considered whether there were other reasons, 
other than the amount of pension income he might receive, which might have 
justified the transfer, but had said that the vast majority of the stated reasons 
were stock

motives. It rejected the latter point, saying that Mr D had made it clear that his 
primary objective was that his sister should be able to benefit from his pension in 
the event of his death. This was a specific objective which couldnt be met from 
within the BSPS.
This was confirmed in the questionnaire completed by Mr D, in which he said that 
he would like any monies not taken to go to sister (name redacted) and her 
family (as much as poss). Mr D said that his sister would be his nominated 
beneficiary and that, as he had no spouse or dependants, a lump sum death 
benefit wasnt important, but that he would like his sister to benefit. Mr D didnt 
feel like the provision of a spouses pension should have any bearing on the 
recommendation, but he was very concerned that in the event of his death the 
benefits should be paid to his sister.
This was also mirrored in the commentary within the suitability report. As such, it 
was queried as to why the investigator considered that there was little further 
detail about this objective.
The prospect of being able to leave a lump sum to his sister was, in conjunction 
with other aspects, a good enough reason for Mr D to accept a reduced income. 
This was evidenced in contemporaneous documents.
Mr D understood that he would be taking on investment risk by transferring, as 
also evidenced by the documents. He understood that there was no guarantee 
that thered be a lump sum left upon his death, but there was sufficient prospect 
of this to justify the transfer and to support the view that this could be in his best 
interests. The desire to benefit a sister was deemed by the representative to 
reasonably fall in the category of being in the individuals best interests.
Although Mr D confirmed that it was never his intention to take an annuity, it was 
established that the CETV would produce an income of around £7,480 pa at the 
time of the advice. This was close to Mr Ds anticipated expenditure of £7,680 
and close to the £7,718 which the representative said was likely to be offered by 
the BSPS for immediate retirement. The illustration issued at the time showed 
that, by taking the required level of income, this should allow for a lump sum to 
be left to Mr Ds sister. This would then be enhanced by the state pension at 67, 
which would by itself cover all of the expenditure, thereby leaving a greater lump 
sum upon death.By contrast, the FOS approach of Mr D retiring at age 65 and taking full income 
was far more than he required, when taking account of the state pension two 
years later, with no prospect of leaving anything to Mr Ds sister. This would not 
have fulfilled Mr Ds objective, the representative said.
The representative said that the alternative of being advised to remain in the 
BSPS and then transferring into the BSPS 2 didnt take account of Mr Ds 
objectives. And if he was faced with the same choice now, he would take the 
same course of action.
Mr D was 55 at the time of the initial meeting with Argent Wealth, and it was his 
objective to retire as soon as possible when the fact find was completed. Hed 
turned 56 by the time of the suitability report, but early retirement remained a key 
objective for him. This couldnt be ignored, and it was a realisable objective by 
transferring out of the BSPS.
Early retirement in the scheme would have significantly reduced the benefits 
payable to Mr D, even before the likely reduction of the BSPS 2 or the PPF was 
taken into account. The trustees letter to Mr D dated 17 June 2016 said that, if 
he took benefits

early, they would be subject to a reduction in the region of 43% as at mid-2016. 
Mr D did eventually retire in 2018, which demonstrated the validity and 
importance of his objective to retire early.
In closing, the business representative reiterated its view that Mr Ds objectives could only 
be met by transferring and that a one size fits all approach wasnt appropriate when 
considering the aspects of this case. It reiterated its confidence that, if presented with the 
same options, Mr D would again choose to transfer, but he had been persuaded to raise 
the complaint on the basis of securing a further lump sum as redress.
As agreement hasnt been reached on the matter, its been referred to me for review.
At my request, the investigator has notified both parties that, if the complaint was to be 
upheld, the appropriate comparator for redress purposes would be the transfer of the 
scheme benefits into the PPF. The investigator explained this was because the early 
retirement reduction is lower in the PPF and would more than offset the 10% reduction in 
the initial pension income. A spouses pension would be marginally higher with the BSPS 2, 
but the investigator explained this wasnt a significant factor here in any case.
Mr Ds representative responded to say that when Mr D first met with Argent Wealth, he had 
no expectations regarding early retirement, but when he was led to believe that this would 
be possible with a transfer, he inevitably indicated that this would be his preference. And so 
any reference in the fact find or suitability report to early retirement being an objective 
should be viewed in that context.
The investigator confirmed that I was satisfied that early retirement was a key objective for 
Mr D, and that Id noted that Mr D had in fact retired early in 2018, some seven years 
before the schemes normal retirement age.
The investigator also said that, although I was aware of the communication to scheme 
members in October 2020 about the proposed buy out of benefits, rather than them 
entering the PPF, if the complaint was upheld it would be my intention to direct any 
redress calculation to be undertaken on the current known basis, rather than any future enhancement (considered unlikely, albeit not impossible, in Mr Ds case).
Mr Ds representative noted the investigators comments and confirmed that Mr D 
would have no objection to any redress calculation being undertaken on the proposed 
current basis.
In response to these issues, Argent Wealths representative said the following:
It reiterated that, at the time of the advice, Mr D was concerned about the 
future prospects of his benefits in either a successor scheme or the PPF.
The adviser book tool to which the investigator had referred in conveying my 
view that, if Mr D hadnt transferred, he would have opted to enter the PPF, 
wasnt available at the time of the advice. It wasnt therefore reasonable to 
suggest that either Argent Wealth Ltd or Mr D could have used this as a basis for 
decision making.
It was on the basis of the known options that Argent Wealth had given its 
advice to Mr D  and this had met his aims and objectives. Remaining in the 
scheme, or entering into the PPF, would have met none of these.
The communication to members in October 2020 referred to by the investigator 
also post dated the advice by almost four years. It wasnt therefore reasonable to 
suggest that either Argent Wealth Ltd or Mr D could have used this as a basis for 
decision making. Nor should this be taken into account in any redress calculation 
about advice given several years earlier.

It also expressed concern at the apparent lack of consideration being given to 
the responsibility of Mr D in this matter, as referred to in the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000 s.3B. Mr D was provided with the relevant information, 
understood the risks and made an informed decision to transfer.
It also referred to an initial view from this service on a separate case, in which the 
opinion was that the complaint shouldnt succeed as the consumer had made an 
informed decision based upon the available information. This consideration had 
been lacking here.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, and in accordance with the Financial 
Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) and DISP, I need to take into account relevant: law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
This isnt a comprehensive  list of the rules  and regulations  which  applied,  but 
provides  useful  context  for my assessment  of the business'  actions  here.
Within the FCAs handbook, COBS 2.1.1R required a regulated business to act 
honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client.
The FCAs suitability rules and guidance that applied at the time Argent Wealth advised Mr 
D were set out in COBS 9. The purpose of the rules and guidance is to ensure that 
regulated businesses, like Argent Wealth, take reasonable steps to provide advice that is suitable for their clients needs and to ensure theyre not inappropriately exposed to a level 
of risk beyond their investment objective and risk profile.
In order to ensure this was the case, and in line with the requirements COBS 9.2.2R, 
Argent Wealth needed to gather the necessary information for it to be confident that its 
advice met Mr Ds objectives and that it was suitable. Broadly speaking, this section sets 
out the requirement for a regulated advisory business to undertake a fact find process.
There were also specific requirements and guidance relating to transfers from 
defined benefit schemes  these were contained in COBS 19.1.
COBS 19.1.2 required the 
following:  A firm must:
(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a 
defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded 
benefits with the benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder 
pension scheme or other pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises a 
retail client to transfer out of a defined benefits pension scheme or other pension 
scheme with safeguarded benefits;
2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be 
able to make an informed decision;
(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the 
factors that do and do not support the firm's advice, in good time, and in any 
case no later than when the key features document is provided; and
(4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison    
and its advice.
Under the heading Suitability, COBS 19.1.6 set out the following:
When advising a  retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits 
occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits whether to 
transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer, conversion or 
opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transfer, conversion or opt-
out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer, 
conversion or opt-out is in the client's best interests.
COBS 19.1.7 also said:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, pension conversion or pension 
opt-out, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, where relevant, in relation 
to the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved to replicate the benefits 
being given up.
And COBS 19.1.8 set out that:
When a firm prepares a suitability report it should include:
(1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal recommendation;(2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and
(3) a summary of any other material information.
Ive therefore considered the suitability of Argent Wealths advice to Mr D in the context 
of the above requirements.
Argent Wealths rationale for transferring
Argent Wealths representative has said that Mr D was concerned about the financial 
future of his employer and the pension scheme. Mr D was therefore seeking advice on the 
options available to him. Mr D wasnt categorised as an insistent client, and so Argent 
Wealth could be confident that he would be acting upon its advice.
In accordance with COBS 9.2.2R, Argent Wealth undertook its fact finding for Mr D and 
then set out its assessment of his circumstances and objectives.
Mr Ds objectives may be summarised as follows:
Flexibility of accessing his pension funds through drawdown
Early retirement and repayment of his mortgage and other loans with the tax 
free cash
Improved lump sum benefits for the specific benefit of his sister

Before I explore these objectives in detail, I think it would be prudent to firstly address 
a comment made by the business representative in response to the investigators 
assessment.
It said that the investigator had taken a dismissive approach to the clear aims and 
objectives of Mr D, instead placing disproportionate emphasis on the matter of the critical 
yield required to match the scheme benefits.
This is in my view an unfair misrepresentation of the investigators consideration here.
Firstly, even post pension freedoms, and in whatever format  either annuity or drawdown - 
it might be taken, a regular pension income is still the predominant objective for retirees in 
order to replace income derived of former employment. They may now take larger cash 
lump sums than that available on a tax free basis, but the remainder would still typically be 
drawn in some format as income  as was the recommendation for Mr D here.
Prior to the introduction of more recent guidance which assesses the overall cost of 
replacing the benefits being relinquished - and which still, it must also be noted, relies on 
factors including the erstwhile guaranteed income which would otherwise have been paid 
by the scheme - the critical yield was an entirely reasonable indicator to use in determining 
whether those scheme benefits might be bettered.
As an additional reminder here, and although I note a further comment from the business 
representative that this service shouldnt automatically assume that, just because a case 
relates to a BSPS member, the advice would have been unsuitable, COBS 19.1.6 said 
precisely the opposite. The starting assumption for defined benefits transfers should be 
that they will not be suitable. A transfer should only then be deemed suitable if can clearly 
demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer is in the consumers best interests.
And this is what the investigator then did  having noted the high critical yield, she 
specifically addressed whether there were other factors which might render the transfer 
suitable. The business representative even acknowledges this, albeit immediately after 
saying that she had focussed on the matter of the critical yield. The investigator may not, 
in her final analysis, have thought that these objectives were sufficient justification for 
recommending the transfer away from guaranteed benefits, but its a misrepresentation to 
suggest that she dismissed, or otherwise didnt consider, them.
Early retirement
The scope for early retirement was a key stated objective, and was a repeated theme 
throughout Mr Ds dealings with Argent Wealth. This wasnt attributed the highest ranking 
of priority for Mr D - ranked as B on a scale of A to C, where A was the highest priority. 
And Mr D had said that hed like to retire early, if feasible. But the fact is that he did so, two 
years later, in 2018, and so Im satisfied that this was indeed a key priority.
Much has been made, both at the time of the advice, and in the representatives response 
to the investigators assessment, of the reduction which would have been made to the 
scheme benefits if Mr D retired immediately, amounting to some 43% of the pension he 
could expect at 65.
There are a couple of issues here, however. Firstly, there was no conclusive indication as 
to the age at which Mr D was in fact planning to retire. The business representative 
acknowledged this in its submission to this service, conceding that this was an oversight 
on
Argent Wealths behalf. This should therefore have been established, and a proper 
comparison undertaken as to the likely pension Mr D could have expected from the BSPS 
or the PPF at his actual intended retirement age.
Mr D was recorded as wanting to take the tax free cash for the purpose of repaying his 
mortgage and loans, but to defer income until a later date. But there was no suggestion 
that he was experiencing difficulty in making repayments  as borne out by his healthy 
surplus monthly income.
As we know, Mr D in fact retired in 2018. Given that this was two years closer to the 
normal scheme retirement date, I think its likely, even in the absence of an actual 
comparison, that the discount applied would have been markedly reduced  and certainly 
to an extent where the scheme benefits from either the BSPS 2 or the PPF would have 
comfortably met his income needs.
And to illustrate this, even with immediate retirement in 2016, he could have expected a 
lump sum of £51,453, with which he could have repaid the majority of his mortgage and 
loan debt, and a residual income of £7,718 pa. I think its likely that, with the associated 
increase in the benefits Mr D could have expected to receive two years later, his income 
needs would have been amply catered for.
I note that this wasnt specifically addressed in the suitability report, but in the response to 
the complaint theres also a lack of balance when talking about the reduction in the 
scheme benefits for early retirement. The reality was of course that, although the scheme 
benefits would be reduced to reflect a longer period of payment, the collective retirement 
account would also have had less time to grow, and any resulting income would need to last longer. And so the effects of early retirement are felt in both scenarios.
Its also noteworthy that in the response of the business representative to the 
investigators assessment, it said that Mr Ds income needs in retirement were modest 
and that taking a reduction upon early retirement was affordable.
But it seemed to only apply this principle to an income reduction produced by the 
transferred benefits. Any reduction in the scheme benefits, even though these would have 
met Mr Ds income needs, have been described as swingeing. But the actual percentage 
of reduction shouldnt matter if the income needs can be met. Whether or not a discount is 
too high only becomes a consideration which needs to be made if the individual is retaining 
their benefits in the scheme and deciding whether to retire early, or defer this for the sake 
of enhanced benefits at a later stage.
Overall, therefore, given that Mr Ds income requirements are likely to have been met 
by early retirement within the scheme in 2018, if not before, I dont think this was 
sufficient reason for him to transfer away from the BSPS.
Lump sum death benefits
Im satisfied that improving on this position was a key objective for Mr D. The death 
benefits offered by the transfer would be more beneficial to Mr D and his extended family  
specifically his sister. And Mr D was concerned that most of his accrued benefits would be 
lost in the event of his premature death.
After the transfer, a lump sum would be payable to his beneficiary/ies, rather than in the 
form of spouses/dependants pensions from the scheme. And if he had none, these 
benefits would be lost.
But I have several concerns about this as a reason for transferring Mr Ds benefits. Firstly, 
he had no particular health issues which would mean that death benefits, or any likelihood 
to not benefit from a pension income derived of the scheme for a reasonable amount of 
time, were of concern at that point.
The second is that accrued pension provision is intended to provide for an individuals 
retirement  as a reminder here, this was almost the entirety of Mr Ds provision  rather 
than a desire to leave a legacy for an extended family member. The recommendation 
needed to be given in the context of Mr Ds best interests, not those of his sister. The 
business representative has said that, as the provision of a legacy for his sister was a 
key priority, this was therefore nevertheless acting in Mr Ds best interests.
Im afraid I disagree. This may have been acting in line with an expression of a wish to 
leave a financial legacy to a family member, but unless the financial needs of the individual 
concerned are given prominence over the extended family, this cannot be said to be acting 
in that individuals best interests. This desire to leave a legacy to his sister cannot 
reasonably have trumped Mr Ds own personal requirement to benefit from his pension. 
And this objective to leave a legacy should have been properly weighed against the 
guaranteed benefits Mr D was relinquishing, and Argent Wealth should have advised him 
that his own financial benefit took priority here.
But there was also an absence of detail or discussion relating to the legacy which Mr D 
could in any case have left to his sister and would have allowed him to retain his 
guaranteed benefits in the scheme  a property worth in the region of £150,000, which after 
Mr D had repaid his loans with the tax free cash, would be unencumbered by a mortgage.Ive also seen no detail as to why a death benefit payment to his sister from his pension 
was so important to Mr D - for example, financially straitened circumstances or some kind 
of financial dependence. And there was no record of Mr D needing to provide for his sister 
as part of his normal outgoings. I therefore think that it was more likely than not an entirely 
understandable desire to leave some kind of financial legacy, but not essential, and 
certainly not of sufficient importance to justify Mr D compromising the security of his own 
financial future.
And finally, the death benefits provided by the BSPS were potentially valuable for Mr D in 
the future. A lump sum may have its appeal  and I recognise that in some situations the 
ability to pass a lump sum to a beneficiary could be particularly advantageous when 
compared to an income stream through a spouses or dependants pension, especially of 
course where the latter are currently absent in an individuals life.
But I cant see any record of Mr D ruling out any intention to marry in the future. And so it 
remained possible that a dependants pension of some description may yet have had 
some value for him.
So for the reasons given, I dont think the prospect of a lump sum benefit for Mr Ds sister 
by way of transferring to the collective retirement account constituted sufficient reason to 
transfer and lose otherwise valuable guaranteed benefits for Mr D personally.
Control of his pension
A further recorded objective for Mr D was control over his pension benefits. This was 
borne of his concern about the financial viability of his employer and the BSPS, along with 
the prospect of the latter entering the PPF.
But Mr Ds concerns should have been addressed and appropriately managed. I appreciate 
that there will be instances where a client seeks financial advice with preconceived notions 
or concerns about the financial health of an employer or pension scheme, but as the 
professional party, the IFA is tasked with rationally addressing those concerns and 
providing an appropriately balanced view of the available options.
I dont think this happened here. The extent to which Mr Ds concerns were discussed and 
managed was a single line, as follows  You are concerned that your British Steel 
scheme funding status is in deficit. Had reassurances instead been given about the 
protections which would still be available, even in the worst case scenario of the scheme 
benefits needing to enter the PPF, I think Mr D would have viewed things differently.
Its fair to say that the detail of any potential successor scheme, as an alternative to the 
PPF, is likely to have been lacking at this point in time. This advice predated the 
announcement in May 2017 relating to the RAA, but even if the BSPS entered the PPF, 
many important guarantees would remain. And my view is that Mr D would in fact have 
been better off by transferring to the PPF rather than the BSPS 2. A reduction of 10% would 
apply to the benefits payable, but even if Mr D retired early in 2018, I think its more likely 
than not that those benefits would still have met his income needs.
But Mr D also didnt need to make any decision about whether to transfer until more details 
were known about the options which might later be available. My understanding is that 
there was no imminent prospect of the BSPS entering the PPF, and even once the options 
were known, members still had the choice of transferring out of the scheme, rather than 
being forced into the PPF.So I dont think that these concerns, if appropriately managed, would have been 
sufficient justification to transfer at this time.
Flexibility and control of his pension funds
As background here, Mr Ds income and expenditure was recorded in the fact find, with 
the former being in the region of £2,000 pm (net) and the latter being approximately 
£1,400.
According to a letter from the scheme trustees, Mr D could expect an income if he took 
immediate retirement of £10,964 pa, or a tax free lump sum of £51,453 and a lower income 
of £7,718. And so, even with immediate retirement, which as alluded to above doesnt 
appear to have been a requirement at that point, and is borne out by Mr Ds decision to 
retire two years later in 2018, Mr D could have repaid the bulk of his mortgage and loans, 
or certainly restructured his mortgage for the sake of lower monthly payments, and likely 
have an income which was greater than his outgoings  and which would then be 
supplemented by the state pension at age 67.
By 2018, which is the point at which Mr D did in fact retire, given the likely reduction in his 
outstanding mortgage and increase in the tax free cash available from the scheme, I think 
its likely he could have repaid his debts in full and benefited from an pension income 
which would have been comfortably higher than his remaining outgoings.
So, as previously set out above in my comments relating to early retirement, my view here 
is that there wasnt an income need which couldnt have been satisfied by Mr Ds 
prospective BSPS income, or that produced by a successor scheme. He therefore didnt 
need to transfer to meet his income needs.
Ive therefore then thought about the flexibility argument, in that Mr D could alter the 
income he withdrew from the flexi-drawdown arrangement to satisfy changing income 
needs.
But its unclear as to why Mr D would have needed such flexibility, especially given the 
investment risk associated with it, his cautious risk attitude, lack of capacity to incur 
losses and apparent lack of any historical investment which might otherwise indicate a 
preparedness to take risks with his pension income.
According to the illustration produced by the proposed provider, Mr D could expect 
residual lump sums of between £36,900 and £449,000 (according to low and high rates of 
projected growth) if he withdrew the equivalent to the annuity (which would be provided by 
the transferred fund) of £7,480 pa until age 99. This would have enhanced any lump sum 
Mr D might have been able to leave to his sister.
But there are couple of issues here. Firstly, the relevant comparison here was with the 
guaranteed income which would be provided by the scheme, not an annuity which could 
only have been produced by a transfer to begin with. The scheme benefits, even if taken 
immediately, would have provided a commuted yearly income of £7,718, which in any case 
exceeded the annuity amount quoted. The pension from the scheme was also guaranteed 
income, rather than income through drawdown which was reliant upon steady investment 
growth for the rest of Mr Ds life. And given Mr Ds limited investment experience, I have to 
wonder to what extent he would have had confidence in unknown investment returns 
producing the required income for the rest of his life, but for the reassurances offered by 
Argent Wealth. Furthermore, the BSPS pension would have increased each year and the drawdown figure doesnt appear to have factored in those yearly increases over the next 43 
years.
Had Mr D been advised to not transfer, he wouldnt have needed to rely upon uncertain 
future investment performance to provide the income he required. And although I havent 
seen projections to illustrate this, had the annual drawdown amount instead reflected the 
higher payment of the equivalent BSPS income, with the associated annual increases in 
payment, I think its likely that the fund would have run out some way ahead of Mr Ds 99th 
birthday. And this disparity in the benefits which would be produced was reflected in the 
high critical yield which was required to match the BSPS benefits, even taking into account 
that benefits were assumed to be taken later at 65.
Im not, therefore, satisfied that flexibility of income withdrawal was a sound justification for 
the transfer, when a steady, guaranteed income from the BSPS would have met Mr Ds 
income requirements and offered him this peace of mind for the rest of his life. And as Ive 
set out above, even if Mr D didnt marry or have dependants, any legacy he wished to 
leave his sister could have been provided by the value of his mortgage free property.
Ive then considered the critical yield quoted by Argent Wealth. And for the reasons given 
above, this is a key indicator as to the real value of the benefits being relinquished. It 
cannot simply be dismissed on the basis that a consumer might not have planned to take 
an annuity with transferred funds  an option which Ive explained wouldnt in any case 
have been possible until that transfer had taken place.
On the basis of the recommendation to take regular drawdown here, Mr D was, in line 
with the majority of retirees, seeking some means of a regular income.
It seems to be accepted by all parties that the figure of 14.3% pa to match the scheme 
benefits at age 65 was unlikely to be achieved by the collective retirement account. And it 
could only really be achieved by taking a level of investment risk higher than was 
appropriate for Mr D.
Mr D was categorised as a cautious risk investor. As noted by the investigator, the advice 
was given during the period when this service was publishing 'discount rates' on our 
website
for use in loss assessments where a complaint about a past pension transfer was being 
upheld. Businesses may not have been required to refer to the discount rates produced by 
that guidance when giving advice on pension transfers, but they did nevertheless provide a 
useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable 
when the advice was given in this case. And the discount rate cited at the time of the 
advice was 3.7% pa for a time period of 9 years to retirement.
The required critical yield was clearly comfortably in excess of this - and even if the 
business representative doesnt accept the discount rate as a reliable indicator of the 
achievable growth rate, this also significantly exceeded the mid-band growth rates used 
by pension providers when providing quotations.
So, as noted by the investigator, to achieve an annual investment return of over 14% 
to simply match the scheme benefits, Mr D would have needed to take investment 
risks significantly in excess of those he was either prepared, or in a position, to take.
And in my consideration of this, Ive further thought about Mr Ds capacity to take risks 
with his pension funds. These pension benefits represented virtually the entirety of Mr Ds retirement provision  hed accrued over 38 years service. Any benefit accrued in the 
replacement defined contribution scheme established by his employer would have been 
relatively small, and is unlikely to have accrued further significant value in the number of 
years left until he planned to retire. It also didnt have the same guarantees which were 
attached to the BSPS, or successor schemes.
The business representative portrays guaranteed income, for example from the ceding 
scheme, as being a secondary consideration in these transfers, and appropriately 
subjugated by higher priorities. The representative also cites its own experience where the 
stated objectives in a suitability report prepared by a business include, for example, a 
flexible income, rather than the desire for a guaranteed income as would be offered by 
either the scheme or an annuity.
So, whilst this case has been considered on its own merits, I thought it might be helpful to 
also provide our own experience of the types of complaints we then see at this service, 
when an individual says they have subsequently appreciated the significance of the income 
guarantees theyve relinquished, saying that flexibility (often paired with the requirement of 
control over the pension) was in fact never a key objective, but was promoted by the 
business as a beneficial outcome of transferring. What had been portrayed by a business 
as an advantageous outcome of a transfer then became a stated objective  which of 
course was then met by means of the transfer.
Without appropriate evidence to justify why flexibility and control were so important to an 
individual that they would have been prepared to relinquish the guaranteed income 
provided by the scheme, its often the case that this position, or reason to transfer, doesnt 
stand up well to scrutiny  as is, in my view, the case here.
On a similar theme, and as alluded to above, the business representative has said that Mr 
D never expressed a desire to take his pension benefits in the form of an annuity, and that 
this is a further reason as to why the critical yield is a red herring. But unless there was a 
real prospect of the benefits being bettered, as certainly wasnt the case here, this would in 
any case have been a somewhat odd rationale for transferring, given that guaranteed 
regular income for life could simply have been obtained from the BSPS or the successor 
schemes.
As with the flexibility argument, this is being considering from the wrong direction, again 
confusing objectives with outcomes. An outcome  in this case disadvantageous in terms 
of the guaranteed income available - of the transfer has again been used as a potential 
reason
for it. Firstly, prior to the transfer, Mr D would never have needed to entertain the 
possibility of taking an annuity. He had the prospect of guaranteed income from the 
scheme.
It was only on the basis of the transfer proceeding that Mr D then effectively ruled out the 
guaranteed income from an annuity presented to him, because it was only just sufficient to 
meet his expenditure. Drawdown, once the transfer had happened, therefore became the 
only viable, and recommended, option. The possibility of an annuity only arose as a result 
of the transfer. Or put another way, it wasnt  and cannot have been - one of Mr Ds 
objectives to not take a previously unavailable annuity.
And so the inability to obtain an annuity from transferred funds which would be sufficient for 
his income needs wasnt a reason to transfer, and then implement drawdown because that 
would then be the only viable option for receiving sufficient income once the transfer had 
occurred. Rather, the inability to obtain a guaranteed income from transferred funds which would match that provided by the scheme would be a reason to think carefully about 
whether an individual should be advised to transfer at all.
The business representative has said that Mr Ds other objectives outweighed the 
necessity for a guaranteed income stream to be matched by the flexi-drawdown benefits. 
But for the reasons Ive outlined above, I dont consider these reasons to be sufficiently 
compelling to justify the transfer from an environment of guaranteed pension benefits to 
one in which no such guarantees existed, especially when Mr Ds income needs could 
have been satisfied from the BSPS or successor schemes.
What should Argent Wealth have done  and would it have made a difference to Mr 
Ds decision?
There were understandably concerns relating to the BSPS at the time of the advice - and 
I fully acknowledge this. Its undeniable that this was a period of great uncertainty for 
individuals such as Mr D. But this only serves to emphasise the need for a balanced 
assessment of the options available and, ultimately, suitable advice.
Furthermore, as Ive also said above, there was no need for Mr D to make any decision 
about his BSPS benefits at this point in time. It would have been better for him to await 
further detail as to the prospects for the BSPS, whether this was a transfer into the PPF, or 
as was ultimately the case, the further option of transferring into the BSPS 2. There was no 
pressing need to retire at that point  no actual early retirement date had been recorded, 
and as it transpired, even after the transfer Mr D didnt retire for another two years.
Ive also thought very carefully about whether the service provided to Mr D was a balanced 
appraisal of the options available to him, coupled with a robust and candid discussion 
about his own concerns relating to the BSPS. Mr D, amongst many others in a similar 
position, may have been concerned by developments relating to his employment and the 
BSPS, but he was nevertheless entitled to an impartial review of his options.
And looking at those options, one of the key recorded objectives - early retirement  was 
in any case achievable within the BSPS, and would have remained so in the PPF. For the 
reasons given above, I dont think the perceived advantage of flexibility of income 
outweighed the guaranteed benefits in the scheme, and Im satisfied that Mr Ds income 
needs could have been comfortably met by accessing benefits provided by the scheme.
My further view is that, if properly discussed, Mr Ds concerns about the existing scheme 
and the links to his employer could have been successfully allayed, such that he 
appreciated the important guaranteed benefits, even under the PPF, which he would be 
relinquishing for the
sake of income flexibility which he simply didnt need, and a future pension which would 
be dependent upon investment returns.
Tax free cash for the purpose of mortgage and loan repayment was available from his 
scheme benefits and growth over the short term would be achieved by way of regular 
revaluations. Death benefits were also payable from the BSPS, albeit in a different format 
from those available from the collective retirement account. But I dont think these should 
have been a more important consideration than Mr Ds own, personal benefit which hed 
be relinquishing through the transfer.
The critical yield is a very telling indicator of the value of the benefits being relinquished. 
And at over 14%, theres a consensus here that this was unlikely to be achievable to even simply match the scheme benefits - and this was at age 65, with the benefit of a further nine 
years prospective continual growth. The justification for nevertheless transferring, despite 
the very high likelihood that the scheme benefits couldnt be matched (and almost certainly 
not with the type of investment risk appropriate for Mr D) was that it was nevertheless 
suitable in view of Mr Ds stated objectives and the concerns about the BSPS. The 
business representative has restated this in its response to the complaint.
And whilst I accept that the critical yield isnt the only factor to consider when weighing the 
suitability of a transfer, Im unconvinced by what Argent Wealth, or its representative, 
considers to have been the overriding justifications for proceeding with the transfer, for the 
reasons given above. At least one of the key objectives  early retirement - could in any 
case have been met by the BSPS or the successor schemes. And in the absence of any 
health conditions which suggested that Mr D might not receive a reasonable period of 
guaranteed retirement benefits (according to Office for National Statistics (ONS) data, into 
his early 80s) from the scheme, Mr D would in any case have been able to leave a 
financial legacy to his sister through the value of his mortgage-free property.
The available evidence simply doesnt support the position as to why flexibility and 
control would have been sufficiently compelling reasons for Mr D to relinquish valuable 
benefit guarantees. He had no prior experience, or demonstrable history, of wanting to 
manage his own investments. And if the objective of control was borne of concerns 
relating to the financial viability of the BSPS, notwithstanding the benefit of waiting to learn 
more about the plans for the BSPS, alongside the known benefits of the PPF, there 
needed to be a much more balanced assessment of the schemes attributes and prospects 
for Mr D to be able to make a properly informed decision.
And I dont think any potential lack of awareness of the detail of the BSPS 2 and its 
features in any case changes the outcome here. Even if there was the prospect of Mr Ds 
funds entering the PPF, my view is that, taking account of his circumstances, including his 
attitude to risk, his objectives and the guarantees which the BSPS offered and would have 
persisted, Argent Wealth should have advised against the transfer.
I think that, had this happened, Mr D would have followed that advice and left his 
deferred benefits where they were.
Argent Wealths representative has raised the issue of Mr Ds responsibility in deciding to 
transfer his benefits. I dont disagree that properly informed, correctly advised individuals 
would be in a position to take that kind of responsibility and decide for themselves if they 
wanted to transfer their defined benefits. The problem here is that this was a complex 
matter involving many factors with which Mr D, as a layman, wouldnt have been familiar  
hence his reliance on a professional party to take those factors into account and provide 
suitable, balanced advice.
For the reasons given above, my view is that Mr D simply wasnt placed in a properly 
informed, or suitably advised, position to be able to take that kind of personal 
responsibility.
The representative has also referred to a separate case against Argent Wealth in which 
the investigator has recommended that the complaint not be upheld. But it will be aware 
that each case will be different, and will have quite unique circumstances, not least those 
of the consumer involved. As Ive said above, my consideration here has dealt with the 
circumstances of this particular case.
summaryFor the reasons given, my view is that a fair and reasonable assessment of this case leads 
to a clear conclusion  that the recommendation to transfer wasnt suitable for Mr D, nor 
was it in his best interests. The key contributing factors here are: Mr Ds cautious attitude to 
risk and its incompatibility with the type of investment risk required to match the scheme 
benefits
 a failing under COBS 19.1.7; and the lack of balance in the portrayal of Mr Ds options 
and the benefits available from the BSPS  a failure to adhere to COBS 19.1.2 (2) and 
19.1.8.
I also have significant concerns about the way in which the critical yield, itself a key 
indicator of the value of the benefits being relinquished, was largely dismissed on the basis 
of the other objectives identified and the described benefits of the transfer. But at least two 
of the key benefits sought by Mr D were available without needing to transfer  early 
retirement through the BSPS or the PPF, and a lump sum financial legacy for his sister 
through his property. And for the reasons Ive set out above, the argument for requiring 
flexibility and control, over and above the comparative advantage of guaranteed benefits 
for life, doesnt bear up to scrutiny.
Argent Wealth would have known that, taking account of Mr Ds attitude to risk with regard 
to his pension funds and matching that with the likely corresponding investment returns, it 
was unlikely that the benefits available from the BSPS, or the PPF, could be bettered 
through the transfer. As the other reasons for transferring were insufficiently compelling, 
when considered against the valuable benefits being relinquished, as required by COBS 
2.1.1R and COBS 19.1.6, it would - or should - then have drawn, and conveyed, the 
conclusion that transferring wasnt in Mr Ds best interests.
Putting things right
My aim to is put Mr D, as closely as possible, into the position hed be but for Argent 
Wealth Limiteds unsuitable advice. Reinstatement of Mr Ds deferred benefits isnt 
possible.
Therefore, Argent Wealth Limited should undertake a redress calculation in line with the 
pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised 
Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB 
pension transfers.
My view is that, had Mr D not transferred his pension funds to the PPP, he would have 
opted to join the PPF. There would be a 10% reduction in the starting pension entitlement 
within the PPF. The BSPS 2 wouldnt cut the starting entitlement for deferred members, but 
the reduction for early retirement under the PPF was lower and would have more than 
offset the 10% reduction. The commutation factors for tax free cash entitlement were also 
slightly more favourable under the PPF. And so both the starting income and the tax free 
cash would have been higher with the PPF.
If Mr D did marry, under the BPSP 2 his spouses pension would be set at 50% of his 
pension at the date of death, and this would be calculated as if no lump sum was taken 
at
retirement. But although he may have later married, as Mr D was single at the time of 
the advice, I think any enhancement in spouses benefits would have been of secondary 
importance to his own pension benefits.
Within BSPS 2, for service after 5 April 1988 and up to 5 April 1997, the scheme would 
include a Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP) element increase in line with CPI, capped at 3% pa. Mr Ds service accrued between 5 April 1997 and 5 April 2005 would also be 
increased in line with CPI, capped at 5% pa, and then 2.5% pa for his service thereafter. 
But again, I think the advantage of the higher starting income in the PPF would more have 
more than made up for this.
And so its the benefits offered by the PPF which should be used for comparison purposes.
Im aware of the recent announcement regarding the proposed insurance buy-out of the 
benefits currently under PPF assessment, which is scheduled to occur towards the end of 
2021. Its been confirmed that, when this happens, all members whose PPF benefits would 
be less than their full scheme benefits (i.e. the amount they would be if the scheme were 
not in a PPF assessment period) will see an increase to their benefits. All other members 
will see no change as a result of the buy-out.
As Ive set out above, my view is that Mr Ds benefits from the PPF would in any case have 
been better than those he could expect from the BSPS 2, and so, whilst I cant be certain 
on this in advance of the knowing the actual terms of the buy out, I think he would fall into 
the latter category and would experience no change to his benefits as a result.
Ive noted the comments made by Argent Wealths representative about the tool for 
determining whether the BSPS 2 benefits, or those which would be offered by the PPF, 
would be the better for Mr Ds objectives. Its said that, as this wasnt available at the time 
of the advice  and this was also the case with the information about the proposed buy out 
- any consideration of this in deciding the outcome of the complaint would be using the 
benefit of hindsight.
Im afraid that the representative has misunderstood this. Neither the tool, nor the more 
recent announcement about the buy-out, have contributed to my findings on the suitability 
of the advice given to Mr D. My conclusions, quite apart from these later resources, are 
that Mr D wasnt suitably advised to transfer, for all the reasons sets out above.
There is no use of the benefit of hindsight here. Ive concluded that, suitably advised, Mr D 
would have retained his benefits in the scheme. Had he done so, he would then have 
participated in the time to choose exercise, at which point the tool demonstrating the 
likely enhanced benefits for an early retiree would have been available to him. And I think 
its then likely, given his objectives, that he would have opted for his benefits to enter into 
the PPF.
As such, the calculation on the basis of choosing to enter the PPF should be carried out 
using the most recent financial assumptions at the date of the actual calculation. Argent 
Wealth may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr 
Ds contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, 
which will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ds 
SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation in respect of any future 
loss should if possible be paid into Mr Ds pension plan. The payment should allow for the 
effect
of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr D as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow 
for future income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Ds likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the future loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr D within 90 days of the later 
of the date Argent Wealth Limited receives notification of his acceptance of my final 
decision.
Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess 
of 90 days, that it takes Argent Wealth Limited to pay Mr D.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is 
data from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair 
compensation requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may 
recommend that the business pays the balance.
Determination and money award: I require Argent Wealth Limited to pay Mr D 
the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I additionally require 
Argent Wealth Limited to pay Mr D any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I only require Argent 
Wealth Limited to pay Mr D any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend 
that Argent Wealth Limited pays Mr D the balance. I additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr D.
If Mr D accepts my decision, the money award is binding on Argent Wealth Limited. My 
recommendation is not binding on Argent Wealth Limited. Further, its unlikely that Mr D can 
accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr D may want to consider 
getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Argent Wealth Limited should undertake 
the above calculation and, if it demonstrates a loss, compensate Mr D accordingly.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2021.   
Philip Miller
Ombudsman