DRN-4100929
The complaint
A company Ill call R complains that HSBC UK Bank PLC blocked then closed its account, 
then called in its Bounce Back Loan (BBL), all without explaining why.
R is represented by one of its directors, Ms K.
What happened
On 6 July 2021, HSBC issued a letter to R saying it would close all of Rs accounts on 9 
September 2021. It didnt give a reason for its decision, but said the notice was in line with 
clause 29 of its terms of business. R complained, but HSBC maintained its position. It issued 
its final response to Rs complaint on 21 July 2023, saying it had made its decision after a 
thorough review of the account, but without expanding on its reasons.
R gave instructions for where HSBC should send its account balance when the account was 
closed but when the time came, HSBC didnt release the funds so Ms K brought Rs 
complaint to our service. 
HSBC later did release Rs funds, but only after it called in Rs BBL and deducted part of Rs 
account balance to settle the BBL in full. To recognise the delay in releasing Rs funds, 
HSBC offered to pay interest totalling £11,827.50 on the withheld balance and to refund 
charges it had applied to Rs account during the block. But Ms K rejected HSBCs offer, 
saying HSBC had caused distress and embarrassment to her and her fellow director, and 
that she wanted the BBL to be reinstated.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and decided to uphold it. She was satisfied HSBC 
was entitled to close Rs account, but she felt it had erred in recalling the BBL and paying the 
balance off with Rs funds. So, in addition to the compensation HSBC had offered, she 
recommended HSBC reinstate the BBL and pay £500 to compensate R for the 
inconvenience it had experienced as a result of HSBCs actions.
Both parties rejected our investigators findings
Ms K queried the interest calculation and said the correct amount should be £22,602, and 
felt that £500 didnt fairly compensate R considering the impact this had all had on Rs 
business.
HSBC accepted our investigators recommendations regarding compensation, but didnt 
accept that it should have to reinstate the BBL. It said it had followed the correct process in 
terminating the BBL, and that a direction to reinstate the same fettered its discretion to end a 
relationship it had with a customer it had decided it no longer wanted to retain.
Because no agreement could be reached, the matter came to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I should say that Im aware Ive summarised the events of this complaint in far less 
detail than the parties, and that Ive done so using my own words. The reason for this is that 
Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here, which our rules allow me to do. 
This approach simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts. And Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome in this case. So, if theres something Ive not 
mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it, and I must stress that Ive considered everything 
both Ms K and HSBC have said, before reaching my decision.
Account block
All banks in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their 
legal and regulatory obligations. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers 
accounts while they carry out a review.
So, in order to make an award in favour of R, I would need to be satisfied that HSBC acted 
unfairly or took actions it wasnt entitled to take. Having looked at the evidence, Im satisfied 
HSBC acted in line with its legal and regulatory obligations when it blocked Rs accounts. 
And that it was entitled to do so under the account terms and conditions that governed the 
relationship between HSBC and R.
I understand why Ms K wants HSBC to share its reasons with her. But HSBC is under no 
obligation to do so, whether contractual or otherwise. So, I cant say it should have given Ms 
K more information when she asked. 
However, I do think HSBC could have returned the balance in Rs account sooner than it did. 
HSBC has already accepted this point, and Im satisfied the date range it has acknowledged 
is reasonable.
While I cant disclose the details to R, Ive considered the information HSBC has provided 
and I agree that the funds could have been released on 29 November 2021. Its calculation is 
based on the time between that date and the date it did release the funds (i.e. 9 June 2022). 
And Im satisfied that represents fair compensation for R as a result of it being deprived of its 
account funds.
HSBC also agreed to refund charges in the sum of £184.50 that it applied to Rs account 
during the block. Both parties have accepted this part of our investigators outcome, so I 
wont comment on it further, save to say that Im satisfied HSBC should refund those 
charges.
Account closure
A bank is entitled to close an account with a customer, so long as it does so in a way that 
complies with the terms and conditions of the customers account. The terms and conditions 
of Rs accounts say that HSBC can close the accounts by giving two months notice. And 
again, there is no obligation on HSBC to disclose the reasons for its decision to R.
HSBCs notice to close letter was dated 6 July 2021, and informed R that its accounts would 
be closed on 9 September 2021 (i.e. more than two months after the date of the notice).So, it follows that HSBC correctly followed its process and gave R the required notice. And 
while I understand R didnt have access to its account during that period, for the reasons Ive 
set out above, Im satisfied HSBC was entitled to keep the block in place.
And, while HSBC isnt obliged to disclose the reasons for its decision to R, I have looked at 
the evidence it provided our service to support its decision. And having done so, Im satisfied 
that it was entitled to close Rs account in the manner it did. And that it didnt treat R unfairly 
by closing the account.
Bounce Back Loan
HSBC told our service it was entitled to withdraw the BBL in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the loan. And it set out the extent of the review it carried out in determining 
whether it should recall the loan. I accept the terms of the BBL entitle HSBC to recall the 
loan in certain circumstances, but our service would expect to see justification for a recall to 
ensure HSBC has treated its customer reasonably, so HSBCs discretion in this regard is not 
unfettered.
The conditions, rules and requirements that apply to BBLs are different to those that apply to 
current accounts. And our services approach to termination of each of these products is 
distinct, in no small part because a bank account can be replaced relatively easily. Whereas 
the same cannot be said of a credit facility, particularly a BBL. And the consequences of 
terminating a BBL are usually more severe than the consequences of terminating a current 
account.
With that in mind, Ive looked at the evidence HSBC sent our service, to understand why it 
recalled the loan, and whether or not it treated R fairly in doing so. And having done so, Im 
not persuaded it was entitled to call in the BBL. Ill explain why.
Because HSBC isnt obliged to disclose the reasons for its decision to R, I wont go into 
detail about the evidence and rationale HSBC has submitted. However, while I can see 
HSBC had concerns about retaining R as a customer, I havent seen evidence to 
demonstrate it was entitled to terminate the BBL in the same manner as it terminated the 
current account.
Firstly, I should say that Im satisfied HSBCs intentions in recalling the BBL were 
reasonable, and I understand why it decided to do so. Furthermore, it is not for me to set out 
exactly what steps HSBC should follow before terminating a BBL: that is a matter for HSBC 
to decide and those steps will vary from case to case. So, to be clear, I have decided this 
complaint based on the facts particular to this case and what I consider to fair and 
reasonable.
With that being said, I do think HSBC needed to do more here before it recalled the loan. For 
example, while HSBC has demonstrated sufficient reasoning to persuade me it was entitled 
to close Rs business account, I havent seen the level of checks I might expect to see when 
a bank terminates a BBL, nor corroborating evidence to substantiate HSBCs concerns. And 
without this (or some other further evidence) I cant be satisfied that HSBC acted reasonably 
in exercising its right to recall the loan.
To be clear, Im not denying HSBCs right to recall a BBL in certain circumstances, and had 
HSBC demonstrated it had taken further action, whether that be greater interaction with R, 
providing evidence to substantiate its concerns, or some other steps proportionate to its 
actions, I may have reached a different outcome. But as Ive said above, I have to assess 
each case on its own merits, and on this occasion, Im not persuaded HSBC has done 
enough to demonstrate its actions were reasonable.As to what HSBC should do to put things right, firstly it follows that it should reinstate the 
BBL and return the same to the position it was in at the date of the recall. 
Ive also thought carefully about what compensation it should pay R. While R has told our 
service about the impact this had on its business, I havent seen compelling evidence of 
consequential losses it suffered as a result of HSBCs errors. Thats not to say I dont accept 
it wouldnt have suffered a loss as a result of HSBCs actions, its simply that Im satisfied 
HSBCs interest offer represents fair compensation for any losses R suffered as a result of 
HSBCs errors, and for the time it was deprived of its funds.
And while I have no doubt this whole situation would have caused significant upset to Rs 
directors; I cant make an award in that regard. R is HSBCs customer, not Ms K and Mrs H, 
so I cant ask HSBC to compensate Ms K and Mr H for any distress they experienced 
personally. And because R is a limited company, it cant experience distress, so I can only 
make an award to recognise the inconvenience it suffered.
And Im satisfied that £500 fairly reflects the inconvenience R experienced as a result of 
having its directors attention diverted to deal with this issue.
My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank PLC must:
1. Pay R £500 in recognition of the inconvenience it experienced as a result of HSBCs 
errors;
2. Pay R £11,827.50 in interest;
3. Refund charges in the sum of £184.50; and
4. Reinstate the BBL on the same terms as the date the same was recalled, and 
remove adverse credit markers registered on the back of the termination (if any).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman