DRN-2315475
The complaint
Mr H complains that TSB Bank plc charged him interest and a late payment fee on his credit 
card account.
What happened
Mr H has a credit card with TSB. In December 2019 and June 2020, he was charged some 
interest and a late payment fee because payments didnt credit the account in time. Mr H 
says he didnt receive his credit card statements, so he was unhappy he was charged the 
interest and fees. He complained to TSB.
TSB reviewed matters and said that the interest and late payment fees were charged 
because it didnt receive payments on time, despite Mr H saying hed tried to make them 
online. It did, however, refund all interest and fees charged as a gesture of goodwill. Mr H 
remained unhappy with this and wanted to know why the interest and fees were charged in 
the first place. So, he brought his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He thought TSB fairly charged the 
interest and fees because it hadnt received Mr Hs payments on time. He recognised that 
TSB had refunded all the interest and fees charged in those months and so he thought that it 
had treated Mr H fairly. 
TSB didnt dispute our investigators findings, but Mr H did, and repeated his earlier points. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think TSB has treated Mr H fairly. Ill explain why.
As part of Mr Hs credit card agreement, hes required to make a payment to his credit card 
by a specified date each month. In both December 2019 and June 2020, payments didnt 
credit his account by the required dates. Mr H gave some reasons about why the payments 
were late, including that he didnt receive his credit card statements. Whilst I acknowledge 
this point, Ive also considered that the terms of Mr Hs account say that a payment must be 
made even if a customer doesnt receive their statement. And, the fact remains that both 
payments were not made on time. On that basis, I think it was correct for TSB to take the 
action it did.
In any case, TSB reviewed the matter and refunded all the interest and fees Mr H was 
charged in both months. I think this is a fair resolution to the complaint.
My final decision
I think TSB Bank plc has dealt with this complaint fairly.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
Hana Yousef
Ombudsman