DRN-4254063
The complaint
Mr F complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Blue Motor Finance Ltd, who Ill call BMF.
What happened
Earlier this year I made a decision that BMF should refund the cost of replacement parts, 
including the cost of replacement front brakes, on a car Mr F had been financing through 
them. I was persuaded that a wheel hadnt been put on properly before Mr F took receipt of 
the car, and I thought BMF should repair the damage that occurred when that wheel came 
off.
At that point I noted Mr F was also concerned hed had to replace the rear brakes and a 
window regulator on his car within five months of taking receipt of it. As BMF hadnt had an 
opportunity to consider that complaint I told Mr F hed have to refer it to them first. He did 
that, but he wasnt happy that BMF rejected that subsequent complaint and he referred it to 
this Service. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld as he thought the issues were 
related to wear and tear.
Mr F disagreed and his complaint has therefore been referred to me, an ombudsman, for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr F, but I agree with our investigators view.
Im required by DISP 3.6.4R of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) Handbook to take
into account the relevant, laws and regulations; regulators rules, guidance, and standards;
codes of practice and, when appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the relevant time.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is designed to be a quick and informal alternative to the
courts under the Financial Services and Markets Act (2000). Given that, my role as an
ombudsman is not to address every single point that has been made. Instead, it is to decide
what is fair and reasonable given the circumstances of this complaint. And for that reason, I
am only going to refer to what I think are the most salient points. But I have read all of the
submissions from both sides in full and I keep in mind all of the points that have been made
when I set out my final decision.
Mr F acquired his car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our
service is able to look into complaints about it.
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then BMF, who are also the supplier of
the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they
meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account
any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances.
The car was about eight and a half years old and had already covered nearly 64,000 miles 
when Mr F took receipt of it. An old car with a high mileage will not be expected to be as 
good as a newer car with a low mileage, but it should still be fit for use on the road, in a 
condition that reflects its age and price.
I think a degree of wear and tear was to be expected on this car and I think the issues Mr F 
complains of were most likely related to wear and tear.
The window regulator
Mr F had been able to drive several thousand miles in the car before the window regulator 
failed. I dont therefore think it was broken when it was supplied to him. Ive considered if the 
fault may have been developing when Mr F took receipt of the car but as the fault appears to 
be related to an electrical fault, and as electrical faults tend to develop suddenly, I think its 
more likely that the regulator failed after the car was supplied. The relevant legislation says 
we should consider whether the car was durable, but I dont think a window regulator failing 
after almost nine years would suggest the car hadnt been durable: I think its more likely the 
fault was related to wear and tear and as such I dont think BMF need to fund the repair cost.
The brakes and calipers
In my previous decision I had asked BMF to repair the front brakes as I didnt think it would 
be usual for brakes to be smoking after only 2,500 miles of driving. Im not persuaded to tell 
BMF to fund the replacement of the rear brakes, however, as I think its likely they failed as a 
result of general wear and tear. The MOT completed on this car on, or around, the point of 
supply, suggests the brakes were of a roadworthy condition when the car was supplied, and 
Im not persuaded there are any extenuating circumstances, in relation to those brake 
components, that suggests the wear was anything other than normal. 
I understand Mr F thinks the MOT wasnt completed properly but thats not for me to decide. 
It appears the MOT was carried out at a suitably approved MOT station, and I dont think the 
fact the car had two MOTs in six months is suspicious: its not unusual for a dealership to 
complete an MOT before sale so that a car is provided with a full 12 month MOT.
In September of this year Mr F told us that the other front window regulator had broken and 
had needed replacing. Thats an issue BMF havent been able to consider yet and Mr F may 
wish to refer it to them. The tests Ive set out above should help him when considering 
whether to do so.Im not asking BMF to take any action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman