DRN-2888688
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E, the partners of D, complain about a fixed rate loan Lloyds Bank Plc sold to 
them in 2010.
What happened
In 2010 Mr and Mrs E took out two loans with Lloyds. The first, for £510,000, was on a 
variable rate over a 25 year term. The second, for £500,000, also had a 25 year term but 
had a fixed interest rate for the first 10 years.
Some years later, Mr and Mrs E complained that the fixed rate loan was mis-sold. In 
particular, they said they wouldnt have agreed to take the lending on a fixed rate over 10 
years if Lloyds had given them clear information about potential break costs.
Lloyds did not uphold Mr and Mrs Es complaint. It says it wasnt required to provide advice 
or to discuss alternative products, and that the information it did give to Mr and Mrs E was 
clear. 
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. He said:
He didnt think Lloyds had advised Mr and Mrs E to take out the fixed rate loan, and 
so it was not responsible for recommending a suitable product to them.
He accepted that Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs E some information about the possibility of 
break costs should their fixed rate loan be repaid within the first 10 years of its term, 
but he didnt think that information went far enough. He thought Lloyds should have 
done more to clearly explain the potential size of the break costs and the factors that 
could influence those costs.
However, he didnt think Mr and Mrs E would have made a different decision even if 
Lloyds had given them clearer information. On balance, he thought it is likely they 
would still have borrowed the same amount on the same 10 year fixed rate even if 
Lloyds had fully explained how much break costs could be.
Mr and Mrs E and their representative did not accept our investigators conclusions, and 
asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. Briefly, their representative said:
Mr and Mrs E were unsophisticated customers, and Lloyds didnt do anywhere near 
enough to give them the information they would need to make an informed decision.
Mr and Mrs E did not themselves seek out a product to mitigate interest rate risks  
the drive to fix came from the bank. But even if Mr and Mrs E had wanted to fix the 
interest rate on their loan, Lloyds should have made them aware of other products 
that would achieve that aim.
If the bank had recommended that Mr and Mrs E take a variable rate rather than a 
fixed rate, they would have followed that recommendation. Given the economic and 
treasury data at the time, the bank should have recommended a variable rate.
Mr and Mrs E were refinancing existing borrowing as well as borrowing more money. 
The banks May 2001 filenote, explaining that Mr and Mrs E were very price 
sensitive, supports an argument that they were presented with a series of facts 
showing that interest rates were likely to rise. Had that not been the case, it is 
unclear why they would have have opted for a more expensive product fixed over 10 
years.
Although Mr and Mrs E did not in fact repay their loan over the 10 years of the fix, in 
2010 it would have been impossible to rule out the possibility of early repayment. It is 
rare for a commercial loan to run for its full term, and there are many reasons why 
Mr and Mrs E might have wanted to repay early. If that had happened, they would 
have found that the prohibitive breakage costs made early repayment impossible.
In late 2010, even the most pessimistic economic commentators were not predicting 
base rate rises in the foreseeable future; there was no uncertainty around the fact 
that interest rates would remain low. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to further disappoint Mr and Mrs E, but having done so I have reached the same 
conclusions as our investigator, for broadly the same reasons. I agree that Lloyds did not do 
enough to make Mr and Mrs E aware of how expensive break costs on their loan could be, 
but I dont think they would have done anything differently even if Lloyds had provided them 
with more information. I give more details about my findings below.
I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs Es representatives believe that Lloyds should have advised 
them to borrow on a variable rate, but I do not agree. I am not persuaded that Lloyds either 
gave or offered advice to them. That means Lloyds was not responsible for recommending 
any one option over another, and so I dont think Lloyds should have recommended either a 
fixed or a variable rate. Instead, Lloyds should have ensured that the information it provided 
to Mr and Mrs E was clear.
As Ive said, I dont think the information Lloyds gave was clear because it didnt do enough 
to explain break costs. But that doesnt automatically mean that Lloyds should pay 
compensation to Mr and Mrs E. I need to consider whether Lloyds mistake in failing to 
provide clear information actually caused them to suffer a loss.
It is impossible to be certain what Mr and Mrs E would have done if everything had 
happened as it should and Lloyds had given them more information about break costs. So, I 
need to consider what is more likely to have happened, bearing in mind Mr and Mrs Es 
circumstances and the evidence provided by both parties. 
In my view:
With hindsight, it is obvious that Mr and Mrs E would now be better off if they had 
taken the whole of their borrowing on a variable rate basis. But I dont think that 
would have been obvious to anybody in 2010. I am satisfied that neither Lloyds nor 
anybody else knew in 2010 what interest rates would be over the next 10 years. 
Lloyds would certainly have had views on the matter  and those views would have 
been well informed, and would have contributed to the pricing of its loans  but it would not have had actual knowledge of future rates.  
I dont think that price sensitivity on Mr and Mrs Es part would automatically mean 
that they would choose not to go ahead with a fixed rate over any particular term. 
There is nothing irrational in in a price sensitive customer choosing a fixed rate that is 
initially higher than a variable rate on offer, with the aim of reducing their exposure to 
future interest rate rises.  
Mr and Mrs E clearly knew that variable rate loans were available; they took a 
variable rate loan for part of their borrowing. That suggests they had a desire for 
some flexibility, provided by the variable rate, but that they were also looking for 
security in fixing some of their costs. So, I dont think theyd have chosen a variable 
rate for all of their borrowing even if Lloyds had given them more information. 
Whilst I am satisfied that Mr and Mrs E did want to fix the interest rate on part of their 
borrowing, there is nothing here that allows me to be certain that they would have 
chosen to fix for any specific time period if Lloyds had given them the information it 
should have done. A shorter fix would have given them more flexibility; a longer fix 
would have given them certainty over costs for a longer period.
If I had seen evidence to suggest that Mr and Mrs E were likely to want to repay their 
loan within 10 years, then I might have said it was unlikely they would have chosen a 
10 year fix if they had understood how expensive break costs could be. But I dont 
see anything in Mr and Mrs Es circumstances to suggests they were likely to want to 
repay their loan within the first 10 years. Their business was not a new venture for 
them; on the contrary, they describe themselves as a third generation farming 
business and Lloyds 2010 notes say they were hoping to pass the farm to their 
children. I consider that they were in a position to make long term plans of 10 years  
or even longer  if they wished to do so. 
In addition, Mr and Mrs E did not make any attempt to repay their loan in full or in 
part within the first 10 years. I acknowledge that they say they didnt realise they 
could repay early, but if anything had happened that made early repayment 
necessary, I think it likely that they would have approached Lloyds and asked if could 
help them. In the circumstances, I think it is reasonable to conclude that in 2010 Mr 
and Mrs E did not know of anything that was likely to cause them to want to repay the 
fixed rate loan within the first 10 years.
Overall, I think it is more likely than not that if Lloyds had done what it should have done in 
2010, Mr and Mrs E would still have chosen the same fixed rate loan, over the same 10 year 
period.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank Plc, and I make 
no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Laura Colman
Ombudsman