DRN-3751419
The complaint
N, a charity, has complained about the refusal of claim under its legal expenses insurance 
policy with Aviva Insurance Limited.  Aviva uses agents to deal with claim and complaints on 
its behalf. For ease, I will refer to Aviva throughout this decision. 
The trustees of N have brought the complaint on its behalf and N has been represented in 
the complaint by Mr H. 
What happened
In November 2021, N made a claim under the policy with Aviva, as a result of a dispute that 
arose with neighbours of its premises.  I understand N proposed to remove some mature 
trees and cut the hedgerow along its boundary and the neighbours objected, as it would 
adversely affect their property. 
The neighbours also asserted that they had entered a contract with Ns trustees to maintain 
the boundary and had incurred expenses doing so, over a number of years, and the 
proposed actions were in breach of that contract. In effect they say the agreement that they 
would maintain the hedgerows means N cant cut down, remove or replace any part of the 
hedgerow or boundary trees even though they belong to N. The neighbour instructed 
solicitors who wrote to N to this effect. 
Aviva appointed one of its panel solicitors to consider the claim. The solicitors advised there 
were reasonable prospects of defending the claim. However, Aviva said the claim was not 
covered under the policy. Aviva said it had first considered the matter as a property dispute  
claim, as it thought the neighbours were alleging N was causing it nuisance but there is no 
nuisance claim to defend or make. It then considered it under the contract dispute section of 
the policy but said that as the alleged contract does not relate to a contract for goods or 
services in exchange for money, it is not covered under the policy.  
Mr H is very unhappy about this. He says the dispute is that the third party alleges they had 
a verbal contract to provide management and maintenance services of the hedge. This is the 
alleged contract and so the claim should be covered. N has now had to instruct its own 
solicitors to pursue the matter, at a cost of round £1,200.
 
One of our Investigators looked into the complaint. She did not recommend it be upheld, as 
she did not think it fell within the contract dispute section of cover. 
N does not accept the Investigators assessment and so the matter has been passed to me. 
In the meantime, N has provided a copy of another communication from the neighbours 
solicitors which says that they are in breach of contract and should they continue to damage 
the hedgerow in breach of the contract between them, they will seek damages. He says that 
given the third party is alleging breach of contract, this brings the matter within the cover of 
the policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When an insurance claim is made its for the insured to show there has been an insured peril 
 an event thats covered under the policy. Its then for the insurer to either accept the claim 
or prove that an exclusion applies. 
Ns policy says it will cover all reasonable and necessary legal costs arising out of certain 
specified events, subject to various terms and conditions. These include property disputes: 
We will represent you in any legal proceedings for civil action relating to material 
property which is owned by you, or for which you are responsible following  any 
nuisance or trespass. 
The neighbours are not making a claim for nuisance or trespass against N and theres no 
evidence of any claim N could make under this section of the policy. 
The policy also covers: 
Any legal proceedings for civil action relating to a contractual dispute arising from 
that agreement or alleged agreement which has been entered into by you or on your 
behalf for the: 
(1) Sale
(2) Provision
(3) Purchase
(4) Hire 
of goods or services provided that 
(a) The amount in dispute exceeds £250
(b) If the amount in dispute is payable by instalments, the instalments due and 
payable at the time of making the claim exceed £250
(c) If the dispute relates to money owed to you, a claim must be made within 90 days 
of the money becoming due and payable.
Goods and services are not defined in the policy, so I consider these words would take 
their normal meaning. I think its clear that any arrangement between N and the neighbours 
didnt relate to goods. N says the alleged contract is for the provision of services. I agree that 
the maintenance of the hedge could amount to a service generally. I also agree with N that 
the fact it disputes that any contract was entered into does not mean it is not covered, as the 
policy covers alleged contractual agreements, as well as contracts that are agreed. 
However, the policy will only provide cover if the dispute arises out of the sale, provision, 
purchase or hire of services. In my opinion these all relate to actions by the policyholder, so 
the sale and provision of goods and services means the sale or provision of goods or 
services by N. And it follows that the purchase and hire of goods and services would mean 
the purchase and hire by N from a third party. Otherwise, there would be no need for both 
sale and purchase to be included. 
So the two sections that might be relevant here are the provision of service and the hire of 
services. N has not provided any services and, as stated, I do not think this section of cover would 
include cover for services provided to N by any other person or entity. 
So the only section remaining that might potentially be relevant to this claim is the section 
that covers disputes arising from the hire of services by N. I do not think the arrangement 
between N and the neighbours amounts to the hiring of services from the neighbours by N. I 
will explain why. 
 
The key criteria for a contract to have been formed are, that there is an offer (in this case to 
provide services) acceptance of that offer, consideration in exchange for the services and an 
intent to create legal relations and capacity. 
From the information provided to me, there is no suggestion that N asked for or solicited the 
services of the neighbours. Rather the neighbours appear to have asked permission to 
maintain the hedgerow and boundary in a way that satisfied them. The letter from the 
neighbours solicitors says: 
They took the steps [to maintain the boundary] following an agreement with the 
Trustees that our clients [the neighbours] would be entitled to maintain and control 
the height of the hedge and trees and the hedgerow would remain permanently at a 
height of at least 9 or so from the level of the car park. 
So the neighbours offered to carry out the services of maintaining the hedgerow and N 
accepted that offer, but the service was not being provided to N as such. N permitted them 
to maintain the hedgerow and boundary to the height they wanted (which N says was not 
ideal from its point of view) in order to protect the neighbours privacy and minimise any light 
and noise disturbance from Ns use of the premises. Theres also no evidence that N 
requested the maintenance be carried out in any particular way. Therefore, it seems to me 
that the benefit of those services (the maintenance of the hedgerow) was primarily for the 
neighbours themselves. Although there was some benefit to N as well presumably, as they 
would otherwise have had to maintain the hedgerows to an extent itself, that was not the 
purpose of the arrangement. The arrangement came about because of the neighbours 
desire to maintain their privacy and that was the main purposes of the services carried out. 
In any case, even if that is not right, there would also need to be some consideration in 
exchange for the services for this to amount to a contract for services. Consideration means 
a promise to pay money, a promise to do something, a promise not to do something or a 
promise to provide something else of value. Because the policy covers the hiring of services 
by N, for the claim to be covered under this policy the services would need to be provided to 
N and the consideration would have to flow from N to the neighbours, in exchange for those 
services. I dont believe thats happened in this case.
The letter from the neighbours solicitor goes on to talk about consideration: 
our clients consideration for that agreement from the Trustees was the incurring 
of cost in such maintenance and their agreement not to object to the operating 
hoursas further consideration and following confirmation from the Trustees of the 
agreement previously reached, our clients did not object to the more recent 
installations of two lighting stanchions.  
So it is clear from this that the benefit of the arrangement was to the neighbours and the only 
consideration was from them to N. They agreed not to object to certain uses of the premises 
in exchange for being allowed to maintain the boundary how they wanted it. There does not 
appear to be any consideration provided or promised from N to the neighbours in exchange 
for the services. So, having considered everything, Im not persuaded that this is a dispute that arises out of 
the hiring of any services by N, even if it is alleged that it entered into a contractual 
agreement with the neighbours. Therefore, I dont think N has shown that what happened in 
this case falls within the contracts section of policy cover. I dont think its covered by any of 
the other insured events set out in the policy either. As a result I think it was fair of Aviva to 
turn down the claim N made about this. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman