DRN-2438024
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain about work carried out by St Andrews Insurance Plcs contractor 
as part of a previous buildings insurance claim.
What happened
In 2011, St Andrews contractor re-routed pipework underneath the patio.
Then in 2019, Mr and Mrs Gs patio experienced movement. They thought this had been 
caused by the work St Andrews contractor had previously carried out in 2011, as they 
said the supportive mesh under the patio had been cut and hadnt been replaced 
properly. St Andrews didnt agree, and so Mr and Mrs G brought a complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She didnt think the 
evidence supported that the movement to the patio had been caused by St Andrews 
contractor.
I issued a provisional decision on 2 December 2020. My provisional findings were:
Mr and Mrs G arranged for a drainage specialist to carry out an inspection of the 
pipework. Their report said that a CCTV survey had found multiple bends throughout the 
drainage, and there was a section that had dropped which was causing a high-water level. 
It was thought this would cause reoccurring blockages. The report also said that it 
suspected the defects it had found were caused when the PVC pipework was installed as 
the surrounding hardcore/backfill was not sufficient, and that this may be the cause of the 
subsidence with the patio.
St Andrews arranged for its own investigations to take place (by a company Ill call 
Company I). Company I found there was some bellied pipework, which it thought had 
been caused by poor installation/faulty workmanship, and that there had been 
subsidence due to escaping water from the previous repair.
St Andrews then arranged for a chartered surveyor (Mr W) to consider the evidence and 
visit the site. He agreed there was a belly in the pipework, but pointed out that this meant 
the pipework was holding water rather than leaking, and therefore he thought the belly 
was of no detriment to the overall function of the pipe. He said that to suggest the mesh 
was key to holding up the patio stones in its own right ignores the fact that the ground 
beneath would need to settle first to create a void for the mesh to sink into, but he said 
there was no evidence of this happening  such as fractures in the mortar or pointing, or 
pronounced dips.
Mr W thought thered been no movement to the patio that correlated with accelerated 
ground movement by leaking drains. He noted that the affected area was collecting 
surface water, and thought that was why it was behaving differently to the surrounding 
areas. Mr W thought that the reason for the movement was because the patio had settled 
on clay soils over the last decade.
Mr and Mrs G then arranged for the patio to be repaired. Theyve provided a report from 
the contractor who did that work (that Ill call Company H). Company H said there was 
settlement of the patio along the line of the drain that had been re-routed in 2011. It 
explained that it had lifted the patio around the sinking area and found a badly damaged 
drain line, and also discovered that the original steel mesh had been cut and not correctly 
secured, and so there was no stability in the area of the patio covering the drain line. In 
Company Hs opinion, over time, this would have caused the patio to subside. It also said 
that because the pipe was badly fitted and in danger of seriously leaking, it replaced the 
pipe. It then reinstalled a new steel mesh to its original stabilising condition, and relayed 
the concrete slabs of the patio.
Its apparent that the installation of the pipework in 2011 was substandard, as various 
defects were identified with the pipework. However, theres no evidence to suggest that 
the pipework was leaking, or that the issues with the pipework itself had caused the patio 
to drop.
I appreciate Mr Ws explanation that the mesh doesnt hold up the patio alone, and that 
he didnt think there was evidence of a void beneath the mesh which had caused the 
patio to drop. However, I think greater weight should be placed on the opinion of 
Company H, as they inspected underneath the patio slabs. Company H concluded that 
the damage to the mesh meant that there wasnt stability in the patio covering the drain 
line, and that this caused the patio to drop.
I see that Mr and Mrs G notified St Andrews that they were going to repair the patio, and 
gave it the opportunity to carry out its own inspection once the patio slabs were lifted.
However, St Andrews didnt arrange an inspection. That being the case, I think 
its reasonable to rely on Company Hs conclusions here.
Consequently, I intend to require St Andrews to reimburse Mr and Mrs G for the 
work they spent in having the patio repaired. Although the pipework itself hadnt 
caused the patio to drop, the pipework was defective and so Company H 
replaced it. Given that St Andrews contractor laid the defective pipework, I think 
itd be reasonable for St Andrews to also cover the cost of replacing the 
pipework.
St Andrews paid Mr and Mrs G £900 total compensation, for delays with the 
investigations, and for leading them to believe it would initially accept the claim before 
changing its mind about this. I think that was reasonable compensation in the 
circumstances.
I asked both parties to provide any further comments they wished to make before I made 
my final decision.
Mr and Mrs G confirmed they accepted my provisional decision.
St Andrews didnt provide any further comments before the deadline given.
.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 However, as neither party has provided any further comments, I see no reason to change 
my provisional findings. My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require St Andrews Insurance Plc to 
reimburse Mr and Mrs G the £8,808 they spent on repairing the defective pipework and 
the patio. Interest should be added at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the date 
they paid the invoice to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 January 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman