DRN-2846885
The complaint
Mr W through his representative has complained that he was given unsuitable advice to 
contract out of the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS) by The Prudential 
Assurance Company Limited (Prudential).
What happened
I issued a provisional decision setting out the background to the complaint and my 
provisional findings which is set out below for reference and forms part of this decision:
Mr W met with an advisor in July 1988 and was advised to take out a personal pension with 
Prudential and contract-out of SERPS. It was recorded at the time of sale that Mr Ws annual income 
was £11,000 and he was 40 years old. 
The Prudential representative referred to its in-house checks and considered that Mr W met the 
criteria which suggested contracting-out could be beneficial for him. An illustration was prepared for 
Mr W and he agreed to take out the personal pension and contract-out of SERPS. Once Mr W was 
contracted-out, a proportion of his National Insurance Contributions were rebated to be invested in 
Prudentials With-Profits Fund instead of going into SERPS. The date of contracting-out was 
backdated to 1987 so that Mr W could include his rebates from that year. Prudential received 
contributions from Mr W from 1987 through to 2000.
Then in early 2020, Mr Ws representative complained to Prudential about the advice to contract-out 
of SERPS on his behalf. In summary, the complaint points raised were:
Mr W shouldnt have been exposed to the risk of significantly lower retirement income in 
contracting-out. 
Mr W wasnt informed of, and shouldnt have been exposed to, unnecessary fund costs.
Mr W was exposed to a pension linked to the stock market in favour of valuable guarantees 
within SERPS  such as inflation protected benefits
A fair and balanced comparison of the alternatives wasnt carried out
The advice was in breach of the regulators rules at the time. And the common law duty to act 
with reasonable care and skill, to disclose material information regarding risks costs and 
available alternatives, in order to allow informed consent.
Prudential rejected the complaint. It explained that Mr W met its criteria drawn up to establish whether 
contracting-out was likely to be beneficial. And that it wouldve explained at the time that it wasnt 
guaranteed that Mr W would be better off.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt recommend that it should be upheld. He 
explained it was fair at the time to consider that Mr W would likely be better off contracting-out. The 
investigator was satisfied Mr W wouldve been provided with the relevant information about the policy 
and the costs involved. He concluded that the advice hadnt been unsuitable.
Mr Ws representative responded to say that the investigator had failed to properly address the 
issues, specifically that:
Mr W was not warned of the substantial risk that the personal pension benefits would not 
match what he was giving up in SERPS. 
He was not told that it could cost him tens of thousands of pounds throughout retirement. Had 
he been warned he wouldnt have taken that risk
The law requires that advisers warn their clients of material risk. Since this did not happen the 
complaint should be upheld.
LAUTRO (Life Assurance and Unit Trust Regulatory Organisation) (the relevant rules at the 
time) say that the adviser shall give all information relevantand use his best endeavours to 
enable the investor to understand the nature of any risks involved. Mr Ws representative 
says its quite clear and not in dispute that Mr W wasnt given this information.
Common practice (in the 80s and 90s) to contract-out of SERPS doesnt make it good 
practice. There is a crucial difference.
What pension providers actuaries perceive to be conservative assumptions, should carry no 
weight with the ombudsman service. Actuaries employed by life offices are conflicted and will 
work in the firms best interests.
The investigator responded and said he was still of the view that the advice was suitable. And that it 
would not be fair to hold the advice given to todays standards. As Mr Ws representative didnt agree 
the case was referred for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
What is it I need to decide?
The issue I need to decide is whether the advice to take out a personal pension and contract Mr W 
out of SERPS in 1988 was unsuitable based on the circumstances at the time. 
The relevant standards at the time of advice
Mr W was advised to contract-out of SERPS in July 1988. Prudential was a member of LAUTRO at 
the time so this advice was covered by LAUTROs rules.
LAUTRO set out a code of conduct for advisers to abide by when dealing with customers. The over-
riding principle was that advisers were required to exercise due skill, care and diligence and deal 
fairly with investors.
The code of conduct required advisers to give best advice, which included:
L.6 (a) shall give the investor all information relevant to those dealings and that information shall in 
particular include the information referred to in paragraph 6A below;
(b) shall use his best endeavours to enable the investor to understand the nature of any risks 
involved; 
(c) shall not make inaccurate or unfair criticisms of other investment contracts or of any other method 
of saving or investment, or of any occupational pension scheme or the State earnings- related 
pension scheme 
L8. (1) A company representative shall, in advising an investor as to the suitability for that investor of 
any investment contract, have regard, in particular, to the investors financial position generally, to any 
rights he may have under an occupational pension scheme or the State earnings-related pension 
scheme, (if such rights are relevant in the particular case) and to all other relevant circumstances; and 
he shall use his best endeavours to ensure 
(a) that he recommends only that contract or those contracts which are suited to that investor
There were also common law requirements: not to make negligent mis-statements; to disclose all 
material information (where information was given); to advise with reasonable skill and care (where 
advice was given). I've taken these into account. But as I consider the LAUTRO rules to have closely mirrored these requirements and to have imposed higher standards, Ive focused on the LAUTRO 
standards when looking at the advice given to Mr W in 1988.
Historical context around SERPS
At the time of advice, the government had only recently decided to allow individuals via an appropriate 
personal pension to contract-out of SERPS. 
If an individual contracted-out of SERPS using a personal pension, instead of a proportion of their 
National Insurance contributions being used to top up their SERPS, they instead received rebates that 
would be invested in a fund with their pension provider. With the idea that this fund would outperform 
the SERPS mechanism for growth, which was based on the National Earnings index.
The Government wanted to give individuals more choice about how their pension was provided and it 
wanted to shift pension provision from the state to the private sector. To do so, a critical issue to 
decide was the level of rebate applied. If the rebates were set too low then the SERPS pension given 
up would likely be worth more than the investment within the personal pension. If the rebates were set 
too high, then the government would be paying more than it needed to, to offset the cost of its SERPS 
liabilities.
The level of rebate for contracted-out individuals was set by the government after taking advice from 
the Government Actuarys Department (GAD). When contracting-out began, the GADs 
recommendations on the rebate levels were criticised as being too generous. Nevertheless, in 
addition to the rebate level suggested by GAD, the government added an additional 2% annual 
incentive payment, that would apply until 1993.
The rebate % level was set as standard for all. This however, meant it was less beneficial for older 
people, as they had less time before retirement to benefit from investment growth on their rebates. So 
for older people the comparative benefit given up in SERPS likely would outweigh that received by 
contracting-out.
The Government didnt give advice as to who should be advised to remain in SERPS and for whom it 
was expected that contracting-out would be beneficial, this was for the market to consider. But it was 
clear to all, that age was the key factor.
So the actuaries at various pension providers, such as Prudential, carried out comparisons of the 
projected benefits from SERPS (based on the National Earnings index) against its alternative 
personal pension arrangement (based on LAUTRO set assumptions of likely future investment 
returns) to decide who would likely benefit.
The ages where the providers advice as to whether to contract out or not changed, were called 
pivotal ages. There was also a lower earnings limit which was used to determine whether an 
applicants earnings would be enough to benefit from contracting-out.
At the time the Bank of England base rate was fluctuating between 9 and 10%, so rates of return were 
high. And it was generally expected that the rates of return within a personal pension would likely 
outstrip the guaranteed benefits within SERPS for those below the pivotal age in that particular year. 
And the Government deliberately set rebates at a level that would encourage people to contract-out.
LAUTRO and SERPS
LAUTRO communicated rules, guidance and information to the industry through regular bulletins. 
LAUTRO also employed enforcement staff that carried out periodic inspection visits of its members to 
confirm that its guidance had been adhered to.
LAUTRO required its members to present its illustrations for customers considering contracting-out in 
a specified way. Firms were required to use a premium for illustration purposes of the minimum rebate 
payable for that year. And the projections were set at two specified rates. The rates used, were what 
LAUTRO called real rates of return (taking into account the effects of inflation). The rates of return 
were set as 0.5% and 2.5% above the National Average Earnings index and the projections were to 
include charges. If real rates of return werent used, the corresponding nominal rate of return could be used of 8.5% and 13% inclusive of charges. LAUTRO referred to these rates of return as being 
conservative.
Furthermore, LAUTRO required the annuity illustrated to be on a comparable basis to that of the 
SERPS pension paid. So the annuity bases had to take into account indexation, and would increase 
at 3% per annum. The annuity projected would also include a 50% spouses pension to mirror 
SERPS.
LAUTRO produced projection tables based on its rate of returns. The tables included what I 
understand was an aggregate or assumption of standard industry costs. These projection tables 
allowed the user to look at a particular salary and then cross reference with age, to show the potential 
contracting-out benefit at two rates of return, against the corresponding SERPS benefit given up for 
that year. This gave a rough guide as to who could benefit from contracting-out. 
LAUTRO had received requests to specify the pivotal ages itself but declined. And put the emphasis 
back on product providers to establish their own pivotal ages based on their own product terms and 
charges.
Within its bulletins LAUTRO said it believed firms should provide their representatives with clear 
indications based on appropriate actuarial assumptions of what the pivotal ages were for men and 
women when giving advice. But it reminded its members of the principle of best advice and in 
particular point 8.1 of its code of conduct, to take into account an individuals circumstances. This was 
in relation to some of its members commercial advertisements not giving any indication to whom 
contracting-out may not be suitable for. 
What Prudential did
At the time of the advice, the pivotal age and minimum salary at which Prudential considered it likely 
men would benefit from contracting-out of SERPS was aged below 45 and earnings over £5,000 per 
annum respectively. Prudentials calculations took into account the charges that would be applied to 
that particular product. Its assumed rate of return in carrying out these calculations was 8.5%. This is 
in-line with the LAUTRO lower rate of return set for projections on illustrations and demonstrative of 
what was thought likely achievable at the time.
Mr Ws representative argued that the costs within the fund and the impact of inflation represented an 
unnecessary risk. But as explained above, LAUTRO had specified that in providing figures for 
comparison, firms had to provide the potential benefits from the personal pension in a form it felt 
comparable to the benefits from SERPS. And the charges were included within the projections and in 
Prudentials actuarial calculations with regards to who would likely benefit from contracting-out with its 
personal pension.
Ive checked the criteria drawn up at the time by 34 other professional actuarial teams from other 
pension providers that we have data for (the criteria was not the same across these providers). And 
many of the pivotal ages for men at the time were higher than Prudentials and minimum salaries 
lower.
Mr Ws representative believes this evidence just shows common practice within the industry and 
believes this to have been bad practice. But this is, in my view, constructed with hindsight. At the time, 
in the context of the economic climate and the rules of the day, I think Prudential met what I would 
consider good practice at the time. And it followed the rules and guidance set out by LAUTRO in 
designing its criteria.
Furthermore, in response to a Parliamentary question following the decision to allow individuals to 
contract-out of SERPS, the GAD produced calculations for men and women contracting out in 1988 to 
illustrate what it felt the pivotal age was. For men aged 40 in 1988, GAD said that the pivotal age was 
likely to be 45 based on the LAUTRO lower rate of return and 48 on the higher. 
So I think Prudentials criteria was fair and reasonable at the time and met the standards required of it. 
Did Mr W meet Prudentials criteria for those that would likely benefit from contracting-out of SERPS?Mr W was aged 40 and earning £11,000 per annum when the advice to contract-out of SERPS was 
given. Prudentials criteria at the time for men was that they would benefit from contracting-out of 
SERPS if they were aged below 45 and had earnings over £5,000 per annum.
So Mr W was below the pivotal age at the time of advice. And also earned in excess of double the 
minimum amount regarded by Prudentials actuaries as enough to accumulate funds in the plan after 
covering the charges. Not only did Mr W meet Prudentials criteria but he also met all of the other 34 
providers criteria that we have data for from that period.
So when contracting-out was designed by the Government and rolled-out by the regulator, Mr W fell 
into the group who it was considered would likely benefit from this option. And therefore when 
Prudential advised Mr W to contract-out, I think it was a reasonable to believe that he would be better 
off.
Was the advice suitable
Mr Ws representative has made a number of points relating to the sale and why he feels it fell short of 
the standards of the time. And therefore the advice was not compliant with the rules at the time and 
should be upheld. In particular, the risk that Mr W was exposed to, which Mr Ws representative says 
he wasnt informed of at the time.
The sale took place a long time ago and so the information from the time is fairly limited as youd 
expect from an event 30+ years in the past.  That theres not a full record now to show all the specific 
requirements were met is neither sinister nor surprising.
There is no record of what level of risk Mr W was prepared to take from the time. There wasnt the 
same specific requirements as there are today to complete a documented risk analysis. Prudential 
say that the adviser wouldve discussed the risks and carried out a risk assessment. But if it was 
documented, its not part of the documentation available from the time now. At the time there wasnt a 
requirement to complete a fact-find document either, however Prudential did complete one. But there 
is limited information that can be gathered from it.
Looking at the information we do have, I cant see there is anything to show that Prudential did do 
something wrong in the way it conducted its sale with Mr W.
Mr W was given a personal quotation which was designed in-line with what LAUTRO required. This 
could be used to compare the likely benefits from the personal pension with SERPS. It explained that 
the two pension figures estimated at retirement were based on growth of: 2.5% per annum in excess 
of the national average earnings yearly increase and the other 0.5% in excess of the same measure. 
The pension at retirement included 3% escalation and a 50% spouses pension as required by 
LAUTRO.
In the notes alongside the illustration it explained that:
in order to provide an indication of the possible benefits that might be paid under this policy and a 
comparison between the possible benefit under your policy and the SERPS benefit you will be giving 
up, LAUTRO has made rules which lay down two bases on which future benefits must be 
illustrated. The annuities illustrated are in a form which can be compared with the SERPS benefit, 
otherwise accruing in the current tax year, which you will be giving up by contracting out The figures 
quoted in these illustrations comply with the rates of return and others factors as set out in the 
LAUTRO bases.
Mr W was made aware that he was giving up the SERPS benefit in favour of an investment linked to 
returns. And he was provided with the LAUTRO specified figures to see whether he would likely be 
better off.
The illustration gave Mr W the ability to compare the estimated returns (and that these were reliant on 
investment growth) he would receive compared with those in SERPS. So a fair comparison, which 
was compliant with the LAUTRO rules, could be made. At the time there wasnt a requirement (until 
1993) to show the SERPS benefit given up on the illustration. But the adviser was required to have regard to the SERPS benefit the investor would be losing, when giving advice. The fact that the 
SERPS benefit in Mr Ws comparison wouldve been lower than the illustrated contracted-out benefit, 
suggests its highly likely the Prudential adviser wouldve had the figure available for comparison. It 
was in his interests to do so, to illustrate the potential benefits of contracting-out to Mr W and 
ultimately sell him the pension.
So I dont agree that Mr W wasnt made aware of the risk at the time. He was told that he would be 
giving up the SERPS benefit for a pension that was based on investment growth. And he was given 
figures that he could use to make a comparison between the two, that met LAUTROs requirements.
As the investigator explained, at the time there was no specific requirement for the fees and charges 
to be highlighted during the sales process, although the consumer had to be given details of them in 
the documentation. Prudential says it would have given Mr W documentation and it has sent us an 
example of the documentation relevant to this product at the time. Im satisfied that Mr W would have 
received this and that this document outlined the relevant fees and charges applicable with the 
legislation at the time.
So, I dont think Prudential did anything wrong here in the information it presented, it met the 
standards of the time and the rules set out by LAUTRO. And I dont agree with Mr Ws representative 
that a fair comparison wasnt made and that the risks werent set out to Mr W. 
I think the recommendation to contract-out looks broadly suitable for someone of Mr Ws 
circumstances at the time.
In saying the advice looked suitable for Mr W Ive taken into account:
that the risk involved at the time was low. Mr W contracted-out of SERPS in 1988 which 
historically was the most favourable time, rebates were at their highest and had a 2% 
incentive added. And market returns were strong. 
Mr W met the actuarial criteria drawn up by Prudential (which as Ive explained above was 
reflective of what was widely considered reasonable at the time) for someone in 1988 that 
would likely benefit from contracting-out of SERPS. 
I think its unlikely someone of Mr Ws age and circumstances, would have thought that the 
risk involved here was intolerable. It was fair to assume he would likely be better off 
contracting out in that year. And contracting-out wasnt a lifelong decision hed be held too. 
He would always have the option to contract back in, if conditions changed.
Whilst theres not enough information from the time to say whether Mr W wouldve had a 
cautious, balanced or high-risk appetite, theres nothing to suggest that Mr W was completely 
risk adverse either. As an aside it appears from the fact-find that Mr W had an endowment 
policy in relation to his home, which does suggest he was prepared to accept some risk. 
Mr Ws representative has placed a lot of emphasis on what he believes to be breaches in the advice 
process. But as Ive said whilst Ive considered this possibility, I cant see that there has been a 
breach. And if there has been a breach of the standards, based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont 
think its likely this would have been material. It should be understood that a breach of process or 
standards on its own, doesnt mean a complaint should be upheld. For example if a customer 
wouldve accepted the advice anyway if they been given all the relevant information, then a breach in 
the information given hasnt changed matters.  
To directly answer a point Mr Ws representative made, that the adviser shouldve told Mr W at the 
time, this could cost you thousands of pounds in retirement. I disagree that this type of warning was 
required of Prudential at the time. The financial conditions and Mr Ws circumstances did not point to 
this being the case. And I see no compelling reason why someone in Mr Ws position would not have 
gone ahead with the advice understanding the nature of the risk.
We know that contracting-out didnt benefit all. And some people have ended up worse off in 
retirement for various reasons. In later years the rebate method changed, and annuity rates and investment performance decreased. But to take this into account in this sale, would be to apply 
hindsight and contracting-out did benefit many. It is the conditions at the time of advice and sale that 
have to be considered here.
My provisional conclusions 
Prudential used fair controls based on the financial environment at the time and the rules set out by 
LAUTRO, to establish whether it was likely Mr W would be better off contracting-out. Its pivotal age 
and earnings limits were in-line with other providers at the time and drawn up based on regulator 
guidance. And it applied these in accordance to Mr W circumstances at the time. Mr W met the criteria 
of someone who would likely benefit from contracting-out of SERPS. And given all the correct 
information, I think he wouldve accepted the recommendation. So, I cannot now fairly say that the 
advice Mr W was given to contract-out was unsuitable.
Following my provisional decision, Mr Ws representative said in response:
Mr W wasnt warned that he was giving up guaranteed benefits in favour of 
something with many variables.
And had he been warned of these risks he wouldnt have chosen to contract-out of 
SERPS.
Unless there is evidence that Mr W had a high attitude to risk and capacity for loss, 
on the balance of probabilities he wouldnt have contracted out of SERPS.
Just because something was common practice at the time doesnt mean it was good 
practice. An example of this is asbestos.
The SIB Review didnt require hindsight to know that giving up guaranteed inflation 
proof benefits was likely to be bad advice, nor does it need hindsight to see that 
contracting out in the 1990s was bad advice. 
Prudential said in response to Mr Ws representatives points:
Its records show the initial meeting took place in 1987 and this pre-dated the 
requirement for a detailed fact-find. However, Prudential revisited the advice with Mr 
W in July 1988 and updated its documentation then.
Its not possible to verify what was discussed with Mr W, nor is it considered 
reasonable for discussions from over 33 years ago to be recalled with any certainty. 
We have no reason to doubt that in 1987, the potential benefits of SERPS werent 
fully explained, and that Mr W was provided with clear information to be able to make 
an informed decision. 
We dont agree that with the benefit of hindsight, it is now either appropriate or fair to 
apply the standards that are in place today to a sale in 1987. Neither Mr W or his 
representative have provided any evidence to show that he wasnt made aware of 
the risks. All they have provided is assumptions
We dont believe it can be answered with any certainty, after 33 years having 
elapsed ,what Mr Ws appetite for risk was. And its highly likely to be different to his 
attitude to risk today.
We have no comments to make on the analogies made by Mr Ws representative, 
nor do we consider they are relevant. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.The relevant arguments Mr Ws representative made in response to my provisional decision 
are largely not new and have already been covered in that decision. I wont go over these 
points again; but Ive set my provisional findings out in full above, which form part of this 
decision.
Mr Ws representative hasnt provided evidence or arguments specific to Mr Ws case to 
support his assertions about contracting-out. Mr Ws representatives arguments essentially 
boil down to contracting-out of SERPS was unsuitable across the board. I dont agree and 
Ive explained in some detail in my provisional decision with reference to the available 
evidence  why I dont think the advice was unsuitable for Mr Ws circumstances at the time.
Mr Ws representative says that the result of this advice is losses that stretch into the 
thousands. No evidence of this has been provided nor an approximate figure. So I dont 
know whether a loss has actually occurred. But a loss occurring doesnt mean the advice 
was unsuitable. And looking at the evidence we do have, there appears to be reasons other 
than just potential poor performance as to why Mr W couldve received less from his 
contracted-out policy than he wouldve received from SERPS.
Im presuming Mr W might be comparing the benefits he got from the personal pension 
against the deducted figure shown on his state pension documentation for the period in 
question. But Mr W took his benefits from the personal pension in 2007. This is some time 
earlier than he wouldve been able to access his SERPS benefits. So, a straight comparison 
of the figures wouldnt give a true picture. In taking his benefits early, his annuity would be 
reduced as it spans additional years. Also Mr W took 25% of the fund as a tax-free cash 
sum. This wouldve reduced the pension amount further in comparison to what he wouldve 
received from SERPS.
I also note that Mr W remained contracted out until 2000. Which wouldve taken him beyond 
the pivotal ages set by Prudential where it considered it might not be beneficial to remain 
contracted-out. Prudential says it sent annual reviews from 1987 to 2003 to all its contracted-
out clients and within these reviews it quoted the pivotal ages at which a customer should 
consider contracting-back in. 
Its also worth noting that being able to take your benefits early and receive a tax-free cash 
sum (neither of which were available within SERPS) was a benefit of contracting-out and 
clearly something that Mr W came to value.
But ultimately what happened after the advice isnt important here. Its the conditions and 
circumstances in 1987 when Mr W was advised to contract-out that Ive considered. 
Mr Ws representative says that Mr W wasnt warned about the benefits he was giving up 
within SERPS. Nor was he sufficiently informed about the variables that would affect his 
personal pension such as annuity rates, inflation and market performance. This event 
occurred over 30 years ago and so it is not possible to know all of what Mr W was told. But 
the documentation we do have supports that Prudential did give Mr W the relevant 
information. For example, the illustration that I referred to and quoted in my provisional 
decision that was prepared for Mr W, also went on to explain the variables that could affect 
the personal pension in comparison with SERPS. It said: 
The two amounts do not represent the upper and lower limits of the possible amount of the 
benefit. The actual comparison with SERPS benefit given up will be affected by the bonuses 
added to the policy, the terms ruling at the date of retirement for converting cash into annuity 
and future increases in national average earnings.As I set out in my provisional decision, the evidence suggests Prudentials sales process and 
the information given to Mr W met the standards and requirements of the time. And I think it 
was a fair assumption then that Mr W could be better off contracting-out. Mr Ws 
representative arguments now that contracting-out of SERPS was clearly bad advice, is in 
my view constructed with hindsight.
Whilst the benefits within SERPS had certain guarantees (as long as the government 
supported the arrangement that is), the amount of pension received and the performance 
mechanisms within SERPS were subject to change. Mr W had at least 25 years until his 
retirement age, a lot could (and would) change within SERPS in that time. When Mr W 
contracted-out of SERPS, growth was linked to the national average earnings index. So 
performance wasnt guaranteed then either. 
The opposing option, to contract-out, was at a time when rebates were set advantageously 
(for someone of Mr Ws circumstances) and likely rates of return above SERPS. Meaning in 
the forthcoming year(s) contracting-out had a good chance of outperforming the benefits that 
would otherwise have been built up within SERPS. Whilst there were many variables that 
could affect personal pension outcomes, Mr W was many years from retirement. And so he 
could afford to take some risk for potential higher returns. And contracting-out wasnt a 
permanent decision, Mr W couldve contracted back in the future. So I dont agree with Mr 
Ws representative that this was only suitable for someone with a high-attitude to risk. 
Mr Ws representative compares the contracting-out of SERPS to the industry wide mis-
selling which brought about the Securities and Investments Board (SIB) Review in the mid 
90s. I dont agree the situation is similar. The SIB Review was carried out because the 
regulator was concerned about wide-spread mis-selling with consumers losing out on the 
advantages of being in an Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS). No such wide-spread 
industry review was carried out regarding contracting-out of SERPS (when no OPS was 
available). Incidentally the OPS  which in the main the SIB Review found customers 
shouldnt have given up  were typically contracted-out of SERPS.
SIB did produce a report in 1996 looking at the results of contracting-out of SERPS for 
personal pensions established between 1987/1988 to 1991/1992. It estimated then from its 
review of 5.6m live (still contracted-out) cases that only 10,000 had a likely loss.
Later the Financial Services Authority (FSA) also commissioned a report by the Oxford 
Actuaries and Consultants (OAC) on SERPS in 2005. The report found due to changing 
conditions that more people had lost out or were on course to lose out through contracting-
out than in 1996. Following this the FSA (Contracting out of the additional state pension 
2005) set out its thoughts on the OACs findings and the future of SERPS. Within this it said 
something that I think is particularly relevant here.
it is important not to equate potential underperformance with mis-selling. Performance risk 
is an inherent feature of personal pensions, but remaining in the State Second Pension is 
also subject to potential uncertainty about future government policy. So both options 
available to consumers are subject to uncertain outcomes arising from unpredictable events. 
The fact that a consumer may receive less pension at retirement, compared with their 
position had they taken a different choice many years previously, is not evidence of mis-
selling and does not therefore constitute valid grounds for a complaint. When considering 
whether mis-selling may have occurred, the rules and standards to be enforced will 
continue to be those in place at the time of sale and not some retrospective 
reconstruction (my emphasis).As I set out in my provisional decision, the evidence we do have from the sale supports that 
Prudential did meet the rules and standards of the time. And Mr W was told he was giving up 
the benefits within SERPS for something that was based on a number of variables, so he 
knew there was some level of risk involved. Contracting-out provided a reasonable prospect 
for Mr W to improve on the benefits that he would otherwise get from SERPS. There was 
some risk involved. But in my view this wouldnt have appeared to present any significant 
risk at the time. And I dont think Mr W with knowledge of all the relevant information, 
wouldve done anything differently. 
In conclusion, I dont think the advice Prudential gave Mr W to contract-out of SERPS was 
unsuitable and I wont be upholding this complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman