DRN-2587901
The complaint
Miss Q complains about the service provided by HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) after her debit 
card was stolen abroad.
  
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on 23 January 2021, a copy of which is attached as it forms 
part of this final decision. HSBC agreed to accept my provisional recommendations. Miss Q 
provided some further comments in response to the provisional decision. Ive summarised 
these below.
Miss Q explained that, before her debit card was stolen, she had only limited experience of 
using a credit card abroad. She says she wasnt aware of the cash advance fees which 
applied to cash withdrawals, nor that there was no interest-free period on such transactions. 
She says she only found out about the cash advance fees when a member of HSBCs staff 
told her in November 2019, by which time she had been using the credit card for several 
weeks. She says she didnt find out about the way interest was applied until after she 
returned from her trip. She says that HSBC should have told her about these things 
beforehand.
In my provisional decision, I said that HSBC have already refunded the cash advance fees 
as well as paid Miss Q £75 towards her call costs and a further £175 as compensation for 
distress and inconvenience. But Miss Q says she hasnt received anything for her call costs. 
She says she received £75 as a refund for the cash advance fees plus compensation of 
£100. She wasnt sure how much interest shed paid on the cash advances but didnt think 
HSBC had refunded this. And HSBC say that theyve paid Miss Q £75 towards call costs 
plus £100 in compensation and that theyve also refunded the cash advance fees directly on 
to the credit card account.
Ive set out my findings on these issues below.
Miss Q also provided further comments and additional background in response to the 
provisional decision. I can assure her that Ive taken them into account in reaching my 
conclusions, but in writing this decision Ive focused on what I consider to be the key points.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In relation to the charging of cash advance fees and the way interest was applied to these, 
Im satisfied that this is covered in the terms and conditions of Miss Qs credit card account. 
Miss Q agreed to be bound by the terms and conditions when opening the account. She 
says that HSBC should have done more to draw these charges to her attention. I dont think 
it was unreasonable, in itself, that they didnt do so. But, in light of the wider circumstances 
here, HSBC agreed to refund the cash advance fees, which I think is fair. 
Miss Qs statements confirm that HSBC refunded the cash advance fees directly on to the 
credit card account. So I dont find that Miss Q is worse off as a result of not knowing about 
the fees and Im not going to ask HSBC to do any more about that.
As to the interest, Miss Qs statements confirm that the amount charged over the relevant 
period was minimal and that it has been partially refunded. I think thats fair and Im not 
going to ask HSBC to do any more in relation to that.
Turning to the amount of compensation paid to date, Im satisfied that HSBC have paid Miss 
Q £75 towards her call costs. The documents they provided confirm this and I think thats 
fair. But HSBC have also confirmed that the amount paid to Miss Q so far in relation to 
distress and inconvenience is just £100, not £175 as set out in my provisional decision.
My provisional recommendation was that, in addition to the cash advance refunds and the 
£75 call costs, HSBC need to pay compensation to Miss Q to reflect the mistakes they made 
and recognise the distress and inconvenience which those mistakes caused and the impact 
they had on her trip. I recommended compensation of £250 for this, for the reasons set out 
in my provisional decision. Ive considered Miss Qs further comments. But I havent seen 
anything which changes my mind about the appropriate amount of compensation here. I still 
think £250 in total is fair. 
Putting things right
I said previously that HSBC would need to pay a further £75 to Miss Q to bring the total 
compensation to £250. Thats because I thought they had already paid £175. But, as HSBC 
have only paid Miss Q £100 to date for distress and inconvenience, the amount they need to 
pay to her now is actually £150.
  
My final decision
For the reasons above, and as set out in my provisional decision (attached below), I uphold 
this complaint. My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay further compensation 
of £150 to Miss Q, to bring the total compensation for distress and inconvenience up to 
£250.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Q to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman
Copy of provisional decision
The complaint
Miss Q complains about the service provided by HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) after her debit
card was stolen abroad.
What happened
In 2019, Miss Qs HSBC debit card was stolen while she was abroad, along with other possessions 
including her phone. She was on an extended trip and wasnt due to return to
the UK for several months. She says she had difficulty contacting HSBC to cancel the card
and order a replacement. She couldnt access the banking app because her phone had been stolen, 
she says that HSBCs website wouldnt allow her to use her security device and she says she couldnt 
get through to HSBC on the phone. She says she emailed her Premier
Relationship Manager but received an out of office reply. In the end, a relative called HSBC
for her from the UK and cancelled the card.
Miss Q still had her credit card with her, which she used to buy a new phone. She says she
tried to set up the HSBC banking app on the new phone but needed a code to do this. HSBC
sent the code to her UK home address after a week. Miss Q wasnt happy about this delay
because she couldnt access her account in the meantime.
Miss Q was able to use her credit card to withdraw cash. But each time she did this she
incurred a cash advance fee, so she wanted a replacement debit card as soon as possible.
She contacted her Premier Relationship Manager about this. He said that a replacement
card would have to be sent to Miss Qs home address in the UK and that she would have to
ask a trusted person to send it on to her.
Miss Q wasnt happy with this response. But, in the meantime, she had managed to set up
the banking app on her new phone. She asked HSBC if a replacement debit card could be
sent to her current location. They said that she could update her address on the app, but that
a debit card couldnt be sent to the updated address for two months, for security reasons.
A few weeks later, in a different location, Miss Qs replacement phone was stolen. She says
she called HSBC to see if she could reactivate the app on a new phone without having to
wait a week. Although she says the member of staff was helpful, she still had to wait for a
new code to be posted. A new debit card was ordered and sent to a UK branch of HSBC. As
an exception to their usual procedures, HSBC agreed to forward the card to Miss Q. The
branch sent it on to her, but Miss Q says that it wasnt sent by courier or tracked and she
didnt receive it. HSBC said that the card must have got lost in the post and ordered another
one, which Miss Q did receive. But, by the time it arrived, she had less than two weeks of
her trip left. By that stage, she had been without a debit card for several months.
Miss Q was very disappointed with the service she received and raised her concerns with
HSBC. They refunded the cash advance fees which shed incurred on her credit card and
paid £75 towards Miss Qs call costs. They also paid her compensation of £175 for the
inconvenience she experienced.
Miss Q wasnt happy with HSBCs response and brought her complaint to this service. She
says her Relationship Manager didnt find a solution and wasnt helpful. She says the
situation was very stressful and took up a lot of her time. She wants HSBC to change their
procedures so that this situation cant arise again.
Our investigator didnt think HSBC needed to do anything here. She explained that its not
the role of this service to tell a business what procedures it should have in place. And she
thought that the amount of compensation paid by HSBC was fair. But Miss Q didnt agree
and asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
She says that HSBC made lots of mistakes and didnt treat her fairly. She says she should
have received a better service as a Premier customer. And she doesnt think the
compensation HSBC have paid reflects the stress she experienced. She says that HSBC
should change their procedures to make it easier for customers to report a lost or stolen card
from abroad, and to reactivate the banking app more quickly.What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator explained, its not the role of this service to decide what procedures a
business should have in place or how to implement them. So Im not going to tell HSBC to
change any of their procedures. But I can look at whether HSBC acted fairly in Miss Qs
particular case and - if not - whether I think theyve done enough to put things right.
Firstly, Miss Q says that it wasnt easy for her to contact HSBC to report her card as stolen
or discuss her requirements. She says she called the emergency phone number and let it
ring for more than five minutes, but no-one answered. So she says she emailed her Premier
Relationship Manager instead and also asked a relative to call HSBC from the UK to cancel
the stolen card. HSBC says that Miss Q should have kept trying to phone them herself. They
say that Premier customers have a number they can call which is operated 24 hours a day.
And HSBC now say that Miss Q doesnt have a Premier Relationship Manager (although
they accept that shes a Premier customer). They havent raised this before, and previously
accepted that Miss Q did have a Premier Relationship Manager. Hes referred to in their final
response letter. I dont know whether the situation has changed since then, but Im satisfied
that Miss Q did have a Premier Relationship Manager at the time which is relevant to this
complaint.
I think Miss Qs way of contacting HSBC was reasonable in the circumstances. She was
abroad and her card and phone had been stolen. With the help of a relative, she managed to
inform HSBC about the card promptly so that it could be cancelled. And, for help with
accessing her money and ordering a replacement card, she contacted her Premier
Relationship Manager. That seems a reasonable approach. In the circumstances, I wouldnt
expect Miss Q to have had all the different HSBC phone numbers with her or to have known
which team she needed to speak to or what assistance was available. But Id expect the
Premier Relationship Manager to know these things and to be able to put Miss Q in touch
with the relevant team if he couldnt help himself. So I think it was reasonable for Miss Q to
contact him.
HSBC say they couldnt order a replacement card when Miss Qs relative contacted them to
cancel the stolen card. Thats because third parties cant order cards and HSBC cant
discuss account details with third parties. I think thats reasonable in order to protect the
security of Miss Qs account.
And HSBC have explained why they cant send a replacement card to a newly amended
address. If a new card is requested within 60 days of an address being changed, they say
that the card must be sent to a UK branch. This policy is in place to protect the security of
customers accounts and I think its reasonable.
In relation to the codes required for setting up the banking app, HSBC have explained that,
because Miss Qs details had been changed within the last 25 days, their policy required
them to send one of the codes to her registered address. Again, I find this policy to be
reasonable.
However, whilst these policies are all reasonable, theyre not intended to deal with
emergency situations. What I need to consider here is whether HSBC could or should have
done more to help Miss Q, given the particular circumstances she found herself in.
After Miss Qs debit card and phone were stolen, and following the theft of her replacement
phone a few weeks later, she spoke to several members of HSBC staff and told them what
had happened. This includes the email contact she had with her Premier Relationship
Manager. She made them all aware of where she was and that she needed a replacement
debit card. She had a credit card but didnt want to have to rely on that, particularly in light ofthe fees which were applied each time she used it. It was clear that what she really needed
was access to cash straight away. But it doesnt look as though HSBC treated the situation
as an emergency, or suggested ways to help Miss Q.
The Premier Relationship Manager said that Miss Q should consider using certain apps in
future to keep all her cards in one place but didnt suggest anything which would have been
of instant, practical help to her. After that, he responded to questions from Miss Q about
whether she could use the HSBC app if she got a new phone and how to order a new debit
card. The suggestions were all put forward by Miss Q herself and the Manager answered
those. But it doesnt look as though he proactively suggested any solutions or made Miss Q
aware of other ways in which HSBC could help.
It seems that the usual procedures (for example, for sending a replacement card to the UK
home address) and the usual, lengthy timescales (for sending a replacement card to a
different address) were followed. But it was clear that following these procedures wouldnt
really help Miss Q as she was abroad and in an emergency situation. Based on the
information Ive seen, Im not satisfied that HSBC offered Miss Q any emergency assistance.
I realise that, later on, HSBC agreed to send a replacement debit card out to Miss Q from the
branch. By this stage, Miss Q had been without a debit card for several weeks. HSBC say
that this was done as an exception, to try and help Miss Q, as it isnt something which they
would usually do. Its clear that the members of staff involved were trying to help Miss Q. But
their efforts were only of limited success as the card seems to have gone missing in the post
for a time and the second one only arrived towards the end of Miss Qs trip.
In any event, it shouldnt have been necessary for Miss Q to have to rely on the goodwill of
certain staff members and their attempts at helping her. Thats because Miss Q is a Premier
customer and, as such, she should have had access to emergency assistance from HSBC.
HSBCs website says: As a Premier customer, youre not just with a UK bank, youre with
an international bank  which is why should anything unexpected happen, youll receive the
emergency assistance you need. For example, if your credit cards are lost or stolen, we can
replace them within 36 hours. Or, if your cash is lost or stolen, we can arrange an
emergency cash transfer of up to US $2,000 at 245,000 locations worldwide
The Premier summary brochure confirms that a benefit of being a Premier customer is that
HSBC can provide cash in the local currency up to the value of USD $2,000 (if your debit
card is lost or stolen).
Even if it wasnt possible for HSBC to arrange a replacement debit card in the same way that
they can replace credit cards abroad (and I havent seen any evidence as to why this wasnt
possible), it seems that they should have been able to provide Miss Q with emergency cash.
But this wasnt offered to her. She may not have been aware at the time that it was available
(and so didnt specifically ask for it). But Id expect her Premier Relationship Manager to
have known that this type of assistance was available. However, he didnt suggest it.
Instead, his email to Miss Q focuses on the difficulties of getting a replacement debit card to
her and makes no reference to any emergency assistance.
From the information Ive seen, Im satisfied that HSBC could have done more here to
provide instant, practical help to Miss Q. As a Premier Customer, she was entitled to
emergency assistance. But this wasnt offered to her. So I dont think HSBC treated Miss Q
fairly here.
In terms of putting things right, HSBC have already reimbursed the cash advance fees which
Miss Q incurred when she used her credit card to withdraw cash. I think thats fair, as it puts
Miss Q in the position shed have been in if she hadnt needed to use the credit card (for
example, if HSBC had provided a replacement debit card or cash). HSBC have also paid
Miss Q £75 to cover the cost of her telephone calls. I think thats fair.
But I think HSBC also need to pay Miss Q some compensation, to reflect the mistakes theymade and recognise the distress and inconvenience which those mistakes caused and the
impact they had on her trip. HSBC have already paid compensation of £175. They say this
was for the inconvenience Miss Q experienced after being robbed. But it doesnt take
account of the fact that Miss Q was entitled to certain assistance, which HSBC didnt offer
despite her Premier Relationship Manager and other members of staff being aware of her
situation.
Taking everything into account, I think total compensation of £250 would be appropriate
here. As HSBC have already paid £175, they should pay Miss Q a further £75.
My provisional decision
For the reasons above, and subject to any further information I receive from the parties
which changes my mind, my provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint and
direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay further compensation of £75 to Miss Q, bringing the total
compensation for this complaint to £250.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman