DRN-3794320
The complaint
Miss M complained about the service provided by Wombat Invest Ltd. She said Wombat 
has not honoured two trades on her account, when she tried to sell them. She said she 
should be reimbursed for her investment losses.
What happened
In May 2022, Miss M bought shares in two US companies. Miss M said she decided to 
sell both on 21 June 2022, as both were displaying a profit of about 80-100% on 
Wombats app. She said she put through an order to sell the two holdings and could see 
that if she did this, she would make a profit. Stock A she said would sell for £179.61 and 
Stock B for £122.71. But she said the sales did not happen. She tried again several 
times to sell them but to no avail. 
Miss M contacted Wombat and was told it had reset its system and that she should go 
ahead and sell the shares. It said it would reimburse her the difference between what 
she wouldve got if the shares had sold earlier and what she was going to receive. Miss 
M sold the shares and could see the values were markedly different: Stock A sold for 
£102.54 and Stock B for £52.97. Miss M was then reimbursed by Wombat. But Mrs M 
said only for £5 and not the difference between what she could see the shares were 
worth when she tried to sell them earlier in the day and what she eventually sold them 
for. Miss M made a complaint to Wombat about this. 
Wombat replied and said there was incorrect information on its app that showed Miss M had 
more units of the two holdings than she actually had. It said therefore the sell orders kept 
failing as Miss M didnt have enough units to cover the orders. It said it then reset the system 
and it showed the correct units, allowing Miss M to sell the two holdings. It said it was 
sincerely sorry for its mistake and felt Miss M had a valid complaint. 
Wombat said it would ensure Miss M had the units she originally held, bringing her account 
back to its previous state before she sold them. It said it would also offer £20 as a gesture of 
goodwill. 
Miss M wasnt happy with Wombats response. She said Wombat offered to make up the 
difference between what she thought she was selling the stocks for, the amount shown on its 
app and what she did sell them for. Miss M said she wouldnt have sold the stock otherwise. 
She repeated that she felt Wombat should honour this and reimburse the difference. She 
referred her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into Miss Ms complaint and didnt recommend that it be upheld. She 
said Wombat has accepted there were issues with its platform and that it made the error. 
She said the business has offered to make Miss Ms account whole again, but Miss M has 
declined this. It has also offered £20 compensation and the investigator felt its offer overall 
was fair.
Miss M didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman review and so her complaint comes to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do not think Wombat needs to put things right, any more than what it has already offered.  
These are my findings that explain why:
Wombat has said it made errors by providing incorrect information on its app 
about the two shareholdings held by Miss M. It has said sorry and has offered to 
put things right. 
So, because of this I dont need to make any finding on whether Wombat has 
done anything wrong, Wombat has said it has. It says it gave incorrect 
information on its app. And I can see this led to Miss M trying to and then going 
on to sell her two holdings. Rather, what I need to consider here is whether 
Wombats offer to put things right is fair and reasonable.
Wombat has said it would ensure Miss M had the units she originally held, 
bringing the account back to its previous state. It has also offered £20 as a 
gesture of goodwill. 
Miss M has declined Wombats offer and would like it to honour what she feels it 
had originally agreed to do. This she says, is pay the difference between what 
she noted down she thought she was selling the two holdings for and what they 
were eventually sold for.  
I think a fair and reasonable approach to putting things right here is to put Miss M 
back into a position she would have been, but for Wombats error that it has 
admitted it made. Miss M said if Wombat has not made its error and showed she 
had more units than she actually had, then she wouldnt have sold the holdings, 
because she didnt want to make a loss. 
Wombat has offered to reset Miss Ms holdings back to what she held before she 
sold them. This would put Miss M back into a position she wouldve been in, but 
for Wombats error. So, I think Wombats offer to do this is fair and reasonable. 
Miss M says she would like Wombat to reimburse her the difference between the 
value of the shares displayed on the app when she tried to sell them, and what 
she sold them for. But this information was incorrect. Miss M didnt hold the units 
of shares that, incorrectly, the app said she held. If I asked Wombat to do what 
Miss M wants, then that would put her back in a better position but for Wombats 
error. This would not be fair or reasonable so I cant ask it to do this.
Wombat also offered £20 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. When I consider all the circumstances in Miss Ms complaint, I think this 
offer is fair and reasonable. Looked at overall, I think what Wombat has offered to Miss M to put things right is fair and 
reasonable. It said it would reset Miss Ms holdings back to the units she originally held but 
she has declined this. 
Wombat has offered compensation of £20 for distress and inconvenience caused. I think 
this offer is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
Wombat Invest Ltd has already made an offer to Miss M to pay £20 to settle the complaint. I 
think its offer is fair and reasonable.
So, my decision is that Wombat Invest Ltd should pay £20 in total if it hasnt done so already
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 July 2023.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman