DRN-2622836
The complaint
Mr C complains that Bank of Scotland plc increased the limit on his credit card to an 
unaffordable level. 
What happened
In 2014, Mr C took out a credit card with Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) which had an initial 
credit limit agreed at £2,200.  
In March 2015, BOS increased this credit limit by a further £500. Then, in August 2016, the 
bank then increased it again by another £500. On both occasions, BOS notified Mr C that he 
could decline these increases if he wanted to and his limit would instead remain the same. 
In 2020, Mr C complained to BOS that the credit limit increases were unaffordable, based on 
his circumstances at the time. He told the bank that he was struggling financially with large 
debts with other credit providers and ended up having to sell his home to repay what he 
owed. Mr C asserted that this ought to have been apparent to BOS at the time it gave him 
more credit. As such, Mr C asked BOS to refund all of the interest he had paid to date, along 
with consequential fees and charges for penalties such as late payments, overlimit fees etc. 
Also, he urged the bank to remove all adverse credit entries that it had recorded on his credit 
file in relation to this account. 
BOS position is that it carried out the necessary checks before it increased Mr Cs original 
card limit in 2015, and that it did so again when it subsequently increased this limit again in 
2016  when it also said he could either accept or reject its offers. BOS has explained that, 
amongst other things, it took Mr Cs income into account when it assessed whether or not to 
offer him the credit increases. So, BOS didnt agree that it had lent to Mr C irresponsibly. 
When BOS maintained its position, the matter was brought to this service and one of our 
investigators looked into it. Having considered everything, she wasnt persuaded that BOS 
had acted unfairly in offering the increases to Mr C on either occasion.
Mr C does not agree. He submits that the information readily available to BOS at the present 
time showed that he was experiencing difficulties financially. Because Mr C is not in 
agreement, the complaint has been escalated to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before BOS increased Mr Cs credit limit, it ought to have carried out a reasonable 
assessment of his credit worthiness. So, Ive considered whether BOS undertook the 
appropriate checks to assess this and Mr Cs overall ability to repay. 
Such checks should include reference to information from credit reference agencies (CRAs). 
At the time of each of the increases, Mr C had no recorded defaults, bankruptcy or county 
court judgments against him. This is reinforced by the credit file history Mr C himself has 
provided, which demonstrates that he had no recorded missed payments for his other credit 
commitments up until the time that BOS granted the additional lending to him in 2016. For 
example, what might be a key indicator to a lender assessing credit worthiness is whether a 
customer has missed their mortgage repayment on occasion or has paid the monthly 
amount later than agreed. 
But according to the information Mr C has submitted, there were no such signs that he was 
struggling with this existing credit he had aside from his BOS credit card. It seems that the 
adverse information Mr C is referring to did in fact come to light after 2016, so subsequent to 
when he had already been granted both increases from BOS. Because of the sequence of 
events, BOS wouldve naturally been unaware of such credit file indicators at the time that it 
uplifted his credit limit.
In addition to paying due regard to information held by the CRAs, BOS ought to have 
considered at least one of the following; Mr Cs income and financial commitments; how he 
handled his finances in the past; and/or BOS own internal credit scoring techniques. 
In terms of the first limit increase, BOS says it doesnt have the exact affordability 
assessment information from 2015, due to the length of time thats elapsed between then 
and when Mr C raised his complaint in 2020. Even so, it submits that Mr C did pass all of 
these checks before he was offered that particular limit increase. 
Lenders are not required to keep records indefinitely and some time has passed since BOS 
first increased Mr Cs credit capacity. BOS states and I accept that it considered Mr Cs 
ability to make repayments to the card as they fell due, and (along with other things) it based 
this on the account history since the card was opened in 2014. 
Ive reviewed the relevant statements and Mr C was mostly using the card in line with the 
contractual terms, making frequent payments above that of the minimum monthly contractual 
amount, alongside keeping within the existing credit limit. For example, from the beginning of 
2015 leading up to the first increase, Mr C kept the balance within £2,200 and made at least 
six payments towards the card which totalled just under £700  far in excess of the expected 
minimum amount. 
I find it probable that BOS did also conduct its own credit scoring evaluation internally. But 
even if this was arguable, Im persuaded that it had reasonable grounds to believe that this 
first increase was affordable, based on how Mr C had handled his finances in the past and 
the information available to the bank from the CRAs. Overall, Im satisfied that BOS relied on 
the information it already had on Mr C, together with the data held on his credit file.  
I turn next to the limit increase in 2016. As Ive already explained, BOS should have 
considered certain things when assessing Mr Cs financial situation. Its provided evidence 
that it weighed up his income and outgoings. The documentary evidence available 
demonstrates that it took account of his earnings compared to his other financial 
commitments, which it cross-referenced with the data it had from the CRAs. This afforded 
the bank a calculation of his expenditure, plus what it could reasonably fathom from 
expected general living costs. Taking this into consideration, I cant safely conclude that BOS failed to consider how the 
2016 limit increase may have adversely impacted Mr C. Based on what I can see, it 
conducted the appropriate checks to assess his ability to repay and overall creditworthiness 
 all of which indicated that Mr C could afford to add to the maximum amount BOS would 
allow him to spend on the card (if he chose to).  
Mr C submits that BOS shouldnt have increased the maximum amount he could spend in 
light of his present financial situation. Its true that a credit limit increase shouldnt be offered 
when a customer is at risk of financial difficulties. If a customer doesnt make a business 
aware that theyre struggling financially, there are accepted indicators of when a customer 
may be at risk of financial difficulties. Including, if the account in question is two or more 
payments in arrears or has an agreed repayment plan in place. 
At the material time, Mr Cs credit card did not display either of these signs of potential 
financial difficulty. The statements show that the account did not regularly have late or 
missed payments and on multiple occasions Mr C paid over and above the contractual 
minimum monthly repayment. He did not repay the minimum expected amount over an 
extended period. And, in my view, there was not a sufficient change in this repayment 
behaviour to signify to BOS that Mr C had experienced a change in circumstances. 
So, BOS had reasonable grounds for determining that Mr C was able to spend on the card 
while paying off amounts over and above the minimum repayment; demonstrating that he 
could consistently pay back what hed spent  which is not indicative of a customer that is 
struggling financially.
From the increase in 2015 onwards, if the account balance did exceed the new limit it did so 
only momentarily, with payments (again above the minimum monthly amount) bringing the 
account standing back within the agreed limit. Put simply, on the odd occasion when the 
balance exceeded the credit limit, Mr C then brought the account back in order by making a 
responding payment. So, although there were times when Mr C breached his credit limit, Im 
not convinced that this meant that BOS acted unfairly, because he was able to rectify the 
situation shortly afterwards.  
Taking everything into consideration, Im not compelled to believe that BOS failed to fairly 
assess Mr Cs affordability or creditworthiness in either 2015 or 2016. And I dont think it was 
reasonably clear to BOS that Mr D was in financial difficulties at those times. 
I also cannot ignore that for both of the increases, Mr C had the option of choosing not to go 
ahead with more lending. Its evident from the account statements that BOS gave him notice 
of its intention to grant further credit and that he could contact the bank should he prefer to 
remain with what he had already. In other words, although the option was presented to him  
BOS did not force Mr D to utilise this extra capacity on his credit card. 
Finally, had Mr C made the bank aware of his financial situation, the bank ought to have 
discussed his options and offered its assistance in a positive and sympathetic manner. 
However, while Mr C was finding it challenging to manage financially, I cant see record of 
him notifying BOS of this at the time of the credit limit increases. So, in light of my 
conclusions above, I cant expect BOS to have acted differently here.  
When Mr C brought his complaint to this service, he explained that he remains in financial 
difficulty, which has had an adverse effect on his mental health. I can appreciate things have 
been difficult for him and I am sorry for the position in which he finds himself. However, while 
I know this will come as a disappointment, Im not satisfied BOS has acted unfairly here.  My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman