DRN-3501467
The complaint
Mr H complains that BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited (BMWFS) unfairly charged
him for excess mileage after he took the decision to voluntary terminate a hire purchase
agreement (in respect of a car) in his name.
What happened
In September 2017, Mr H acquired a new car using a hire purchase agreement from
BMWFS. The total repayable under the agreement was £100,700.96. Mr H was required to
make an advance payment of £500.00 followed by 48 monthly payments of £1,276.10. 
There was a final optional payment of £38,948.16 if Mr H wished to buy the car at the end of 
the agreement.
The agreement set out that Mr H had the right to terminate the agreement at any time
before the final payment was due. In doing so, BMWFS would be entitled to the return of the
car and at least half of the total repayable under the agreement. The agreement set out this
was £50,350.48.
In early 2021 Mr H enquired about terminating the agreement early. In response BMWFS
wrote to him to say that he could do so, but an excess mileage charge and damage charges 
might be payable.
Mr H decided he wanted to go ahead with terminating the agreement early and 
arrangements were made for the same and for the car to be collected.
On 30 March 2021, after the car had been collected, BMWFS charged Mr H £602.60 for
excess mileage. This had been calculated as follows:
contract months completed 41
pro rata mileage 41,000 (41/49 x 49,000)
recorded mileage 43,353
excess mileage 2,353
charge £602.60 (2,353 x 25.61 pence)
Mr H didnt pay this sum.
The agreement set out that Mr H had an annual mileage allowance of 12,000 and a total
mileage allowance of 49,000. It said that if he exceeded this allowance BMWFS could
charge him 25.61 pence for every mile that he exceeded the allowance by. It said that in the
event he terminated the agreement early, the mileage allowance would be pro-rated for the
time the car was on hire.
Mr H didnt think this charge was enforceable so in September 2021 he referred the matter 
to our service for investigation. BMWFS says at around the same time Mr H paid it the 
excess mileage sum it was seeking from him.
Mr Hs complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that it
shouldnt be upheld. He was satisfied that BMWFS had calculated the excess mileage
charge correctly in line with the terms of the hire purchase agreement and the Consumer
Credit Act 1974 (CCA). He also found that the terms of the agreement were clear around
the possibility of an excess mileage charge being payable on voluntary termination.
In summary, he said:
S99 of the CCA sets out the right for a consumer to terminate a hire purchase
agreement early and S100 sets out what liabilities a consumer has on termination.
In brief, on termination a consumer is liable to pay at least half of the total price of
the agreement. Total price is defined by S189 of the CCA as the total sum payable
under the hire purchase agreement. It doesnt include charges for items that are
payable as compensation for breach of an agreement. This means that any charges
for breaches of the agreement are in addition to any liability for termination.
S99 sets out that any liabilities that the consumer accrued prior to termination arent
to be affected by the termination.
The hire purchase agreement set out that the excess mileage charges will accrue
immediately prior to termination. The term in Mr Hs agreement was clear that the
charge accrued before termination and was therefore not affected by the termination.
The terms of the agreement dont set out that exceeding the mileage allowance is a
breach of the agreement. The excess mileage charges must therefore be included in
the total price of the agreement.
The mileage charge therefore accrued prior to termination and counted towards the
total price of the agreement. Mr Hs accrued liability under S100 therefore included
paying an additional amount of £602.60.
The credit agreement set out clearly the terms surrounding when excess mileage
would be charged, when it would accrue and how much it would cost.
The agreement made it clear that this charge would be payable on voluntary
termination of the agreement if any pro-rated mileage allowance had been exceeded.
The investigator concluded that when considering all the terms of the agreement as a
whole, he was satisfied it was made clear and not misleading about when an excess
mileage charge could be applied and for how much. He was therefore satisfied it
was fair and reasonable for BMWFS to charge the additional amount.
Mr H disagreed, but the investigator wasnt persuaded to change his mind. Therefore, the
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I would like to point out Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my
comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not
because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it but because I dont think I need to
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Secondly, I would add that where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or
contradictory, Ive to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.In paying a deposit and his monthly rentals to BMWFS, the hire purchase agreement
allowed Mr H use of the car for the duration of the agreement. He also had the option to
purchase the car outright at the end of the agreement in exchange for the final payment of
£38,948.16. While Mr H was entitled to use the car, that use was subject to certain
conditions, such as maintaining and taking care of the car and only driving a maximum
mileage each year and overall throughout the lifetime of the agreement. The agreement set
out what would happen should Mr H not meet those requirements.
Mr H exercised his right to voluntarily terminate the agreement. In some instances, voluntary
termination allows the hirer to simply hand back the car without having to pay anything more.
But this is dependent on, amongst other things, how much has been paid to the agreement,
whether there are arrears to be paid, the condition of the car and whether any excess
mileage or other charges are due.
In this case Mr H accepts that he was required to pay at least £50,350.48 to voluntary
terminate the agreement. But he disputes the excess mileage charge of £602.60 that has
been added on top of this figure.
The CCA sets out the rights consumers have to voluntary terminate their hire purchase
agreements and the liability that is due on termination. The termination your rights section of
Mr Hs hire purchase agreement also refers to the liability that is due on termination and in
his case, that was £50,350.48. Various sections of the agreement Mr H had with BMWFS
also referred to the liability on early termination, including where excess mileage, damage
charges or  other charges may increase the final liability.
Whether or not its fair for a lender to apply an excess mileage charge on early termination 
will depend on the terms of the agreement that has been entered into. In other words, what 
Ive to decide is was the agreement Mr H entered into constructed in a way as to allow the 
charging for excess mileage without contravening what is set out in the CCA regarding 
voluntary termination? In Mr Hs specific case, I think it has. Ill explain why.
As explained by the investigator, S99 sets out that any liabilities which accrue prior to
termination arent affected by the termination. What this means is that Mr H is liable to pay
any charges which have built up prior to the termination of the agreement, and that these
charges are in addition to the other liability for early termination.
The first page of Mr Hs hire purchase agreement has a section headed: Excess Mileage
Charges. This section sets out the mileage allowance and what charges will apply if that
mileage is exceeded. It says that if the agreement is terminated early the mileage allowance
will be reduced to reflect the shorter period of hire and that your obligation to pay any
excess mileage charge will accrue immediately prior to termination. Im satisfied Mr Hs
agreement is worded clearly in setting out when excess mileage charges accrue.
The agreement also has a section headed Termination: your rights. This section contains
specific wording which BMWFS were required to include in the agreement, and in summary
sets out that so long as Mr H has paid at least half the total amount payable under the
agreement, he will not have to pay any more. Ive thought about whether this conflicts with
the rest of the terms of the agreement, specifically those that explain charges for exceeding
the mileage might apply.Having read all of the terms of the agreement as a whole, I dont think the agreement is
either unclear or misleading concerning the charges for excess mileage. I think it explains
that the excess mileage charge can be applied in addition to other charges for voluntary
termination. I dont therefore consider that the way this specific agreement has been
constructed has prejudiced Mr H.
Im also satisfied that any excess mileage charge that would be applicable under this
agreement will have accrued prior to termination. It follows that Mr H is liable to pay the
excess mileage charge and that this is consistent with what is allowed to be charged under
S99 of the CCA.
So overall, Im not persuaded BMWFS has acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr H in
seeking from him £602.60 in respect of excess mileage.
Mr H submits that BMWFS acted unfairly in reporting, to one or more credit reference 
agencies, adverse information in respect of the £602.60 excess mileage charge it was 
seeking the recovery of. And this resulted in, amongst other things, a reduction in his credit 
score, the reduction in credit limits on two of his credit cards and the refusal (at least at the 
most favourable rate in the market) of a remortgage.
But based on what both parties have said and submitted Im satisfied that what BMWFS 
reported to third party credit reference agencies was accurate. I would also add that just 
because Mr H believed he wasnt liable, for reasons he has shared with BMWFS and our 
service, didnt (in itself) prevent BMWFS reporting to third party credit reference agencies the 
information that it did. 
Mr H says he raised a complaint about the excess mileage charge with BMWFS in 
March 2021 but never received a response. And because he never received a response he 
assumed the matter had been dropped. But I dont think that was a fair and reasonable 
conclusion for Mr H to have reached especially as BMWFS has been able to demonstrate 
that it sent a number of payment chaser/reminders after March 2021.
I would also add that if financial businesses were unable to report information to credit 
reference agencies that was being disputed by a consumer (whether on legal, regulatory or 
fairness grounds) then confidence in what credit reference agencies hold and share (in 
particular with businesses looking to grant credit) would be seriously undermined.
Finally, Mr H could have always paid BMWFS the sum it was seeking recovery of before 
September 2021 and then simply amended his complaint to one about having to pay an 
excess mileage charge from one about being chased for such a payment. And given Mr H 
was looking to remortgage in late 2021, less than a year after he voluntary terminated his 
agreement and BMWFS first started to seek recovery of the excess mileage charge from 
him, I might have expected him to have done so. For the sake of completeness I think its worth pointing out that despite requesting from 
Mr H, on more than one occasion, a copy of his credit report and other information to allow 
me to establish exactly what was reported by BMWFS to one or more third party credit 
reference agencies and exactly what Mr H paid in respect of the excess mileage charge (and 
when and to whom) this was never provided. So, this means Ive been unable to take this 
information into account when deciding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2022.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman