DRN-3160925
The complaint
Mrs W and Mr W complain TFS Loans Limited irresponsibly lent to them. They say the loan 
was unaffordable to them; and TFS wouldve known this had it completed proportionate 
checks.  
What happened
Mrs W and Mr W were approved for a £5,000 loan by TFS in November 2012. The term of 
the loan was 60 months with monthly repayments of approximately £208. The purpose of the 
loan was for partial debt consolidation; and spending towards Christmas shopping and a 
holiday. 
Mrs W and Mr W say the loan was unaffordable from the outset as they were experiencing 
financial difficulties; which resulted in them having to borrow significant amounts in order to 
meet their outgoings.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. In coming to this conclusion they 
argued:
TFSs had asked for information about Mrs W and Mr Ws income and outgoings. 
And had obtained information such as payslips and bank statements to verify their 
application. As TFS had obtained a good understanding of Mrs Ws and Mr Ws 
circumstances; it had completed proportionate checks;
However; even though TFS had completed proportionate checks; the information it 
had gathered had shown this loan was likely unaffordable to Mrs W and Mr W; and 
therefore, TFS did not make a fair decision to lend;
The information showed both Mrs W and Mr W had negative markers on their credit 
files. There was evidence that both Mrs W and Mr W had arrears on their various 
forms of credit. Mr W had defaults in the past; and had arrears on his mortgage. The 
bank statements also showed Mrs W and Mr W were using other forms of credit to 
supplement their income. 
TFS disagreed with the assessment. It accepted there was negative markers on Mrs W and 
Mr Ws credit files, but this did not mean the lending was unfair. TFS highlighted Mrs Ws 
and Mr Ws recent well-maintained credit. It also said the application form it was presented 
with demonstrated there would be sufficient disposable income. As such it asked for an 
ombudsmans final decision/. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as 
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our 
website. Ive used this approach to help me decide this complaint.   
TFS needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it responsibly lent to Mrs W and Mr W. The 
relevant rules, regulations and guidance at the time TFS lent required it to carry out 
reasonable and proportionate checks. These checks needed to assess Mrs W and Mr Ws 
ability to afford the loan and repay it sustainably over its term without causing him financial 
difficulties.
There isnt a set list of checks a lender needs to carry out, but they should be proportionate, 
taking into account things like the type, amount, duration and total cost of the credit, as well 
as their circumstances. 
And it isnt sufficient for TFS to just complete proportionate checks  it must also consider 
the information it obtained from these checks to make a fair lending decision. This includes 
not lending to someone in financial hardship; and ensuring repayments can be made 
sustainably without having to borrow further.
All parties accept that proportionate checks were completed in this case. Namely that TFS 
did enough to get a thorough understanding of Mrs Ws and Mr Ws finances. TFS verified 
this information with bank statements and payslips. As such I wont enter into detailed 
findings, only to say I agree; and in this instance, Im satisfied that by verifying Mrs Ws and 
Mr Ws income and outgoings, the checks were proportionate.
With that being said I agree with our investigator; that although proportionate checks were 
completed; Im not satisfied TFS made a fair decision to lend.
The credit files TFS obtained as part of the application process showed that Mrs W and Mr 
W had issues managing credit in the recent past. The credit files also suggested that these 
issues were continuing and werent likely to be resolved by the loan TFS was providing.
Of particular note is the mortgage arrears that appeared on Mr Ws credit file. This was 
showing as being in five to six months worth of arrears. Importantly these arrears had been 
worsening during the period leading up to Mrs Ws and Mr Ws application with TFS. 
Other markers across both credit files also included historic defaults from Mr W which had 
not reduced significantly since their application. Mrs Ws credit file also showed that she was 
breaching some of her home credit arrangements. There were also arrears developing on a 
mobile phone / telecommunications account.
The statements which TFS obtained supported the negative markers on the credit file. Mr 
Ws statements show that his outgoings exceed his income. He was also having to 
supplement his income with other forms of credit such as payday and short-term lenders.
Whilst Mrs Ws bank statements werent as negative as Mr Ws; her payslips showed that 
she had an attachment of earnings order placed on it.
Considering this loan was only consolidating a small portion of Mrs Ws and Mr Ws debt; Im 
not persuaded TFSs decision to provide further credit was fair. Im satisfied the information it 
had at its disposal showed that Mrs Ws and Mr Ws finances were in a poor state; and that 
further outgoings were likely to be challenging for them to maintain. Couple this with the fact 
they had shown historic and recent issues with managing credit (including mortgage 
arrears); Im satisfied TFS shouldve been aware Mrs W and Mr W were unlikely to manage this additional credit commitment sustainably. And as such it acted unfairly in approving the 
loan.
  
Putting things right
To settle Mrs Ws and Mr Ws complaint TFS Loans Limited should do the following:
Refund any interest and charges they paid as a result of this loan;
Pay Mrs W and Mr W 8% simple interest on the refunded interest and charges from 
the date they were paid to the date of settlement*;
Remove any adverse information on their credit files in relation to this loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS Loans Limited to take off tax from this interest. TFS 
Loans Limited must give Mrs W and Mr W a certificate showing how much tax it has taken 
off if they ask for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against TFS Loans Limited.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman