DRN-3857692
The complaint
  A company, which Ill refer to as R, complain about the way Santander UK Plc conducted a 
Know Your Customer (KYC) review. It says the bank was unnecessarily intimidating and 
threatening and as well as an apology, it would like steps to be taken by the bank to improve 
its culture.  
In bringing this complaint R is represented by one of its directors, who I refer to as Mr F
What happened
 The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so I wont repeat it in detail. 
Briefly Mr F has told us that:
On 2 August 2022 Santander wrote to him and separately to Mrs F, Rs other director 
saying theyd asked R to provide the bank with account information so that it could 
complete its KYC review.
The banks letter said if it didnt receive the information within 14 days of the date the 
of letter itd have to restrict access to Rs account which in turn would mean 
withdrawals and regular or one-off payments from the account wont be possible. 
But the letters didnt actually arrive until 10 August 2022 which was after Mr and Mrs 
F had returned from holiday. 
The letters were preceded by an unsolicited phone call to both Mr F and Mrs F whilst 
they were on holiday, which were discomforting because it was difficult to establish 
for sure whether the calls were genuinely from the bank.  
On receiving the letters, however, and noting the banks request for an urgent 
response, Mr F called Santander and provided them with some of the information 
they wanted. But he was uncomfortable with some of the banks line of questioning, 
including its request for personal financial information such as his personal wealth. 
He believed that Santanders questions and the information they were asking for in 
relation to R exceeded what was necessary to comply with the banks regulatory 
obligations. So, Mr F complained. But although Santander acknowledged the 
restricted timeframe, theyd given to R to respond to their request for information, the 
bank didnt think it had done anything wrong. 
On 1 September 2022, Santander wrote to Mr F and gave details of the outstanding 
information needed to complete their review. Ostensibly this was the source of wealth 
information  such as asset value and source of income. 
But Mr F still believed this information wasnt required by the bank for it to properly 
complete its review despite Santanders further letter dated 12 September 2022 
which set out the rationale in more detail.
On 14 Sept 2022 Santander wrote to Mr F saying since they hadnt received Rs 
response to their request for additional information, theyd restricted access to Rs 
accounts. 
Mr F was unhappy about Santanders actions. He said the impact on R could have been 
catastrophic and his own mental health was affected. Hes told us that for weeks he had to 
live with the likely implication of the banks action which led to considerable worry and 
sleepless nights.
Santander maintained their position, which was that in their conduct of the KYC review, 
including the questions they asked of R, they hadnt done anything wrong. 
Since Rs complaint couldnt be resolved, it was referred to this service to look into. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think there was clear enough 
evidence to indicate Santander had made an error.  He said  in summary:
KYC processes are a necessary inconvenience, and most banks carry out similar 
reviews, including freezing an account if information isnt provided. Although perhaps 
heavy handed, its a common approach and any decision to change this process is 
better suited to the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
Santander are entitled to ask for the information they think appropriate to carry out 
their KYC review. Banks are entitled to protect themselves. And whilst R might 
consider the amount of information the bank asked for was unnecessary, even if the 
bank did ask for more than required, it doesnt follow that was unfair.
Although R was concerned about some of Santanders calls during the review 
process, in particular given the heightened awareness of fraud and scams, 
Santander did suggest Mr F called them back so that they could verify the 
authenticity of the call. 
The tone of Santanders letters may well have cause alarm. But that was partly the 
intention as a way of making it plain to R the urgency of the matter. 
R didnt accept the investigators conclusions. On its behalf Mr F said that the scope of Rs 
complaint actually spanned more than just the banks KYC process, and, in that connection, 
he has provided detailed submissions. Those submissions expanded on the arguments Mr F 
originally made about Santanders failures. These include what Mr F identified as the banks 
failure to observe certain regulatory guidance such as the Joint Money Laundering Steering 
Group (JMLSG), Anti Money Laundering (AML) processes and FCA principles.  
In summary, Mr F believes observance of these regulations, ought to have meant that in 
Santanders dealings with R, the bank ought to have followed a risk sensitive approach. But 
he said Santander didnt do that. And hes pointed, for example to the banks approach to 
customers who have over 10% control of a business, whereby all such customers are 
subject a blanket Enhanced Due Diligence (EDD) policy. Whereas, according to Mr F 
JMLSG makes clear that approach is only appropriate in circumstances where heightened 
risks are identified.According to Mr F, undertaking EDD in the way the bank has done is not risk-based and was 
inappropriate where R was concerned since it had a twenty-year, relationship with the bank 
and a consistent track record. On that basis Mr F argued R should therefore have fallen 
within the JMLSG's criteria for lower risk/simplified due diligence.
Mr F also said the FCAs requirement to place the needs of their customers at the heart of 
the business model and culture of financial business, seemed at odds with the threatening 
letters Santander sent to him and Mrs F. 
      
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  I can see from his correspondence and from listening to the calls Mr F had with Santander 
that whats happened in relation to this case has been upsetting and deeply frustrating for 
him. Consequently, Mr F feels very strongly about this complaint.  As noted above, hes 
explained both for him and Mrs F the distressing impact it has had. 
In considering this case, however, I must bear in mind this is a complaint brought by R about 
Santanders conduct. And as a limited company R cannot be distressed.  So, whilst I am 
sorry to hear about the worry, sleepless nights and distress this matter has caused, I am not 
able to look into this more personal aspect of the case or to award compensation to Mr and 
Mrs F for the impact on them personally. 
Mr F has explained that hes been able draw heavily on his financial services experience 
when determining the extent to which the bank has gone wrong. I have no doubt that 
experience has been helpful also in putting together Mr Fs submissions on behalf of R. I 
thank Mr F for presenting his arguments so comprehensively and I assure him Ive 
considered everything that hes told us. But Ive not commented on each and every point in 
my decision. Instead, and in keeping with the informal nature of our approach, Ive focused 
on what I regard as the key issues in the case. 
Having now looked at everything, Ive reached the same overall conclusion as the 
investigator, and for broadly the same reasons. Ill explain why.
The KYC process 
I take Mr Fs point that Rs complaint encompasses more than the practical aspects of the 
KYC process itself. But Ill start with that. Ill come to the other issues later. In particular, the 
banks alleged failure to observe the regulations governing the process. 
R does not dispute that from time-to-time Santander is required to carry out KYC checks to 
comply with their legal and regulatory obligations. For the bank to do this, it will sometimes 
need to request information from its customer. Given those obligations, I cant say that 
Santanders request for information from R was unreasonable. 
Mr F didnt find the manner of the request particularly helpful. Ive noted his explanation that 
at the start of the KYC process, without warning, on 2 August 2022, he and Mrs F were first 
contacted by the bank by phone whilst they were on holiday. It seems from Mr Fs testimony 
that the calls were difficult and, at the time, it doesnt appear they achieved the intended 
purpose of gathering information needed by the bank for the review. Mr F has told us the bank wanted his security information before the caller was willing to 
proceed whereas, Mr F wanted to know the purpose of the call first which the caller would 
not divulge. The impasse meant things were unable to proceed. 
But I note Mr F called the bank soon afterwards and established that the calls that were 
made earlier were indeed genuine. 
Although Santander called again a few days later the outcome was much the same as on 2 
August 2022 in that the caller wanted to verify Mr Fs security details, but Mr F remained 
unwilling to cooperate unless the caller divulged the purpose of the call, which they declined. 
And Mr F didnt find the offer the caller made, which was that he could call the bank, an 
acceptable way forward. Mr F asked in future the bank should desist contacting him by 
phone. 
It is common practice for banks to have a verification system in place. So, I do not find that it 
was wrong for Santander to have that system and to deploy it when contacting R. Whilst I 
can understand that Mr Fs was uncomfortable when first contacted on 2 August 2022, he 
was assured later that day the calls he and Mrs F received were genuine. I think the banks 
suggestion in a subsequent call to Mr F that he could call the bank if he remained uncertain 
the caller was genuine, was a reasonable attempt to address Mr Fs concerns.  
Mr F has explained Santanders letter of 2 August arrived eight days later  on 10 August 
and it was the first such letter that hed received from the bank. 
In view of the opening paragraph of the letter, I do understand why Mr F took issue with 
Santanders claim theyd written to R before. And I can see why its possible to construe the 
banks indication that it would close Rs account if its requests werent complied with 
threatening and consequently upsetting. 
But I have to look at things from both sides. Santander had an important regulatory 
obligation that it had to perform, and they risked being penalized if they failed to do so. I 
dont think it unreasonable that the banks communication should include the consequence 
of noncompliance by R.  
That being said, there is no evidence to suggest the banks 2 August 2022 letter was a follow 
up to ones that had been sent earlier. So, here too I understand why Mr F would be upset at 
the suggestion made in the letter that Santander had recently written to R. 
But the letter bears the hallmarks of a standard letter. When it arrived, albeit sometime after 
the 2 August 2022 date, Mr F acted straightaway. So, Im not persuaded the implication by 
the bank that it had written before significantly impacted R.  
 Did Santander go beyond their regulatory requirements in the KYC review. 
I appreciate that at the heart of Rs concern in this regard is that it didnt represent a 
significant regulatory risk whereas it was treated as such by Santander. In other words, 
although the banks obligation when conducting its KYC review was to adopt a risk sensitive 
approach, in their dealings with R Santander did not. So, for example as Mr F explained, R 
had been a long-standing customer of the bank and Santander would therefore have been 
familiar with its banking activities. Nonetheless, the bank deployed an EDD approach which 
was more suited to customers that were judged to present higher financial crime risks.  Mr F 
pointed for example to Santanders approach to business customers where directors have at 
least 10% control where bank routinely asks for source of wealth information. 
However, in conducting their KYC review Santander is entitled to request additional information. And although I note the contents of the 12 September 2022 letter Santander 
sent to Mr F, which he believes supports his position the bank was exceeding its 
requirements, I dont think it follows the bank was restricted from going further if it wished.  
Overall, I bear in mind Santander are obliged to have in place effective measures and 
procedures to ensure they comply with their regulatory obligations. In my opinion, that 
means Santander were entitled to put in place their own internal procedures to ensure such 
compliance. And it is not part of my role as an ombudsman to direct Santander as to how 
precisely they should meet their KYC obligations. 
So, I cant fairly say the bank wasnt entitled to ask for such information it determined it 
needed to satisfy itself it had carried out the regulatory obligations required of it. Even if  
which is not my finding - the information requested was strictly speaking more than was 
necessary. 
Having considered this case carefully and although anticipating this will be disappointing 
news for R, I havent been persuaded that Santander operated their KYC procedure in a way 
that meant the information they required and asked R to provide was unfair and /or 
unreasonable. 
  
My final decision
 n light of all that Ive said above, my final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2023.
 
Asher Gordon
Ombudsman