DRN-4072213
The complaint
Mr M complains about the way that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited dealt with his home 
emergency claims for repairs to his boiler. The claims were for the most part dealt with by 
loss adjusters, However as Admiral are responsible for them, for convenience I shall refer to 
Admiral throughout.
What happened
In late February 2021 Mr M made a claim on his home emergency policy as his boiler was 
losing pressure. An engineer came out and found the boiler to be working on arrival albeit it 
had lost pressure. The engineer wanted to confirm that emergency cover still applied, and 
Admiral determined that the boiler was losing pressure rapidly, so it agreed to cover the 
claim. Two parts were needed which were ordered and the engineer came out on 11 March 
to fit these. The total cost for this claim was £558, the claim limit being £500, so Mr M had to 
pay £58.
However the boiler continued to lose pressure. A further site visit took place at the end of 
March, when it was determined that a further part was required, namely a filler loop. This 
was installed on another visit in mid-April. At that time the engineer deemed that the boiler 
was now beyond economic repair (BER). He also said that a new expansion vessel was 
needed at a cost of £780 plus VAT. As the limit for each claim is £500, Admiral told Mr M 
that he would have to pay the balance on this claim of over £400 before it would come out.
Mr M was able to get Admiral out to look at the boiler again as he advised it that the valve 
fitted by the previous engineer had stuck. This was in June 2021. He had no hot water or 
heating. That engineer came out and freed the valve and also looked at the expansion 
vessel, which he said didnt need replacing, just recharging. He carried that out and the 
boiler has since then (as far as Im aware) been working.
Mr M made complaints to Admiral that he had made a great number of phone calls and he 
was promised call-backs which he didnt get. He further objected to Admiral classifying his 
boiler is being BER and that its engineer had deemed a part had needed replacing without 
looking at it. He objected to Admiral trying to force him to pay for that part when it wasnt 
necessary.
Admiral accepted that Mr M had not had the call-backs he had been promised on a couple of 
occasions. It also said that the engineer who had decided the part needed replacing should 
have investigated the part to see if it could be repaired before submitting a quote for it. It did 
point out that the repair to the expansion vessel was temporary and that it would likely need 
replacing. It further said it had reasonably assessed that the boiler was BER.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service our Investigator said that Admiral had 
provided a poor service regarding the expansion vessel, as its engineer didnt carry out an 
adequate investigation before saying it needed to be replaced. They also found that Admiral 
didnt call him back when promised. They recommended that Admiral pay further 
compensation of £300 (on top of the £100 already paid).
Mr M didnt agree and the matter has been passed to med for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ms complaints were of missed call-backs and (separately) the boiler being deemed BER, 
and the expansion vessel issue in July 2021. These were dealt with in three separate final 
response letters from Admiral.
boiler deemed BER
There has been some confusion over this. The total cost of the two claims made in 2021 
amounted to around £846. Admiral says this exceeds the likely cost of a new boiler, and I 
have no information to say otherwise. The expansion vessel was recharged and Mr H says it 
is still working. But if it does break down in future it will cost over £900. I think it reasonable 
to say that BER means the cost of repair exceeds the value of the boiler.
However a boiler being BER doesnt necessarily mean that any claim shouldnt be 
responded to. This would only apply if the boiler couldnt be repaired and a new one had to 
be installed, in which case Admiral wouldnt contribute towards the cost of it. In Mr Ms case 
Admiral said it would respond if Mr M paid the cost of repair over the £500 claim limit. As it 
is, I understand that Mr M took out a policy with a different company when the one with 
Admiral expired. I dont propose to take any further action in respect of this.
missed call-backs
In early March 2021 Mr M was promised call-backs on a couple of occasions and this wasnt 
done. As a result he had to do a lot of extra chasing. Admiral also said that there was a two 
day delay in ordering parts following the engineers visit. Clearly if a call-back is promised 
this should take place or Mr N should have been contacted to rearrange. 
expansion vessel
So far as site visits and repairs were concerned I believe that the claim was dealt with 
satisfactorily up until the engineers visit in mid-April. The engineer who came out initially 
found the boiler to be working and because the policy covers emergencies, the policyholder 
has to be without heating hot water, for cover to apply. Admiral did then deem it an 
emergency because of the boiler rapidly losing pressure. The repairs needed after the initial 
site visit were carried out in early March. Then a further site visit in late March identified the 
need for further repair.
At the visit in mid-April, whilst it might have been reasonable for the engineer to assume that 
the expansion vessel needed replacing he didnt investigate it properly. As a result Mr M was 
put under unnecessary stress when told several times by Admiral that it wouldnt send out an 
engineer again until he paid the balance of the claim in respect of the cost of the expansion 
vessel. The claims handlers could only work from the engineers report, but as it transpired 
the report identifying the need for the new part was wrong. So I can understand that this put 
Mr M under extra unnecessary stress.
But I have to look at things as they happened rather than at what could have happened. 
Mr M didnt have to pay for the expansion vessel. And the engineer did come out for a site 
visit and carried out the necessary repair. That may have been fortunate but at least Mr H 
didnt suffer any financial loss.compensation
Mr M told our Investigator he was without heating or hot water for 4 or 5 days, then later said 
this was 7 days. This was in June 2021. As our Investigator has said we look at these 
matters holistically and we dont break down every separate issue. I think Mr M was caused 
a fair degree of stress from about mid-April to late June 2021. As Ive said we look at matters 
as they were rather than what might have happened. I think our Investigators proposal, that 
Mr M be awarded a further £300 compensation, is fair and reasonable.
Putting things right
Admiral should pay Mr M a further £300 compensation, in addition to the £100 already paid.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to provide the 
remedy set out under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman