DRN-3630346
The complaint
Mr B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct banks fees on international 
transactions are unfair.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, I agree with the outcome reached by our investigator for 
these reasons:
Its for HSBC to decide whether it will charge its customers when using their account 
abroad. Also, our Service doesnt have the power to change a financial business 
commercial decision. What we can consider is whether Mr B had access to the 
relevant information about international transactions. We can also consider whether 
other customers, with similar circumstances, would have been treated in the same 
way.
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions that apply to Mr Bs account, and seen it has 
a section headed Foreign payments by debit card. This section has a table that 
explains withdrawals from cash machines outside the UK are charged at 2.75% plus 
a fee of 2%* (minimum £1.75, maximum £5). Ive also seen HSBCs fee information 
document thats made available to customers, and this also sets out this information 
in a table format. Im satisfied these documents clearly explain how transactions in a 
foreign currency/made abroad will be charged. Ive also seen nothing to suggest 
Mr B didnt have access to this information before he made the transactions hes 
complained about. Because of this, Im satisfied HSBC ensured Mr B had access to 
the information he needed to help him decide if he wanted to withdraw cash from 
outside the UK  and what it would cost him if he did.
Ive seen the fees that were applied to the two cash withdrawals Mr B has 
complained about. They have been calculated in line with the terms of his account, 
so I cant say HSBC made a mistake with them. The evidence persuades me Mr B 
was treated the same as other customers, with similar circumstances. In light of this, 
I cant agree HSBC treated him unfairly. 
I appreciate Mr B thinks the fees are unfair. However, we cant tell HSBC to change 
them. Its always been for Mr B to decide if HSBCs terms are suitable for his needs. 
Im persuaded hes always had access to the information that would help him make 
that decision, so I cant say HSBC are at fault for handling his cash withdrawals as 
they always said they would.
Mr B has asked to be compensated for HSBC giving him cause to complain and the 
service he received. While I acknowledge his strength of feeling, I dont consider any 
compensation is warranted. Firstly, raising a complaint comes with inevitable 
inconvenience  and thats not something wed ordinarily make an award for. Im also 
satisfied HSBC responded to his complaint quickly, and with the correct information. 
But most importantly, HSBC handled Mr Bs cash withdrawals in line with their terms 
and conditions. Because of this, I wont be asking them to do anything to put things 
right.
I know Mr B will be disappointed with the outcome. But given the above, Im not upholding 
his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint about HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as 
first direct bank.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2022.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman