DRN-4265531
The complaint
Mr J has complained about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) dealt with a 
claim under his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr J contacted RSA to make a claim when he found water damage to his home. RSA sent a 
company to carry out trace and access. The company said the leak was because of failed 
shower seals. RSA later carried out some further trace and access. Mr J was told his water 
cylinder was leaking, which he would have to deal with himself as it wasnt covered as part 
of the trace and access.
Mr J replaced the water cylinder, but found the leak was still ongoing. RSA investigated 
further and found the leak was coming from the shower mixer valve. Mr J asked RSA to pay 
for the cost of the cylinder. Despite chasing on several occasions, RSA didnt reply.
Mr J later complained about the water cylinder and other issues with the claim. When RSA 
replied, it accepted it had taken too long to find the cause of the leak. It also said it took 
nearly a year for Mr J to receive a cash settlement and that the claim was poorly managed, 
which it said had caused Mr J and his family distress. It agreed to pay £570 for a 
replacement floor, but it said it wouldnt pay for the replacement water cylinder. It said its 
systems didnt indicate Mr J had been advised to repair or replace the cylinder and it was 
also quite possible there was more than one leak. It said the cost of repairs to leaks wasnt 
covered by trace and access and Mr Js own contractor should have carried out appropriate 
investigations. It also said there wasnt evidence to show it had agreed to pay for the 
damaged bathroom units. It said it would send a contractor to inspect the units. It also 
offered £600 compensation for the poor service provided.
Following this, RSA rechecked its records and found evidence it had previously agreed to 
pay for the damaged bathroom units. It offered Mr J £3,670 for the units.
When our investigator looked at the complaint, he didnt uphold it. He said the £600 
compensation offered was reasonable and there wasnt evidence to show RSA should pay 
for the replacement water cylinder.
As Mr J didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 22 June 2023. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint in part. I said:
This has clearly been a lengthy and difficult claim. RSA has accepted that Mr J received 
poor service because it took so long to find the leak from the shower. When RSA replied to 
the complaint, it said it hadnt agreed to pay for the bathroom units, but that it would send a 
contractor to inspect the items. It later reviewed the claim again and found it had previously 
been agreed that it would pay for the units. It offered the full cost of the units, which was 
£3,670. Mr J lost use of that money because of RSAs error. So, I currently intend to say 
RSA should pay interest on that amount from the date on which Mr J submitted the invoice, 
which was 29 July 2022, to the date on which the payment was made to Mr J.
The main issue that remains outstanding is the water cylinder. Mr J has said RSA incorrectly 
said the water cylinder was leaking, which meant he unnecessarily paid for a new cylinder. 
So, Ive thought about this. In RSAs response to the complaint, it said The allegations on 
what was said by the inspector (to get the cylinder replaced) is one word against another 
and we cannot confirm with them directly and our system does not indicate this advice was 
given. Ive looked at the trace and access report. This said: The unvented hot water 
cylinder needs to be repaired/replaced. Ive also seen an email from someone acting on 
behalf of RSA who said I did advise you to repair the water cylinder to mitigate any further 
damages. So, I think the evidence shows that Mr J was told to repair or replace the cylinder.
So, Ive thought about whether that advice was reasonable. The trace and access report 
included photos, one of which was labelled Water escaping from the underside of the hot 
water cylinder. So, I think RSA assessed the cylinder and found what appeared to be a 
leak. Mr J arranged for his own plumber to replace the cylinder. Im aware Mr J has told this 
service that having already advised that our plumber was insistent that the water leak 
wasnt down to the [cylinder], on the say so of the appointed Trace and Access expert, we 
were told it was leaking and needed to be replaced immediately so as to not make the 
situation any worse and invalidate our insurance cover. Ive looked at all the evidence 
provided by both parties and I didnt see anything that suggested to me that before the 
cylinder was replaced Mr J had told RSA his plumber had said it wasnt leaking or that, 
having been provided with this information, RSA still insisted the cylinder be replaced 
regardless. However, I did see emails sent after the cylinder had been replaced where Mr J 
told RSA there was still a significant leak.
I can understand, given there was still a leak, that Mr J thought he had been misadvised. 
However, Im not currently persuaded that a leak later being found elsewhere meant there 
wasnt also a leak from the cylinder. During the trace and access, RSA found evidence that 
indicated the cylinder was leaking. Mr J arranged for his own plumber to replace the cylinder 
and, based on the evidence Ive seen, it was only when there was still found to be a leak that 
Mr J seemed to say to RSA that he thought the leak wasnt from the cylinder. So, I dont 
think the evidence Ive currently seen shows that the trace and access investigation reached 
a wrong or unreasonable conclusion. As a result, I dont currently intend to say that RSA 
needs to pay for the replacement cylinder. I also note RSA later agreed to cover the cost of 
replacing the flooring the cylinder was on as part of the claim. I currently intend to say RSA 
should also pay interest on this amount, as Mr J lost use of that money for more than a year, 
as RSA didnt confirm it would cover the cost until it responded to the complaint.
Ive also thought about compensation. Im aware Mr J has been caused considerable 
inconvenience by the way his claim was dealt with. RSA offered Mr J £600 compensation, 
which was in addition to £150 compensation it had previously offered for a complaint related 
to an earlier part of the claim. I think £600 compensation is a significant amount of 
compensation and, having thought about all the issues with the claim, is in line with the 
amount I would have required RSA to pay had it not already offered this amount. As a result, 
I dont intend to require RSA to pay any further compensation.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 20 July 2023. 
RSA agreed with my decision.
Mr J provided some documents and photos. He also provided further comments, which in 
summary were:The record keeping system for the company dealing with claim on RSAs behalf was, at 
best, dubious. He understood RSA had problems getting records from that company and 
also received contradictory accounts.
RSA had said Mr J should have carried out appropriate investigations. Mr Js plumber 
carried out extensive investigations when the leak was first detected. The plumber ruled 
out that it was the shower tray and sealants and couldnt find a leak from the cylinder. He 
also cut numerous holes in the wall to try and identify the pipework, but the cylinder 
obstructed access to the shower mixer valve. The plumber suggested Mr J contact his 
insurer so that trace and access could be carried out to identify the source correctly.
Mr J informed RSA of his plumbers assessment from the outset and also told the trace 
and access company and the loss adjuster. To be told he hadnt advised RSA of his 
plumbers assessment was insulting and likely to be down to poor record keeping.
Mr J thought the photo of the cylinder labelled as showing water escaping was actually 
showing the significant leak dripping down from within the wall immediately behind it.
Aside from the significant coincidence of two leaks appearing at the same time in the 
same area, the cylinder held a large amount of water. So, it was highly unlikely that 
water escaping from the underside wouldnt have amounted to something substantially 
worse over the many months it was supposedly leaking.
Water was seen escaping through the wall from between the tiles 300mm above floor 
level, which Mr J thought proved it wasnt the cylinder that was leaking. Mr J had 
repeatedly pointed this out to RSAs contractors, but no-one investigated inside the wall. 
They simply jumped to their own incorrect assessments.
Mr Js understanding was that it wasnt possible to repair the cylinder but, even if it was, 
he would have been left without any water for at least a week. The accommodation costs 
would have been higher, so replacing the cylinder was deemed the only option. RSA had 
told Mr J to repair or replace the cylinder to prevent the situation deteriorating and to 
avoid the insurance becoming invalid. But doing so made no difference to the situation 
and showed the trace and access diagnosis was wrong and that there was no second 
leak.
Mr J emphasised again that he had told RSA about the checks his plumber had carried 
out and that his insurance would be invalidated if he didnt replace the cylinder.
Mr J said his plumber could confirm exactly what he did before Mr J called RSA.
Each time he contacted RSA, Mr J emphasised the extensive searches that had already 
been carried out. He also described a visit from a contractor who ruled out an issue with 
the shower sealant and said further investigations were required. Mr J didnt then hear 
anything further. When he followed this up with RSA, he was told no-one had visited. But 
RSA later found someone had visited, but didnt send Mr J the visit report. Mr J thought 
this was because the assessment contradicted the trace and access assessment and so 
RSA simply chose to ignore it.
Mr J arranged for his own plumber to replace the cylinder because he was told he would 
have no cover if he didnt do so. There was no option for RSA to install the replacement.
The main argument seemed to be centred on there possibly being two leaks. However, 
this was undermined by the first trace and access being proved to be wrong and that on 
the second trace and access visit, the contractor still failed to establish the main cause of 
the leak that was later found to be losing 30 litres of water per day. The contractor didnt 
find the source of the leak and it was the leak was only later found when a section of wall 
was taken out.
The trace and access contractor was incompetent and Mr J had to replace the cylinder 
based on the contractors assessment. Having replaced it, the leak continued at the 
same level as before. It wasnt the cause of the leak and it was an unnecessary cost to 
Mr J.
Mr Js plumber had advised him that it didnt make sense that there had been two leaks, 
as the escape of water was intermittent and sometimes it would be saturated and at other times dry. If the cylinder was leaking, it would have been leaking constantly, 
resulting in a constantly wet floor.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint in part and for the reasons given in my provisional 
decision. As part of that, Ive considered the comments from Mr J and looked again at the 
other evidence.
To clarify, the records showed that while the trace and access was ongoing Mr J described 
water seeping through wall tiles and running down the wall from about 30 cms up from the 
floor and that there were signs of the floor and wall being saturated up to one metre up from 
the floor and that it had worsened. 
The records I have seen dont show that Mr J described what his plumber found, but Ive no 
reason to doubt what Mr J said he told RSA when he reported the claim. However, even if 
Mr J told RSA about the plumbers investigations, he told this service his plumber could find 
no apparent leak from the cylinder and at that point Mr J contacted RSA to carry out trace 
and access. Ive looked at the assessments carried out during the trace and access and 
these seemed to include looking at a range of sources for the leak and photos to show what 
was found. So, Im not persuaded that the contractors just jumped to their own incorrect 
assessments, as Mr J suggested.
The contractors explained their investigations and findings. I can also see from the records 
that RSA was aware of Mr Js comments about where he could see water leaking from, 
including the height of the leak. This included an email where Mr J provided RSA with the 
quote for replacing the cylinder and describing the condition of the tiling, signs of water build 
up and that the floor under the cylinder was constantly saturated and including a photo to 
show this. But, I didnt see any concern expressed in the email about replacing the water 
tank or that Mr J was only doing this under pressure from RSA and against the advice of his 
own plumber. I also saw a further email from Mr J to RSA in which he was keen for a 
response as he wanted the work to proceed.
Im also mindful that when Mr J had the cylinder replaced, if he only did this because of 
pressure from RSA and that both he and his plumber thought the assessment was wrong, he 
could have provided evidence to RSA at the time, including potentially showing RSA the 
cylinder that had been removed. But I havent seen anything to suggest he did this. To be 
clear, Im not trying to blame Mr J for what happened, I am raising these points to illustrate 
why I dont think I can fairly say the cylinder was only replaced due to pressure from RSA or 
that it was unfair for RSA to say Mr J should replace it.
There is also the issue of whether a leak later being found elsewhere showed that the trace 
and access assessment was wrong. Ive looked again at the evidence and considered the 
further comments from Mr J and his plumber. I remain of the view that finding the leak in the 
wall didnt therefore mean there wasnt a leak from the cylinder. Ive already explained my 
view of the trace and access assessments. Im also aware that I havent seen evidence Mr J 
raised a concern as soon as the cylinder was removed and it was only a little while later that 
he contacted RSA to say there was still a leak. 
Ive also looked at the comments Mr J passed on from his plumber, which included that the 
leak was intermittent and that sometimes it was wet and sometimes dry and that if the 
cylinder had been leaking it would have resulted in a constantly wet floor. Comparing this to the email Mr J sent to RSA when he provided the quote for replacing the cylinder, he told 
RSA that it was constantly wet under the cylinder. 
So, having thought about all the evidence again, I remain of the view that finding the leak in 
the wall didnt show that the cylinder wasnt leaking and that there was evidence to suggest 
that it was reasonable to assess that the cylinder was leaking.
As a result, I dont require RSA to do anything further in relation to the cylinder. But I still 
require it to ensure it has paid any outstanding money for the bathroom and the flooring, 
along with interest on those amounts. It should also ensure it has paid the £600 
compensation it previously offered.
Putting things right
RSA should pay any outstanding money for the bathroom and the flooring and pay interest 
on those amounts. It should also ensure it has paid the £600 compensation it previously 
offered.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is upheld in part. I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to:
Ensure it has paid Mr J the money for the damaged bathroom units.
Pay 8% simple interest on the amount Mr J paid to replace the damaged bathroom units 
from 29 July 2022 to the date on which it made or makes the payment.
Ensure it has paid Mr J £570 for the floor under the water cylinder.
Pay 8% simple interest on that amount from the date on which Mr J paid for the work to 
the date on which it made or makes the payment.
Ensure it has paid the £600 compensation it offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman