DRN-4226425
The complaint
Mr C complains that Lloyds Bank PLC blocked his current account and credit card because 
of a potential fraud and didnt tell him. He was also forced to travel to his local branch to 
verify his identity.
What happened
In November 2022 when he tried to use his bank card, he found it had been blocked and his 
credit card was also blocked. He called Lloyds and was told he needed to go into his local 
branch and produce photo ID. As this was 10 miles away he asked if he could deal with the 
matter by giving his security password and he was told he couldnt. When at the branch he 
spoke to a member of the fraud team over the phone and it was explained that somebody 
had called Lloyds and attempted to do a money transfer for a substantial sum of money. 
Lloyds wasnt satisfied it was Mr C (which it wasnt) and put a block on his accounts. It was 
explained to him that in those circumstances he wouldnt be contacted and it was Lloyds 
procedures to block the account and wait for the customer to call, at which stage they would 
be asked to go into the branch with photo ID.
In its final response letter Lloyds explained that it followed its safeguarding procedures but 
offered Mr C a £50 payment as a goodwill gesture. Mr C declined the offer.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service our Investigator thought in considering the 
phone calls that the customer service could have been better. She proposed increasing the 
compensation to £100 which Lloyds agreed to .
Mr C didnt agree and the matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our Investigator advised Mr C, its not our role to tell banks how they should do security 
checks/blocks. We can consider if the block/checks were carried out in line with the banks 
relevant policy/procedure and terms and conditions of the account. In this case it is Lloyds 
policy in respect of what happened here, to block the account and not to tell the customer 
until they contact it. This was because there was a concern that as the Fraudster appeared 
to know some of Mr Cs personal details, it was possible that his number wasnt secure. Im 
aware that a bank will in some cases ask a customer to verity that a particular purchase is 
theirs, but I think thats quite different from what happened here.
I understand that it was very inconvenient fir Mr C to travel to his local branch but again if 
thats what Lloyds requires to safeguard him as its customer, we cant tell it to use security 
passwords etc
Having said that I do think that Lloyds procedures and the reasons for them could have 
been explained to Mr C in a friendlier way. The person he spoke over the phone to when he 
was at the branch was rather brusque and abrupt.
Our Investigator proposed that Lloyds increase the compensation offered to £100. I think 
that is fair and reasonable the circumstances.
Putting things right
Lloyds should pay Mr C £100 compensation.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint in part and require Lloyds Bank PLC to provide the remedy set out 
under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman