DRN-3710646
The complaint
Ms G complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc trading as M&S Bank (M&S) 
agreed her credit card application and issued a signed agreement, then changed their mind. 
What happened
In or around March 2022, Ms G applied for an M&S credit card account through a third-party 
website. M&S confirmed that her application had been approved and they issued an 
agreement for her to sign and return to them.
A few days later, Ms G received further correspondence from M&S explaining that theyd 
reversed their decision and were no longer able to provide her with a credit card account. Ms 
G wasnt happy. She said M&S hadnt provided an explanation of why theyd changed their 
mind and thought they were contractually bound to provide the account as theyd issued a 
signed agreement. So, she decided to complain.
M&S investigated MS Gs complaint and wrote to her with their findings. They said that due 
to amendments they needed to make to MS Gs address, their system had accepted her 
application in error. But, having corrected the address information, the information on Ms Gs 
application together with information at the credit reference agencies meant they werent 
able to provide her with a credit card.
M&S accepted theyd made a mistake when processing her original application. They 
apologised for their mistake and sent Ms G a cheque for £75.
Ms G wasnt happy with M&Ss response. She thought they were contractually bound to 
provide a credit card as theyd already issued a signed agreement. Ms G thought M&S had 
acted illegally and unethically. So, she referred her complaint to this service. 
Having considered all the information available together with M&Ss explanation of what 
happened, our investigator didnt think M&S needed to do anything more. Ms G didnt agree 
with our investigators findings. She thought M&Ss original agreement should stand as 
theyd signed a Consumer Credit Act agreement.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, Ms Gs complaint has been passed to me to consider 
further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms G says her application was made through a third-party website. The website had given a 
positive indication her application for a credit card would be approved by M&S. Such 
websites tend to undertake their own assessments based upon the information available to 
them. But it provides no guarantee an application will be approved as that would depend 
upon M&Ss own assessments and criteria.
M&S have explained that when Ms Gs application was processed, her address details were 
input incorrectly. This meant that the credit reference agency search didnt reveal accurate 
and up to date information for Ms G. Their records suggest this was identified soon after her 
original application was processed. But M&S werent able to correct the search details 
before their acceptance documents were issued to Ms G. Having corrected the address 
input, information revealed meant that M&Ss original agreement was reversed.  
This is clearly very unfortunate as Ms G would understandably have assumed that 
everything was in order. And I can appreciate how M&Ss apparent change of mind would be 
frustrating for Ms G and potentially very worrying.
It isnt the role of this service to supervise, regulate or impose fines on any business. Its also 
not our role to ask a business to alter its procedures or processes or impose improvements 
on the level of service offered to their customers. These aspects fall firmly within the remit of 
the regulator  in this case, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
But it is our role to examine and decide whether a business has been fair and reasonable in 
the manner in which those policies and procedures are applied in the individual 
circumstances of Ms Gs experience with them. When considering her complaint, Ive also 
considered any relevant rules and regulations set down by the FCA in their handbook  
where they apply.
The FCAs handbook sets out what checks and assessments should be considered by M&S 
before they agree to lend. This is to ensure that any lending decision is made in a 
responsible way protecting not only M&Ss interests, but also those of Ms G. Its extremely 
important that the information used is accurate and up to date. 
M&S identified theyd made a mistake. They appear to have acted quickly to correct this. 
Unfortunately, this resulted in a different outcome for Ms Gs application. This service isnt 
able to dictate to M&S who they should or shouldnt lend to. Thats a business decision for 
them based upon the information available. But I do appreciate the frustration and 
annoyance M&Ss mistake caused for Ms G. I think M&S have reflected this in their apology 
and by paying compensation to Ms G. And while I realise Ms G will be disappointed, I think 
the outcome here is both fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
M&Ss mistake resulted in two searches being recorded at the credit reference agencies. But 
theyve since confirmed that the first incorrect search has now been removed. This is what I 
would expect them to do here.
Ms G has made it clear that she feels M&S are contractually bound to provide a credit card 
to her given their original agreement. Having considered M&Ss terms and conditions 
together with the overall circumstances, Im afraid I dont agree. Its clear that the original 
decision was based upon the wrong information from the credit reference agencies. So, I 
think M&S were within their rights to revisit that decision, having since corrected their 
mistake.
I want to reassure Ms G that Ive considered all her comments and observations. But on this 
occasion, I wont be asking M&S to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman