DRN-2910174
The complaint
Mrs G (by way of a representative) complains Mutual Clothing and Supply Company Limited, 
trading as Mutual, lent to her irresponsibly.   
What happened
Mrs G applied for 6 home collected loans between March 2016 and January 2020. Ive 
included some of the information weve received about the loans in the table below. 
loan 
numberloan 
amountreceived date actual 
repayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly repayment 
per loan
1 £250.00 19/03/2016 17/05/2017 51 £6.86
2 £500.00 16/07/2016 13/09/2017 51 £13.72
3 £500.00 13/05/2017 11/12/2019 102 £7.59
4 £300.00 21/04/2018 22/01/2020 102 £4.55
5 £500.00 14/12/2019 outstanding 102 £7.59
6 £700.00 25/01/2020 outstanding 102 £10.63
It isnt possible to know, because Ive not been given a statement of account whether the last 
two loans are outstanding due to repayment problems or because the complaint was raised 
within the contractual term for both loans. 
The adjudicator didnt think Mutual had made an error when it approved loans 1  4. But she 
thought by the time loan 5 was provided Mutual, at the very least, needed to have been 
verifying the information Mrs G was providing. The adjudicator was satisfied Mutuals checks 
hadnt gone far enough. But has also concluded that by loan 5 Mutual ought to have realised 
the pattern of lending was harmful to Mrs G. So, loans 5 and 6 shouldnt have given. 
Mrs G appears to have accepted the adjudicators findings. 
Mutual disagreed with the adjudicators assessment. In response, Mutual provided us a 
detailed response as to why it disagreed with the adjudicator's assessment. I want to be 
clear that I've read the document in full. But in summary, Mutual said:
the checks it completed were proportionate and it gathered more information as the 
lending relationship went on, it also carried out credit checks Mrs G;
Mrs G maintained her repayments for a number of years;
the loans are not high interest or expensive and weekly repayments are small so they 
should be considered differently from other lenders or high cost short term
credit;
the lending pattern didnt indicate these loans were unsustainable;
there is no evidence to suggest Mrs G was reliant on these loans;
 there is no requirement for Mrs G to have a break between loans;
Taking 6 loans over 5 years is different to taking 5 loans in 1 year;
The weekly repayments for loan 5 and 6 was £18.22 in total and Mrs G had sufficient 
disposable income to afford the repayment; 
The agent made enquires with Mrs G as to why she was taking the loans and Mutual 
recorded the purpose of each loan (car, holiday and wedding);  
Mrs G saved money by not borrowing through a main national provider 
there is no evidence in this case to support the adjudicators conclusion Mrs G was 
borrowing unsustainably  and the checks completed indicated the loans would be 
affordable; 
in a recent court case, the judge said it might be fair to lend up to 3 or 4 loans per
year (but more may indicate financial difficulty). Mutual approved a lower number of
loans than this, so the lending was not likely to be unsustainable.
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Mrs G (or her representative) doesnt appear to disagree with our adjudicators findings 
about loans 1  4. I therefore think there is no longer a dispute about these loans. And like 
the adjudicator, I would also agree that there doesnt appear to be anything in the 
information that Mutual gathered which suggested Mrs G couldnt afford the lending. So 
instead, this decision will focus on whether Mutual did anything wrong when it lent loans 5 
and 6.  
Mutual has had other decisions from us which detail our approach to complaints of this 
nature and what we think about the rules and regulations that surround the sale of this type 
of credit as well as the cost of the product. So Mutual should be aware of our approach to 
these issues. I dont intend to go into detail about that here. But a brief summary of this is 
below.
Mutual needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs G could
repay loans 5 and 6 in a sustainable manner.
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was
being lent, the repayment amounts, and the consumers income and expenditure. With this
in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be
reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might suggest Mutual should have done more to establish that any 
lending was sustainable for Mrs G. These factors include: 
Mrs G having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income); The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Mrs G having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period 
of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing 
had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mrs G coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mrs G. The loan payments being 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case.
At the time loans 5 and 6 were lent, Mutual was regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority, who had set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) that payments are 
sustainable if they are made without undue difficulties and in particular, made on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments and without having to borrow to make them. If a 
lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, that a borrower wont be able to make 
their repayments without borrowing further, then it follows that it should conclude those 
repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and 
thought about what this means for Mrs Gs complaint.
Mutuals response concerns how it defines the cost of the credit and the risk of it to Mrs G.    
It also concerns our approach to repeat lending. We have responded to Mutual on these 
issues in detail through other final decisions it has received, and the published decisions on 
our website. So, Im not going to deal with these points at length here.
I will say briefly that I consider it reasonable to describe this lending as high cost credit, as
does the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), which includes home collected credit within its
identified high cost credit portfolio. And while I note it has a longer term than, for example, 
a payday loan, that does not make it a low risk, or inexpensive, option for a consumer. And,
as such, long-term use of these products can be harmful to a consumer. The FCA has not
said anything to the contrary on this point. I have considered these issues alongside
everything else in making my decision.
I havent looked in any detail about whether the checks for loans 5 -6 were proportionate and 
Ill explain why below. But I will say that Ive not found Mutuals suggestion that it gathered 
more and more information about Mrs Gs expenditure to be persuasive in showing the 
loans were affordable and sustainable. It looks like, based on what has been provided, that 
Mutual took the same sort of information for each loan, that being asking Mrs G about her 
(and the household) expenditure as well as her income. So, Im not clear how this argument 
supports that the loans were properly lent. Furthermore, at this stage in the lending 
relationship I dont think it was reasonable of Mutual to have relied solely on what Mrs G was 
telling it.
Mutual also says it carried out a credit check for at least the final loan, in the final response 
letter Mutual explained that it didnt show of anything of concern in terms of arrears, defaults 
and County Court Judgements. Mutual also says there were no other signs of financial 
difficulty. But Mutual hasnt provide me with the results of this credit check (or the checks for 
any other loans that it may have done a credit check for). So, I cant place any weight on 
what it may (or may not have seen) in the credit checks.  Mutual has also commented on the gaps between loans. But Mutual seem to be considering 
gaps as the difference in time between each new loan being approved. Whereas, any gap, in 
our view, needs to be considered from when a loan is repaid to when a new loan is taken 
out. So, looking at the loan history, in its totality, there are no gaps in lending, and it seems 
Mrs G spent around nearly four years taking out loans with Mutual, with 2 loans still 
outstanding. 
As I have explained, I havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks for 
these loans because I didnt consider it necessary to do so. Indeed, Id be inclined to think 
that from loan 5, Mutuals checks really needed to go further than just relying on the 
information Mrs G told it. At this point in the lending relationship, I think Mutual ought to have 
been verifying Mrs Gs income and overall expenditure in order to have an accurate 
understanding of her actual financial position.
I say this because Mrs G had been declaring the same sort of information to Mutual for all of 
her loans. She declared she wasnt working and was in receipt of benefits each week 
(between £136 and £150 per week) which Mutual took as her income. 
Mutual also took details of the partners income (£500 per week) and the household 
expenditure. All of the household expenditure figures were more than Mrs Gs declared 
weekly income. But, its probably reasonable in those circumstances to have believed that 
the partner was contributing towards the household living costs, given he was declared to be 
earning more money per week. 
What I would add, is that while the household expenditure appeared to show these loans 
were affordable, there is no assessment of how much (if any at all) credit commitments Mrs 
Gs partner had and or how much he was contributing each week towards the household 
bills. To me, this shows that Mutuals checks werent proportionate and didnt go far enough. 
So, in addition to assessing the circumstances behind each individual loan provided to 
Mrs G, Mutual also needed to consider the overall pattern of lending and what unfolded 
during the course of its lending relationship with Mrs G. Having looked at the overall pattern 
of Mutuals lending history with Mrs G, I agree with our adjudicator that Mutual should 
reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful, at the 
time it provided loan 5. I say this because;
By loan 5 it was nearly 42 months into the lending relationship with no breaks 
between loans. And the loans generally overlapped, often with up to three loans 
running at the same time. As loans overlapped, Mrs Gs overall indebtedness wasnt 
always increasing, but this was offset by the fact that Mrs G was committed to 
spending up to two years repaying some of the loans. In my view, Mrs Gs loan 
history up until this point was a clear indication that her underlying financial situation 
didnt seem to be improving; 
Mrs G has shown some problems repaying previous loans, for example loans 1  3 
had all run for longer than the contractual terms, to me this indicates that Mrs G was 
likely having financial difficulties and Im not sure how offering loans to be repaid 
loans over a longer period of time was suitable; 
Mrs G took some loans around the same time previous ones were repaid, for 
example, loans 3, 5 and 6. Mutual ought to have realised it was more likely than not 
Mrs G, on these occasions, was having to borrow further to effectively cover a long 
term financial need rather than paying for individual items, To me, this is indicative of 
her indebtedness not being sustainable;
The home collected loans show a broadly similar pattern of borrowing. Mrs G had 
taken five loans of between £300 and £500  with loan 6, being for the largest individual loan granted to be repaid over the joint longest term of two years. I think its 
most likely this consistent pattern of borrowing over the period showed that Mrs G 
didnt just have a short-term cash-flow problem but was probably supporting regular 
living expenses or other financial commitments;
By the point of loan 6, as Mrs G was making a commitment to make repayments to 
Mutual for another two years, after being indebted constantly for 43 months. Further 
pushing her indebtedness out for up to potential 68 months. The amount of time that 
Mrs G spent indebted to Mutual meant that she was servicing a debt to Mutual over 
an extended period.
I think that Mrs G lost out when Mutual provided loans 5 and 6 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Gs indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive credit over an extended period and;
the sheer number of loans and time in debt was likely to have had negative 
implications on Mrs Gs ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
So, overall, Im upholding the complaint about loans 5 and 6 and Ill go on to set out
what Mutual should do to put things right.
Mutual has referred to the 2020 High Court judgement in the case of Kerrigan vs Elevate
Credit International Limited. It has essentially said that the judge in this case said that the
relationship could be fair if there are a lower number of loans per year. For example, under
four loans a year. It said, as it lent a lower amount than this, then this would indicate, on the
same basis as the court case, that it hadnt lent unsustainably.
Firstly, looking at the courts findings at this point in the judgement, the judge was talking
about whether an unfair relationship had developed. This is a different question, with some
different considerations than whether a loan or series of loans, has been lent irresponsibly.
I accept that there can be some overlap between whether a pattern of lending itself shows
that the lending is unsustainable, and a relationship is unfair. But the court in this judgement
was considering issues related to short term high cost credit rather than home collected
credit. I can see Mutual has acknowledged they are different products with different
considerations. And, indeed, has repeatedly been keen to distance its products from those of
short term high cost credit providers. So, this means that the judges conclusions about a
differently structured product shouldnt and cant be directly applied here.
And in any event the number of loans is just one aspect in deciding whether a lending 
pattern is harmful. The loan size, duration of loans, the repayments and other factors need to 
be also looked at, as Ive done here.
So, whilst I have noted Mutuals submissions on this point, it hasnt introduced any
arguments which persuade me to change my opinion about Mrs Gs complaint.  
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Mutual should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might
have happened had it stopped lending to Mrs G from loan 5. Clearly there are several 
possibilities, and all hypothetical answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mrs G may have simply left matters there 
and not tried to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between her and Mutual which she may not have had with others. If this wasnt a viable option, she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that 
was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that,
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct.
 
From what Ive seen in this case, I dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and 
substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Mrs G in a compliant 
way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Mrs G would more likely than not have taken up any one of
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Mutuals liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Mutual shouldnt have given Mrs G loans 5 and 6.
If Mutual has sold the outstanding debts, it should buy these back if it is able to do so and
then take the following steps. If Mutual is not able to buy the debts back, then it should liaise
with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) Mutual should add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs G towards interest,
fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything
it has already refunded.
B) Mutual should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mrs G
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mrs G originally made the
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Mutual should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mrs G as though they had been
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Mrs G having made
overpayments then Mutual should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest*
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the
date the complaint is settled. Mutual should then refund the amounts calculated in A and
B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus
then the surplus should be paid to Mrs G. However, if there is still an outstanding balance
then Mutual should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mrs G. Mutual shouldnt
pursue outstanding balances made up of principal it has already written-off.
E) The overall pattern of Mrs Gs borrowing for loans 5 and 6 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so it should remove these loans entirely from Mrs Gs credit 
file. Mutual does not have to remove loans from Mrs Gs credit file until they have been 
repaid, but Mutual should still remove any adverse information recorded about these loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mutual to deduct tax from this interest. Mutual should
give Mrs G a certificate showing how much tax Mutual has deducted, if she asks for one.
  My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Gs complaint in part.
Mutual Clothing and Supply Company Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman