DRN-3088232
The complaint
  Mrs R complains about AWP P&C SA (AWP) who declined a claim she made under her 
home emergency policy.
What happened
  Mrs R found a leak in her home. At the time her family were self-isolating due to a Covid 
infection, so she stemmed the leak with towels to prevent further damage to her property. 
Once the period of isolation was complete, Mrs R contacted AWP to make a claim. 
AWP told Mrs R that it wouldnt accept her claim as she had failed to report the leak within 
48 hours of its discovery, as per the policy terms and conditions. Mrs R explained to AWP 
about the Covid infection and isolation period that her family had to undergo. And that no 
one wouldve been able to have attended her home. AWP wouldnt change its position and 
Mrs R raised a complaint. 
Mrs R said that AWP didnt provide her with a final response as it told her that it was unable 
to complete its investigations. Mrs R had to instruct an independent engineer to carry out the 
repairs at a cost of £185. So, she referred a complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators investigated her complaint. During the investigation process, she 
contacted AWP for its evidence and didnt receive a response. So considered the complaint 
on the limited evidence she had. 
She upheld Mrs Rs complaint, as her view was that AWP hadnt provided any evidence to 
show that there was a term that specified that Mrs R had to claim within 48 hours. She 
concluded that even if it had done, there were exceptional circumstances that shouldve 
been considered in this case. Consequently, she recommended that AWP reimburse Mrs 
Rs costs.  
AWP didnt accept our investigators view. It said that it had already sent evidence, which it 
wanted to have considered. Despite repeated requests for AWP to send the evidence, none 
was provided. And as AWP failed to respond, it has been sent to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons: 
AWP was asked to provide its evidence, but no response has been received. Mrs R 
has provided a consistent account of the events that happened. In this case, despite 
the lack of response from AWP, I find I can decide on this complaint and I think it fair 
that Mrs R has a resolution to the issues she raised, despite the lack of engagement 
from AWP.
The policy documents that Mrs R sent in, didnt indicate a requirement to report any 
problem (including the leak) within 48 hours. They do however specify that contact 
should be made to AWP first before customers make arrangements of their own. 
Mrs R said that she couldnt make a claim within 48 hours because there was a 
Covid infection in her family. This meant that they were in self-isolation and no 
engineer wouldve been able to attend at that time. So, I do think that given these 
exceptional circumstances, AWP were unreasonable to decline the claim.
Putting things right
 To put matters right, I think AWP should reimburse Mrs R the £185 she paid for the third- 
party engineer. 
 
My final decision
  My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Rs complaint. 
To put matters right, AWP P&C SA ought to reimburse Mrs Rs costs of £185.  
AWP P&C SA must pay the above amount within 28 days of the date on which we
tell it Mrs R accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year
simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman