DRN-2946455
The complaint
Mrs H, who was represented by Mr W and is now represented by Mr M, has complained 
about the way that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) handled a claim under her 
home insurance policy for water damage and that it declined to carry out any more 
investigations under the policy.
What happened
Mr W made a claim to RSA on Mrs Hs behalf in December 2019 after discovering several 
inches of water under her floor.
At first it was thought there was a water leak. RSA instructed a specialist to carry out an 
investigation. However neither RSAs specialist nor the local water company could find any 
evidence of a current leak.
RSA paid for Mr Ws loss assessor to carry out an investigation. They found some damage 
to a storm drain. RSA paid for that to be repaired in May 2020.
Water was still getting into the property and collecting under the floor. Each time the water 
was pumped out, it returned. RSA appointed a drainage expert to find out where the water 
was coming from. They repaired a drain gully but didnt think that had caused the water to 
get into the property.
The local water company confirmed that the water under the floor wasnt tap water. RSAs 
contractor also confirmed that it wasnt tap water or foul/waste water. They thought it might 
be ground water.
RSA arranged for a further water test. That also confirmed that the water under the floor 
wasnt tap water or foul/waste water. The company carrying out the test thought it was either 
rain water or rising ground water. It recommended some further testing.
RSA said that damage caused by rain water getting in or a rise in the water table wasnt 
covered by the policy. It said it appreciated Mr Ws frustration that it hadnt been able to find 
out why the water was getting in but it didnt think it was happening as a result of something 
covered by the policy. It said it wouldnt carry out any further testing although the limit on the 
trace and access cover (which gives cover for finding leaks covered by the policy) hadnt 
been reached as three specialists had investigated the matter and came to the same 
conclusions (that the water ingress hadnt resulted from a leak covered by the policy). 
Mr W brought Mrs Hs complaint to this service. I issued a provisional decision explaining 
why I was minded to uphold it. An extract from my provisional findings is set out below:
For any insurance claim, its a requirement in the first instance for the policyholder to prove 
their claim by showing that theyve suffered a loss due to something covered by their policy. 
For home insurance, that means the policyholder has to show that an insured event 
occurred and that it caused the loss. If the policyholder cant meet this requirement the 
insurer doesnt have to consider the claim.
I havent seen anything which showed there was damage caused by a storm. And no-one 
who inspected the damage found any evidence of a water leak apart from the damage to the 
storm drain which was fixed. So I need to decide whether the evidence shows that the 
damage was caused by a flood.
This services approach to what can and cant constitute a flood is well established. We 
generally take the view that a flood doesnt have to be a sudden and violent event but can 
happen where water enters (or builds up in) a property slowly and steadily - and it doesnt 
necessarily have to be caused by the forces of nature. Its the fact that water has built up 
and caused damage that it is important. 
In this case Mr W says about 4,800 litres of water was pumped out of the property over a ten 
month period. On the information available I think that the build-up of water under Mrs Hs 
floor meets the definition of a flood and that the damage caused could be considered under 
the flood cover provided by the policy. 
The problem is that despite several investigations to date no-one seems to be sure where 
the water under the floor is coming from. In summary these investigations/reviews comprise:
1. RSAs restoration company
They carried out a thermal imaging and moisture survey which found some dampness. 
They checked the external water meter which was static, indicating no leak from the mains 
pipes in the property. They put tracer dye on the ground outside and tested a sample of the 
standing water. Lastly they recommended a CCTV survey on all external underground 
drains.
2. Mr Ws drainage specialist
This firm carried out a CCTV survey but only on rainwater pipes and did some dye testing.
3. RSAs drainage specialist
This firm mainly checked works carried out by Mr Ws specialist. They also tested the 
incoming water supply for leaks.
4. RSAs disaster recovery firm
They tested water samples from the floor void and said the results suggested the water was 
either rising ground water or rainwater.
5. Mrs Hs loss assessor
He believes the test results show foul waste chemicals present in the water under the floor.
Despite the fact that Mrs H has trace and access cover under her policy, it seems to me 
that none of the above involved a full survey of all the pipework and drains in the property 
including foul waste pipes. 
RSA has to settle the claim unless it can show that a policy exclusion applies. So I need to 
consider was whether RSA acted reasonably by declining the claim on the basis the damage 
was caused by rainwater or rising water table levels.
There is no exclusion in the policy for flood damage caused by rainwater. There is an 
exclusion for loss or damage caused by rising water table levels. I recognise its possible 
the flood might be due to a rise in the water table, which is excluded under the terms of the 
cover. But Mr W has provided evidence from the Environment Agency that based on the geological setting it wouldnt expect significant ground water to be present in the location of 
Mrs Hs property. It said the closest records show ground water in excess of 80 feet below 
ground level. Mr W says none of Mrs Hs neighbours are having problems with rising ground 
water which would be expected in a street of similar properties. RSA hasnt provided 
anything to challenge this other than the water tests which only suggested (as opposed to 
showing conclusively) that the water was either rising ground water or rainwater. I find the 
evidence from the Environment Agency more persuasive as its based on a geological 
survey.
So I dont think at this stage RSA has shown the water under Mrs Hs floor is most likely 
ground water. It follows that I dont think it acted fairly in relying on this exclusion to decline 
the claim. I believe the fair outcome to this complaint is for RSA to reconsider the claim 
based on the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. 
To be clear, this is not a requirement on RSA to pay the claim at this stage, but to obtain 
expert evidence to determine whether the cause of the claim is covered by the policy, and 
then respond accordingly. Ultimately if the claim is accepted, then I would expect RSA to 
complete restoration work including the internal damage. If Mr W is still unhappy with RSAs 
decision about the claim, then he could bring a further complaint on Mrs Hs behalf to our 
service. 
Mrs H is a vulnerable lady who has been in care or hospital during most of the time this 
claim has been going on. The brunt of the stress of this claim has been borne by Mr W. 
Unfortunately for him, since hes not RSAs customer, I cant require it to compensate him 
for the way its handled Mrs Hs claim.
RSA made the following points in response:
It didnt agree that the damage had been caused by a flood because it wasnt a one-off 
event but due to persistent accumulation of water that had returned after being pumped 
out. It said on that basis any slow leak that wasnt attended to could be categorised as a 
flood.
Id disregarded data from three sources that showed the water was ground water or rain 
water.
It had proven there wasnt a leak.
It was willing to investigate further whether the water table on the site was at the same 
level as under the floor. If that were the case, it would show that the source of the water 
was probably rising ground water.
It was concerned there might be an issue with gaining access to the property.
In summary Mr W said:
RSA hadnt given proper consideration to the information and findings hed provided.
Mrs H was now living permanently in a care home due to damage in her home. Her 
home was having to be sold. Her family had been made homeless as a result.
Mrs Hs family had been living in terrible conditions for nearly 18 months because of the 
water under the floor boards.
He should be compensated for the way RSA had treated him. In particular he was 
unhappy with the way RSAs claims handler had spoken to him in phone calls.
He was unhappy with the way his complaint had been handled by RSA.
He was unhappy with the way RSA had handled two other claims.
He thought any payments in respect of the kitchen should be made to Mrs Hs family 
whod actually bought the kitchen.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As RSA will be aware, theres no all-purpose list of criteria to be satisfied before water 
coming into a property can be classed as a flood. In this case there are reports of the water 
flowing into the void as opposed to seeping slowly in. There is also a large volume of water. I 
think in these respects it can be distinguished from a slow escape of water which can often 
be detected to limit potential damage.
I havent disregarded the water testing data from three sources. But I dont think it 
conclusively proves that the water under the floor is ground water as opposed to rain water. I 
note Mr Ws drainage specialist did some dye testing on a rainwater pipe at the property. It 
reported that after a short period orange dye and water began to flow into the void below the 
floor in the hallway suggesting there was a problem with the rainwater pipe. I am still not 
persuaded RSA has done enough to show that the water in the void is most likely ground 
water.
I agree that RSA hasnt found a leak. But as mentioned above, there hasnt been a 
comprehensive survey of all the pipework and drains in the property. I remain of the opinion 
that RSA needs to reconsider the claim. If it can show that the water table has risen to the 
level under the floor in the property, then I agree that the source of the water in the void 
would most likely be ground water and because of the exclusion in the policy RSA wouldnt 
be liable for damage caused by it.
Im sorry to hear that Mrs H wont be able to return home. I understand that her property 
hasnt been sold yet. So there shouldnt be a problem obtaining access if RSA acts quickly. 
If it cant obtain access for further investigations, then it doesnt need to do anything further 
with regard to the claim for water under the floor.
Im also sorry to hear about the living conditions in Mrs Hs property and that Mrs Hs family 
now have to find somewhere else to live. In addition both parties seem to accept that Mr W 
had some difficult conversations with RSAs claims handler. But I can only tell a business to 
pay compensation for trouble and upset experienced by their customer not by third parties. 
Due to the nature of Mrs Hs illness, I think it unlikely that she would have been aware of the 
difficult living conditions her relatives were having to put up with while she was being cared 
for elsewhere or frustrating telephone conversations made on her behalf. As a result I dont 
feel I can require RSA to pay compensation for that.
Mr W feels that RSA should have changed the claims handler and that this was contrary to 
good industry practice. Whilst I appreciate his point of view, this was a commercial business 
decision and this service wont generally interfere with those. It was up to RSA as to who it 
wanted to deal with Mrs Hs claim and any related complaints.
 
In July 2020 RSA advised Mr W to make a claim on Mrs Hs behalf for an escape of water 
from a washing machine in the kitchen. He did so reluctantly because he didnt believe this 
had caused the damage in the kitchen. RSA decided to leave this until the first claim had 
been resolved but didnt tell Mr W. It paid £50 compensation for this. This failure to 
communicate did cause some unnecessary inconvenience. But overall I think compensation 
of £50 was appropriate.
RSA also raised the possibility that there might be subsidence damage and another claim 
was made in respect of this. RSA appointed a loss adjuster to investigate and they reported 
that the cracking was due to thermal movement rather than subsidence. I appreciate that this didnt help in respect of the original claim but I think RSA treated Mrs H fairly by investigating 
whether the property was suffering from subsidence.
I understand it was always the case that Mrs Hs property would have to be sold if she went 
into care permanently. I cant hold RSA responsible for the fact that shes reached that point 
since it might have happened regardless of the claim.
Mrs Hs policy is a legal contract between her and RSA. If RSA makes a cash settlement, it 
must account to Mrs H for that. If Mrs Hs family think theyre entitled to any part of the 
settlement, thats a matter between them and Mrs H. 
Putting things right
To put things right I think RSA should reconsider the claim in line with the remaining terms 
and conditions of the policy. 
  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. Provided it is granted access to the property, I require Royal 
& Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to reconsider the claim in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman