DRN-3655863
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about errors and delays when they made a mortgage application to 
Barclays Bank UK PLC.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H applied to Barclays for a mortgage in late 2021. Barclays accepts it made a 
number of errors during the application process and paid £400 compensation. 
Our investigator said given the trouble and upset caused by Barclays errors, compensation 
of £500 would be fair and reasonable. Barclays didnt agree, and so the complaint has come 
to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs H applied for the mortgage in late 2021. The mortgage completed on 31 March 
2022. Mr and Mrs H complain about delays and errors by Barclays, including:
Sending a mortgage decision to Mrs H meant for a third party. Mr and Mrs H were 
worried if their data was secure.
Wrongly recording an overseas birthplace for Mr H. Mr H had to visit his branch three 
times to correct this. This appears to have caused delays in arranging the valuation.
Problems opening a joint account due to a gone away marker in a duplicate record for 
Mrs H. 
Barclays mortgage adviser said Mrs H should start the application in her maiden name, 
as this matched its records, and then change it to her married name. However, Barclays 
failed to update its records to show Mrs Hs married name when she visited her branch 
with identity documents. She had to make a second visit.
Even after Mrs Hs name was updated, Barclays sent a mortgage offer which was 
addressed to Mrs H by her married name but then used her maiden name. Their solicitor 
didnt accept the mortgage offer, which had to be re-issued. 
Barclays took about two-to-three weeks to respond to a question from Mr and Mrs Hs 
solicitor about the stamp duty contribution from the builder. This was despite being told 
Mr and Mrs H were waiting to exchange contracts. 
Putting things right
While Mr and Mrs H say Barclays errors cost them money, they havent explained these 
costs or provided evidence of them. Theres no doubt though these errors did cause Mr and 
Mrs H trouble and inconvenience. They had to visit their branch with identity documents 
several times more than necessary, and say this meant taking time off work. They say they 
had to chase Barclays, even after theyd made Barclays aware of their concerns about 
timing. Barclays errors caused delays and Mr and Mrs H were worried about their sale and 
purchase falling through or that mortgage funds wouldnt be provided for completion. And I 
need to bear in mind that these were a series of errors that affected Mr and Mrs H 
throughout the application process, so they were caused upset and inconvenience over 
several months.
Taking all of this into account, I think compensation of £500 (in total) is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances. Barclays says its already paid £400.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay £500 to Mr 
and Mrs H (less the compensation it has already paid). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman