DRN-3168290
The complaint
Mrs T complains that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) have charged her for 
incorrect excess mileage usage, under a hire purchase agreement. 
What happened
In March 2012, Mrs T acquired a new car from a dealership (who Ill refer to as C) under a 
hire purchase agreement (agreement one). This agreement required Mrs T to pay £300 each 
month and had an annual mileage allowance of 12,000.
In March 2015, Mrs T says that she was contacted by C and persuaded to part-exchange 
her car and enter into a new agreement for a new car. This agreement (agreement two) 
required her to pay £329.78 each month and had a mileage allowance of 10,000. Mrs T says 
the reduction in mileage was discussed with her at the time, and C had based it on her 
mileage during agreement one. 
Mrs T found the new car totally unsuitable. Shed recently had a baby and found it extremely 
difficult to fit a car seat into the car. If that was achieved, she said it wasnt possible for 
anyone to sit comfortably in the front passenger seat. The car was also costing more in fuel 
and road tax. 
This complaint doesnt relate to agreements one or two, but Ive included the details of both 
as relevant context for the issues raised in Mrs Ts complaint, which are about a further hire 
purchase agreement, also with BMWFS.
As Mrs T wasnt happy with the car and it wasnt practical, she spoke to C. In February 2016 
they agreed to replace Mrs Ts car with something more suitable. The new hire purchase 
agreement (agreement three) required Mrs T to pay £378.23 each month and had an annual 
mileage allowance of 8,000.
In May 2019 Mrs T exercised her right to voluntary terminate the agreement early. As she 
hadnt paid back at least £14,772.47, she paid the shortfall and handed the car back. But, 
after Mrs T had handed the car back, BMWFS charged her a further £908.03 for exceeding 
the mileage allowance on the agreement. They also charged her a further £306 for damage 
that exceeded fair wear and tear. 
Mrs T paid the additional charges but complained to BMWFS about the excess mileage 
charge. She said C had agreed to take back the car acquired in agreement two as it was 
unsuitable, but C had told her that agreement three had been set up under the same terms 
as agreement two, albeit with a higher monthly repayment. She said she only became aware 
that the mileage allowance had been set to 8,000 when the excess mileage charge was 
requested from her. 
BMWFS responded to Mrs Ts complaint and didnt uphold it. They said she had signed the 
agreement confirming the mileage allowance, which they were satisfied confirmed she was 
aware of it. 
Mrs T brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator was satisfied that agreement 
three had been mis-represented to Mrs T at the time it was set up. Mrs T had evidence from 
her car insurer that she had asked for 10,000 miles at the time she incepted her insurance 
policy. Our investigator was persuaded that this, and her testimony about the conversation 
with C when agreement three was set up, showed that Mrs T was more than likely told 
agreement three was set up with the same terms as the previous agreement. However, our 
investigator said that she didnt think Mrs T had lost out financially. She said that, if the 
agreement had allowed an annual mileage of 10,000, Mrs T would more than likely have still 
entered it and could have expected to pay more each month in repayments.
Our investigator also said that, even if the mileage allowance had been set at 10,000, Mrs T 
would still have received an excess mileage charge due to her mileage at the time of 
voluntary termination. She asked BMWFS to compensate Mrs T £150 for receiving a higher 
excess mileage invoice than she was anticipating.  
Mrs T didnt accept this. She said that, had she been told at the start of agreement three that 
her mileage had been reduced to 8,000 she wouldnt have entered it. Similarly, she said she 
couldnt have afforded a higher repayment, so had she been aware that the repayments 
would have been higher for an allowance of 10,000 miles, she wouldnt have taken the 
agreement. She told our investigator that she only accepted agreement three because she 
was told the terms were the same as the previous one. 
BMWFS also didnt accept. They maintained that Mrs T had signed the agreement, therefore 
agreeing to the terms of it, including the mileage allowance. They didnt feel they should pay 
any compensation as the excess mileage invoice had been issued correctly. 
As neither side agreed, it was passed to me. I issued my provisional decision on 18 October 
2021. It said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 has the effect of holding BMWFS responsible 
for any antecedent negotiations between Mrs T and C, who acted as BMWFS agent when 
setting up the hire purchase agreement. What this means is that anything C said or did when 
arranging the hire purchase agreement, I can consider against BMWFS.
Where there is conflicting or missing evidence, such as in this case, I have to make my 
decision based on the balance of probabilities. Or in other words, what I think is most likely 
to have happened. And, in this case, I do think Mrs T was mis-advised when agreement 
three was set up. Ill explain why. 
The only reason Mrs T needed to enter into agreement three was because the car acquired 
in agreement two, allegedly at the insistence of C, wasnt suitable for her or her familys 
needs. Im satisfied C accepted this as they agreed to replace the car one year into 
agreement two with nothing for Mrs T to pay.
When Mrs T agreed to agreement two, there was a conversation between her and C about 
the mileage allowance, and it was reduced to 10,000 as a result of that conversation. This 
had been based on Mrs Ts use of the car acquired under agreement one. Mrs T has told our 
service that no conversation about reducing the mileage to 8,000 on agreement three took 
place  shes very clear that she was told the agreement would be based on the same terms 
as agreement two, as the car was only being changed due to its unsuitability. BMWFS 
havent been able to provide any evidence to show why the mileage was reduced. So, Im 
more persuaded by Mrs Ts testimony in this regard.I also have to bear in mind that Mrs T insured the car to allow her to cover 10,000 miles each 
year in it. Whilst I accept that there could be different reasons for that, for example, it may 
have been cheaper for her insurance to do so, I think its more likely that she insured the car 
based on how many miles she expected to cover  and its a direct correlation to what she 
believed her hire purchase agreement covered her for. So, in the absence of any evidence 
to the contrary, Im satisfied Mrs T believed the hire purchase agreement covered her for 
10,000 miles each year. 
I accept BMWFS point that Mrs T has signed the agreement and therefore accepted the 
terms contained in it. Mrs T accepts that she signed the agreement too. But, in this case, I 
think its reasonable to believe Mrs T signed the agreement without checking all the details 
contained in it. This was the third agreement shes entered into with BMWFS, and as Ive 
mentioned before, this agreement was only needed due to the previous unsuitability of the 
car in agreement two  there isnt any evidence that there had been a conversation about 
changing any of the terms, other than the increased monthly repayments  so I dont think 
its unreasonable to believe agreement three was signed on the premise the mileage 
allowance would be unchanged. 
BMWFS have said that, had the agreement been arranged with a mileage allowance of 
10,000, Mrs Ts monthly payments would have been higher. This is more than likely true, but 
BMWFS cant show what that increase would be. And even if they could, Im persuaded that 
Mrs T wouldnt have entered into agreement three if a discussion around increased monthly 
payments for 10,000 miles had taken place. Shes made it clear a higher monthly payment 
wouldnt have been achievable. Im more persuaded Mrs T would have entered into a new 
agreement elsewhere at the mileage she required, at a monthly repayment she could afford. 
I cant say what car Mrs T would have got, and it may well have had to have been a different 
make or model of car. But Im satisfied its likely she would have been able to acquire a car 
that was suitable to her with the correct mileage allowance at a similar price to what she was 
being asked to pay for agreement three. 
Having said all the above, I do think Mrs T is liable for some excess mileage charges. Even if 
I accept she believed her mileage allowance to be 10,000 per year, at the time she voluntary 
terminated the agreement early, shed covered 39,373 miles in the car. This is 6,873 more 
miles than allowed at the time of voluntary termination, based on the increased allowance. In 
this case, I think the fairest decision to make is for BMWFS to charge Mrs T for the excess 
mileage based on the terms in agreement three  6.79 pence per mile  but with a 10,000-
mileage allowance as opposed to 8,000. BMWFS have calculated this amount to be 
£466.68. As Mrs T has already paid the excess mileage charge of £908.03, I think its 
reasonable for BMWFS to refund her the difference. 
Our investigator awarded compensation of £150. I wont be asking BMWFS to pay that as I 
think an excess mileage charge would have been payable by Mrs T once the agreement had 
been voluntary terminated, even if 10,000 miles had been allowed. Im satisfied BMWFS 
have processed the voluntary termination correctly and notified Mrs T of the charge as Id 
expect, so I dont think compensation is the right thing here.
Mrs T responded, accepting my provisional decision. BMWFS didnt respond to it. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of any additional information from either side, I see no reason to depart from 
my provisional decision. BMWFS must now refund Mrs T the difference in the excess 
mileage charge as explained in my provisional decision above.   
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited must:
Reduce Mrs Ts excess mileage charge to £466.68 and refund any overpayment 
shes made;
Add 8% simple interest to the amount refunded, from the date Mrs T paid the excess 
mileage invoice, to the date of settlement. *
*If BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited considers that theyre required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, they should tell Mrs T how much theyve 
taken off. They should also give Mrs T a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman