DRN-1321062
Complaint
Mr B has complained about the overdraft charges HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) applied to 
his current account. Hes said at the time his income was made up solely from benefits and 
the charges added caused him financial hardship.
Background
Mr B complained to HSBC in July 2019. HSBC didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. Mr B was 
dissatisfied at this response and asked us to look at his case.
Mr B initially complained about a joint account as well as his sole one. But weve told him 
what he needs to do to take matters further on the complaint about his joint account and this 
complaint is only looking at the interest, fees and charges added to Mr Bs sole account.
Mr Bs complaint was looked at by one of our investigators. She didnt think HSBC had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr B unfairly. So she didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr B disagreed with the investigator and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs
complaint. Ill explain why Ive done so in a little more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
various amounts HSBC charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or proportionate in 
comparison to the costs of the service provided. Ultimately how much a bank charges for 
services is a commercial decision. And it isnt something for me to get involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at HSBCs charging structure per se, it wont have acted 
fairly and reasonably towards Mr B if it applied these interest, fees and charges to Mr Bs 
account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been
aware Mr B was experiencing financial difficulty. So Ive considered whether there were
instances where HSBC didnt treat Mr B fairly and reasonably. In other words, Ive 
considered whether there were periods where HSBC continued charging Mr B even though it 
knew he was in financial difficulty or it ought to have realised this was the case. 
I think its important for me to start by saying that HSBC has already refunded a significant 
proportion of the interest, fees and charges added as a result of Mr B getting in touch. So it 
seems to me that HSBC did treat Mr B fairly when it was notified of his financial difficulty and 
gave him breathing space. But as Mr B appears unhappy that he hasnt had a full refund, 
Ive also considered whether HSBC should refund any of the other interest, fees or charges 
that it added to Mr Bs overdraft. Mr B says his income was made up from benefits and this 
means he shouldnt have been charged. Although Mr B hasnt elaborated on why he 
believes this is the case, Ive nevertheless thought about what hes said. 
Im not aware of any regulatory or legal prohibition on lending to customers on benefits. 
Indeed, policy failing to take into account the particular circumstances of a prospective 
borrower and instead automatically declining an application on the basis of their income 
being made up of benefits could well be arbitrary and discriminatory. And such a policy is 
unlikely to be fair or reasonable. As a lender can lend to a customer on benefits it follows it 
can charge for any facility providing its affordable and doesnt cause financial difficulty. 
So Im satisfied that Mr Bs income being made up of benefits in itself doesnt mean that it 
was unfair to charge him or that he should get a full refund here. Although I do accept that 
affordability may have been one of the reasons why HSBC didnt increase Mr Bs overdraft. 
Ive also looked through Mr Bs statements throughout the period concerned. And I cant see 
that HSBC ought to have been aware that Mr B might have been struggling during the period 
he hasnt been refunded interest, fees and charges for either. Mr B may argue these charges  
in itself was an indication that he was struggling. 
But its fair to say Mr Bs account balance was mostly in credit. And while Im not seeking to 
make retrospective value judgements over Mr B expenditure, nonetheless there are non-
committed, non-contractual and discretionary transactions. Equally the amount being 
credited to Mr Bs account each month didnt indicate that there was no reasonable prospect 
of him seeing a credit balance at any stage either.
I accept neither of these things in themselves (or taken together) mean that Mr B wasnt 
experiencing financial difficulty. But there isnt anything in these transactions in themselves 
which ought to have alerted HSBC to potential financial difficulty. So, in these circumstances 
and in the absence of being told anything by Mr B, I dont think that it was unreasonable for 
HSBC to proceed with the interest, fees and charges it didnt refund. And I dont think HSBC 
unfairly charged Mr B in circumstances where it ought to have realised that he may have 
been experiencing financial difficulty.
As this is the case, I dont think that it needs to refund any of the other interest, fees and 
charges and Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint. I appreciate that this will be very 
disappointing for Mr B. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell 
at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman