DRN-2943810
The complaint
 Mr R complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) failed to 
compensate him properly following the rejection of a faulty car.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
MBFS has accepted that the car was faulty and has agreed to rejection. For the avoidance 
of doubt, I would add that I fully agree. It is clear there were a multitude of problems with the 
car which was brand new and these issues have caused Mr R both distress and 
inconvenience.
The only matter left for me to decide is the level of redress due to Mr R. Our investigator has 
revised her original recommendation and has set out clearly why she has reached the 
conclusion set out in her view letter. I fully agree. 
The aim of service is to put consumers back in the position they would have been had the 
problem not arisen. That means that the deposit he paid should be refunded in full. If he had 
not acquired the faulty car he would not have paid that deposit and so it should be returned 
to him.
I note rejection was offered in January 2021, but as the amount offered was under dispute 
the car wasnt returned. I do not think it unreasonable for Mr R to have retained the car, even 
though he wasnt using it, until an acceptable offer was made. Since the car wasnt usable 
from January 2021 I do not see why Mr R should be expected to pay the monthly 
instalments so I consider these should be returned.
On the ancillary matters Mr R has incurred unexpected costs both for fuel and for cancelling 
his insurance policy. These arose due to the car being faulty and so he is entitled to 
compensation for those costs.
I agree that he is also entitled to compensation as suggested previously of 10% of six 
monthly payments plus £150. Mr R was entitled to expect trouble free motoring from his new 
car and not to have it spend a substantial amount of time with the dealer. It is clear he has 
suffered a significant amount of distress and inconvenience for which he is entitled 
compensation. 
Putting things right
 MBFS should compensate Mr R as set out below. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited to:
collect the car at no cost to Mr R, and accept rejection of it by terminating the 
agreement with nothing further to pay;
refund all payments made since 19 January 2021, after rejection of the vehicle was 
agreed*;
reimburse Mr R for any cancellation costs he may incur following the cancellation of 
his motor insurance policy (provided adequate evidence of this is provided) *;
reimburse Mr R £431.09, the difference in cost for running the courtesy diesel car in 
comparison to the electric car*;
repay Mr Rs full deposit*;
refund 10% of 6 monthly payments totaling £157.90*; and
pay Mr R £150 compensation.
*8% annual simple interest should be calculated on these amounts, from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman