DRN-4119248
The complaint
Mrs Z complains that Wise Payments Limited (Wise) wont refund the money she lost when 
she was the victim of an investment scam. 
What happened
In August 2022, Mrs Z came across a business advertised on the internet through which she 
was looking to invest. She says she filled in some details online, including her phone 
number, and was then called by someone claiming to be a representative of that business  
and that they were able to transfer money from accounts, which she held with two separate 
banks, to her Wise account. That money was then sent from Wise to a payment processing 
platform (Simplex) for the purchase of cryptocurrency and to a third-party bank account. The 
payments Ive considered as part of this complaint are as follows:
Date Payee Amount Payment Method
1 24-Aug-22 Elastum-Simplex £995 Successful  Card Transaction
2 24-Aug-22 Paybis-Simplex £1,000 Successful  Card Transaction
3 24-Aug-22 Elastum-Simplex £3,000 Unsuccessful  Card Transaction
4 24-Aug-22 Third-party bank a/c £3,000 Successful  Transfer
When Mrs Z realised what had happened, she contacted Wise, on 24 August 2022, 
requesting a stop on payment 4. I understand shes already been compensated for the loss 
of payments 1 and 2 by the bank from which those funds originated. A formal complaint was 
later raised with Wise in September 2022 and referred to our Service. 
Our Investigator reviewed Mrs Zs complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In summary, 
she concluded that, on balance, the payments were likely made with Mrs Zs knowledge or 
consent; she didnt find the payments were unusual enough for Wise to have intervened; and 
none of the payments could have been recovered by the time Mrs Z had reported the scam. 
She also found Wises offer of £150 for delays in responding to Mrs Zs complaint to be fair 
in the circumstances. Mrs Z disagreed, so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the Investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons.
Its common ground that Mrs Z was the victim of a scam and Im sorry to hear about the 
money shes lost. I realise that the whole experience has been upsetting for her. I can also 
understand her reasons for wanting to highlight that some of her funds were returned to her 
by one of the banks from which they originated. But that doesnt necessarily mean I can 
fairly conclude that Wise must do the same here. Its also important to note that Wise is an 
electronic money institute (EMI). Its not a bank and isnt subject to the same expectations, 
set out in guidance and regulations, as a bank when it comes to fraud prevention.
Were the payments authorised?
The starting position is that, in general, a payment provider is expected to process payments 
that a customer authorises it to make, in line with the account terms and conditions  and a 
customer is responsible for those transactions. I recognise Mrs Z didnt intend to send her 
money to a scammer and I note she disputes that she authorised any of the payments. 
At the same time, however, theres no suggestion that the scammer was able to compromise 
Mrs Zs security details and no plausible explanation has been given as to how they would 
have otherwise been able to make the payments without her knowledge. Although Mrs Z has 
said she gave the scammer access to her computer, shes also told us this was for a short 
time and very limited to just checking their own website. In addition, the evidence shows 
Mrs Z twice emailed Wise about a failed card payment of £3,000 (payment 3) shortly before 
the successful transfer, also for £3,000, was made. One of the emails read: Hello Ive made 
transaction on Simplex. It was declined however I was charged. I note Mrs Z says she didnt 
send the emails. But Im satisfied they came from her account. In the circumstances, Im not 
persuaded she was unaware of the payments and, on balance, I agree with the Investigator 
that its likely Mrs Z authorised them. Under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 and the 
terms of the account, shes therefore presumed liable for her losses in the first instance.
Should Wise have intervened?
Wise is generally expected to follow the instructions given by its customers in order for 
legitimate payments to be made as instructed. However, Ive considered whether Wise 
should have done more to prevent Mrs Z from falling victim to the scam, as there are some 
situations in which an EMI should reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances 
surrounding a particular transaction  for example, if it was particularly out of character.
Ive looked at Mrs Zs account history and thought carefully about her comments that her 
Wise account had only ever been used for making international payments. I hope itll help 
her to know that Ive seen this was certainly the case in the months preceding the scam. But, 
even so, I dont think that the transactions were so unusual or suspicious at the time, to the 
extent I can fairly conclude that Wise should have intervened. The amounts of money that 
were sent didnt suggest a heightened risk of fraud. The fact that one of the payments was, 
for the first time, made to a domestic payee isnt enough for me to say that Wise should have 
stepped in  and I cant see that it should have reasonably known anything about that payee 
that would have alerted it to the possibility of Mrs Z being scammed. With this in mind, Im 
not persuaded that Wise did something wrong by allowing the payments or that it missed an 
opportunity to prevent the scam.
Should Wise have done more to recover the money?
As noted above, the first two payments were card transactions to a payment gateway and 
used to purchase cryptocurrency. There was very little Wise could have done to recover 
those funds. In the event, Im pleased Mrs Z has been compensated for those losses. In 
respect of the last transfer to a third-party account, Mrs Z first reported that scam to Wise on 
24 August 2022 at 11.57pm. Once notified, Wise should have contacted the receiving bank 
promptly to try to recover the funds  and it seems that didnt happen until December 2022. I 
agree with Mrs Z that Wise should have acted more quickly to attempt a recall. But Ive also 
seen confidential information that shows that the money credited to the third-party account was removed on the same day. That means its very unlikely that those funds could have 
been recovered in any event, even if Wise had acted much sooner than it did. 
Complaint handling
In its submissions to our Service, Wise said it wanted to compensate Mrs Z for its delays in 
sending a final response to her complaint. Its offer of £150 was put forward to Mrs Z by our 
Investigator. Complaint handling isnt a regulated activity, so I cant comment on any offer 
relating to it. But its open to Mrs Z to contact Wise directly if she now wishes to accept it.
My final decision
I realise that this will come as a disappointment to Mrs Z. But for the reasons given, I do not 
uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2023.
 
Thomas Cardia
Ombudsman