DRN-4044632
The complaint
Miss K complains that the finance agreement that she took out with Blue Motor Finance Ltd 
(BMF) was unaffordable
What happened
In November 2019 Miss K entered into a hire purchase agreement with BMF. Under the 
agreement BMF supplied Miss K with finance and a car. Miss K borrowed £11,770.72, the 
term of hire purchase agreement was 60 months, and the monthly payments were £286.91.
Miss K indicates that BMF did not do sufficient checks to find out if she could afford the 
finance. Specifically she says she was not asked to supply any information about her income 
and expenditure. Moreover, she adds that I had a lot of existing credit with high levels of 
borrowing which included defaults, late payments, missed payments and payment plans set 
up for previous debt. This should have warned them that I was struggling with my finances. 
Moreover Miss K is upset because BMF cited her pregnancy as one of the reasons why she 
may now be struggling with her finances when she was not before. Further, Miss K blames 
the knock-on effect of worrying about paying back the finance for her subsequent mental 
health problems and for the breakdown of her relationship with a close family member which 
led to becoming temporarily homeless. Furthermore, she considers that BMF is deliberately 
targeting its products at vulnerable consumers. 
Miss K first complained to BMF about the lending being unaffordable in March 2022. 
Ultimately because Miss K missed repayments the agreement was voluntarily terminated 
and she handed back the car to BMF, leaving Miss K with a debt to pay off and no car. Miss 
K contends all of this only happened because the lending was unaffordable from the start, 
and therefore BMF should never have lent to her.
To put things right Miss K wants BMF to refund all the interest and charges she paid it and 
add interest to this refund. She also wants it to ask the credit reference agencies to remove 
any adverse information it has asked them to register on her credit file about the finance 
agreement. Further, Miss K wants BMF to close her account with nothing further owed by 
her. In addition, Miss K wants to be compensated by BMF for the impact she says the 
finance has had on her mental health. Miss K also wants BMF to change its marketing 
strategy. Miss K complained to BMF.
BMF responded to say why it approved the finance. Specifically it outlined the procedures it 
went through to come to the decision to lend to her. It said it used information from a third 
party credit reference agency to check her creditworthiness. BMF applied an affordability 
score and a series of policy rules that are intended to highlight signs of current financial 
stress. These include reviewing credit card debt and utilisation, the total number of accounts, 
unsecured debt to income ratio, number of recent searches and applications for credit. BMF 
indicates its experience shows these parameters are strong indicators of whether an 
applicant for credit is already over indebted. It will also refer the application for further 
investigation, if necessary, and overall will review affordability carefully.
BMF also pointed out that as part of the application process Miss K had specifically 
represented in writing to it that she could afford the finance. And if she couldnt afford the 
finance then she couldve declined to go ahead.
Further, BMF position is that after Miss K applied for the finance she then had a change in 
circumstances, and this led to her no longer being able to make her repayments. BMF also 
added the fact you fell pregnant seemed to also have affected your ability to make payment, 
this was an upcoming change in your circumstance which we were not made [aware] of. 
In addition, in response to Miss Ks comment about it targeting vulnerable consumers it said, 
I can see you mentioned in your complaint about our company targeting those who are 
vulnerable, I would like to confirm that Blue does no direct marketing, all our finance 
applications come from car dealerships after a vehicle has been chosen.
For all of these reasons BMF did not agree it had done anything wrong. But due to what it 
called her current circumstances and it seems as a gesture of goodwill only, it was willing 
to write off the interest that you paid on the account. It also offered to help Miss K set up a 
repayment plan.
Dissatisfied with BMFs response Miss K complained to our service.
One of our investigators looked into Miss Ks complaint, he did not recommend it should be 
upheld.
As far as I am aware this service has received no response from BMF to our investigators 
recommendation, but Miss K rejected it and asked that an ombudsman take a fresh look at 
her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. Rather, Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Scope of this complaint
Miss K has complained in this complaint only about whether the loan was affordable at the 
time she applied for it. That is therefore the matter I have looked at in this complaint. Ive not 
looked at whether BMF treated Miss K appropriately when she might have been 
experiencing financial difficulties after she took out the finance.
Vulnerable consumer
Miss K indicates she is now a vulnerable consumer by reason of her mental health and that 
earlier in time she was also a vulnerable consumer by reason of her living situation. A 
vulnerable consumer is someone who, due to their personal circumstances, is especially 
susceptible to harm, particularly when a firm is not acting with appropriate levels of care. 
Financial businesses should ensure when they are dealing with a vulnerable consumer, that 
they follow the relevant published guidance from the regulator the Financial Conduct 
Authority about the fair treatment of vulnerable consumers.
However, from what she has told us Miss K was not a vulnerable consumer by reason of her 
mental health and living situation at the time she applied for the finance which is the relevant 
time for the purposes of this complaint. Therefore, I would not have expected BMF to have 
applied the guidance at the time Miss K applied for the finance. Why I dont think that BMF did everything it is required to do before it lent to Miss K
I take account of relevant law and regulation, regulators rules, guidance and standards, 
codes of practice, and what we consider to be good industry practice at the time when I 
decide what is fair and reasonable. If I come to the conclusion that BMF didnt act fairly and 
reasonably in its dealings with Miss K and that she has lost out as a result, Ill go on to 
consider what is a fair way to put things right. 
Where there is a dispute as to the facts or where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or 
contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in 
other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances.
When BMF lent to Miss K it was a regulated business providing regulated consumer credit 
lending. That meant it had certain obligations to fulfil before it lent to her. Under the relevant 
regulations at that time, BMF was obliged to make sure that its lending was affordable and 
responsible. In particular, it was required to carry out checks that were proportionate in the 
circumstances, which might include considerations about the amount borrowed and Miss Ks 
borrowing history. 
That said, exactly what a lender should consider was for each lender to decide, however, the 
rules listed a number of factors which a lender such as BMF might have wished to take into 
account. Ive borne those factors in mind when looking at this complaint.
Further, BMF had to be able to demonstrate that it did enough to ensure that Miss K could 
repay the borrowing in a sustainable manner without it adversely impacting on her financial 
situation. I think there are some overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. These questions are: 
 Did BMF complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss K would 
be able to repay the finance in a sustainable way? If so, did it make a fair lending decision? 
 If not, would those checks have shown that Miss K wouldve been able to repay the finance 
in a sustainable way? 
 Did BMF act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way? 
As I set out above, the regulatory framework required BMF to have carried out a 
proportionate assessment, based on sufficient information, of whether Miss K could afford to 
repay the loan with it in a sustainable manner. This affordability assessment needed to have 
sufficient checks to satisfy it that Miss K would be able to repay the finance sustainably, 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on Miss Ks financial situation.
As I also mention above BMF told us about the checks it carried out. BMF indicated that, 
amongst other things, it had requested and reviewed information about Miss K from a credit 
references agency, it looked at how her pre-existing debt had been managed by her and 
also it took into account debt to income ratios based on the data it gathered.  It looked at her 
credit card debt and utilisation. And it analysed her recent applications and searches for 
credit. Although the only information we have from BMF is information about what other 
accounts Miss K had at the time she applied for the credit with BMF. Therefore I cannot see 
for myself what further checks BMF carried out in this instance, and what these showed.
Further, Miss K tells us she was not asked to provide information about her income and 
expenditure. However, BMF has sent us a partial bank statement for the month before the 
finance was agreed, we only have one page of this statement. This suggests BMF did ask 
Miss K to provide something about the money she had coming in and going out. Though 
BMF only had one page of a bank statement, and this did not cover the whole period so 
would not have given a full picture of her financial circumstances.  
BMF mentions Miss K told it she could afford the borrowing. Ive seen the evidence it relies 
on to say this and I am satisfied she did say this. But that gets BMF no further, just because a borrower tells it that it that she can afford to borrow does not mean BMFs regulatory 
obligations are met. BMF also mentions that if Miss K could not afford to borrow from it she 
could have walked away. Thats correct, but again that does not mean that BMF can rely on 
this if I find it did not do what it should have done before it lent to Miss K.
Miss K was borrowing thousands of pound to be repaid over a relatively long period of time 
in the circumstances I might have expected the checks BMF carried out to be more 
thorough. In the circumstances, it is hard to see how it was able to satisfy itself of Miss Ks 
creditworthiness and her ability to repay any new borrowing in a sustainable manner without 
adverse impact on her financial situation given the information it had. It follows that I find that 
BMF did not carry out reasonable and proportionate checks.
Why its not fair or reasonable to find that the lending was unaffordable
That said, in order to uphold this complaint I also have to be satisfied that if BMF had carried 
out reasonable and proportionate checks more likely than not these would have shown that 
Miss K could not afford the borrowing. Here there is a difficulty for Miss K because it order to 
assess this I need information about her actual financial situation at the time and therefore 
we asked her to provide her bank statements. Miss K has told us she is unable to supply 
these, although it is not clear if she has approached the bank she banked with at the time to 
ask it for this information. Given the circumstances I think if asked the bank would most likely 
have been able to supply these statements.  Miss K has given us some detail about what her 
outgoings likely were. However, in the circumstances these approximations do not go far 
enough particularly given this is key information which could most likely have been obtained.
Miss K has provided information from HMRC which has allowed me to estimate her monthly 
income in the months leading up to taking out the finance. But what I cant establish on 
balance is what her outgoings were and what level of disposable income Miss K had and if 
this was sufficient to allow her to make the repayments in a sustainable manner. In addition, 
if the borrowing was unaffordable I might have expected Miss Ks payment history to 
demonstrate this, but it does not. It follows I cant be satisfied in these circumstances that if 
BMF had carried out reasonable and proportionate checks more likely than not these would 
have shown that Miss K could not afford the borrowing.
Therefore for the reasons set out above Ive no proper basis to find that on balance the 
lending was unaffordable.
Why I cant make an award for distress and inconvenience
I regret to hear about Miss Ks current health issues which she attributes, in part, to BMFs 
decision to lend to her. I also regret to hear about the breakdown of her relationship with a 
close family member which led to her losing her home. Again Miss K indicates this happened 
partly because of BMFs lending. I appreciate that things are very tough for her at the 
moment, to say the least.  But as I find that BMF did not act improperly in lending to her. It 
follows Ive no proper basis to say it must compensate her for the consequences she says 
flow from that decision.
I can well understand why Miss K may have found it strange and inaccurate that BMF 
mentioned her pregnancy when responding to her complaint, given she tells us she was not 
pregnant at the time she made the application. But I think what BMF may have been trying to 
say is that she may have had a change of circumstances after she took at the finance which 
led her to experience financial difficulty. But if so this is a separate matter from the issue I 
am dealing with in this complaint. 
Matters for the regulator
BMF is entitled to set its own corporate strategy including deciding which market sector it 
wishes to appeal to with its marketing. Miss Ks view is BMF set out to appeal to vulnerable 
consumers. BMF strongly denies Miss Ks claim. Nonetheless, I merely note that vulnerable 
consumers may need financial products just as much as the wider general population and should not be excluded simply due to their vulnerability from accessing such products. That 
said Miss K seems to imply that BMF is offering its products to vulnerable consumers with 
the aim of causing them detriment and wants this to stop. Although she has provided no 
evidence to substantiate this claim. 
However, whilst I have noted Miss Ks comments and BMFs strong denial, this service is not 
BMFs regulator, and we have no power to investigate nor stop any such practice and I make 
no finding about this point. 
Although Ill mention as a general point that should we become aware of systemic attempts 
by any financial business to cause harm to consumers we would report this to the regulator.
I mentioned above that BMF has made a gesture of goodwill, if Miss K wants to accept this 
she must contact BMF directly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 May 2023.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman