DRN-1920862
 
The complaint
Mr J complains that he has been unable to make payments to his credit card account with 
American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) as he failed security identification. 
What happened
Mr J has a credit card with Amex and received a notification of a late payment. Mr J tried to 
contact Amex to discuss his account but was told he failed the security questions and as a 
result they couldnt discuss the account details with him. Mr J says that he had originally set 
up a direct debit to his Amex credit card and payments havent been collected. As a result of 
him not being able to discuss his account with Amex his account is now in arrears and this 
has been reported to credit reference agencies. Mr J also says that Amex tried to contact 
him via his parents and at his barracks when they shouldnt have.
Amex says that a direct debit wasnt set up when the account was opened. Amex say Mr J 
failed security questions when he attempted to discuss his account details as these differed 
to the details provided when he opened the account online. Amex say that Mr J could have 
made a payment using his bank account debit card as he had previously. Amex dont feel 
they have done anything wrong here and they have only tried contacting Mr J on the 
telephone numbers he provided when he opened the account. 
Mr J wasnt happy with Amex response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the information available but pointed out that part of Mr Js 
complaint had been dealt with in a final response letter by Amex which falls outside our 
jurisdiction as it more than six months old. As a result, the investigator only looked at the part 
of Mr Js complaint concerning him being unable to make payments to his Amex credit card 
account as he had failed security questions that Mr J believed wasnt his fault. 
The investigator didnt uphold this part of the complaint as he said Mr Js contact  information 
and date of birth was provided by Mr J when he initially opened his account and while this  
doesnt match the details Mr J has since provided, that was not the fault of Amex. 
Mr J was unhappy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
I can see that the investigator has advised Mr J part of his complaint falls outside of our 
jurisdiction  under the DISP rules we operate as his complaint exceeds the 6-month period 
in which Mr J has to lodge his complaint letter to this service- being  from the date of Amexs 
final response letter. 
DISP rule 2.8 say that ;
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service:
(1) more than six months after the date on which the respondent sent the complainant its 
final response,  redress determination or summary resolution communication.
In this case Amex dealt with Mr Js complaint about his account security questions, direct 
debit payments and contact telephone numbers in their final response letter in December 
2017. 
As a result, I will only look at the part of the complaint acknowledged by Amex in their final 
response letter in November 2019  namely Mr Js more recent problems in accessing his 
account following failed security questions.
When considering this part of the complaint I have  considered if Amex acted unfairly saying 
that Mr J was at fault when he failed his account security questions, and this was a result of 
information he had provided them when he originally opened the credit card account. 
Mr J says that Amex didnt allow him to discuss his account details because he failed 
security questions when he telephoned them about his account. This is important and is 
central to Mr Js complaint as this is why Mr J says he didnt make payments to his credit 
card account. From the information I have seen when Mr J opened his account with Amex, 
he provided his date of birth details and the telephone numbers where he could be 
contacted. I have seen evidence of the screen shots provided by Amex that confirm that Mr 
Js date of birth and mobile telephone numbers do not correspond to those he has since 
provided to this service and to them. 
I am satisfied that the date of birth information and mobile number were input online by Mr J 
when he opened the account as no one else would have been able to do this. It could be 
that Mr J has since change mobile numbers but for whatever reason I am satisfied both 
these errors are not of Amex making. It follows they were correct in telling Mr J that he had 
failed security questions and when subsequently failed to contact him on the telephone 
numbers they held on record for him, they had acted fairly  after all these were the contact 
details provided by Mr J.
 
Much of this complaint and the resulting issues created  was dealt with by Amex in their final 
response letter in December 2017 and as explained before to Mr J this is unfortunately 
outside our jurisdiction. 
I am satisfied that Mr J, when initially opening his account online, gave incorrect contact 
details and date of birth information that led to problems discussing this with Amex. I am 
pleased to see these details have now been recorded by Amex but the problems resulting 
because of this are not of Amex doing and it follows I wont be asking anymore of them here. 
I know that Mr J will be disappointed with my decision, but I wont be asking anymore of 
Amex here.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaintUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2020.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman