DRN-3053258
The complaint
Ms M is unhappy with the way Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead) have dealt with her
claim under her landlords property insurance following an escape of water. 
What happened
Ms M took out landlord buildings insurance with Fairmead. The policy covered damage
caused by escape of water and included home emergency cover.
On 23 August 2020 Ms M was notified by one of her tenants that there was water leaking
through the living room ceiling from the bathroom above. She immediately reported the
incident under the home emergency section of her policy and a plumber attended the
property the same day to stop the leak.
Ms M had expected the details would be passed on to Fairmead under the building section
of the policy for repairs to be carried out. As she had not heard from them, Ms M contacted
Fairmead on 8 September 2020. She provided details of the claim and was told she would
be contacted again for the claim to progress. A week later Ms M contacted Fairmead to
lodge a complaint about the lack of contact. It became apparent during this call that
Fairmead had the wrong address for the property and an incorrect number for the tenant
who Ms M had asked to be contacted to arrange for the surveyor to attend.
Ms M did not hear from Fairmead over the following week, so arranged for her own plumber
to attend and quote for carrying out the repairs. She says she told Fairmead that she was
doing this and provided a copy of the quote. Fairmead then sent their own surveyor to the
property to assess the damage on 6 October 2020. By this time Ms M had already asked her
plumber to carry out the repairs, and these were done shortly after. The repairs cost £3,950
and Ms M is asking for this sum to be paid to her in full.
Ms M is also asking for £1,000 for distress and inconvenience caused by the poor customer
service, loss of rent of £1,000 as she says she discounted her rent for a period of two
months, and loss of rent from December 2020 as the tenant gave notice that he was leaving
the property. Ms M is also claiming loss of work as she has spent 18 hours at £120 per hour
dealing with the claim and making this complaint.
Fairmead say that they would not expect the home emergency team to pass details on to
them as they are a different insurer. They only became aware of the claim when Ms M rang
them on 8 September. They accept that they noted the incorrect address for the property
and an incorrect telephone number. Fairmead say that they tried on a number of occasions
to make contact with Ms M without success. They say that Ms M was reluctant to talk to
them and, on occasions, refused to go through security questions so that they could
progress the matter for her.
Fairmead accepted that their service had not been of a satisfactory standard and offered
£200 compensation to Ms M. They have also offered a cash settlement for the repairs of
£2,552.36 net of the £250 policy excess. This figure includes a 15% increase on the costs
due to the difficulty finding a plumber during the covid pandemic. This is based on their
surveyors assessment of the likely cost of repairs.
Ms M was not happy with this and brought the matter to us. She wanted a full refund of her
costs and compensation as outlined above. Our investigator thought that there had been a
delay by Fairmead caused by details not being passed to them by the home emergency
insurer and then the incorrect recording of Ms Ms details. She agreed that £200 was fair
compensation for this. She also thought that the delay meant that it was reasonable for Ms
M to instruct her own plumber to complete the repairs. She concluded that Fairmead should
cover these costs less the costs of repairing the actual leak which is not covered under the
insurance policy, and any items of betterment, including taps, shower screen and bath panel.
Ms M responded by providing the cost of the taps and shower screen but said the bath panel
was damaged by the leak. Fairmead did not accept our investigators view. They said that it
was Ms Ms responsibility to inform them directly of the claim. Whilst they accepted the claim
had been recorded against the incorrect address which may have resulted in some delay,
they suggested that Ms M had provided an incorrect contact telephone number and had
been difficult to contact. They asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 3 August 2021. I said:
Fairmead accept Ms Ms claim under the policy for escape of water. The issue for me to
decide is whether Fairmead should cover the full costs of the repair as paid by Ms M. Ms M
also claims for loss of rent and compensation for distress and inconvenience.
When Ms M first reported the claim to the insurers, she contacted the home emergency
team. She thought that the information would be passed on to Fairmead. Ms Ms policy
booklet lists different contact numbers for building insurance claims and home emergency
claims. However, both were covered under the one policy document and the policy booklet
provided by Fairmead does not make it clear that separate claims must be reported, and that
information would not be passed between insurers. I think it was, therefore, reasonable for
Ms M to report to one insurer and expect information to be provided to the other, unless she
was told otherwise. I cannot see that she was. However, I accept that this was not
Fairmeads responsibility as they do not underwrite the home emergency part of the policy.
As she had not heard from them, Ms M contacted Fairmead on 8 September 2020.
Fairmead then noted down incorrect details and this did cause delay in arranging their
surveyor to attend. I dont think that these errors were Ms Ms fault. Ms M had a number of
rental properties and Fairmead registered the claim against the wrong address. Fairmead
have suggested that they were provided with the incorrect telephone number for the tenant,
but I think it more likely that it was simply recorded incorrectly by them. In any event, it 
should have been obvious that the number was one digit short and I think it would have been
reasonable to expect Fairmead to query this.
It was approximately six weeks after the claim was first reported to Fairmead that their
surveyor attended Ms Ms property. I think this delay was primarily caused by Fairmeads
mistakes as detailed above, but I also accept that they have had difficulty communicating
with Ms M at times.
As a result of the delay Ms M went ahead and instructed her own plumber to carry out the
repairs. Im aware that the policy booklet at pages 9 and 17 states that approval should be
sought before a policyholder uses their own contractor. It also says that payment will be
limited to what Fairmead would have paid their own contractor. However, given the delay, I
dont think Ms Ms actions were unreasonable. There were tenants living in the property andMs M had a duty to ensure that the work was carried out as soon as possible. Ms M did
inform Fairmead on 22 September 2020 that she was instructing her own plumber but I cant
see that she was ever instructed to agree costs before the work was carried out, or warned
about the limit on costs. I think it would have been reasonable to expect Fairmead to have
informed Ms M of these restrictions. I note that the repairs were done well before Fairmead
sent a copy of the report to Ms M in November 2020. She would therefore not have been
aware that Fairmeads estimate of costs were considerably lower than hers.
Im satisfied that Ms M should be refunded the cost of the repairs at her contractors rate.
However, I can see from the invoice she has provided, that the works may have included
repair of the leak itself which is not covered under the policy. However, it is not clear what
this entailed, if anything, as the leak was repaired under the home emergency insurance and
not included in the plumbers estimate of works. The estimate is much more detailed than
the invoice and lists the items it covers. It does not mention repairing the leak. In the
circumstances, I have not deducted any costs for repairing the leak as I think it more likely
than not that it was repaired under the home emergency cover, and not by Ms Ms plumber.
Ms Ms plumber did, however, fit a new tap and shower screen, neither of which were
damaged in the leak. Ms M has said that the tap cost £110 and the shower screen £86. She
has not provided information for the cost of fitting these and so I have estimated these costs
at £150. This is based on an hourly rate of £100.
Ms M says that there was water damage to the bath panel and I can see that the tenant also
mentioned this to the surveyor. Bearing in mind the water damage to the floor and the
surrounding area, I accept it is likely that the panel needed replacing. I think it fair for
Fairmead to pay Ms Ms invoice of £3,950 less £346 for installing the tap and shower screen.
There is also a £250 escape of water excess.
Ms M claims for loss of rent as she says that her tenant moved out for a few days and she
had to offer a reduced rent for a period of two months. Fairmeads policy booklet says at
page 27 of the buildings insurance section that they will cover loss of rent or provide
alternative accommodation if the property is uninhabitable. We would usually consider a
property uninhabitable if the kitchen or bathroom are not useable, or the property was
unsafe. I have not seen anything which would suggest to me that the property was
uninhabitable. The emergency repairs stopped the immediate escape of water on the day of
the leak. I have viewed the photos provided by the surveyor. The bathroom appears to be
useable and and although repairs are clearly required to the living room ceiling, they do not
appear to be making the property unsafe. The surveyors report also says that alternative
accommodation is not required. I therefore dont think it fair to make an award for loss of
rent.
Ms M says that her tenant was inconvenienced by the outstanding repairs, so she agreed a
reduced rent with him. It is not clear how much the reduction was, or for how long, but Ms 
is claiming £1,000 to cover this. I have considered this carefully, but dont think it would be
fair to ask Fairmead to cover this. As I have mentioned above, loss of rent is not covered
under the policy unless the property is uninhabitable. Ms M was not required to reduce the
rent and, although I accept that she is out of pocket as a result, it was her choice to make
the reduction. It would not be usual for this service to make an award for distress and
inconvenience to third parties, such as Ms Ms tenant, and I dont think there is any special
reason to do so in this case.
Ms M also claims for loss of rent as her tenant gave notice that he intended to move out of
the property from December 2020. Ms M says this was as a result of the repairs not being
completed promptly. Ms M says that due to covid restrictions, she has found it difficult to 
relet the property. The loss of rent section in Ms Ms policy does not cover this situation. The
property was habitable and the tenant could have remained living at the property, andtherefore it is not reasonable to expect Fairmead to cover this loss.
Ms M also claims for her time in dealing with the claim and the subsequent customer service
issues, including making the complaint to us. We dont generally make awards of
compensation for a consumers time in dealing with a claim. This is because it is part of a
consumers responsibility in making a claim to pursue the issues to a conclusion. However, if
Ms M can evidence loss of earnings as a consequence of the poor service she received
concerning her claim we would consider this. We are not able to offer compensation for loss
of time in making a complaint to us as this is not a complaint about a financial service
provided by an insurer. In addition, we wouldnt usually pay compensation for a consumers
time taken to make a complaint to a business, although we can look at the overall impact the
insurers mistake had on a consumer.
Ive considered Fairmeads offer of £200 compensation for the mistakes in dealing with the
claim. I consider this to be a fair offer which reflects the resulting delay and the distress and
inconvenience caused. I accept that some delay resulted from Fairmead not being able to
get in contact with Ms M, so Ive taken this into consideration too.
Responses to my provisional decision
Fairmead did not accept my provisional decision. They said that they had listened to the 
telephone call with Ms M and confirmed that she had provided them with the incorrect 
telephone number for her tenant. They also said that the costs of repairing the original leak 
should be deducted from Ms Ms repair bill. 
Ms M did not respond to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered carefully the additional comments made by Fairmead. I havent been 
provided with a copy of the telephone call but, as Ive said in my provisional decision, even if 
Ms M did provide an incorrect number, I think this should have been obvious to Fairmead. 
The number was one digit short and the call to the tenant would not have gone through. If 
Fairmead had queried this promptly with Ms M, I think delay could have been avoided.  
I dealt with the costs of repairing the original leak in my provisional decision. As I have been 
provided with no new information, I see no reason to change this. 
My final decision and reasoning therefore remain the same as in my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Ms complaint and require Fairmead Insurance Limited 
to:
1. pay Ms M £3,354 to cover the cost of the repairs, less any sum already paid to her;
2. pay interest at 8% on the above sum from the date Ms M made payment to her 
plumber to the date that payment was made by Fairmead; and 
3. pay £200 compensation to Ms M for distress and inconvenience, less any sum 
already paid to her for compensation.If Fairmead Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Ms M how much its taken off. It should 
also give Ms M a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman