DRN-3295352
The complaint
Ms P complains that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited (RL) incorrectly 
paid her ex-partner the full maturity value from a life assurance policy they jointly owned. 
To protect the identity of the parties, Ill refer to Ms Ps ex-partner as Mr X.
What happened
Mr X and Ms P jointly held a life assurance policy (the policy) with a maturity date of 1 June 
2010. Ms P replaced Mr Xs previous partner as joint policy holder following a Deed of 
Assignment dated 30 August 2006. 
In May 2010, Mr X submitted a lost claim form to cash-in the policy held in both his and 
Ms Ps name. And RL issued a cheque in the names of both Mr X and Ms P for a sum of 
£18,426 following the policys maturity date. However, the claim form used to cash-in the 
policy, didnt contain Ms Ps signature and was only signed by Mr X.
Ms P complained to RL in 2020 about the payment of the cheque to Mr X who she said had 
cashed in the funds through his sole bank account. She said that she was unaware of the 
surrender of the policy until after herself and Mr X separated in 2020. At this time, the 
solicitor whod arranged the Deed of Assignment, informed Ms P of the cashing in of the 
policy. Ms P said she hadnt been aware that the policy had a maturity value as she thought 
it would only become payable on death.
RL rejected the complaint. It confirmed the lost claim form had only been signed by Mr X. 
But it said the cheque had been issued in both names, so it considered it couldnt be held 
responsible for Mr X cashing in the cheque without Ms Ps knowledge.
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding the complaint. She agreed with RL in that she 
didnt think it (RL) could fairly be held liable for any losses given it had issued the cheque in 
both Mr Xs and Ms Ps names. 
Ms P disagreed. She said the major problem in this case was the fact that Mr X received the 
cheque without her knowledge. She said that by issuing the cheque with false paperwork, 
RL had allowed Mr X to benefit from the payment without accounting to her for her part of 
the claim. So, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst we have Ms Ps testimony of what happened, Mr X has refused to consent to our 
service looking at this complaint. Despite this, I think it is right that our service considers this 
complaint as Ms P is a customer of RL in her own right. I also think I have sufficient 
information and evidence to reach what I consider to be a fair and reasonable decision. 
I should note at this stage, that I have already considered the matter of jurisdiction in this 
case. Both parties have received my decision in this regard. Having reviewed the matter 
again, Ive seen no further evidence that has changed my mind and I think our service does 
have the power to look at this complaint.
I agree that RL made a mistake when it accepted the lost claim form from Mr X which didnt 
contain Ms Ps signature. RL was notified of the Deed of Assignment in August 2006 and the 
policy was changed to the joint names of Mr X and Ms P. When RL received a lost claim 
form with only Mr Xs signature in 2010, I think it should reasonably have contacted Ms P to 
obtain her authority. Theres no dispute that RL didnt do this before issuing the maturity 
cheque. 
Nonetheless, I dont think I can fairly say the loss to Ms P was a result of RLs error. This is 
because the cheque was issued to both Mr X and Ms P. I think its also likely that the letters 
that it sent, were addressed to both Mr X and Ms P who were living at the same address in 
2010 and only recently separated in 2020. So, if Ms P didnt receive the correspondence 
sent by RL I cant fairly say this was the fault of the business. 
I also think Mr Xs actions  cashing the cheque without Ms Ps knowledge  broke the chain 
of causation in terms of the loss flowing directly from RL not contacting Ms P for her 
signature. In other words, it was the subsequent actions of Mr X, the other joint policy holder, 
that ultimately led to Ms P losing out on her share of the maturity value rather than RLs 
mistake. 
I accept RLs actions were a contributory factor in Mr X cashing the cheque without Ms Ps 
knowledge. But I think RL was entitled to expect its actions in issuing the cheque in the 
name of both parties would be sufficient to overcome any concern it could have had about 
whether both parties were involved in the transaction. Both were living at the same address 
at the time and there was no suggestion that they had separated. So, I think its action of 
addressing the cheque to both parties and sending it to their joint address were reasonable 
steps in terms of ensuring both parties benefited from the proceeds of the cheque.
I know Ms P has said RL didnt send any paperwork to her in her sole name. But I dont think 
RL was required to write to Ms P separately. I think its likely that RL sent all its 
correspondence after 2006 to Mr Xs and Ms Ps registered address. I also think its likely 
these letters were addressed to both parties (Mr X and Ms P). But for whatever reason, Ms P 
wasnt made aware of these letters. Under these circumstances, I dont think I can fairly hold 
RL responsible for any losses Ms P may have suffered due to her not receiving its letters. 
Ms P also says that RL had issued the cheque following Mr X submitting false paperwork. 
On all the evidence, I dont think RL acted on false paperwork. What it did do, was make a 
payment without first obtaining the signature of both joint policyholders. So, whilst I think it 
did make an error, I dont think this means RL had acted on false paperwork.
For all these reasons, whilst I know Ms P will be disappointed with this outcome, Im not 
upholding the complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman