DRN-2973231
The complaint
Mr F complains about Cynergy Bank Limiteds (Cynergy) handling of his cash ISA transfers 
from third-party providers to its own platform.
What happened
Mr F held three ISA accounts with third- party providers. On 30 July 2020, he requested the 
transfer of all three ISAs to be held with Cynergy, but due to a delay in processing his 
request, the transfer application was closed. Mr F was advised by Cynergy to reapply on 20 
August 2020, so he submitted a second transfer request the same day.
On 16 September 2020, Mr F reached out to Cynergy. He said it had only transferred two 
out of three accounts he owned. Cynergy explained Mr Fs most recent application had only 
requested two of his ISA accounts to be transferred - it told him that hed need to submit a 
further application to transfer the third account.
Mr F complained. Cynergy partly accepted the points raised; it acknowledged that it had 
delayed actioning the original application and offered £50 compensation. Unhappy with this, 
Mr F referred his complaint to this service. He said he didnt consider Cynergys offer to fairly 
reflect the service hed paid for. He claimed for lost interest and said Cynergy should transfer 
the remaining ISA so that it formed part of the account it had already opened for him. 
Following contact with our service, Cynergy offered to pay an additional £50 to compensate 
for lost interest due to the delays - £9.07 for the interest Mr F missed out on as a result of the 
two delayed ISA transfers and for the third ISA that wasnt transferred, £40.93.
Our investigator, while acknowledging the initial trouble that Cynergys failures had caused, 
said Mr Fs error in completing the form for the second time resulted in the third ISA not 
being transferred. He explained that Mr F would need to submit a new request if he wanted 
to transfer the last account and concluded that Cynergys offer of compensation totalling 
£100 was fair and reasonable.
Mr F disagreed. He wants the transfer to go ahead without the need for further input on his 
part, so the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr F has found this an extremely trying experience. Its clear Cynergy didnt 
handle the initial transfer request well. The delays it was experiencing resulted in Mr Fs 
initial request timing out and a subsequent transfer request being needing. Once that had 
been explained, Mr F did then complete the form with details of only two of the three 
accounts, he wanted transferred, but the second transfer request wouldnt have been 
needed had Cynergy done the initial transfer properly. 
Mr F feels he hasnt received the service hes paid for. Its a pity matters werent handled 
better at the time. I acknowledge Cynergy admitted that part of the service provided to Mr F 
wasnt of an acceptable standard. So, my task now is to decide what represents fair 
compensation for that failure of service.
Ive looked at all of the evidence and taken into account Mr Fs submissions. While I do 
accept the delay will have caused him distress and inconvenience, I think the revised offer 
adequately compensates him - part of payment is for lost interest and part is for the distress 
caused by Cynergys handling of the transfer.
I understand Mr Fs frustration that he has been asked to resubmit new instructions, however 
he will need to do this if he wants to complete the transfer. I also understand Mr F may 
disagree with the decision Ive reached, but overall, Mr F had a chance to mitigate the 
circumstances by completing a new transfer and offered compensation. So, I think Cynergy 
has done enough to put things right by offering an award for distress, missed interest and to 
complete the transfer if he sends a new form. It is up to Mr F to decide if he now wants the 
transfer to happen. If he doesnt, the offer made is a fair resolution to the complaint.
My final decision
Cynergy Bank Limited has already made an offer to pay £50 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused and £50 for missed interest if Mr H transfers the third ISA. But, if he 
doesnt it wouldnt be fair to revisit the interest calculation. 
I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So, my decision is that Cynergy Bank Limited 
should pay a total of £100 if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Farzana Miah
Ombudsman