DRN-3073753
The complaint
Miss A complained that Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) lent to her 
irresponsibly and provided her with a loan that was unaffordable.
What happened
Everyday Loans provided a loan to Miss A as follows: 
Date taken Amount Term Monthly 
repaymentTotal amount payable
21/12/2016 £3,000 36 months £236.38 £8,509.68
Miss A told us that she has been able to repay the loan as she received a redundancy 
payment. But she said the impact of this unaffordable loan is still affecting her as that money 
isnt now available to give her financial security.  
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint. She didnt think Everyday Loans should 
have provided Miss A with the loan and she set out the steps that needed to be taken to put 
things right. 
Everyday Loans disagreed with the adjudicators assessment. In summary, it said that the 
adjudicator hadnt properly taken into account that the loan purpose was debt consolidation 
 in other words, it would be used to repay other debt and so put Miss A in a better position. 
Everyday Loans said that when carrying out its affordability assessment it had also allowed 
for Miss A still needing to pay for the other credit that wasnt being cleared.
As the complaint hasnt been settled, it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
Ive kept all this in mind when deciding Miss As complaint. 
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding Miss As complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. 
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. And its important to keep in mind that when working 
out if a loan looks likely to be affordable a lender must take a borrower focussed 
approach and think carefully about the impact of the lending on the customer. The lending 
decision shouldnt just be about the business risk to the lender of not getting its money 
back.
A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can sustainably 
repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. 
For example, when thinking about what a borrower has left to spend on a new loan after 
paying other expenses, as well as taking into account the loan amount, the cost of the 
repayments and how long the loan is for, a proportionate check might mean a lender should 
also find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers 
overall financial situation.  
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is 
required to make repayments for an extended period).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss As complaint. 
Everyday Loans gathered information from Miss A by asking her about her income and 
expenses and looking at some of her recent bank statements and payslips before it agreed 
to lend to her. It also checked Miss As credit file to understand her existing monthly credit 
commitments and credit history. Everyday Loans said that based on these checks it was 
satisfied that the loan was affordable for Miss A.  
I've thought carefully about what Everyday Loans has said, including the comments it has 
made in response to our adjudicators view, but I dont think that Everyday Loans made a fair 
lending decision when it provided the loan. 
I say this because I dont think Everyday Loans thought carefully enough about what 
Miss As credit history and the information it saw in the bank statements revealed about her 
overall financial situation. 
It isnt unusual for applicants for this type of high cost loan to have a credit history showing 
other borrowing or an impaired credit record  and these things wouldnt necessarily be 
reasons to prompt a responsible lender to decline a loan application. 
But I think Everyday Loans should have been concerned to see the extent of Miss As 
existing borrowing and in particular her use of expensive payday and unsecured loans as 
well as her reliance on credit cards.I think Everyday Loans couldve seen that there were six outstanding revolving credit 
accounts shown on Miss As credit file. This included four credit cards  of which two had 
been taken out earlier that year and were close to their account limit. Miss A also had a 
balance outstanding on another card  and a further credit card account dating back five 
years or so which looked to be effectively dormant. Her other active revolving credit was two 
mail order accounts- she was over the £3,700 credit limit on one account and very close to 
the £1,500 limit on the other. All in all, Miss A owed £7,509 on her credit cards and mail 
order accounts  around half her total indebtedness.
As well as this, Everyday Loans was able to see that Miss A had a total outstanding loan 
balance of £7,726. It was evident from looking at the credit report it acquired that Miss A had 
been routinely borrowing from expensive providers of payday and unsecured loans. And 
taking also into account the information shown on the bank statements Miss A supplied to 
Everyday Loans, I think the lender saw that Miss A was clearly over-reliant on taking out 
short term loans. Just the month before applying for this loan, it looks like three new loans 
were paid into Miss As bank account from two different high cost credit providers over two 
days in November (amounting to £470). Three further new loans totalling £838 (and 
involving two more high cost lenders) were taken out less than six days later. There was 
other lending as well  I use these examples just to illustrate what was happening. 
I think that shouldve concerned Everyday Loans as this pattern of lending can be one of the 
hallmarks of someone already in financial difficulty  essentially borrowing again to fill a gap 
in finances left after repaying a previous loan. 
And I dont think anything Everyday Loans saw on Miss As bank statements generally 
provided any reassurance that she was managing her financial situation effectively. 
I think Everyday Loans saw that Miss A was making full use of her £3,000 overdraft limit  
typically the account was substantially overdrawn. When Miss As November pay went into 
her account she was still around £1,272 overdrawn. 
At the end of November 2016 her overdrawn balance was £2,620  and that included the 
loans mentioned above that effectively kept her within her arranged overdraft limit. 
Despite this, her bank statements also show that Miss A was still having direct debits 
returned unpaid. 
Our adjudicator also mentioned that a review of Miss As bank statements showed that she 
had paid around £2,463 in repayments to loans and credit cards over just four weeks in 
November/December 2016  which significantly exceeded her income of £1700.05. 
So I think this all showed that managing her debt had got beyond Miss As control. 
I think this is borne out also by the fact that when Everyday Loans carried out credit checks it 
noted Miss As existing creditor repayments were around £1,068. 
Everyday Loans relied on statistical information to assess what someone in Miss As 
particular situation would be likely to spend each month and allowed a figure of £595 for her 
spending on general living costs  which seems reasonable to me. 
After accounting for her rent, Everyday Loans worked out that this left Miss A with insufficient 
money to cover all her monthly outgoings. I've taken into account that the loan was intended for debt consolidation. And I can see that 
the loans Everyday Loans settled out of the proceeds could have reduced her monthly credit 
spending by around £260. 
But I think the scale of her debts and the extent of her evident money problems, compared to 
the much smaller value of the loan, would suggest that she would remain in serious financial 
trouble regardless. 
And even after taking out this loan and using it to pay some of her other debt, it looked like 
Miss A would still need to spend almost half her take home pay on her contractual credit 
repayments  and even more than this if she was really going to be able to make any 
meaningful inroads into clearing her debt within a reasonable period of time. 
I think that this was such a significant proportion of Miss As monthly income this was a 
further reason why Everyday Loans couldnt reasonably say it was likely that Miss A would 
be able to repay its loan in a sustainable way. 
So, for all these reasons, I am upholding Miss As complaint that she should not have been 
given the loan.
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Miss A to repay the capital amount that she borrowed, 
because she had the benefit of that lending. 
But she has paid extra for lending that should not have been provided to her. In line with this 
Services approach, Miss A shouldnt repay more than the capital amount she borrowed. 
If Everyday Loans has sold any outstanding debt it should buy this back if able to do so and 
then take the following steps. 
Otherwise, Everyday Loans should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results 
outlined below and do the following:
add up the total amount of money Miss A received as a result of having been given 
the loan. The repayments Miss A made should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in Miss A having paid more than she received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Everyday Loans should attempt to 
arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Miss A keeping in mind its 
obligation always to treat her positively and sympathetically in those discussions.
Remove any negative information recorded on Miss As credit file regarding the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to deduct tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans should give Miss A a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted 
if she asks for one.
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, I uphold Miss As complaint and direct Everyday Lending 
Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) to take the steps set out above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman