DRN-2672820
The complaint
Mr D complains Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) hasnt fairly represented 
him in a claim on his motor insurance policy. He says it hasnt protected his interests or 
investigated the accident he was in fully before finding it was his fault. Mr Ds also unhappy 
with the customer service he received from LV. 
Any reference to LV includes its agents. 
What happened
Mr D has a motor insurance policy which renewed in September 2019. In March 2020 he 
was in an accident. LVs given us a recording of the call when Mr D reported it. During this 
call, he explained the accident took place at a junction of a roundabout  he was hit as he 
was trying to enter the roundabout by a third-party lorry driver coming from the right. 
Mr D said he was stationary at the roundabout but referred to the need to creep out and 
nudge out due to all of the traffic. The call handler thought from what he said, Mr D was 
slightly over the give-way line of the junction, so told him it was likely the accident would be 
recorded as his fault. Mr D provided further evidence including photos of the incident which 
LV says shows he was over the line. 
Ultimately LV accepted liability for the accident on Mr Ds behalf. It thought, if the case went 
to court, the third party wouldve been successful. Mr D thinks this decision was unfair. Hes 
said even if he was slightly over the line, he was stationary and he alerted the third-party that 
he was there by sounding his horn. Hes pointed out that there was no yellow box beyond 
the give-way line telling him not to enter and as there was a lot of traffic in front and behind 
him, he couldnt move out of the way. LV says under the Highway Code, Mr D needed to 
give-way to the third-party as it was coming from his right. And as hed crossed over the 
give-way line, even if he was stationary, he caused an obstruction and therefore was at fault. 
Mr D thinks if LV had investigated things further and obtained more evidence, it wouldve 
seen he wasnt at fault. In particular, he asked LV to get CCTV footage from the roundabout 
and data from his car to show he was stationary and that he sounded his horn. He also 
thinks it shouldve got an experts opinion. He doesnt think LV requested this information 
and hes not satisfied its claim handlers had the necessary qualifications to handle his claim.
Overall LV doesnt think this further evidence wouldve changed anything. But it says it did 
request the CCTV footage in time before it was deleted. And its internal notes say from what 
Mr D had said, the data from the car manufacturer couldve been obtained by him.
Mr D raised a number of complaints about these issues. Initially LV offered him £75 as 
compensation for the customer service it had provided around March 2020 as it accepted it 
hadnt responded to him when it said it would. But it didnt think it had decided the claim 
unfairly. So Mr D asked our service to look into things. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought LV had made enough effort to get 
the information and had investigated the claim fairly before accepting liability. As Mr D didnt 
agree with our investigators opinion, the complaints been passed to me to decide. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ds raised a number of issues which Ive thought about carefully. But it seems to me, the 
crux of his complaint is he doesnt think he should be held responsible for the accident. 
LVs said it accepted liability in this case as there was enough evidence against Mr D which 
wouldve meant it couldnt successfully defend the claim in court. And under the terms of the 
policy, I can see LV can take complete control over the decision to defend or settle a claim  
so I think it could make this decision in Mr Ds case. The question for me though is whether 
LV considered the evidence fairly before reaching this decision. 
LV seems to have decided not to defend the claim as Mr D was over the give-way line at the 
roundabout. It says he was obstructing the third-partys path and under the Highway Code 
he had a duty to give way to the right by remaining behind the line until his path was clear. 
Ive looked at the section of the Highway Code LV has referred to. It says at a roundabout, 
drivers must always give priority to traffic coming from the right unless directed otherwise. 
And drivers should always check the traffic has moved off in front of them before entering 
the roundabout. I appreciate Mr D doesnt think he was at fault because he was stationary at 
the time of the accident and he wasnt able to move forward or backwards due to the traffic. 
But from the photos Ive seen, Im satisfied he was over the line. So even if he was 
stationary, I dont think LVs unreasonable in saying he shouldnt have entered until he had a 
clear exit. 
Mr Ds explained the circumstances of the accident were unusual due to the amount of traffic 
on the road. Whilst I understand what hes said, Im still satisfied its likely he was driving 
contrary to the Highway Code. So I dont think LVs decision to hold him at fault for the 
accident was unreasonable  and I cant agree it would be fair to hold the third-party 
responsible for what happened because there was traffic blocking Mr Ds path.
I know Mr D thinks if LV had obtained further information  specifically CCTV evidence; the 
opinion of an expert; and data from his car  it wouldve seen he wasnt at fault. But I dont 
agree that evidence wouldve made a difference in this case. I say this because LV hasnt 
disputed what Mr Ds said about being stationary when he was hit or that he sounded his 
horn. But it accepted liability despite this as, based on Mr Ds recollections and his photos, it 
thought he was over the give-way line. So I think LV had enough to satisfy itself it wouldnt 
be able to successfully defend the claim. And I dont think its likely the further information 
wouldve changed this. 
I understand Mr Ds unhappy with the service hes received from LV. In particular hes said 
its caused delays and it didnt consider information hed provided or respond to queries hed 
raised. It seems he thinks this because he doesnt believe LV requested information from 
third parties when it said it would. But LVs given us its internal notes and copies of 
correspondence to show it did request the information it said it would. And in any event, as 
Ive explained above, I dont think this information wouldve made a difference to this case. LV has accepted there were times initially when Mr D had to chase it for a response. But it 
offered him £75 as compensation to make up for this and I think thats fair in the 
circumstances. So I dont think it needs to do anything more in this case. 
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Nadya Neve
Ombudsman