DRN-1716215
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
connection with a store card account. AXA France IARD (AXA) didn't actually sell the PPI, 
but its accepted responsibility for this complaint. So Ill refer to AXA as the seller to keep 
things simple.
Mrs R says AXA mis-sold her the PPI.
 
What happened
Mrs R opened a store card account in a shop in 1997. At the same time, she took out a 
PPI policy.
The policy would have paid part of the outstanding monthly balance on Mrs Rs card each 
month if shed been unable to work because of injury or sickness, or if she lost her job. It 
also included purchase protection insurance and life cover.
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. In brief, she said Mrs R 
suffered from asthma when she took the policy out. She wouldn't have been able to make a 
successful accident or sickness claim under the policy if the claim resulted from that 
condition. And the adjudicator thought that if AXA had given Mrs R clear enough information 
about the restriction on claims for existing medical conditions, shed have decided not to take 
the PPI.
AXA disagreed with the adjudicators view, so the complaint was passed to me.
 
my provisional findings
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs R 
and to AXA on 4 March 2020. I summarise my findings:
Id seen a copy of Mrs Rs signed application form for the store card. It includes a 
section headed Payment & Purchase Protection. There's a brief description of the 
purpose of the cover. And it asks the applicant to tick below if they would like the 
cover. Immediately below that it says Yes, I want my Account covered by Payment 
and Purchase Protection Insurance" (a form of PPI), and it continues Please debit 
my Account with the relevant monthly premium until further notice. There's a tick in 
the space next to that statement, indicating that Mrs R wished to take the PPI.
 
Taking everything into account, I was satisfied that Mrs R would have realised that 
the PPI wasn't compulsory. And I thought she decided to take the cover, knowing that she had a choice  although I could understand how she may no longer 
remember this, so many years later.
 
Mrs R has told us she can't remember whether AXA gave her advice about the PPI, 
or recommended it to her. AXA says the sale was made on a non-advised basis, and 
based on what we know about the way these policies were sold at the time, I thought 
that was likely to be right. This meant AXA didn't have to check if the PPI was 
suitable for Mrs R. But it did need to make sure it gave her enough information to 
enable her to decide for herself if she wanted PPI, knowing what alternative means 
shed have had of making her monthly repayments if she was unable to work.
 
I accepted that it was possible the information AXA gave Mrs R about the PPI wasn't 
as clear as it should have been. But I thought she chose to take out the PPI - so it 
looked as if she wanted this type of cover, even if shes understandably forgotten that 
now. Based on what shes told us about her circumstances at the time, Mrs R was 
eligible for the policy.
 
Mrs Rs told us that she can't remember whether she'd have been entitled to any pay 
from her employer at the time if shed been off sick or if she'd lost her job. If shed 
made a successful claim on the policy for accident, sickness or unemployment, it 
would have paid a monthly benefit of 15% of what she owed on her store card. And it 
would have done this each month until her credit agreement ended, or she returned 
to work, or the outstanding balance at the time of her claim had been repaid - 
whichever was the earliest. Whats more, it would have paid out in addition to any 
payments she received from her employer, including any redundancy pay if she lost 
her job. So she could have used those to cover other day-to-day expenses, at what 
it's likely would have been a difficult time.
 
Taking everything into account, I thought that the PPI could have been useful to Mrs 
R, especially as she's told us that aside from any payments she'd have received from 
her employer, she had no other means she could have used to make her monthly 
store card repayments if she'd been off sick, or if she'd lost her job.
 
I accepted that it was possible the information AXA gave Mrs R about the cost of the 
PPI wasn't as clear as it should have been. But I was satisfied that it would have 
been clear from the application form that there would be monthly premiums to pay for 
the cover. Although Mrs R's told us she got the store card "without knowing things 
spiralled" ,Id seen nothing to suggest that she was unable to afford the PPI cover. 
And as she was paying for it monthly, she could have cancelled it without any further 
cost if her situation changed.
 
I acknowledged that Mrs Rs told us she suffered from asthma when she applied for 
the policy. But the condition had been diagnosed around 39 years before she applied 
for the PPI. And Mrs Rs told us that she'd only had a week off work due to her 
asthma in that time.
 
To claim for accident or sickness under the policy, Mrs R would have had to be off 
sick for at least 30 consecutive days. I thought it was unlikely, on balance, that shed have expected to need to take that long off work for her asthma, or any condition 
resulting from it. And she could potentially have claimed successfully if shed lost her 
job, or if shed been off sick with any condition that didn't result from her asthma.
 
So taking everything into account I wasnt convinced, on balance, that it was likely 
that Mrs Rs asthma meant that shed have made a different decision about taking 
the PPI cover if shed been given better information about the exclusions relating to 
existing medical conditions. And she didnt appear to have been affected by any of 
the other main things the policy didn't cover.
 
Id explained above that I was satisfied that Mrs R chose to take out the PPI - so it 
looked as if she wanted this type of cover, even if shes understandably forgotten that 
now. And for the reasons Id set out, I wasnt convinced that better information about 
the PPI would have put her off taking it out. So I didnt think shed lost out as a result 
of anything that AXA may have done wrong.
 
I'd taken account of all Mrs R's comments, including what she's said about not having 
realised that the PPI was an insurance, and having just thought it was interest on her 
payments. But I thought it was clear from the application form what the PPI was for. 
And I'd have expected Mrs R to check over the form before signing it. So this didnt 
change my conclusion.
 
So based on what Id seen so far, I was planning not to uphold Mrs Rs complaint.
 
further submissions
Neither Mrs R nor AXA has commented on the findings I set out in my provisional decision, 
and the time for doing so has now expired.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Rs case.
Having done so, I cant see any reason to depart from the findings I set out in my provisional 
decision.
 
 My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2020.Juliet Collins
Ombudsman