DRN-3882178
The complaint
Miss B complains Barclays Bank UK PLC registered a fraud marker at CIFAS, the 
national fraud database and closed her account. She doesnt think its treated her fairly.
What happened
On 18 October 2020, a payment for £2,350 credited Miss Bs account with Barclays by 
faster payment. Miss B then made two payments using these funds to an account held with 
another provider but using her details. Soon afterwards, the payment into Miss Bs account 
was identified as fraudulent by the bank where the funds had come from (they reported 
their customer had been the victim of a scam).
Barclays placed a block on the account and conducted a review. It later told Miss B that it 
would be closing her account. Sometime later, Miss B also discovered Barclays had 
placed a fraud marker against her with CIFAS. She contacted Barclays to complain in 
2022, but it didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said, it had placed the marker in line 
with its internal policies and regulatory obligations. But Miss B didnt think this was fair.
Miss B referred her complaint to us. In doing so, she told us that shed been a victim of 
a scam herself. She said:
- She responded to a job opportunity on a social media site that she was 
interested in it.
- After some initial contact she was persuaded to give her name, address, one 
form of identification, sort code and bank account number over to the person 
contacting her about a job. I shall refer to this person as M.
- £2350 credited her account but she thought this must have been sent to her by 
accident or a mistake. She got a call from M the same day about the money and 
she agreed to return it. M gave her the details of where to send the funds to. She 
sent the money to those details.
- Once her account was blocked, she asked Barclays about this and it said 
shed signed up to something fraudulent and thats why it had closed her 
account.
- She immediately blocked M from her social media profile.
- She opened an account with another bank, but it closed that account after a year.
She explained she was nave at the time and the loading was affecting her ability to get an 
account and a job, so she needed to resolve this issue quickly. 
Our service contacted Barclays about this. It queried why Miss B had waited two years to 
raise this if shed been a genuine victim herself. It noted Miss B had mentioned a scam but 
not given any details. Its records were limited due to the passage of time. But it did have 
evidence to show that Miss B had set up payee details on 16 October 2020 for the 
fraudulent funds to be paid onto, including making a small payment of £6 on the same day 
(16 October). The payments had also been sent to an account that appeared to be in Miss 
Bs name. Its view was that the CIFAS loading should therefore be maintained.
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint and didnt uphold it. He felt the 
available evidence suggested it was more likely than not that Miss B had been aware 
that what she was doing wasnt legitimate. He didnt think it was plausible that Miss B 
would believe she was getting money in relation to a job when she hadnt done any work 
or there werent any details about employment.
Miss B didnt accept the adjudicators findings. She provided screen shots of initial chats 
shed had on social media, and which she said had led to her getting involved in things 
unwittingly. Our adjudicator considered the evidence but didnt change his view. He said 
that the screen shots only showed some initial contact with a person but not that this was in 
relation to an actual job, and there wasnt anything else to support why Miss B would then 
on the face of it, send money to herself.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Miss B but Im not upholding this complaint.
The marker that Barclays has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of 
facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a 
marker, it isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Miss B is guilty of fraud or 
a financial crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or 
concern.
The relevant guidance says:
- There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial crime 
has been committed or attempted; [and]
- The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that a bank must first be able to show that fraudulent 
funds have entered Miss Bs account, whether they are retained or pass through the 
account.
Secondly, the bank will need to have strong evidence to show that Miss B was 
deliberately dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, 
an illegitimate payment. This can include allowing someone else to use their account to 
receive an illegitimate payment. But a marker should not be registered against someone 
who was unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving 
the account holder the
opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand their 
level of knowledge and intention.While I cant see Barclays asked Miss B for more information about what she knew, this 
isnt the end of the matter. As there are further considerations. In order to determine Miss 
Bs complaint, I need to consider whether I think having regard for what we know theres 
enough evidence to show fraudulent funds entered the account and that Miss Bs actions 
suggest she was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that Barclays 
is justified in recording the fraud marker here. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
Barclays received a report from the third-party bank that an incoming payment was from 
a fraud. There doesnt appear to be any dispute about this and I have seen the relevant 
report.
Miss B says she thought the payment had been sent to her by accident and shes a 
victim too. So Ive looked at Miss Bs evidence. Shes provided screen shots of some 
initial contact with someone, M. Theres certainly reference to an opportunity but there 
isnt anything to suggest that this is in relation to a job. But even if the opportunity was a 
job theres some compelling evidence, which suggests Miss B knew what she was doing 
or facilitating wasnt legitimate. I say this for the following reasons.
Theres no further information or detail about a job, for example, what it was and what 
the terms would be. Our adjudicator asked Miss B about this to see if she had any 
other information, but she didnt. And so, what Miss B has described doesnt in my 
view sound plausible.
Miss B told us that when the large payment credited her account, she thought this had 
been sent to her by accident. But the name against that payment wasnt Ms  it was for 
someone else. Theres no persuasive explanation why she would think M had sent the 
payment using someone elses details. Or why shed need to return it in two separate 
payments as opposed to the full amount that came in.
Ive examined the technical evidence in the form of a mobile banking report from 
Barclays (from the relevant time). This shows Miss B had set up an account payee on 16 
October 2020. This is the destination where the fraudulent funds were sent upon receipt 
(two days later). I cant be sure if Miss B owns the other account but I dont think it 
matters. Because I consider it highly unlikely Miss B would have created a new payee for 
the purpose she says, unless she was already aware on 16 October that shed be 
receiving funds over the coming days and that shed then need to send them on. Setting 
up this payee on 16 October isnt consistent with what Miss B says about the credit on 
18 October being an accident - the technical evidence simply doesnt support this.
On the same day as setting up the payee details, Miss B also sent a small payment of £6 
of her own money there. The adjudicator asked Miss B about this. In the call she said she 
couldnt remember this payment. But said its possible M must have told her to send it 
and theyd then send it back to her. Ive thought about this but theres no plausible 
explanation as to why Miss B would have needed to send her own money and get it 
back. This payment had a reference of moving money, which is exactly the same 
reference that was used to send the fraudulent funds out of her account later. The 
purpose of the £6 payment is listed as friends. Weighing all of this up, Im afraid none of 
this supports Miss Bs case that she genuinely believed this was in relation to a job and 
understood the larger payment was sent by mistake.
Considering all these factors together, I think its more likely Miss B had knowledge of 
the fraudulent funds that credited and later debited her account. Ive thought carefully 
about what shes said about being young and nave at the time. But the available 
evidencereferenced above, including her actions suggests its more likely than not she was complicit 
in receiving fraudulent payments in her account and sending these on knowing this wasnt 
legitimate. Of course, Barclays should have asked further questions as per CIFASs 
guidance to its members. But Im satisfied from looking at the evidence Barclays was 
reasonably justified in loading the marker. Indeed, its response to the complaint is that it 
should be maintained. It follows that I dont think its treated Miss B unfairly and so theres 
no basis for asking it to remove the marker.
I appreciate Miss B might not have fully understood what the consequences would be in 
terms of potentially getting a marker and how this would impact her. But that doesnt 
mean Barclays made a mistake or acted unfairly in applying it.
For completeness, Im also satisfied Barclays closed Miss Bs account in line with the 
terms and conditions given the account activity and level of awareness. So, I find it made 
no mistake here either.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Sarita Taylor
Ombudsman