DRN-2935025
The complaint
Mr As complaint about Nationwide Building Society (NBS) relates to the lack of advice and 
information he said he was given when he applied for a three-month payment holiday on his 
mortgage.
What happened
On 12 April 2020 Mr A applied, on-line, for a three-month payment holiday based on 
information he had obtained from the UK Government about lenders helping their customers 
cushion the financial effects of the Covid-19 pandemic. He said NBS gave him insufficient 
information about the terms of the payment holiday, in particular he said he wasnt advised 
that his balance would increase as a result if he took the payment holiday. Mr A said that if 
hed been told about this he wouldnt have taken the payment holiday and instead would 
have sought help from his family in meeting the monthly payments.
In its final response letter to Mr A, NBS didnt uphold his complaint as it said it had provided 
all the necessary information which would have allowed him to make an informed decision. 
As such it did not believe it had done anything wrong.
Mr A was unhappy with NBSs final response and so approached this service to see if we 
could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that NBS hadnt done anything 
wrong and had not acted unfairly or unreasonably.
Mr A didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Mr As complaint revolves around what information NBS provided to him prior to 
him electing to request a payment holiday on his mortgage. The payment holiday was 
between April and June 2020.
NBS have produced a screenshot of the information which was displayed on the website for 
customers requesting a payment holiday as a result of any effects of the coronavirus. This is 
entitled Is a mortgage payment break the right option for me? and it sets out;
interest will continue to build at your usual interest rate during the payment break. 
This means your monthly payments at the end of the break will be higher and the 
total amount of interest youll pay over the term of your mortgage will go up, 
increasing the overall cost.
This web page information also contains further advice about making repayments stating;
If youre not struggling to pay your mortgage because of coronavirus, and youre still 
able to make mortgage payments, then you should continue to do so.
Mr A has acknowledged that he knew his monthly repayments would increase at the end of 
the payment holiday which means he must have read this information rather than learning 
about it after he had elected to take the payment holiday. That being so, the information 
contained thereon is clear in stating that interest would still accrue and the total amount of 
interest he would ultimately have to repay would be higher. 
NBS also wrote to Mr A on 14 April 2020, this being two days after he applied on-line, 
confirming that interest would still be added to his mortgage and that meant the balance of 
his account would increase resulting in a recalculation of his payments at the end of the 
payment holiday. The final page of that letter contains the Payment Holiday terms and 
conditions and under the paragraph headed Interest it is again very clearly set out that the 
balance on the account will have increased at the end of the payment holiday. In addition, 
there is a right to cancel clause stating that Mr A could cancel the payment holiday at any 
time.
So, Im afraid I cant accept Mr As statement that the information NBS provided was close 
to the end of the mortgage holiday and not before the commencement of the mortgage 
holiday, and nor do I accept that it was insufficient to allow Mr A to make an informed choice 
about whether to take the payment holiday or not. Of course it might be the case that Mr A 
missed the information displayed on the web page and in the letter, but even if that were so, 
logically, if a person takes a payment holiday for three months and knows that interest is still 
accruing, which is the case here, it follows that the balance outstanding will be higher at the 
end of the payment holiday.
So, although Mr A will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say NBS has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably here. There was, in my view, sufficient information on the web site 
prior to Mr A making his decision to take a payment holiday, and he also received 
information in letter form telling him that the balance on his account would rise at the end of 
the payment holiday. That letter was two days after he had applied for the payment holiday 
and if he had wished to cancel he could have done so at that point. So, Im not upholding 
this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2021.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman