DRN-4421183
The complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC is holding him responsible for a transaction 
which he says he didnt authorise.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
in detail again here. But Ill provide an overview of events below.
Mr B has told us that whilst in Spain a fraudulent payment for £636 was made on 20 May 
2023 using his debit card. Mr B noticed the transaction on his banking app on 21 May 2023 
and contacted Barclays fraud department. The money was temporarily credited back to 
Mr B whilst Barclays investigated. 
Barclays didnt uphold Mr Bs fraud claim. It said Mr B had authorised the payment by way of 
its two-factor strong customer authentication process. Barclays debited the £636 out of 
Mr Bs account on 14 June 2023. Mr B appealed Barclays decision but it maintained its 
position. 
Mr B referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. He said he hadnt authorised the 
debit card payment. He was also unhappy that he hadnt received a letter from Barclays 
explaining its reason for declining his claim, and said he was therefore denied the chance to 
appeal Barclays decision.
One of our Investigators considered the complaint and did not uphold it. In short, he thought 
Mr B had authorised the disputed payment by way of the strong customer authentication 
process through his mobile phone. 
Mr B didnt accept the Investigators findings, so the complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision. He said he never received the stronger customer authentication notification 
and so didnt authorise the transaction. Mr B also reiterated his concern at having never 
received Barclays letter explaining the outcome of his claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the Investigator for reasons I set
out below.
But first, I would like to say at the outset that I have summarised this complaint in far less
detail than the parties involved. I want to stress that no discourtesy is intended by this. If
there is a submission Ive not addressed; it isnt because I have ignored the point. It is
simply because my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues in this
complaint  that being whether Barclays has acted reasonably in concluding Mr B authorised 
the disputed transaction.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I must make my decision 
on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely than not to have 
happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Turning now to the disputed transaction, Mr B has said he doesnt recall receiving the strong 
customer authentication notification on his mobile phone. But Im satisfied from the technical 
evidence Barclays has provided that this was sent to Mr Bs registered mobile phone when 
the card transaction was made. To complete this verification process  the payment first 
needed to be confirmed as genuine and confirmation that the payment details were correct. 
Then a mobile banking password had to be added. The evidence Ive seen supports that this 
process was followed in relation to the £636 payment before it was approved. 
I can see that Mr Bs current mobile phone has been registered to his Barclays account 
since 2022 and Barclays has told us it is used by Mr B to make genuine payments and 
logins via his mobile banking app. It is also the mobile phone we have recorded for 
Mr B. 
Theres also no suggestion from Mr B that anyone else had access to his mobile phone or 
mobile banking password. And so, Ive seen no persuasive evidence that access to Mr Bs 
mobile phone was compromised in any way which allowed the strong customer 
authentication message to be accessed by a third party. 
It follows that in my judgement, on balance, it is more likely than not that either Mr B 
authorised the disputed transaction by making it himself or authorised another to do so by 
providing them his consent. And so, I wont be asking Barclays to take any further action in 
this regard. 
This is a difficult message for me to give as I know how strongly Mr B feels about this matter. 
But given the evidence I have and on the balance of probabilities, Im unable to reasonably 
reach any other conclusion. 
For completeness, Ive also considered whether Barclays couldve taken any action to 
recover the funds. But Im satisfied the Visa Mastercard Chargeback rules wouldnt have 
succeeded on the basis of Mr Bs argument that the transaction was unauthorised, given the 
use of strong customer authentication. And so, I think it was reasonable that Barclays didnt 
process a Chargeback claim given there wasnt any reasonable prospect of success. 
Barclays records say it sent its claim outcome letter to Mr B by both post and email. But Ive 
no reason to doubt Mr Bs recollection that he didnt receive that letter, and I can understand 
that wouldve been frustrating for him.  
Mr B was however able to discuss the claim outcome with Barclays and it reviewed its 
decision and directed him to the Financial Ombudsman. So, while not ideal, I dont think he 
was disadvantaged if he didnt receive the outcome letter  as he was able to appeal the 
claim through Barclays and refer his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
So, taking everything into account, I dont think Barclays needs to take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman