DRN-2949785
The complaint
Mr W complained about Monzo Bank Ltd. He said it had blocked his card, and had allowed 
an online retailer to take duplicate payments even after hed cancelled them.
What happened
On 11 August 2020, Mr W complained to Monzo using its chat facility. He told Monzo there 
had been an unauthorised payment from his account. Monzo temporarily blocked Mr Ws 
card, saying this was to keep his money safe. It explained that Mr Ws card could be 
temporarily unblocked if he needed to make an urgent card payment or withdraw cash.
Mr W said he didnt need his card blocked, and wanted to use it. He said hed cancelled an 
order with an online retailer, because it had been debited twice, but the retailer had taken it 
again. He said hed asked for a copy of the chat facility with the online retailer but theyd 
refused. Monzo told Mr W how to report the problem on his app.
There were further chat conversations. Mr W asked Monzo to unblock his card, saying he 
needed cash for food, and Monzo gave Mr W a phone number for if he ever needed to 
withdraw cash.
Mr W replied that there had been another unauthorised payment from his account.
On 14 August, Mr W contacted Monzo while he was at a cashpoint, and Monzo temporarily 
unblocked the card so he could withdraw cash. Monzo sent a replacement card, which Mr W 
authorised on 16 August.
Monzo asked Mr W for more information about the transactions he was disputing with the 
online retailer  so it could determine whether it was a dispute about goods and services, or 
fraud.
On 19 August, Mr W contacted Monzo and said the online retailer had charged him double 
for orders, but they were no longer on his account so he couldnt send Monzo any 
information about the duplicated payments. He complained.
Monzo identified the disputed transactions as three payments on 6 and 9 August to an online 
retailer, for £11.61, £58.71 and £36.99. Monzos disputes team replied to Mr W, saying it 
couldnt submit a chargeback about the payments, because Mr W hadnt provided enough 
information. It said that it needed:
- a receipt or proof of purchase for every disputed transaction;
- an expected delivery date or delivery confirmation;
- all correspondence with the retailer about goods Mr W didnt get.
In its response to Mr Ws complaint, Monzo said that it had followed the right procedure in 
asking for more information about the transactions Mr W was disputing. But Monzo partly 
upheld Mr Ws complaint about customer service. It hadnt been clear whether the problem 
was a dispute about goods and services, or fraud. So Monzo had unblocked the card at one 
point, then blocked it again a few days later. Monzo paid Mr W £35 for the inconvenience.
Mr W wasnt satisfied with Monzos reply, but didnt provide any more information about the 
disputed transactions. His reply said: There is no evidence of these transactions because 
they were not made by me and they do not exist. They have taken money from my account 
without me placing an order.
Mr W contacted this service.
Our investigator asked Mr W for more information about the disputed transactions. He wasnt 
happy at being asked for more information, and said what hed sent should be enough. He 
said the online retailer had closed his account. Mr W asked for copies of what hed sent us, 
which the investigator provided. He also asked for copies of all his Monzo bank statements, 
and the investigator sent him those too.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. She looked at Mr Ws bank statements and 
couldnt see that the disputed payments had been duplicated  theyd just been charged 
once. She considered it was reasonable for Monzo to have asked for more information. And 
Mr W hadnt provided us with more information about the transactions. She thought that the 
£35 Monzo had paid Mr W was fair for the confusion which meant his account had been 
blocked for longer than necessary.
Mr W wasnt satisfied. He asked for an ombudsman decision and said he couldnt help it if 
the online retailer had deleted all the evidence, and said we should ask them for it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear from the texts and emails that Mr W is angry about what he sees as poor service by 
Monzo. My job is to look at what Monzo did, and whether this was fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint. Id also explain that there are rules about what this 
service can and cant consider. This means I can only consider Mr Ws complaint about 
Monzo, and not his dispute with the online retailer. 
The disputed transactions
Ive looked at Mr Ws Monzo bank statements. They show three payments to the online 
retailer on 6 and 9 August 2020. But they appear once, and arent duplicated. So the 
evidence doesnt show that the payments to the online retailer were duplicated.  
A chargeback is a process which can be used to resolve disputes about goods and services. 
But chargebacks dont automatically produce a refund, and any bank which raises a 
chargeback on behalf of a customer has to have as much information as possible. 
Chargebacks arent decided by the bank which puts in the claim for its customer. And if there 
isnt enough information, the chargeback will just be rejected. 
So I find that it was fair for Monzo to have asked Mr W for more information about the 
transactions he was disputing.  And it was in Mr Ws own interests, because more 
information could have increased the chance of a chargeback succeeding. I can see Monzo 
did request more information, which Ive set out above. I recognise that Mr M said he didnt 
have a copy of the chat from the online retailer, and that the online retailer had closed his 
account. But Mr W didnt provide the necessary detailed information about why he disagreed 
with the online retailer, including a detailed account of what had happened, backed up by 
evidence. That information was essential to be able to raise a chargeback with any prospect of success. It was for Mr W to set out exactly what he was complaining about with the 
transactions, with relevant detail  it wasnt something which either Monzo or this service 
could do for him. Without that information, I find there was nothing more that Monzo could 
have done. 
Blocking the card
Ive read the chat messages, and having done so, I can see why Monzos employees  
werent clear whether the dispute was about goods and services, or whether it was about 
fraud. If fraud is a possibility, banks block cards to prevent a fraudster being able to take out 
more money. And unauthorised payment or fake transactions as Mr W described them 
at different times, could mean fraud. So I consider Monzo acted correctly when it blocked Mr 
Ws card initially. And I can see that on multiple occasions, it told him how he could get cash 
or urgent transactions done, and it issued a replacement card within reasonable timescales.
I can, however, see that after Mr W explained the payments had been made by him but had 
been duplicated, Monzo first unblocked the card then blocked it again a few days later. I 
consider the £35 which Monzo paid Mr W was fair and reasonable for the inconvenience 
which this service issue caused.
So I dont require Monzo to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman