DRN-3189355
The complaint
Miss G complains that Nationwide Building Society unfairly reported missed payments to 
credit reference agencies when she was unable to make payments to her personal loan 
account because of the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on her income. More broadly she 
complains that Nationwide didnt offer her the tailored support she was entitled to expect.
What happened
In October 2016 Miss G took out a fixed sum loan with Nationwide for £12,000. The term of 
the loan was 60 months and the monthly payments around £217.
In March 2020 Miss G requested some help as her income was disrupted by the Covid-19 
pandemic. A nil-payment plan was agreed initially, but when Nationwide started offering 
Covid-19 payment holidays Miss Gs plan was converted to a three-month payment holiday 
 this would prevent negative information being reported to her credit file.
In August 2020 Miss G asked for an extension to the payment holiday. Nationwide agreed a 
three-month nil-payment plan for September 2020 to November 2020 but later (in May 2021) 
recognised that this should have been a Covid-19 payment holiday extension covering the 
payments due in August, September and October 2020, and removed the missed payment 
markers for September and October.
In November 2020 Nationwide contacted Miss G to discuss her situation. Ive listened to a 
recording of this call. Miss G enquired about adding the loan to her mortgage or rewriting it, 
but because nothing had changed about her income and she had no disposable income, 
Nationwide said theyd be unable to do that. However, they offered her a nil-payment plan 
covering December 2020, January and February 2021. They also explained that this would 
show on her credit file. Miss G agreed.
In February 2021 Nationwide wrote to Miss G advising that her current payment plan had 
ended.
Nationwide called Miss G on 22 February 2021. Ive listened to a recording of this call. 
Miss G said she was starting to get some work again and the future was looking brighter 
but she didnt have the money to make any payments at that moment, particularly as her 
freezer had just broken. Miss G asked Nationwide to consider giving her a further three-
month payment holiday.
Nationwide said they wouldnt be prepared to do this due to the level of arrears. They said 
the best option, to give her more time, would be to default the loan, freeze the balance and 
send the outstanding amount to a debt collector to arrange a longer-term affordable 
repayment plan. Miss G wasnt happy to accept that the account would default; she asked 
Nationwide to consider re-writing the loan over a longer term. Nationwide explained that 
wouldnt be possible as Miss G couldnt demonstrate that would be affordable.
Miss G said shed try to bring the account up to date before the default notice expired. She 
made it clear she wanted to avoid a default as she was worried about how it would impact 
her job. Nationwide issued a default notice giving her to 15 March 2021 to clear the arrears.
Miss G contacted Nationwide on 10 March 2021. Miss G said shed like to pay £2,800 off 
what she owed. She was advised to pay £2,392.39 to clear the arrears and bring the 
account up to date. (Nationwide later explained that to clear the arrears on 10 March 2021 
she ought to have been advised to pay £2,827.37  the payment shed made had only 
brought her account up to date to the end of January 2021).
In April 2021 Miss G made a complaint about the missed payment markers Nationwide had 
reported to credit reference agencies since the start of her payment holidays and plans  
she said there were seven malicious entries on her credit file.
Nationwide responded to Miss Gs complaint about missed payment markers on 6 May 
2021. They accepted that they ought to have given Miss G a full six months of Coronavirus 
support, as there was no indication that this wasnt in Miss Gs best interests, before looking 
at business as usual support and that missed payments therefore shouldnt have been 
reported until October 2020. They agreed to request an amendment but said the credit 
reference agencies might take 6-8 weeks. And they offered Miss G £80 compensation. 
Miss G refused to accept this. She described placing adverse information on someones 
credit file during a pandemic as disgraceful.
Later in May 2021 Miss G paid off the remainder of the loan.
Miss G raised a further complaint about a missed payment being reflected on her account for 
the month of March 2021. On 27 May 2021 Nationwide upheld this complaint agreeing that 
there should be no missed payment for March 2021 because thats when Miss G brought her 
account up to date (or would have done if shed been advised of the correct amount). They 
agreed to send a request through to have this amended and offered Miss G a further £50 
compensation.
In July 2021 Miss G checked her credit file and saw that missed payments were showing for 
July, August, September, and October 2020. She provided screenshots to both us and 
Nationwide. Later that month she checked again and found the entries for July  October 
2020 had been removed and replaced with missed payments for November and December 
2020 and January to March 2021.
Nationwide also provided us with a screenshot from one of the main credit reference 
agencies  this showed 5 missed payment markers  November 2020 to March 2021 
inclusive.
In July 2021 the Information Commissioners Office asked Nationwide to do more to respond 
to Miss Gs complaint regarding the information theyd reported to her credit file.
In response to the ICOs involvement, Nationwide issued a further response to Miss G in 
August 2021. They confirmed that theyd remove entries relating to periods when Miss G 
was, or ought to have been, on a payment holiday as a Payment Holiday plan does not 
impact your credit file but that any other missed payment markers would remain, as they 
are an accurate reflection of the account.
In correspondence with our investigator Miss G added to her complaints that shed been 
given no tailored support by Nationwide when the Covid-19 payment holidays ended. 
Miss G made reference to the Financial Conduct Authoritys guidance on coronavirus 
support.
What Miss G told usWhen Miss G brought her complaint to this service she said her credit file was littered with 
missed payment markers between July 2020 and April 2021 when the FCAs guidance on 
what lenders should do during the Covid-19 pandemic said this shouldnt happen.
What Nationwide told us
Nationwide explained that whilst Miss Gs credit file wasnt affected when she was on a 
payment holiday they reported missed payments when the payment holidays expired and 
she was on a nil-payment plan because theyre required to report accurate information to 
credit reference agencies. They said the ones for November 2020 to March 2021 had been 
reported correctly because during that time Miss G was on a nil-payment plan; her Covid-19 
payment holidays having expired.
Our investigators view
Our investigator upheld Miss Gs complaint. She said whilst the missed payment markers 
Nationwide had reported for the period after her payment holiday ended and she was on a 
nil-payment plan (November 2020 to February 2021) were fairly applied, Nationwide 
shouldnt have reported a missed payment for October 2020 (showing on reports as 
November 2020) because she was still on a payment holiday at that point, or for March 2021 
(showing on reports as April 2021) because but for Nationwides error shed have brought 
her account up to date that month.
Our investigator noted that Nationwide had already agreed to request an amendment of the 
April 2021 entry, but she said they should also correct the entry for November 2020. She 
also said Nationwides offer of compensation wasnt sufficient compensation for the distress 
caused by some incorrect markers being added to Miss Gs credit file, and recommended 
they pay Miss G £250.
In a supplementary view, our investigator said it was reasonable for Nationwide to put 
Miss G on nil-payment plan in November 2020 because shed already been provided with 
two payment holidays.
Nationwide agreed to remove the adverse information prior to December 2020 as a goodwill 
gesture, alongside the £250 compensation award.
Miss G didnt accept the investigators view  she provided a detailed response. She didnt 
think the level of compensation was fair. She suggested increasing the award to £1,500. She 
highlighted the impact on her credit rating, the embarrassment and distress shes suffered, 
and the time its taken her to sort out.
Miss G asked why Nationwide couldnt have chosen to mark her credit file with 
Arrangement as a fairer reflection of the fact she was on a nil-payment plan. She said 
missed payments gives the impression she either refused or forgot to pay, not that she was 
on a nil-payment plan. She said: All I am asking for is to be treated in line with the FCAs 
guidelines during the Pandemic.
In December 2021 Nationwide provided a copy of Miss Gs credit reports from three of the 
main Credit Reference Agencies. These showed missed payments against five months  
November 2020, December 2020, January 2021, February 2021 and March 2021. The 
account status showed as ST meaning settled.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has come to me to decide.
The scope of this decisionBefore I explain my findings on this complaint, I want to provide some clarity about what 
issues this decision will, and will not, address. Between April and September 2021 Miss G 
brought numerous complaints to this service which relate to Nationwides management of 
her personal loan account between March 2020 and August 2021. As they all relate to the 
same loan account and series of events, the complaints overlap, but theyve been handled 
separately until this point and so Im issuing four separate decisions addressing different 
aspects. In summary, Miss G has complained that:
1. Nationwide unfairly marked her loan account as defaulted in January 2021 and 
passed it to a debt collector.
2. Nationwide reported missed payments to credit reference agencies whilst she was on 
payment plans and didn't offer her appropriate support in relation to her financial 
difficulties during the Covid-19 pandemic.
3. Nationwide reported the following adverse entry to her credit file in May 2021 - "A 
unsecured loan account will be changed to negative status on your May report".
4. Nationwide reported a 2nd default in May 2021, advised her that the only way to fix 
the incorrect default was to re-write the loan, and sent her a notice of arrears letter in 
August 2021.
In this decision, Ill address Miss Gs complaint that Nationwide reported missed payments to 
credit reference agencies whilst she was on payment plans and didn't offer her appropriate 
support in relation to her financial difficulties during the Covid-19 pandemic.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the investigators assessment; I think its fair for Nationwide to 
have recorded four missed payment markers for the payments due in November and 
December 2020 and in January and February 2021 (each would show on the credit file as a 
month later than when the payment was due). I also think Nationwide treated Miss G fairly 
and reasonably when her Covid-19 payment holidays came to an end in November 2020.
However, I can see that there has been some inaccurate and confusing reporting of missed 
payments to Miss Gs credit file along the way; the payments for August, September and 
October 2020 ought not to have been reported as missed as this should have been a 
payment holiday, not a nil-payment plan. And the payment for March 2021 should not have 
been reported as missed because Miss G would have made that payment if shed been 
advised correctly about the amount she needed to pay to bring the account up to date on 
10 March 2021.
Nationwide have previously said that, as Miss G had already received the maximum 6 
months payment holiday by October 2020 (shed not made any payments since February 
2020), it would be reasonable for Miss Gs credit file to show a total of five missed payment 
markers  with the first missed payment being the one due in October 2020 (showing on 
credit reports as November 2020). Ive thought about this carefully and referred to the FCAs 
Personal loans and coronavirus: Payment Deferral Guidance which was first issued in April 
2020 and updated several times to November 2020.
This guidance allowed lenders, including Nationwide, to put in place payment deferrals on 
many credit agreements, including personal loans, to help customers whose income was 
affected by the measures imposed by the government in response to the pandemic. The 
guidance said:2.2 The maximum number of monthly payments that a firm should defer under this 
guidance over the period from 9 April 2020 to 31 July 2021 in respect of a regulated 
credit agreement is 6 in total.
2.3 A firm should not give a single payment deferral in respect of more than 3 
monthly payments.
The guidance went on to say that firms should not report a worsening status on the 
customers credit file during any payment deferral period, but the expectation was that firms 
would report to credit reference agencies in line with normal reporting processes where 
payments were missed outside of the payment deferral periods. The guidance also said 
firms werent precluded from offering a more generous form of support and that When 
implementing this guidance, firms should take account of the particular needs of their 
vulnerable customers.
Looking at the course of events in Miss Gs case I think Nationwide, in effect, gave Miss G 
payment deferrals from March 2020 up to and including the payment that was due in 
October 2020. The first payment deferral covered the payments due in March, April and May 
2020 and the second payment deferral appears to have, retrospectively, covered the 
payments due in August, September and October 2020. This does mean that the payments 
due in June and July 2020 dont seem to have been covered by a payment deferral period. 
As such I think it would usually be reasonable to report these payments as missed. But as I 
dont think it was made clear to Miss G until November 2020 that her Covid-19 payment 
holidays had ended, and because Miss G is a vulnerable customer, I think its fair to consider 
Miss Gs first missed payment as the one that was due in November 2020. That means I 
think its fair, in the particular circumstances of this case, that her credit file only shows that 
she missed payments in November and December 2020 and January and February 2021  
a total of four missed payments.
I note that Nationwide have already agreed, as a gesture of goodwill, to remove the adverse 
information on Miss Gs credit file prior to December 2020. Theyve also agreed to pay the 
£250 compensation award our investigator recommended. I think thats a fair and 
reasonable outcome; the compensation reflects that Miss G has been caused some distress 
by the multiple changes to her credit file and overall lack of clarity about which months were 
covered by a Covid-19 payment holiday and which were not. It also reflects the distress 
caused by the missed payment unfairly reported for March 2021.
I dont agree with Miss G that more than £250 compensation is warranted here. I know shes 
distressed that any adverse information has been reported in respect of this loan at all, and 
that distress is acutely felt because of Miss Gs wider experiences with Nationwide. But 
ultimately, I find shes received a longer period of payment deferrals (8 months) than she 
was strictly entitled to under the FCAs guidance and the remaining four missed payment 
markers have been applied fairly.
Moving on to Miss Gs complaint that Nationwide failed to offer her tailored support when 
her payment deferrals came to an end, I dont think Nationwide acted unfairly or 
unreasonably. By the time Miss G spoke with Nationwide in November 2020 Miss G had 
paid nothing towards her loan for 9 months and the outlook for when her income would 
return to a more stable state remained uncertain.
The FCAs guidance Consumer credit and Coronavirus: Tailored Support Guidance applied 
to firms dealing with customers who were no longer eligible for payment deferrals. The intent 
was support firms, to help customers bridge the crisis and get back to a more stable 
financial position. That guidance said tailored support could include further payment 
deferrals where a firm agreed to accept no payments for a further period, but made it clear:These payment deferrals would not be subject to the Payment Deferral Guidance 
but would be provided as a form of tailored support under this guidance. Payment 
deferrals provided in these circumstances should therefore be reported to credit files 
in accordance with usual reporting processes ...
The guidance also said that because of the prevailing uncertainties it would be appropriate 
to delay the use of long-term solutions and offer short-term forbearance arrangements. I 
think that by offering Miss G a nil-payment plan for December 2020 and January and 
February 2021 Nationwide were giving her further space and time to see what would happen 
with her employment; and I think that was a fair thing to do in the circumstances. Nationwide 
were also adhering to this guidance when they reported these payments as missed.
Putting things right
Im upholding Miss Gs complaint to the extent that I find Nationwide unfairly reported missed 
payments to credit reference agencies for the months of October 2020 and March 2021 
(showing on reports as November 2020 and April 2021), and also provided a lack of clarity 
about which payments where covered by Covid-19 payment holidays which led to multiple 
changes being made to Miss Gs credit file and caused her distress. To put this right 
Nationwide should, as theyve already agreed to do, and if theyve not already done so:
Arrange for the missed payments prior to December 2020, and the one for April 
2021, to be removed from Miss Gs credit file.
Pay Miss G £250 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. Nationwide Building Society should 
put things right in the way I set out in the Putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 
Beth Wilcox
Ombudsman