DRN-2576871
The complaint
Mrs C says AIB Group (UK) Plc (trading as First Trust Bank) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mrs C opened a credit card account with AIB in 2000. At the same time, she took out a PPI 
policy to protect her monthly credit card payments against accident, sickness and involuntary 
unemployment. Mrs C paid a monthly premium for the cover.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mrs C disagreed 
with the adjudicators view, so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website, and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Cs case.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, I need to decide what I thinks most likely 
to have happened, based on the information I have.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
AIB no longer has the paperwork which Mrs C signed when she applied for the credit 
card and PPI. I dont think thats surprising or unreasonable, given how long ago this 
was. But its provided a sample of the type of credit card application form that it was 
using at the time.
The sample form includes equally prominent options to take or decline the PPI. And 
I think its unlikely that PPI would have been added to Mrs Cs account unless she ticked 
the box to show that she wanted PPI.
Ive also borne in mind that the PPI premiums would have shown on Mrs Cs monthly 
credit card statements. Given that Im satisfied that it would have been clear that the PPI 
was optional, I think its likely that Mrs C would have queried the PPI premiums with AIB 
if she hadnt wanted the cover. Ive seen nothing to suggest that she did so.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied, on balance, that AIB made it clear to Mrs C 
that the PPI was optional. And I think she decided to take it knowing that she had a 
choice. But I can understand how she may no longer remember this, so many years 
later.
Mrs C and AIB agree that AIB didnt recommend the policy to Mrs C, or give her advice 
about it. This means AIB didnt need to check that the policy was suitable for her. It was 
for Mrs C to decide whether she wanted the cover, knowing what alternative means 
shed have had of making her monthly credit card repayments if shed been off sick, or 
lost her job. But AIB still needed to give Mrs C clear enough information to enable her to 
decide whether the PPI was right for her.
Its possible the information AIB gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But Ive explained that I think she chose to take out the PPI  so she appears 
to have wanted this type of cover, even if shes understandably forgotten that now. 
Based on what Ive seen of Mrs Cs circumstances at the time, she was eligible for the 
PPI. And it doesnt look as if she was affected by any of the main things the policy didnt 
cover.
Mrs Cs told us shed only have been entitled to statutory sick pay from her employer at 
the time. So its likely her income would have been significantly reduced if shed been off 
sick. If Mrs C had made a successful claim on the PPI for accident, sickness or 
involuntary unemployment, it would have helped with her monthly credit card repayments 
for up to 12 months. Whats more, it would have paid out in addition to any payments Mrs 
C received from her employer. So she could have used those to meet other day-to-day 
expenses.
Mrs C has told us that she and her partner had some joint savings at the time. But 
having the PPI would have meant that she could have kept her savings or used them to 
pay for other things. And although shes mentioned that her partner had life insurance, 
thats a different type of cover, and wouldnt have paid out in the same circumstances as 
the PPI.
Mrs C has also told us she could have relied on family for support if she was struggling 
financially. But circumstances can change, and I cant be sure Mrs Cs family would have 
been in a position to help her if the need had arisen.
Its possible that AIB could have given Mrs C clearer information about the cost of the 
PPI. But the policy was competitively priced, and Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mrs C 
couldnt afford it. And as she was paying for it monthly, she could have cancelled it at 
any time with no further cost if her circumstances changed, or if she decided she no 
longer wanted the cover.
Taking everything into account, I think Mrs C could have found the PPI useful. And 
I think its unlikely that better information about the policy would have made her decide 
against taking it out.
This means AIB doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs C. But AIB will pay 
back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs C because:
When the policy was sold, AIB expected to get a high level of commission and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs C about that. 
Because AIB didnt tell Mrs C, that was unfair.
To put that right, AIB has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.Putting things right
AIB has to pay back to Mrs C any commission and profit share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. AIB should also pay back to Mrs C any extra interest she paid 
because of that.
AIB should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mrs C the difference 
between what she owes and what she would have owed if the commission and profit 
share it got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. AIB should also pay Mrs C 8% 
simple interest if Mrs C paid off her credit card at some point.*
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs C can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so AIB Group (UK) Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs C.
But AIB Group (UK) Plc does have to pay back to Mrs C any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2021.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman