DRN-3161258
The complaint
Mr L complains about the service provided by Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) when he 
made a claim on his home emergency insurance policy. 
References to IPA include their agents.  
What happened
On 1 May 2021 Mr L contacted IPA to make a claim on his home emergency policy. He said 
he had no heating or hot water in his home due to a problem with his boiler. IPA sent an 
engineer to inspect the boiler the same day, but he wasnt able to fix the boiler and informed 
Mr L someone would be in touch to discuss the next steps. 
Mr L says no one got in touch with him so he contacted IPA again on 3 May 2021. He was 
told that no one could come out as it was a bank holiday and they were waiting for the parts 
to arrive before completing the repair. But because he was still without heating or hot water 
IPA said he could either stay in a hotel or purchase a heater. Mr L chose to take the heater 
as he assumed the boiler would be fixed the next day. 
On 4 May 2021 Mr L called IPA again to get an update. IPA told him that the part for his 
boiler had been ordered but wouldnt be delivered for a couple of days so any repair would 
be after this time. Mr L was unhappy, so he complained. 
IPA contacted Mr L the following day to discuss the complaint. Mr L said had he been told 
that the repair would have taken longer he would have chosen to stay in a hotel rather than 
purchase a heater. He said this would have saved him from having to travel to his sisters 
house on multiple occasions to have a shower. IPA apologised and offered Mr L £20 in 
compensation. 
The following day an engineer contacted Mr L to say he was on his way to repair the boiler. 
But Mr L wasnt at home and said he wasnt informed someone would be attending that 
morning. Mr L then needed to rearrange the appointment as they couldnt revisit the same 
day. The engineer attended on 7 May 2021 but was unable to repair the boiler as there was 
still an issue with the parts, so he rebooked to come back on 8 May 2021. The following day 
the engineer was able to repair the boiler.
Mr L was unhappy with the service he received so referred his complaint to our service. He 
said he wasnt kept updated and had he known the boiler was going to take so long to fix he 
would have stayed in a hotel. But because this wasnt clearly communicated to him, he 
purchased a heater instead and had to travel to his sisters house to have a shower. Mr L 
said hed like IPA to pay him the £250 alternative accommodation limit he would have been 
given had he elected to stay in a hotel and reimburse him for the cost of the heater.
Our investigator upheld Mr Ls complaint. She felt IPA could have been clearer with Mr L at 
the start of the claim and because they werent, she said they should pay an additional £50 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr L. She also said that IPA 
should reimburse Mr L for the heater. 
IPA accepted the investigators assessment and said they would be able to reimburse Mr L 
the cost of the heater if he provided a receipt for the purchase. Mr L didnt agree with the 
investigator, he didnt think £50 was enough to reflect the inconvenience caused to him. So 
he asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive come to the same conclusion as the investigator for largely the same 
reasons. Ill explain why. 
The main issues Mr L complains of are the time taken by IPA to fix his boiler and the 
communication from them during the repair process. I have looked at the information 
provided to understand whether IPA acted reasonably in their handling of the claim. 
The records show that an engineer did attend Mr Ls home promptly. However, the boiler 
could not be repaired. It was established that replacement parts were needed to do this. The 
notes reflect that the parts were ordered but due to the bank holiday there was a delay 
before these became available. This meant Mr L was without hot water and heating for a few 
days before the boiler could be repaired. Mr L told us that he had no contact from IPA 
following the initial visit of the engineer and the notes show he had to contact them a couple 
of days later for an update.
During the update IPA did offer Mr L the choice of either getting a heater or to book himself 
into a hotel, but this was done later than it should have been. I think it was unreasonable of 
them to have not offered him the choice immediately after the engineers initial visit as they 
would have known Mr L would be without heating or hot water for a few days.    
The boiler was eventually fixed the following Saturday after a delay in getting the part and 
some confusion in arranging for the engineer to return. Mr L said the repair took longer than 
needed because IPA initially sent an engineer when he wasnt at home and then when the 
engineer did attend, the part needed didnt work so he had to wait further before the boiler 
was finally repaired. 
Because of this Mr L said he had to go to his sisters house on numerous occasions to have 
a shower and if hed known the boiler would have taken a few days to repair he would have 
chosen to stay in a hotel rather than purchase a heater. I can understand why he found it 
frustrating that IPA were unable to repair his boiler sooner in these circumstances.
Ive considered this but I cant see any evidence to show IPA told him the repair would be 
done the following day when he was given the option to stay in a hotel. The notes say that 
the part was due to arrive in one to two days so there wasnt a clear timeframe as to when 
the part would be available during this call. So ultimately it was a choice for Mr L to make 
between taking the hotel or heater with the information available at the time.  
Mr L said IPA sent the engineer without notifying him which added to the delay, but Ive 
listened to the call he had with the IPA advisor and he was told the engineer would be 
coming the following morning. But because Mr L wasnt at home a further appointment was 
required. I havent seen evidence that shows IPA failed to do something required by their 
terms that could have resolved the problem sooner.  I think IPA did take appropriate action 
to repair Mr Ls boiler in line with the policy terms. However, they did not have the 
replacement parts immediately available. But I do think there should have been clearer communication on the options available to    
Mr L sooner. I agree with the investigators opinion that IPA hasnt provided the service 
required here, and it is reasonable to offer some compensation for not making the options 
available to him immediately.
IPA paid Mr L £20 and agreed to reimburse him the cost of the heater, but I dont think this is 
enough for the lack of communication at the start of the claim as Mr L was without any 
heating or hot water for two days before he was advised of his options. So I agree that its 
fair and reasonable that IPA should compensate Mr L as the investigator suggested by 
paying an additional £50 in recognition of the inconvenience caused to Mr L on top of the 
£20 already paid and the reimbursement costs of the heater. 
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I uphold this complaint against Inter Partner Assistance 
SA and they should pay Mr L an additional £50 for the distress and inconvenience caused in 
the handling of his claim.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman