DRN-3841239
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain Aviva Insurance Limited have unfairly declined a claim they made 
under a home insurance policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on providing my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
An escape of water can cause a significant amount of damage in a short period of 
time. Here Mr and Mrs R have reported an insured peril under their policy  water 
overflowing from a kitchen sink for a period of around 90 minutes. So if Aviva wishes 
to cite an exclusion in order to decline the claim it needs to evidence it can be fairly 
applied. 
Mr and Mrs R have provided evidence from a flooring contractor which confirms the 
damage caused and that it is from an escape of water. While it mentions the floor 
shows normal wear and tear (for a four-year-old floor), it does not say this is more 
likely than not the cause of the damage.
Aviva have said the damage caused didnt happen as a one-off event, it says the 
bubbling of the laminate and warping of the pillars in the cupboard unit are more 
consistent with prolonged exposure to water. Rather than an incident which 
happened 48 hours earlier. 
Aviva however has not provided any evidence of how it believes this may have 
happened or pointed to another cause of damage, rather it has concluded this based 
on the pictures taken at the time. 
Here I am more persuaded by Mr and Mrs Rs account of events and the evidence 
they have provided from the independent contractor regarding the cause of damage.  
And, I dont think Aviva acted fairly in applying the exclusion it did to decline the 
claim. 
Mrs R has explained she was suffering health issues at the time this claim happened 
and the decline of claim caused her unnecessary distress on top of her treatment.  I 
think Aviva should therefore pay Mr and Mrs R £100 compensation to reflect the 
trouble and upset its actions caused.
For these reasons, I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive outlined above, to put things right, Aviva should:
Pay the claim under the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
If Mr and Mrs R have already paid for equivalent new flooring, then Aviva should 
cover this cost, as well as pay 8% interest from the date they incurred this cost until 
the date Aviva settles the claim.
Pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset this matter has caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint against Aviva Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman