DRN-2899341
The complaint
Ms H complained because Lloyds Bank plc refused to refund her for 12 withdrawals which 
she said she didnt make.
What happened
On 7 October 2020, Ms B lost her Lloyds debit card. At 21:27, she rang Lloyds, and said she 
wanted to check whether her card had been used. She said she couldnt find her card. Shed 
been in a taxi which had had an accident, and she thought it might have fallen out either at 
the time of the accident or when shed paid. Lloyds told Ms B that there had been a £200 
cash withdrawal at a post office that afternoon. Ms B said she hadnt made that withdrawal. 
Lloyds didnt uphold Ms Bs complaint. In its final response, it said that it couldnt understand 
how anyone had obtained the PIN. It said that the taxi people Ms B suspected hadnt had 
any opportunity to see the PIN.
Ms B wasnt satisfied and contacted this service. When she spoke to the investigator, he 
said he could see other cash withdrawals at the same post office, and at other post offices. 
Ms B said shed only made one of these, a £100 withdrawal on 1 September. She said she 
hadnt made any of the 12 withdrawals between May and October 2020.
Our investigator said there were genuine transactions between the 12 disputed transactions. 
So anyone who took the card would have had to return it between transactions. Ms B and 
the investigator spoke about people who had visited her home, including her daughter, 
builders in spring and summer, a difficult neighbour, and pest control people. She said shed 
also had 46 visits about boiler problems. The investigator asked for dates when the boiler 
visits took place. Ms B said she would ask her solicitor for these. When she wasnt able to 
obtain this, the investigator contacted the solicitor for the dates, but didnt get a reply.
Ms B also said that there wasnt a cash machine for some of the post offices where the 
withdrawals took place. But it turned out that these had counter service, so cash withdrawals 
using chip and PIN could still have taken place there.
The investigator didnt uphold Ms Bs complaint. He said theyd discussed how someone 
might have been able to access Ms Bs card for the 7 October transaction. And although the 
card might have fallen out of Ms Bs bag in the taxi, or when she paid the driver, this wouldnt 
explain how anyone who took the card could have known the PIN. And this wouldnt explain 
how anyone could have obtained Ms Bs card for the earlier transactions she disputed, from 
May onwards. As shed used the card for genuine transactions between these, someone 
would have had to take and replace the card multiple times, without Ms B noticing. He said it 
was most likely that Ms B had carried out the transactions herself, or someone with her 
consent.
Ms B didnt agree. She said she hadnt done the disputed transactions and hadnt instructed 
anyone else to steal from her. She said she planned to sue Lloyds because theyd told her 
theyd show her CCTV, but then hadnt. Ms B said shed also contacted the police and 
Action Fraud, neither of which had said she was the perpetrator. Ms B said she couldnt be 
held liable if she was a victim of crime by a skilled criminal. She asked for an ombudsman 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms B has raised multiple points about her complaint. Ive understood and looked into all of 
those, but Ive commented on what I think is vital to my conclusions. 
First, I asked Lloyds to confirm it was willing for us to consider the extra 11 transactions 
which Ms B raised for the first time when speaking to our investigator. The normal procedure 
is that a customer has to raise a complaint with the bank first, before it can bring a complaint 
to us. But here, Lloyds has confirmed its happy for me to cover the additional 11 
transactions in my decision.
Regulations
There are regulations about disputed transactions. The relevant regulations for the 
transactions Ms B says she didnt make, between May and October 2020, are the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017. These say that the payment service provider (here, Lloyds) must 
show the transaction was authenticated. Thats the technical part, and here, Ive seen 
computer evidence that Ms Bs genuine card, and the correct PIN, were used. So the 
disputed payments were authenticated.
The regulations also say that its necessary to look at whether the card holder authorised the 
payments. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the payments, 
and the customer is liable if he did authorise them. The regulations also say that account 
holders can still be liable for unauthorised payments under certain circumstances  for 
example if theyve failed to keep their details secure to such an extent that it can be termed 
gross negligence.
What might have happened here
I cant say for certain what happened here, because I wasnt present when the 12 disputed 
transactions took place. But it often happens that evidence isnt complete, and when thats 
the case, I take my decision on what I consider is most likely to have happened in all the 
circumstances of the case.
The key issue here is that if someone stole Ms Bs card, theyd have had to have known her 
PIN as well, in order to be able to take out money. Ms B told us that she hadnt written this 
down. So I cant see how any thief could have known the PIN, and without it they couldnt 
have made the withdrawals.
As Ive explained, Ms B initially only complained about one transaction. When she spoke to 
our investigator, she also disputed 11 more. These took place before the 7 October taxi 
incident, so not all the withdrawals could have resulted from the card being lost, then stolen 
by a fraudster that day. Ive seen that these were the only large cash withdrawals on her 
account statements during this period. So it would mean she was hardly withdrawing any 
cash during the period. Looking at her account activity in the previous months, those 
undisputed transactions are similar in amount and geographical locations to the 12 
transactions which Ms B is disputing.Looking at the 12 disputed transactions, there were other transactions in between these  
which Ms B hasnt disputed. This means any thief would have had to steal the card, and 
return it without Ms B noticing, many times. This is as well as the thief having to find out the 
PIN. Its been suggested that the boiler man, who visited many times during that period, 
might have been responsible. He had many visits so might have had the chance to return 
the card then steal it again. But we dont have evidence of the dates of the boiler mans 
visits, to see whether theres a pattern with the dates of the disputed transactions. And again 
 I cant see how hed have found out Ms Bs PIN.
Lloyds provided computer evidence that Ms Bs PIN hadnt been changed since it was first 
sent to her in January 2018. Ms B, however, said she changed it to a very memorable one 
years ago, which she told the investigator might be guessable by someone who knew her 
well. Whichever of these is true, if Ms B had changed it to a guessable number, she wouldnt 
have been meeting the terms and conditions of her account about taking proper care about 
security. So that wouldnt change the outcome. 
Ms B said that Lloyds told her theyd show her the CCTV for the October transaction. But 
CCTV is rarely kept for very long, so this seems unlikely, especially when the cash 
withdrawals took place at a number of post offices, not at Lloyds branches where Lloyds 
would have had control over its own CCTV. In any case, CCTV very rarely shows clearly 
who withdrew money and how much. So I think its unlikely this would be available, or would 
help if it were available.
Ms B also said that she contacted the police and Action Fraud, neither of which had said she 
was the perpetrator. This service doesnt comment on the actions of the police or Action 
Fraud. But in this case I wouldnt expect either of these to have investigated and given a 
view about whether or not Ms B had carried out the transactions herself.
In summary, theres no clear way how any third party who had stolen Ms Bs card could have 
found out her PIN, if it was properly secure as the account rules required. The withdrawals 
were all carried out by the genuine card using chip and PIN. So without both the genuine 
card and the PIN, no third party could have done the withdrawals. Many of the cash 
withdrawals were similar in location and amount to previous genuine transactions. And as 
there were genuine transactions between the 12 disputed ones, any fraudster would have 
had to steal and return the card many times. This seems unlikely. So I find that its most 
likely that Ms B carried out the withdrawals herself, or allowed someone known to her to do 
so, giving them the card and PIN. Either way, the responsibility lies with Ms B, and Lloyds 
doesnt have to refund her.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman