DRN-3557972
The complaint
Ms S complains about U K Insurance Limited (UKI) under her home emergency policy. Her 
complaint is that UKI didnt deal with a boiler fault that left her without heating or hot water, 
because they said the boiler had been worked on by a third party.
References to UKI include their agents who deal with claims.
This decision only relates to Ms Ss complaint about the home emergency cover provided by 
UKI as part of her home insurance policy (which was provided by a separate insurer). It 
doesnt cover Ms Ss complaint to that insurer about damage to her kitchen floor which she 
says was the result of the problem with her boiler.
What happened
In February 2022, Ms S had a problem with her boiler and contacted UKI. They arranged for 
an engineer to go out and assess the problem. However, when the engineer attended, he 
said a third party had already worked on the boiler. He said that meant he couldnt continue 
to work on the boiler under the terms of the home emergency section of the policy.
Ms S then arranged for her own engineer to come out and fix the boiler. But in the 
meantime, she was left without heating or hot water (although UKI did provide an electric 
heater and offered alternative accommodation, up to a value of £250).
Unhappy at what had happened, Ms S complained to UKI. She said shed been left without 
heating or hot water and had children with medical conditions. She also said she hadnt been 
made aware of the exclusion that meant UKI wouldnt carry out work on a problem where a 
third party had already been involved and carried out some work. Ms S also thought the 
engineer hadnt stopped a leak, which caused further damage to her property.
Ms Ss complaint was initially considered by their agent who provided services under the 
home emergency policy (C), who upheld the complaint in part. On the issue of the engineer 
refusing to work on the boiler, C said he was told by Ms S a private engineer attended the 
week before to attend to a leak. C said the terms of the home emergency policy meant they 
couldnt continue with a claim where there had been third party involvement. But C accepted 
Ms S was incorrectly advised initially they couldnt offer alternative accommodation (but then 
was told they could). By way of an apology for initially being given incorrect information, C 
offered Ms S £75 in compensation.
UKI then also responded to Ms Ss complaint, which they upheld in part. They didnt uphold 
the complaint in respect of the engineer not working on the boiler due to the third-party 
involvement (as that aspect of complaint was dealt with by C). But they did uphold that part 
of the complaint about the exclusion for third party involvement not being made clear in the 
policy terms and conditions. They offered Ms S £500, which was the maximum the policy 
would pay for the cost of a single incident. They also offered a further £150 compensation for 
any distress or inconvenience to Ms S.
Unhappy at UKIs (and Cs) response, Ms S complained to this service. The main 
points were that the engineer came out to look at her boiler but left after saying the 
boiler had been worked on by a third party. This left her without heating or hot water 
for nearly two weeks until she engaged her own plumber to fix the boiler. She also 
thought the problem with the boiler had caused water to get under the kitchen tiles 
and caused them to lift, but UKI wouldnt send an engineer to look at the problem. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Ms Ss complaint, concluding UKI didnt need to do 
anything further. She noted UKI had upheld part of Ms Ss complaint and accepted 
the policy wasnt clear enough about further work not being carried out where a third 
party had attended an incident. As UKI had offered to pay Ms S £500 (the maximum 
amount under the policy for any one home emergency incident) as well as £150 in 
compensation for distress and inconvenience, the investigator thought this was fair 
and reasonable. She also thought it fair UKIs contractor had separately offered £75 
to Ms S for providing incorrect information about alternative accommodation. 
Ms S disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. She said shed paid the first plumber £450 but didnt have the work done because 
of a disagreement. She then engaged a second plumber who did a bad job. Together with 
how she felt shed been treated by UKI, she didnt feel the total amount of compensation 
they (and their contractor) had offered (£725) was fair. She thought it should be higher.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether UKI has acted fairly towards Ms S.
The main issue in Ms Ss complaint is that UKI didnt fix the problem with her boiler, as the 
engineer who visited refused to carry out work because work had previously been carried 
out by a third-party engineer. Ms S says this left her without heating or hot water, which was 
made worse by her having children with a medical condition. UKI say the home emergency 
policy terms and conditions include an exclusion where work has been carried out by a third-
party engineer  although they acknowledge in their final response this isnt clear from the 
policy terms and conditions. In recognition of this, theyve offered Ms S £500 (the maximum 
amount the policy would pay towards the cost of dealing with a single incident) and £150 in 
compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Ive considered both views carefully, together with the information and evidence available. 
On balance, Ive concluded that UKI have acted fairly and reasonably, so I wont be asking 
them to take any further action. I know this will be disappointing to Ms S, so Ill set out why 
Ive come to that view.
Looking at the home emergency policy terms and conditions (contained in one section of the 
overall home insurance policy), the only references I can see that could be considered to 
exclude cover where a third-party engineer has previously carried out work are within 
Section 5 Home Emergency where theres a heading Conditions and losses not covered with 
a sub-heading Losses not covered that only apply to Section 5 Home Emergency. This 
includes the following reference:
X We wont pay for:
The cost of work carried out by anyone except the authorised repairer we 
have sentTheres also a reference in the Policy Definitions section of the policy that includes the 
following definition of Emergency assistance (section 5):
Work carried out by an authorised repairer or suitably qualified repairer to 
temporarily or permanently deal with and emergency, carry out emergency repairs or 
prevent further damage.
Looking at these two references, I dont think they make it clear the policy wouldnt provide 
assistance where work had previously been carried out by a third-party engineer. The first 
definition refers to the cost of work carried out not being carried out  not that any such work 
would mean the policy wouldnt provide assistance. The second definition is simply what 
assistance is provided under the policy  it doesnt say assistance wont be provided where 
a third-party engineer has attended.
Based on this, Ive concluded the policy didnt make it clear assistance wouldnt be provided 
where a third-party engineer had previously attended. I recognise Ms S disputes third-party 
involvement took place, but the case notes from UKI indicate this was the case. Having 
reached this conclusion, Ive considered UKIs response. Accepting the policy exclusion isnt 
clear, theyve offered Ms S £500  which is the maximum theyd pay for the cost of a single 
incident under the policy. As its the maximum, I think thats fair and reasonable as it puts Ms 
S in the same financial position she would have been had the claim been accepted. 
Ive also considered UKIs further offer of £150 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience she suffered. Ive thought about the circumstances carefully, including what 
Ms S has said about her family circumstances and having children with a medical condition.  
I think £150 is fair and reasonable, so I wont be asking UKI to increase the figure. 
C offered £75 for providing incorrect information about whether Ms S would be entitled to 
alternative accommodation. From what Ive seen, Ms S was offered alternative 
accommodation (up to £250, the limit under the policy). But she said she didnt want to take 
it up because of the potential disruption to her and her children. Given this, I think C acted 
fairly and reasonably in offering alternative accommodation in line with the policy terms and 
conditions, and in offering compensation for initially providing incorrect information.
In her response to our investigators view, Ms S refers to difficulties shes had with engaging 
her own assistance. Based on whats shes said, I can understand her frustration. But I cant 
hold UKI responsible for the issues shes had with the two engineers shes engaged.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman