DRN-3015412
The complaint
Miss C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC incorrectly processed a US dollar cheque she
deposited into her sterling account resulting in an exchange rate loss.
Whats happened
Miss C deposited a US Dollar cheque to her sterling current account in early July 2020. She
was told the funds from the cheque would be available around a week later. But Miss C was
contacted by Barclays 11 days later and she discovered the cheque had yet to be processed
and that it could take up to 6-8 weeks for the funds to be credited to her account. The funds
were subsequently credited around a month later in August 2020.
Miss C complained to Barclays saying she was not told that it would take so long to clear the
cheque and, as a result of the delay, she has made a financial loss due to exchange rate
changes.
Barclays accepted that Miss C was given incorrect information about the timescales for the
clearance of a US Dollar cheque when she first deposited it. And that there had been a delay
delivering the cheque from the branch to its processing centre due to the impact of the
Covid-19 pandemic on its business operations.
In recognition of the above it apologised and offered Miss C £200 compensation. But it didnt
agree that Miss C had lost out financially as a result. It said that the correct timescales for
clearing a US Dollar cheque was 6-8 weeks and it couldnt have processed the cheque any
quicker.
Miss C didnt accept this and so she referred her complaint to this service. She said that she
decided to deposit her cheque with Barclays based on the information provided. And had
she been given the correct information she might have done something different. For
example  using another banks service or depositing the cheque in a US dollar account.
She also pointed out that Barclays caused an extended delay as the cheque wasnt
processed until 11 days later after she deposited it.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened, but she didnt uphold the
complaint. She acknowledged that Barclays had accepted it provided mis-information and
that there had been an initial delay. But she thought Barclays offer of £200 compensation
fairly reflected these issues. She noted that Miss C was unable to show that she C could
have obtained the funds any quicker by depositing the cheque by other means, so she didnt
think Barclays had caused her a financial loss.
Miss C didnt agree with this outcome. She asked for her complaint to be looked at by an
ombudsman. So, her complaint was passed to me
My provision decision  and the responses
By way of a provisional decision dated 20 August 2021, I set out the reasons why I didnt 
intend to uphold Miss Cs complaint. The following is an extract from my provision findings 
set out in the provisional decision: 
Barclays has not disputed that the branch staff didnt provide the right information about how
Miss Cs US Dollar cheque would be processed. However, it has provided a copy of the
document Miss C would have signed when depositing the cheque. This explains that
Barclays offers two services for clearing a foreign cheque and the timescales involved. The
first option is a collection service  where funds arent credited to an account until the
cheque has cleared which can take up to eight weeks. The second option is a negotiation
service  where funds are credited within several days; but before the cheque is cleared and
the funds can be debited back if the cheque is returned unpaid. I think this makes it clear
that the time frame for receiving the funds is dependent on the clearing method used.
Barclays initially told our investigator that the cheque Miss C deposited was a US Treasury
cheque which it could only processed via the collection service. But I can see its important
to Miss C to understand why her cheque wasnt negotiated.
So, I made further enquiries with Barclays. In response, it provided its procedures for
collecting and negotiating foreign cheques. These procedures set out its process for
deciding if a foreign cheque should be negotiated or collected. Having looked carefully at
this, Im satisfied that the value of Miss Cs cheque  which was equivalent to over £20,000,
was over Barclays limit to be negotiated. So, while I accept Barclays branch staff provided
wrong information at the outset, Im satisfied that Barclays did process Miss Cs cheque
correctly in line with its procedures. I also note that Barclays made Miss C aware that receipt
of the funds would take longer than she had been told when it contacted her in July 2020.
Miss C says that had she been given correct information in branch shed have done
something different. And Ive thought about what Miss C has said. But Im not persuaded
that she could have done anything that would have meant she would have got her funds
sooner than she did. Ill explain why.
Miss C said she would have deposited the cheque with another bank. But in my experience,
most banks will only accept foreign cheques being deposited to sterling accounts held with it.
And Miss C hasnt said she had an account with another bank that would have enabled her
to deposit the cheque elsewhere.
Even if this was something she could have done - as mentioned above, negotiating a
cheque involves the receiving bank paying the customer the funds upfront (before the
cheque is actually paid by the remitting bank). And I think its unlikely that another bank
would have processed the cheque by negotiation given the value of it even if Miss C was a
customer.
Miss C has also said she could have paid the cheque into a US Dollar account. But again,
Ive not seen anything to suggest that Miss C held a US dollar account. And I think setting up
such an account would have taken some time  not least as this all happened during the
pandemic. During this time the financial services regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority,
had issued guidance to banks. This included telling banks to treat new account opening
requests as non-essential transactions. So, I think its unlikely that Miss C would have been
able to open a new account to enable her to receive her funds sooner than she did.
Overall, Im not persuaded that Miss C would have done anything different. I appreciate that
whilst her cheque was being processed exchange rates changed, but I dont think Barclaysis responsible for that.
I note that Barclays has accepted that there was an initial delay in processing Miss Cs
cheque. It has explained that when a foreign cheque is deposited in branch, the cheque is
sent to its overseas cheque processing department via courier. But, at the time Miss C
deposited her cheque, the courier service it used was impacted by the global pandemic. It
said the couriers pick up and drop off times werent as frequent, and this delayed Miss Cs
cheque being processed.
Ive thought carefully about this. But I dont think Barclays can be held responsible for such
delays. The pandemic was unprecedented event and negatively affected consumers and
business alike. And, despite the initial delay, Miss C received the funds from the cheque
within the timescales for a collection service.
I can see how strongly Miss C feels about this complaint, so Im sorry to disappoint her. But
overall, Im not persuaded that Miss C would have received the funds from her US Cheque
any sooner than she did.
But I think Barclays could have done more to explain to Miss C that its courier service had
been impacted by the pandemic. And I accept it provided inaccurate information about when
shed receive the funds. So, I agree that some compensation is due for the distress and
inconvenience this caused. Barclays has offered £200. Having thought about it carefully, for
the reasons given above, I think this offer is fair. So, I wont be asking Barclays to increase
the award.
Barclays responded to say it had nothing further to add and agreed with the provisional 
decision. Miss C responded  in summary, to say:
she doesnt recall signing a form, but even if she did this doesnt negate the verbal 
mis-information she was given about cheque clearance timescales;
having received another US dollar cheque, she has made arrangements with 
Barclays to open a US Dollar account. And this is what she would have done had she 
been correct inform when she deposited the initial cheque;
Barclays has not paid the £200 compensation offered to date.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I appreciate Miss C will be disappointed, I remain of the view - for the 
reasons given in my provision decision (set out above) and below (in response to Miss Cs 
latest comments), that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Barclays has only been able to provide an example copy of the form it says Miss C would 
have been asked to sign. But, on balance, I think its most likely that Miss C would have 
signed a form. I think this would have been required in order for Barclays to accept the 
cheque and send it to its processing centre. 
That said, I agree with Miss C that this doesnt negate the mis-information she was told 
verbally. But in this respect, Barclays has already accepted that mis-information was given 
and its offer of £200 compensation. And I think this is fair.
Miss C is certain she would have opened a US Dollar account had she been given the right 
information when she deposited the cheque. And she doesnt think the wider circumstances at the time  the global pandemic, would have made a substantial difference in the 
timescales for doing that. So, Ive given this further careful thought. 
As mentioned above, Miss C was given the wrong information when she deposited the 
cheque. But Miss C was aware  all be it 11 days later, that her cheque was to be collected 
and the timescales this involved. Given this, I think Miss C would have told Barclays to stop 
processing the cheque pending a request to open a US Dollar account had she intended to 
open one. But despite being aware of the timescales at this point, Miss C didnt ask Barclays 
to stop processing the cheque. Nor, have I seen anything to suggest she enquired about 
opening a US Dollar account at this point.
I can understand why  in hindsight, Miss C now says she would have opened a US Dollar 
account (given exchange rates moved against her) and that she is now making arrangement 
to do so to prevent this happening again. But Im not persuaded that Miss C considered 
opening a US Dollar account when the cheque that is currently in dispute was deposited. So, 
for the reasons given, I dont think she would have done anything differently had she been 
given the correct information about the timescales for clearing a US Dollar cheque at the 
outset. 
Barclays has offered £200 compensation for the inconvenience caused due to the            
mis-information provided and the delay in the cheque reaching its processing centre. Given 
all the circumstances at the time, I think this is fair. So, I wont be asking Barclays to do 
anything more. But Barclays is now required to pay Miss C £200.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Miss Cs complaint  in the sense that Barclays 
Bank UK PLC has already offered fair compensation. 
Barclays Bank UK PLC should now pay Miss C £200 compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 September 2021.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman