DRN-3490437
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Nationwide Building Society would not process a refund for her under 
the Direct Debit Guarantee (DDG) scheme.
What happened
Mrs B contacted Nationwide and asked that they complete a refund on her behalf, to obtain 
a refund for one of her direct debits, which she said she had not used the service the third 
party provided for over ten years. Nationwide told Mrs B that they were unable to raise a 
claim for a refund for this reason, so Mrs B made a complaint to Nationwide.  
Nationwide did not uphold the complaint. They said that as Mrs B had confirmed to them that 
she initially gave authority for the direct debit to be set up, they wouldnt be able to put 
through a refund claim. Nationwide said that she would need to speak to the third party 
directly to raise her query. In a follow up response, Nationwide said that the DDG only 
covers errors made in the collection of a direct debit. They said the direct debit in question 
was set up in July 2019 for a service Mrs B says she never used, however, a dispute with a 
merchant over goods and services not received isnt covered by the DDG, therefore they 
were unable to make a claim for a refund on her behalf. Mrs B brought her complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator did not uphold Mrs Bs complaint. He said the DDG applies to all direct 
debits. It's there to protect customers if there's been an error with their payment. He said the 
payment errors that are covered would be if an error is made regarding the payment date, 
the amount or frequency has been changed without the proper notice. So, when taking into 
account the rules and what Mrs B said were the reasons for the claim being made, he was 
persuaded that this did not meet the criteria under the DDG rules to make a claim. 
Our investigator said that Mrs B had said that she didnt setup this direct debit, but for a 
direct debit to be setup, the originator would need her permission. The originator would then 
contact Nationwide and provide this consent before any payment could be taken from her 
account. So our investigator thought the direct debit wouldnt have been setup without her 
consent.
Mrs B asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. In summary, she said her friends 
were able to get a full refund for the same claim and she never signed a contract for the 
direct debit.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
shes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of her complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here. I must 
make it clear to Mrs B that despite her saying that her friends got a full refund for the same 
claim, Im only able to focus on the merits of her individual complaint. So Ill be looking to see 
if Nationwide were fair in how they handled Mrs Bs request.
Ive considered what Mrs B has said about her not signing a contract and that there was no 
wet signature. But there does not have to be a wet signature to consent to a direct debit 
being set up on an account as this can be set up electronically instead of being paper based.  
Ive considered the wording of the DDG scheme in order to see if Nationwide made any 
errors in not raising a refund claim for Mrs B, but Im not persuaded they have and Ill explain 
why.
The wording used is The Direct Debit Guarantee applies to all Direct Debits. It protects you 
in the rare event that there is an error in the payment of your Direct Debit, for instance if a 
payment is taken on the incorrect date, or the wrong amount is collected. It cannot be used 
to address contractual disputes between you and the billing organisation.
Ive listened to the phone call where Mrs B asks Nationwide to raise a refund claim for her. 
The call handler asks Mrs B why she wants to raise the refund claim. Mrs B responds by 
saying because Ive not been using their services. The call handler asks Mrs B if she 
initially authorised the direct debit to come out of her account and she says Ive no idea, 
but Mrs B also tells the call handler she wrote to the direct debit company as she hadnt 
been using their service for a number of years. 
The call handler says if you have allowed them to take the direct debit out to begin with, 
then the contract would have been set up, meaning it would have started coming out of your 
account, meaning that youve given them the authority to take it. Mrs B responds but, let 
me just double check..yeah, but Ive been paying for a service that Ive not used. So on 
this basis, I cant say that Nationwide have made an error in not raising a refund claim for 
Mrs B as she has said she did not use the service on multiple occasions. So this would not 
be classed as a payment error under the DDG scheme, and therefore Nationwide were 
reasonable in not raising a claim on behalf of Mrs B for this reason. So it follows, I dont 
require Nationwide to do anything else.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman