DRN-3650873
The complaint
Mr W complains that Webbs Motor Caravans Ltd (WMCL) did not fairly compensate him 
after it mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI). 
What happened
On 8 June 2006, Mr W bought a motorhome through WMCL. Finance for the purchase was 
provided by a third-party business. WMCL sold PPI to Mr W on the same date. 
The policy sold to Mr W was a single premium policy. That means he had to borrow extra on 
top of his loan to pay for the PPI. He also had to pay interest on the cost of that policy. The 
agreement was set up for 120 months. The cost of the PPI policy was £3,154.62 and the 
expected interest on the PPI was £1,656.18. Altogether, Mr W would have to pay £4,810.80 
for PPI.  
Mr W told us that he stuck to the terms of the agreement and the loan was repaid as 
planned. 
Sometime later, Mr W complained to the third-party business about the sale of PPI. The 
third-party business offered to pay back to Mr W some of the commission he had paid for the 
PPI. But it said it was not responsible for the sale. It forwarded the mis-sale complaint to 
WMCL. 
Mr W says he did not receive a substantive response from WMCL and so he brought the 
mis-sale complaint to this service. Our adjudicator looked at the complaint and thought it 
should be upheld. WMCL agreed with our adjudicators view. It offered to pay £2,500 to Mr 
W in full and final settlement of the complaint. 
Mr W did not accept WMCLs offer. Another of our adjudicators looked at the matter and 
agreed that the offer was not in line with what this service would usually expect.  He wrote to 
WMCL to say he didnt think its offer to Mr W was fair. He said the third-party business may 
be able to assist WMCL in recalculating its offer and our adjudicator also offered to provide 
assistance. 
No response has been received from WMCL and so the matter has been passed to me to 
make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The parties agree that PPI was mis-sold. That means I dont have to consider what 
happened at the point of sale. Im just looking at whether Mr W has been fairly compensated 
for that mis-sale. 
After taking account of all the information before me, I agree with our adjudicator that WMCL 
did not fairly compensate Mr W for mis-selling PPI. Ill explain why below. 
In making this decision, I must apply the rules the Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA) set 
for this service. Those rules are known as the DISP rules and they can be found online in the 
FCAs handbook. 
As WMCL accepts it mis-sold PPI to Mr W, in so far as it is possible to do so, it would need 
to return him to the position hed be in now if PPI had never been sold. DISP App 3.7.3 E 
says that a business needs to refund everything a consumer paid for PPI, and to pay simple 
interest. 
In a case like this, I would expect WMCL to work out and pay to Mr W the difference 
between what he actually paid each month for the loan and what he would have paid each 
month without the PPI. It would then need to add 8% simple interest to each repayment from 
the date Mr W paid it until the date he gets that money back. The purpose of paying 8% 
simple interest is to compensate Mr W for the time he was out of pocket because of the PPI 
policy.
It looks as though the monthly cost of PPI may have been £40.09, so WMCL will need to 
work out 8% simple interest on each of those repayments from when Mr W paid them until 
he gets the money back. I know that WMCL offered to pay £2,500 to Mr W to settle the 
complaint. However, I have not seen anything to explain how it arrived at that figure, which 
doesnt seem to be in line with the approach set by the FCA. 
I can see the third-party business has already refunded some of Mr Ws PPI premiums. 
WMCL can deduct that refund from what is now owed to Mr W. It may wish to liaise with the 
third-party business to establish how much has already been paid to Mr W. 
Putting things right
Mr W borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so his loan was bigger than it should have been, 
and he paid more than he should have each month. So Mr W needs to be put in the financial 
position he would be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI and get back the extra he paid.
So WMCL must:
Work out and pay Mr W the difference between what he paid each month on the loan 
and what he would have paid without PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr W paid from when he paid it until he gets 
it back. The rate of interest is 8% a year. 
If Mr W made a successful claim under the PPI policy, WMCL can take off what he 
got for the claim from the amount owed to him. It can also deduct any amounts the 
third-party business has already paid regarding commission and profit share.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires WMCL to take off tax from this interest. WMCL must 
give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I have upheld the complaint to the extent set out above and Webbs Motor Caravans Ltd will 
need to put things right as I have set out. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman