DRN-3854787
The complaint
Mr B complains that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited unfairly declined a 
claim under his landlord legal expenses insurance policy.
What happened
In 2019, Mr Bs tenants went into arrears on their rent. He agreed a payment plan with them, 
and they began making payments to bring themselves up to date. But in 2022, they failed to 
pay the arrears. So Mr B made a claim on his policy for the legal costs of repossessing the 
property. 
DAS declined the claim. It said Mr B didnt take his policy out until 2021, by which time the 
dispute with the tenants had already started.
Mr B wasnt happy so he raised a complaint, which he brought to our service. But our 
Investigator didnt uphold it because he was satisfied DAS had declined the claim in 
accordance with the policys terms and conditions and that it hadnt done anything unfair. 
Mr B didnt agree. He says he was resolving the problem of rent arrears directly with the 
tenants and he hasnt asked the policy to cover this. His claim is for repossession of the 
property which he didnt need to pursue until 2022.
The complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Bs insurance policy says:
We agree to provide the insurance in this policy, as long asthe date of occurrence 
of the insured incident is during the period of insurance.
The policy defines date of occurrence as:
For civil cases (except under insured incidents 5 tenant default) the date of the event 
which leads to a claim. If there is more than one event arising at different times from 
the same originating cause, then the date of occurrence is the date of the first of 
these events.
Mr B says his claim for repossession didnt arise until 2022. And whilst I understand why he 
says this, I dont agree. Ill explain why.  
Mr B didnt decide to repossess the property for no reason, it came as a result of the tenants 
defaulting on the rent arrears which had started back in 2019. So looking at the terms of the 
policy, DAS needed to decide when the first event that led to this claim took place. And Im 
satisfied that it was fair to say this was 2019 because this was the first of a series of events 
which led to Mr Bs decision to repossess his property. 
I appreciate that Mr B decided not to repossess the property in 2019, but instead arranged a 
payment plan with the tenants. But the claim doesnt arise when Mr B decides to pursue it  
it arises when the events that lead to the claim first take place. As Mr Bs policy wasnt in 
place in 2019, Im satisfied it was fair for DAS to decline cover.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman