DRN-1750935
The complaint
Ms R says The One Stop Money Shop Limited (One Stop) irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
This complaint is about one instalment loan One Stop provided to Ms R in September 2019. 
The loan was for £1,000 and was repaid over 12 monthly instalments of £158.33.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Ms Rs complaint and thought One Stops checks for the loans 
went far enough. Ms R disagreed so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
One Stop needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms R 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that One Stop should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Ms Rs complaint. Having done this, Im not upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
Ms R disagreed with the adjudicators view because she thought One Stops checks didnt 
go far enough and it should have been aware that she was struggling financially and had 
other borrowing from short-term lenders as well as other debts. So, it shouldnt have lent to 
her.
One Stop has told this service about the checks it carried out before approving any of the 
borrowing. It has said it asked Ms R about her employment status and she confirmed she 
was employed and had a monthly income of £1,320. One Stop also checked Ms Rs normal 
monthly living costs. Ms R declared these to be £715 per month. One Stop says it also 
searched Ms Rs credit file and it has provided the results of its search. There werent any 
recent adverse entries like defaults or county court judgements (CCJs) recorded on it at the 
time the loan was taken out. So, there wasnt anything in the credit file that ought to have 
caused One Stop to do further checks. 
Ms R has also provided a copy of her credit report and her bank statements. These show 
she was borrowing from other short-term lenders. But this borrowing doesnt show on the 
credit report findings One Stop has provided. 
As this was the first loan Ms R had borrowed from One Stop, she was very early on in her 
lending relationship with it. And even though she had to make monthly repayments, the 
highest repayment would have appeared affordable based on the information she declared 
to One Stop. And there wasnt anything in the information Ms R provided at the time which 
would have given One Stop cause for concern, so I think it was reasonable of One Stop to 
have relied on what Ms R gave it. 
I think these factors had an impact of what level of checks would have been appropriate for 
One Stop to carry out. Given these, I think the checks One Stop did before lending the loan 
went far enough and I wouldnt have expected it at this stage to undertake any more in-depth 
checks. 
The information Ms R declared to One Stop at the time of the loan may not have been an 
accurate reflection of her financial circumstances, but I think One Stop was entitled to rely on 
that information. At this stage of the lending relationship, and what One Stop knew about   
Ms R, I wouldnt have expected One Stop to verify the information Ms R gave it. This 
therefore means, I cant say that One Stop has done something wrong in lending Ms R this 
loan.
I appreciate that my findings are likely to disappoint Ms R, but I hope my explanation will 
help her understand why Ive reached this conclusion.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2020.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman