DRN-4240491
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with how American International Group UK Limited (AIG) has handled his 
mobile insurance claim and for the poor service it has provided.
Any reference to AIG includes all its agents.
What happened
Mr C has mobile phone insurance and AIG is the underwriter. 
In February 2023, Mr Cs mobile phone stopped working so he submitted a claim with AIG. 
He sent this to AIG for repair and he sent a note with the phone which Mr C says was 
disregarded. However, the phone was set back to factory reset and an excess was charged 
which Mr C was unhappy about. He says hes lost all his personal and sensitive photos and 
information that was stored on his phone which are irreplaceable.
He made a complaint to AIG. It apologised for the poor service and offered Mr C £95 in 
recognition of this. It also said it was up to Mr C to ensure that the data was backed up and 
taken off the phone before it was sent to AIG. AIG apologised for the repairers actions in not 
taking account of the note Mr C had left and accepted this this was not good service. AIG 
also said it cannot waive the excess fee that Mr C was charged as this is part of the terms 
and conditions of the policy. 
Unhappy with AIGs response, Mr C brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator 
looked into it and initially recommended £500 compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused to Mr C. This was because he had specifically asked AIG to let him know if there 
was an issue with data being lost on his phone. Hed let AIG know that as the screen was 
the issue on the phone, he couldnt save the data he had on there as he couldnt see. He 
said there was important information and sensitive photos on the phone and didnt want to 
lose them. Our investigator thought AIG could have provided better service and should have 
thought about the instructions Mr C had given. 
Mr C agreed with the £500 compensation. 
AIG didnt agree with the amount of the compensation our investigator recommended. It said 
it agreed that trouble and upset had been caused to Mr C. But the terms and conditions are 
clear in that all remaining data and content will be erased as part of the claim process and to 
ensure all data is backed up before sending the device. AIG also said it sent clear   
instructions on what to do before the device was collected for repair.
Our investigator did a further review and sent a further assessment of the complaint. Having 
taken account of what AIG said, she thought it was fair and reasonable to recommend £250 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused to Mr C. 
Mr C disagreed and asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So, its been 
passed to me.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Theres no dispute here from either party that the service provided by AIG was poor. 
So, Ill focus on what I think is a fair and reasonable amount of compensation for 
what happened. 
Ive listened to the call recordings provided by AIG that took place between the two 
parties. When Mr C called on 13 February 2023, he did say he was concerned that 
data on his phone is not lost. The problem with the phone was the screen so he 
couldnt see what he was doing on the phone. We know that the note was 
disregarded when the phone was repaired, the device was reset to factory settings 
and Mr Cs data was lost. 
I can understand why Mr C was unhappy. He had sensitive photos on his work and 
important work-related information as well which he didnt want to lose. 
I also acknowledge that Mr C was provided with the terms and conditions of the 
policy as well as information he was sent when he sent his device in for repair. Both 
of these said that he needed to ensure that all his phone data needed to be backed 
up as in order to repair the phone, it would have to reset to factory settings. This 
information was clear. 
In the circumstances here, I think Mr C had a responsibility to ensure his data was 
backed up; even more so if the information on the device was so important to him. I 
understand he said to the advisor that he didnt have a personal computer (PC) or 
laptop to log on and back up the device. However, he said he did have a tablet and I 
think its reasonable for him to have backed up his data using this or gain access to 
another PC or laptop, so he couldve done this. 
I also agree that AIG shouldve provided better service. I have every sympathy for 
Mr C and agree that if the data was not backed up, its become irreplaceable 
because of its sensitive nature and Im sorry for this. However, AIG had admitted its 
failing and apologised. It accepts that it should pay £250 for the trouble and upset 
caused to Mr C. 
On balance and taking everything into account, I think AIG did fail in the way it dealt 
with Mr Cs device repair. While I understand it will be disappointing, I also think Mr C 
had a responsibility to back up his own data if it was so important to him and not rely 
entirely on AIGs actions. So, overall, I think £250 is fair and reasonable 
compensation for what happened in the circumstances here and for the reasons 
given above.
Putting things right
To resolve Mr Cs complaint, AIG should now:
Pay £250 compensation in total for the trouble and upset caused to Mr C.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Cs complaint about American International Group 
UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2023.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman