DRN-2015096
 
The complaint
Mr S says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold him a regular payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy to cover his store card repayments. 
What happened
Mr S took out a store card in 2003. At the same time he took out a PPI policy to cover 
his card repayments. The policy cost £1.50 per £100 of the balance on Mr Ss store card. A 
successful claim on the policy wouldve paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the store 
card if Mr S was unable to work due to accident or sickness or lost his job. The benefit would 
continue to be paid until Mr S returned to work or the balance was cleared.
Our adjudicator thought Mr Ss complaint should be upheld because he didnt think Mr S 
needed the policy enough to make the cost worthwhile. AXA disagreed because it didnt 
think there was enough information to show that Mr S had enough savings in place that 
would render the policy not worthwhile.
So the complaint came to me for a decision. I issued my provisional decision in May 2020. In 
my provisional decision, I explained why I was proposing not to uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final decision 
and neither AXA or Mr S have added anything further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said that:
 PPI was applied for in store when Mr S applied for a store card. AXA have given us a copy 
of the original store card application form. I can see that the sections on the application form 
that deals with card protection and additional card holders have been left blank. 
But I can see that Mr S has signed for PPI in the section Protecting your Account. 
If Mr S didnt want to take out PPI he couldve left this section blank like the others and not 
signed to take the cover. Because he signed within the PPI section rather than leaving it 
clear, I think its likely Mr S knew he had a choice about taking out PPI. And I think he signed 
within the box because he wanted the cover.
I dont think Mr S was advised to take the cover. What this means is that AXA didnt 
recommend PPI to Mr S, they just gave him information about PPI and it was up to him to 
decide if his circumstances were such that he needed the policy. This information needed to 
be given in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading so he could make an informed 
choice about buying PPI.
AXA say that sufficient information wouldve been provided at the point of sale to allow Mr S 
to make an informed choice on whether to add PPI to his account. But I cant say whether 
this information was good enough. That being said even if AXA did give all the information 
Mr S needed to make an informed choice on taking out the policy, I think he wouldve still 
taken the policy because at the time of sale:
He was eligible for the PPI.
It doesnt look like he wouldve been caught by any of the main exclusions in the 
terms and conditions of the policy which couldve made it difficult to make a 
successful claim.
At the time of the sale Mr S says he was entitled to some sick pay and had significant 
savings he could use to make his repayments if he was unable to work or lost his job. 
But Mr S has given no information about the source of his savings or exactly how 
much he had. So I cant say his savings would be at a level to make the policy not 
worthwhile. And the policy wouldve paid out on top of any work benefits and savings 
and for potentially longer. So I dont think knowing this information wouldve changed 
his mind about taking the policy. 
Theres nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Mr S especially considering 
the total he paid in premiums amounted to less than £2 and if he no longer wanted 
the policy he was able to cancel it.
So I dont think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Mr S on 
the PPI. I think he wouldve still taken out the PPI policy as it was of value to him.
As neither party has provided any further evidence or arguments for consideration, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision. It follows that I do 
not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I do not intend to uphold Mr Ss complaint against AXA 
France IARD. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S 
to accept or reject my decision before 14 August 2020.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman