DRN-2717747
The complaint
Mr M and Miss G have complained about their home insurer Lloyds Bank General Insurance 
Limited in respect of a claim they made to it after a water leak occurred at their home.
What happened
Mr M and Miss G found a leak at their home, affecting the bathroom, the en-suite and two 
bedrooms, and on 17 January 2019 they made a claim. Drying couldnt start straight away 
due to the health of a family member. The family had to move out of the home and whilst 
Lloyds said it would look for accommodation for them, the choices it had available were 
limited. Lloyds agreed to cover the cost of a property Mr M and Miss G had found.
On 24 February 2019 the family moved into the rental accommodation and strip-out work 
began on 4 March 2019, with drying equipment being installed on 13 March 2019 once most 
of the strip-out work was done. But the strip-out contractors were asked to return to remove 
some further plaster. Also on 13 March 2019 it was determined that the water had spread to 
the kitchen and under the floor in the bedroom (whilst the wall in this bedroom was initially 
affected, the plan had been to dry it from the bathroom side, meaning fitted wardrobes would 
not have to be removed). Further strip-out works were recommended.
Around this time Miss G told the loss adjuster that she had concerns about one of the 
contractors employees as he seemed disinterested and spent a lot of time in the works van 
on breaks. Miss G says that the quality of work so far was discussed with the adjuster too. 
The adjusters notes reflect a discussion about the extent of strip-out works and that the 
kitchen units are showing signs of damage.
 
In mid-April the drying company found that the floor in the utility room was saturated on the 
surface and deep within. The loss adjuster asked Mr M and Miss G if they had a plumber 
that could attend and Lloyds would cover the trace and access costs for finding the leak. 
When Mr M and Miss Gs plumber attended, he found the leak and repaired it. But he told 
Lloyds that he felt there were likely two more, slow leaks in the pipework under the concrete 
floor. Lloyds asked for further tracing to be done, at its cost. Whilst leaks were confirmed, 
their location couldnt be traced. Mr M and Miss G asked Lloyds to pay for the pipes to be 
re-routed, but Lloyds declined, explaining this was not covered by the policy. 
In May 2019, with water to the property switched off, Lloyds was still trying to dry the 
property. On 14 May 2019, Mr M and Miss G appointed a loss assessor. Theyve said they 
felt they had to do this as theyd lost faith in the contractors appointed by Lloyds. They said 
they didnt seem to want to do the work and theyd been seen sleeping in their van during 
the day. 
On 28 May 2019 Lloyds strip-out contractors attended the property to, amongst other things, 
remove adhesive on the floor in the utility room. They found the door to the property wouldnt 
lock. They changed the locks and told Miss G, putting the new keys in the key safe. They 
reported the incident to the loss adjuster the following day, recounting a conversation theyd 
had with Miss G the day before. Mr M and Miss G recall the issue differently. They say that 
the contractor had left the house unlocked and changed the locks without notifying them.
The loss adjuster and loss assessor met at the property to discuss what works were left to 
be done and to determine a cash settlement for those. The loss adjuster reports that a 
timeframe of four to six weeks for reinstatement, from the date of agreed costs would be 
sufficient. Lloyds has later said this period was agreed knowing that two weeks of that would 
be used-up by a two-week holiday period where no contractors worked. 
The settlement for the work was agreed on 2 July 2019, with payment reaching Mr M and 
Miss G on 8 July 2019. They then began ordering goods and booking traders. On 9 July the 
assessor told the adjuster that the bathroom and en-suite waste traps and pipes were 
blocked with debris from strip out works. The adjuster asked for evidence. None was 
provided at that time. 
Some work was done before the holiday period began on 12 July. The loss adjuster 
confirmed with the assessor that the accommodation was booked until the end of July, and 
asked for an update to see if works were nearing completion. The assessor didnt reply, but 
on 25 July Mr M and Miss G asked for the accommodation period to be extended to the end 
of August. They said the bathroom and kitchen refitting work wasnt starting until mid-August. 
There was also some confusion caused when Mr M asked for the bathroom ware to be 
returned. He thought he would be charged if just this was returned, so he told Lloyds hed 
take all the stored items back. This meant rooms which werent being worked on were filled 
with items belonging to the rooms being repaired. Lloyds said it would extend the 
accommodation until 18 August, but no further. 
Miss G asked for Lloyds to show some compassion, she said there was no way the family 
could move home within three days of the kitchen re-fit starting. And the health issues of the 
family member meant all decorating would need completing before the family could return 
home. Miss G said theyd done what they could but hadnt been aware of a timeframe for 
reinstatement and the assessor had left them to organise everything themselves. 
On 9 August 2019, the loss assessor sent an email from the plumber to the adjuster which 
referred to unblocking work having been needed, this due to strip-out debris being left in the 
traps, at a cost of £700 plus VAT. Lloyds asked for further detail of necessary work. Nothing 
in that vein was provided, but Mr M and Miss G did send it photos of a clogged pipe on 
15 August 2019.
In respect of the alternative accommodation, Lloyds wasnt minded to extend the period for 
the family to stay away from home. It said four  six weeks had been agreed and the claim 
settled in cash, so it was up to Mr M and Miss G to ensure work was done on time. 
Mr M and Miss G said that as the insured party they totally disagreed with the timeframe 
afforded them. But they returned home with the rest of the family staying with relatives whilst 
work finished. They stayed in a caravan on the drive. They were unhappy and complained. 
Our investigator felt if Mr M and Miss G had not lost faith in Lloyds contractor then things 
might have been settled differently. She felt the four  six weeks timeframe for repairs and 
accommodation should have started from 8 July 2019, and if it had then the family could 
have stayed away from home until the end of August as theyd asked to. In short, she felt 
Lloyds had caused upset which could have been avoided. She said it should pay Mr M and 
Miss G £500 compensation.
Mr M and Miss G said they were pleased by the findings. Lloyds said it didnt agree with 
them. Lloyds said there was no evidence of poor work or conduct by its contractors, and they 
denied sleeping in the van. It also said that it had paid for accommodation from 2 July to 
18 August 2019, which was six weeks and five days. Lloyds felt this meant it had, effectively, 
run the six-week repair and accommodation period from 8 July 2019 as our investigator 
indicated it should have done.
The complaint was passed to me for a decision to be made. I felt Lloyds had let Mr M and 
Miss G down. Whilst my reasoning differed to that set out by the investigator, I felt £500 
compensation was fairly and reasonably due. I also felt it should reimburse their cost for 
reinstating the plumbing following it being clogged by building debris. So I issued a 
provisional decision. 
Mr M and Miss G said they were happy with my findings. Lloyds said it agreed the 
compensation award but that for it to pay the plumbing cost it would need to see a fully 
broken down invoice, including a VAT number (which was missing from the detail provided 
so far even though VAT was added to the bill).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I said provisionally:
alternative accommodation
Having carefully reviewed the detail about what went on, Im not persuaded that Lloyds 
contractors acted so poorly during February to May 2019 so as to cause Mr M and Miss G 
to reasonably lose faith in them. I appreciate that is how they say they felt  but the file 
details from the time dont evidence that the contractors acted poorly or caused much in the 
way of delays. I can see some activity which would have been frustrating  such as not all 
the initially recommended strip-out works were done at once. And Ive taken these issues 
into account when thinking about compensation. But overall they didnt actually hold up the 
claim because further leaks were found. Mr M and Miss G dont seem to have told the loss 
adjuster they felt things were so bad they felt the need to appoint an assessor and look for a 
cash settlement. If they had then the adjuster could have considered options, such as 
appointing another contractor. Or at least had the opportunity to advise Mr M and Miss G 
that settling in cash might leave them with a shortfall.
Settling in this way also meant they were tied to the settlement agreement reached between 
the adjuster and assessor. Whilst the assessor then didnt explain to Mr M and Miss G that 
there was a timeframe for the work to be done in, I cant reasonably blame Lloyds for that. 
Once Lloyds was made aware work was not going to complete in time for the first deadline, it 
agreed to amend that and extend the period. And if Mr M and Miss G still couldnt complete 
work in that time, because finding traders had taken time and managing a complex 
programmes of works was difficult that, unfortunately, its not Lloyds fault. One of the pitfalls 
for a policyholder of settling a claim in cash is that the policyholder then becomes 
responsible for completing the work. 
However, I note from Miss G that they have a family member who suffers with a lung 
condition. Seemingly this is quite a serious condition and Lloyds was aware of this at the 
outset of the claim; content to put the drying scheme on hold because of the health issues 
until the family could move out. In August Miss G reminded Lloyds of this and that this meant 
the home needed to be fully reinstated before they moved home. Ive seen no evidence that 
when the four to six week timeframe for repairs was set that the health concerns were taken into account, such that this meant the timeframe related to the house being completely 
reinstated, rather than it just being habitable. I can understand why Miss G was upset at this 
point and felt her worries for her family had been completely disregarded. Mr M and Miss G 
were only asking for a further twelve days stay in the alternative accommodation. I think 
Lloyds should reasonably have agreed to this. 
Because Lloyds didnt agree Mr M and Miss G moved home, meaning the family lived apart 
for a time and Mr M and Miss G stayed in a caravan. Whilst this was only a short period of 
time, I understand it was particularly upsetting for Mr M and Miss G. I think this upset and 
inconvenience could have been avoided by Lloyds. 
debris in pipes
I think Mr M and Miss G have reasonably shown that they incurred a cost due to Lloyds 
workmen allowing strip-out debris to clog the bathroom and en-suite waste traps and pipes. 
I can understand Lloyds not having acted on this or agreed to anything when the loss 
assessor first raised the issue in July 2019. But I think it should have accepted the costs, 
and/or made enquiries of its own if it had wanted to, when the email invoice and then photos 
were sent to it in August 2019. I think it should now pay Mr M and Miss G £700, plus VAT, 
plus interest* from 15 August 2019 (the date photo evidence was provided to it) until 
settlement is made. 
claim handling 
Mr M and Miss G have detailed a number of issues which caused them upset;
They were out of their home for six months, when theyd been told it would be ten weeks.
Lloyds not agreeing to re-route pipes.
The cash settlement for work not being enough given the way the property had been 
stripped.
Contractors sleeping in the van.
The lock to the property being changed. 
I think the initial estimate for the period of reinstatement wasnt necessarily unreasonable. 
However, its not possible to know for sure because further damage and a second leak were 
later found. 
Lloyds isnt responsible, under the policy for fixing pipes, or taking action to avoid damage 
occurring to a property in the future. So whilst I understand it was distressing that Lloyds 
refused to cover the cost of this work, I cant reasonably blame it for having done so.
The cash settlement was agreed between Mr M and Miss Gs loss assessor and the loss 
adjuster. I appreciate that Mr M and Miss G have been upset as theyve come to feel this 
wasnt enough, but I cant go behind that agreement reached between two professionals. 
And Im also mindful that the loss assessor charged Mr M and Miss G a cut of the settlement 
money as his fee. This was always going to create a shortfall in the net settlement Mr M and 
Miss G were left with. 
Lloyds contractors have denied sleeping on the job, and theyve also said, as noted in my 
background, that they did tell Miss G the locks had been changed. Mr M and Miss G clearly 
remember things differently. But I have no way to know which version of events most likely 
happened. Which means I cant reasonably find Lloyds liable for any upset Mr M and Miss G 
have reported. Having noted and commented on these concerns, I did detail above that I felt there were 
some failures by Lloyds which, whilst they werent severe and didnt, in my view, cause the 
claim to be delayed, had caused frustration. Specifically; the drying didnt start as soon as 
Mr M and Miss G moved out and the strip-out work was done in a somewhat piecemeal 
fashion. Further some trades seemed unaware of the bigger repair picture  so, for example, 
at one point the electricity was switched off without it being realised that this would affect the 
drying machines. Later, when Mr M and Miss G were trying to complete the reinstatement 
work, they were given incorrect information about the location and availability of materials 
Lloyds had purchased. This was resolved but it wasted a few hours of Miss Gs time and 
caused frustration. It also meant she purchased replacement materials and had to wait for 
Lloyds to reimburse her. There was also a mix-up about the return of bathroom items. I think 
Lloyds and/or its agent could have been clearer about this. I accept that Mr M and Miss G 
acted to take everything back as they believed they would be charged if only the bathroom 
ware was returned (when in fact it would Lloyds that would be charged), and that having 
everything back at that stage in the reinstatement caused some inconvenience.   
So, overall, I think that Lloyds could have handled things better at times. Because it didnt 
frustration and some inconvenience were caused. Ive thought about this, together with the 
upset Im satisfied occurred when the family had to live apart at the end of August. Im 
satisfied that to account for everything, £500 compensation is fairly and reasonably due. 
Ive considered Lloyds largely restated concerns about the plumbing invoice. I appreciate 
that Lloyds might have wanted more detail regarding the plumbing costs  but as I said 
provisionally, it could have done more at the time the email invoice and photos were 
presented. More detail than just bare costs were given  the email invoice confirmed the 
pipes and traps were clogged with building debris and needed digging up to be replaced. 
The email also invited contact if more detail was required. But even though Lloyds had been 
presented with information which, on the face of it, showed Mr M and Miss G had likely 
incurred a cost on account of its work, it chose not to make enquiries.
That said I accept that Lloyds has a valid concern regarding VAT, and whether or not 
appropriate enquiries were made at the time the costs were presented, this service wouldnt 
expect an insurer to pay for VAT when this cost hasnt been validated. Thats not to say 
Lloyds doesnt owe Mr M and Miss G for VAT, only that it doesnt have to pay them the VAT 
sum unless or until they show a valid VAT number for the plumber.
Putting things right
I uphold this complaint. I require Lloyds to pay Mr M and Miss G:
£700 in reimbursement of the plumbing invoice, plus interest* from 15 August 2019 until 
settlement is made.
An amount in reimbursement of VAT paid on the plumbing invoice, subject to a valid VAT 
number being presented.
£500 compensation.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. If Lloyds considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from any interest due to Mr M and Miss G, it should tell them how much its taken 
off. It should also give Mr M and Miss G a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decisionI uphold this complaint. I require Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited to provide the 
redress set out at putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G and Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 23 April 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman