DRN-3182208
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC have only partially refunded him, after he fell victim 
to a scam. Mr M is asking for a full refund after he transferred £5,151 to scammers.
What happened
Mr M says he received a fake text from a postal service company which told him to follow a 
link and pay a fee for a parcel to be delivered. He says he was expecting a delivery, so the 
text didnt seem unusual. He says he provided his bank details, on what looked like a 
genuine website. Mr M says when he got home, he found the genuine parcel had already 
been delivered and so believed the text he received earlier that day had been a scam. Mr M 
contacted Lloyds later the same day to explain what had happened and cancelled his card. 
Mr M says he wasnt told about any scams during this call and he wasnt told Lloyds wouldnt 
ever call him to ask him to move his money. 
Lloyds has provided a copy of the call which Ive summarised below. The summary picks up 
after Mr M has explained the text he received and the information he shared. This is what 
the advisor said to Mr M: 
They can use that information to call you and pretend to be, for example, from the 
bank and trick you into transferring money. Keep an eye out for anyone contacting 
you from the bank, or other companies. They will have information about you and the 
goal is to trick you into making payments and transfers.
I had a customer earlier on, same sort of email, and cancelled his card and then the 
next day he had a call pretending to be from the bank and was told his account 
wasnt safe and he needed to move his money. The bank will never call you or ever 
ask you to move your money  so just keep an eye out for this and dont trust 
anyone.
Keep it simple dont trust anyone, phone or email. The customer is the one being 
tricked into making the payment and because the customer made the payment there 
is no guarantee they will get it back.
The next day Mr M received a call from what he thought was Lloyds fraud department. Mr M 
had actually been called by scammers. He says they knew some of his personal details and 
that his card had been cancelled. They told him there had been attempted activity on his 
account, to set up direct debits. Mr M said he was told to check the number he was being 
called from and it appeared to be the lost and stolen department at Lloyds. He was out at the 
time so asked for a call back when he was at home.
Later he was called from the same number and was told his account was frozen and a new 
account needed to be set up. He was also asked to confirm his date of birth and to log into 
his bank account through his mobile banking app, to check his account activity. He did this 
and confirmed there had been no activity on the account.  The scammers told him to set up 
a new payee with his name as the account name and this would be a new Lloyds account. 
He was then told to transfer money to this account in small amounts, as there were 
restrictions on large transfers.  
Mr M says that at one point he questioned if the call was genuine as he hadnt been asked 
for a password or asked any security questions. He said the caller reassured him, by saying 
they knew it was him as he logged into his online banking, using his finger print ID and he 
could trust it was Lloyds as hed checked the number he was being called on. Mr M made 
the payments as set out below.
Date Time Amount total
25/02/21 18:16 £1,896
25/02/21 18:27 £1,315
25/02/21 18:35 £1,095
25/02/21 18:40 £845
£5,151
At the time of making the payments Lloyds says Mr M was presented with the following 
message about the recipient account he was sending the money to. 
This type of account cant be checked to see if the payee name and account number 
match
The details may be correct but you should check them with your payee if youre 
unsure
Do you want to continue?
The scammers told Mr M to select friends and family as the payee option and to reset his 
online banking. When selecting this option Lloyds says Mr M was presented with the 
following warning:
Mr M how well do you know this person?
Well never call to ask you to move your money to another account 
Fraudsters can even copy our telephone number
Dont believe them. Hang up the phone
Shortly after the last payment, Mr M became suspicious and contacted Lloyds and 
discovered he had been scammed. 
Lloyds reviewed his complaint in-line with the Contingent Reimbursement model (CRM) 
Code and decided to refund him £1,627.50. It didnt think the first payment was unusual and 
so it didnt need to intervene with this payment. But it accepted that it could have done more 
in terms of the second, third and fourth payments and so refunded half of his loss from these 
payments. But it also said Mr M didnt have a reasonable basis of belief for proceeding with 
the payments.  Specifically, it mentioned the conversation with Mr M the day before the 
scam. It said, in that conversation, it provided Mr M with details about the type of scam he 
fell victim to the very next day and said the bank would never call and ask him to move 
money from his account. It said it also provided an online warning at the time Mr M made the 
payments, which also gave him some instructions on what to do.  It said because Mr M didnt 
have a reasonable basis for belief it didnt need to refund the first transaction and it was only 
refunding half of the following transactions. 
Mr M was unhappy with this outcome and brought his complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into his complaint and in summary said:
-the warning Lloyds provided wasnt effective; and
-Mr M didnt have a reasonable basis for belief because: -the conversation Mr M had with Lloyds the day before the scam should have been 
enough for Mr M to be concerned and not proceed with the payment;
-the telephone number that was spoofed was the lost and stolen number and his card 
wasnt lost or stolen;
-he received a warning about scammers pretending to be from the bank the day 
before and faked numbers were also mentioned in the online warning; and
-the caller knew his account number and sort code which he had discussed the day 
before with the Lloyds representative.
The investigator concluded the refund already paid from Lloyds was fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances and he didnt recommend that it refund Mr M his remaining losses.  He 
also considered Lloyds actions after it was notified of the scam. He said whilst £51 remained 
in the beneficiary account it was only for a short period of time so he didnt think Lloyds could 
have recovered this amount.
Mr M disagreed. He said he wasnt presented with any warnings and believed they had only 
recently been added to the Lloyds mobile banking app  he didnt think they were in place 
when he made the payments to the scammers. Mr M added that he was on hold for 40 
minutes when reporting the transactions, which delayed things. Mr M argued that hes since 
been told Lloyds would never call him, hes been called multiple times about his complaint. 
And he believes his account should have been on red alert due to the call he made about 
the fake text the day before. Mr M has told us that the scam and loss of money has also 
affected his wellbeing.
Unhappy with the investigators findings, Mr M asked for the complaint to be passed to an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so Ive come to the same outcome as the investigator, for broadly the same 
reasons. Ill explain why.
 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. 
However, where the consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a 
fraudster, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer 
even though they authorised the payment. 
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether Lloyds 
should have reimbursed Mr M in line with the provisions of the CRM Code it has agreed to 
adhere to and whether it ought to have done more to protect Mr M from the possibility of 
financial harm from fraud. 
Theres no dispute here that Mr M was tricked into making the payment. He thought he was 
moving his money to keep it safe. But this isnt enough, in and of itself, for Mr M to receive a refund of the money under the CRM Code. The Code places a level of care on Mr M too. Ill 
consider both Lloyds and Mr Ms actions below when reaching my conclusions on this 
complaint. 
The CRM code
Lloyds has signed up to and agreed to adhere to the provisions of the Lending Standards 
Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code) which requires firms to reimburse 
customers who have been the victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams like this, in 
all but a limited number of circumstances. 
It is for Lloyds to establish that a customer failed to meet a requisite level of care under one 
or more of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code. Those exceptions are: 
The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made. 
The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that: the 
payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for genuine 
goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted was 
legitimate 
There are further exceptions within the CRM Code, but they do not apply in this case. 
Ill first consider the initial scam payment and whether the bank ought to have given an 
effective warning along with whether Mr M had a reasonable basis for belief. Those findings 
will help to inform the outcome for the remaining payments, which Ill then go on to explain in 
more detail.
The first payment
Lloyds says the first transaction Mr M made, for £1,896, wasnt unusual or suspicious, so it 
didnt need to intervene or give an effective warning, in line with its requirements under the 
CRM Code. As such it feels it isnt liable to refund 50% of this transaction. Ive thought about 
this and found the following:
-Whilst the payment is larger than some other transactions on Mr Ms account its not
significantly so. And previously Mr M made payments of £2,200, £2,404.50 and 
£4,479.89, some of which show his name as the payee reference  which all the 
scam payments have as a feature of them as well.
-These larger payments are a mixture of faster payments and debit card payments 
and they demonstrate Mr M had a history of making payments of this nature and 
size.
-The scam payment leaves the account overdrawn by £1,741.13. Mr Ms balance 
fluctuates each month. In previous months his account balance has been overdrawn 
by £700 and he utilises his overdraft most months. So, the scam payment wasnt 
unusual by taking him into his overdraft, although the overdrawn balance is higher 
than normal.
-Mr M appears to have paid several new payees on the account, so I dont think the 
setting up of a new payee here was unusual either.Considering the above factors, although the overdrawn balance is higher than usual, overall 
I agree with Lloyds that the first payment isnt unusual enough for it to have intervened and 
so it didnt need to provide an effective warning for this transaction.
Did Mr M have a reasonable basis for belief?
As Lloyds didnt need to give a warning, Ive gone on to consider Mr Ms actions here, to see 
if he ought to receive a refund for this first payment and in turn this also effects any refund 
he might receive for the subsequent payments. 
I agree with the investigators findings on this point. I dont believe Mr M did have a 
reasonable basis for belief, and so this exception to reimbursement can fairly be relied on by 
the bank. 
I have no doubt that Mr M believed he was doing the right thing at the time and didnt realise 
he was being scammed. But Im persuaded there was enough going on that he ought to 
have questioned what he was doing and followed the advice given to him by the bank the 
day before, and followed up on the online warning on the day of the scam. If he had done so, 
Im satisfied it would have prevented his losses.
I appreciate Mr M was called from a spoofed/faked number and this is a convincing element 
to these types of scams, and that he was acting out of fear to protect his money, which he 
believed was under threat. But I have to put this into the context of the detailed conversation 
Mr M had with the Lloyds representative the day before. 
When asked about this conversation Mr M has doesnt recall being told about these types of 
scams and says he wasnt told that the bank wouldnt ever ask him to move his money. I 
appreciate it has been quite some time since the scam occurred. Asking Mr M to reflect on 
the scam and the events surrounding it isnt likely to be accurate  understandably so. But 
the day before the scam, I am persuaded that Mr M had been told very specifically:
-about this type of scam;
-how scammers will pretend to be from the bank;
-how the scammers gain trust by using information they will already have from the 
fake text element of the scam;
-the bank will never ask him to move money from his account; and
-that Mr M shouldnt trust anyone asking him to do so.
In addition to this conversation, Lloyds has said Mr M was presented with an online warning 
which said:
-the bank will never ask you to move money to another account;
-telephone numbers can be faked by scammers; and
-he should hang up the phone.
Having considered the above I think this all ought to have put Mr M on alert, when he 
received the scammers call and was asked to transfer the money from his account. He had 
questioned some of the scammers actions but was persuaded to continue but without them 
seemingly able to provide any real further information or detail, other than the faked number. 
I think this, with the conversation from the day before and the online warning made him 
doubtful about what he was doing, which is why he realised so quickly it was a scam but 
didnt stop him from proceeding. Overall, I dont think hes provided a reasonable explanation 
for continuing with the payments, in light of the discussion he had with Lloyds and the 
warning he was presented with. Instead I think the scam, as it occurred, had been accurately 
described to Mr M the day before and he shouldve doubted what he was being asked to do. Im satisfied that if he had considered that conversation, the advice given at the time, and the 
advice given in the warning, he wouldnt have incurred these losses. 
Ive also considered Mr Ms comments that he didnt receive a warning and his belief that 
these types of warnings were added after he fell victim to the scam. Ive seen evidence from 
Lloyds which persuades me that a warning was in place at the time Mr M made the 
payments to the scammers. Even if it wasnt the exact warning Lloyds has provided, Im 
persuaded a warning containing information that the bank never asks its customers to move 
money, and that numbers can be faked by scammers, would have been presented to Mr M 
at the time. 
 
I also dont believe Lloyds calling Mr M about his complaint is comparable to its warning that 
it will never call its customers asking them to move money. Lloyds hasnt called Mr M asking 
him to do this. And its reasonable for Lloyds to have called Mr M to discuss his complaint in 
order to consider it properly. 
 
I can see why Mr M is concerned the scam transactions werent picked up by Lloyds, given 
the conversation he had the day before the scam. But Im satisfied Lloyds has considered 
this when it decided to offer the partial refund. But it has considered its actions and failures 
against its obligations and Mr Ms obligations under the CRM Code which is how it came to 
the offer it has made.
Overall, I agree that Lloyds doesnt need to refund Mr M for the first transaction he made
to the scammers. 
Partial refund of the second, third and fourth transactions
Lloyds has considered its actions and the standards it needed to meet under the CRM code.
Having done so, it offered to refund 50% of Mr Ms losses for the second, third and fourth
transactions. This is because it agrees it ought to have intervened with these transactions as 
they appear suspicious and unusual. It ought, at least, to have ensured Mr M was presented 
with an effective warning (as defined under the Code), where this wasnt necessary for the 
first payment. And so, its right that there is some liability established on the banks part.
But Lloyds also believes Mr M didnt have a reasonable basis for belief which is why it has 
applied an exemption under the CRM code to only refund 50% of his losses. Ive considered 
Mr Ms actions above and detailed why I also believe he didnt have a reasonable basis of 
belief for proceeding with the payments. So overall this leads me to conclude thats Lloyds 
offer to refund 50% of Mr Ms losses from these transactions is fair. 
Could Lloyds have done more to recover Mr Ms funds 
Lloyds has shown that it requested any remaining funds from the receiving bank the day 
after the scam was reported, but they had all been withdrawn. Ive thought about whether it 
could have done more to recover Mr Ms funds and, although I think it could have acted 
quicker, I dont think it would have made any difference here.
As the investigator explained, the money was removed from the recipient account very 
quickly. Only £51 remained at 20.55pm on the same day it was transferred. Lloyds notes 
show it received notice of the scam by 19:55pm so it would have needed to act very quickly 
to recover that £51. 
Mr M has said he was on hold for 40 minutes. I havent seen any evidence of this but in any 
event, given how quickly the funds were removed, and then any actions taken by the 
receiving bank to block the account would be out of Lloyds control, I think its unlikely the remaining £51 could have been recovered before it was withdrawn. So, Im not persuaded 
Lloyds could have prevented Mr Ms losses after the scam occurred even if it had acted 
quicker than it did.
In summary
Ive thought about whether Lloyds did enough under the CRM Code, and it has agreed to 
refund 50% of Mr Ms losses from the second transaction onwards.  Ive also thought about 
whether there are any other reasons why Lloyds shouldve refunded Mr M and I dont think 
there are. Im satisfied that Lloyds did all it could when the scam came to light in terms of its 
attempts to recover Mr Ms funds. 
I dont think Mr M had a reasonable basis for belief in proceeding with the payments, so I 
dont think it was unfair of Lloyds to rely on the exemptions set out in the CRM code when it 
decided not to refund Mr Ms full losses.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont think Lloyds acted unfairly in deciding not to refund all of Mr Ms 
losses under the Code. I think the offer it has made already is fair and it doesnt need to 
make any further payments to Mr M. I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Sophia Smith
Ombudsman