DRN-2615360
The complaint
Mr M complains that Standard Life Assurance Limited didnt tell him he could spread a 
drawdown from his Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) over two years and that as a 
result hes suffered financial loss, and distress.
What happened
Mr M has a SIPP with Standard Life. In February 2018 Mr Ms mother sadly died. Shortly 
after her death he called Standard Life to ask if it would be possible to access any of the 
money in his SIPP for her funeral expenses and was informed that he could. On 10 April 
2018 he called Standard Life to enquire about accessing money in his SIPP to pay the 
mortgage on the house owned by his mother, where he also lived. He was given some 
information about the taxation of payments from his pension pot (which Ill discuss later in 
this decision). He didnt proceed at that time. 
In November and December 2019 Mr M again had a series of calls with Standard Life about 
accessing the money in his pension to pay the mortgage on the property. He also 
complained that hed been given different or less complete information in the 2018 phone 
calls than that given in 2019. That complaint wasnt upheld. 
In mid-January 2020 he made a further complaint (being the complaint the subject of this 
decision). It arose out of information provided by Standard Life during a call on 13 January to 
arrange for Mr M to transfer his pension from capped to flexible drawdown and to request a 
drawdown from his pension pot to cover the mortgage and some other expenses. 
Mr M complained that the 13 January call was the first time hed been told by Standard Life 
that he could consider taking the drawdown income over two years, in the context of him 
perhaps being aware that by taking the drawdown payment it could result in him paying a 
higher rate of tax than he normally would. He said that if Standard Life had told him this 
when he first rang in 2018, he wouldve done it then. In not telling him then, Standard Life 
had cost him money and great stress. He said he couldve negotiated with the mortgage 
company at that time, he couldve come to an arrangement then, but he didnt have any 
wiggle room now. 
The drawdown was then put on hold while Mr Ms complaint was considered. Standard Life 
responded the next day, 14 January 2020. It didnt uphold the complaint. Standard Life said 
that itd reviewed the 2018 calls and appropriate information had been provided and all the 
general questions hed asked were answered correctly. It said that it could only identify and 
suggest specific settlement options, such as splitting a tax liability over two years, during the 
settlement process as this wasnt an option for all its customers.
Mr M remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service. He said that:
when he approached Standard Life in 2018, hed been given advice about drawdown 
and tax implications, notably the implementation of tax at emergency rate. 
as that was excessive, he chose not to drawdown at that time, as he hoped to find 
work to pay the mortgage. 
he couldnt do so and approached Standard Life again 18 months later. 
it gave him differing advice, specifically the process where drawdown could be 
spread over two tax years.
Standard Life had not given him this information on the first two occasions he spoke 
to it.
He told us the worry over paying off the outstanding mortgage had been intense. Financially 
the amount owed increased due to interest payments which meant the amount drawn down 
increased as did the tax payable at emergency rates on that drawdown. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He didnt uphold it. To briefly summarise, 
he thought it was fair for Standard Life to give more information when a withdrawal was 
being made as opposed to an enquiry, so there was no evidence it did anything wrong by 
giving him different information at different times. 
Mr M asked for a decision from an ombudsman. He asked that the central basis of his 
complaint be the focus, that Standard Life should be duty bound by law to give full, detailed 
and consistent information to any holder of pension plans when they make contact about a 
significant withdrawal and the tax implications thereof. Our investigator explained that our 
service cant change the law or to tell businesses how they should conduct themselves 
generally. He said Mr M could contact the Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA) with his 
concerns about the general conduct of businesses.
The complaint then came to me for a decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr M has had a great deal of stress and worry over the last few years, as well 
as the loss of his mother. Im sorry to hear that. But Im afraid Im going to have to disappoint 
him, as Im not going to uphold his complaint. Ill explain why. 
But before I do that, it may be helpful if I address Mr Ms comments about what the central 
focus of his complaint is. I understand that Mr M says Standard Life should be duty bound by 
law to give full, detailed and consistent information to any holder of pension plans when the 
individual makes contact about a significant withdrawal and the tax implications thereof. I 
appreciate Mr Ms strength of feeling. But my role is to determine individual complaints  I 
cant do this by reference to what Mr M says the law should be. It is the role of the regulator 
of financial businesses, the FCA, to set legal rules and guidance, in accordance with its 
statutory powers. Mr M can certainly raise any areas with the FCA that he thinks requires 
further regulation.
In order to uphold Mr Ms complaint, Id need to decide that Mr M wouldve acted in 2018 to 
drawdown from his pension if hed been clearly told by Standard Life that he could split the 
drawdown over two tax years. Im afraid Im not persuaded that is the case, although I dont 
doubt Mr Ms sincerity. 
Ive listened very carefully to a number of calls Mr M had with Standard Life, including the 
two calls Mr M had in February and April 2018. The first call, on 20 February, was very brief, 
just over three minutes. Mr M didnt mention the mortgage, only whether it would be possible 
to access some of his pension pot for his mothers funeral expenses. The Standard Life 
representative said that he thought it would be. Mr M asked for basic information to be 
emailed to him as to his options. Unfortunately neither Mr M nor Standard Life can locate a copy of that email. 
The 10 April 2018 call Mr M made to Standard Life was much longer. Mr M said he needed 
to pay off the existing mortgage on the house his mother had owned, so he could stay in the 
home. Standard Life explained that the first income payment from his pension would be set 
up on an emergency tax code but that it would be possible for him to reclaim the tax back. 
Standard Life explained that he was currently in capped drawdown - there was a cap of 
approximately £3,500 on what he could withdraw each year. If he wished to take more 
money out of his (pension) plan he would need to switch it to a flexible drawdown 
arrangement which would allow him to take as much as often as he wished. 
Mr M explained that the outstanding mortgage was just below £16,000  he wanted to know 
what he would need to take out to get that amount. Standard Life said if he took out a gross 
figure of approximately £16,200 there would be tax deducted of around £10,144 leaving a 
net of around £16,055. Mr M said that was an astonishing amount of tax to pay. Standard 
Life said it was very high and explained that the way it worked was that he only got one 
twelfth of his tax-free allowance and everything over that was taxed at a tiered rate. 
Standard Life repeated that it was certainly possible to reclaim that tax back through HMRC. 
Mr M asked Standard Life to send him an email which Standard Life agreed to do. Mr M said 
there was no rush, it wasnt something hed be running off to do, it was a last resort, not a 
first choice. Earlier in the call hed described it as an emergency fall back. Unfortunately 
neither Standard Life nor Mr M have been able to provide a copy of the emails sent after the 
February and April 2018 calls.
Mr M says if hed been told in those 2018 calls that he could split the drawdown over two 
years, thats what he wouldve done, and he wouldve saved much stress and additional 
expense. Im not persuaded that he wouldve taken that action at that time. This is because I 
dont think that in 2018 using a drawdown from his pension was how Mr M planned to pay 
the mortgage. Mr M has said that his preferred option had been to get a job and pay back 
the mortgage that way. It was only when that proved not possible despite his best efforts, 
and when it was no longer possible to negotiate any further time to pay with the bank holding 
the mortgage, that Mr M contacted Standard Life again in late 2019. I understand that in 
April 2018 Mr M considered the tax to be astonishing, but I dont think that was his main 
reason for not proceeding at that time. In my view, his comments then and later show he 
didnt want to use his pension pot unless he absolutely had to. I dont doubt that tax was a 
consideration, but I dont think it was the main consideration. Mr M didnt want to take money 
from his pension pot unless he had to.
Its not strictly necessary for me to consider whether Standard Life shouldve informed Mr M 
during the 2018 calls that he could consider splitting the drawdown over two tax years, 
because Ive already said I dont think Mr M wouldve done anything different at the time of 
those calls even if he had been told this. But as I appreciate Mr M may strongly disagree 
with my finding, I will go on to comment that Im not persuaded that Standard Life did 
anything wrong in not indicating explicitly to Mr M during the 2018 calls that he could split a 
drawdown over two tax years. Like our investigator, I think it is a matter for Standard Life to 
establish its processes, as long as it complies with its legal and regulatory obligations. I dont 
think Standard Life can reasonably be expected to give all possible information on all options 
during every enquiry call. 
And as Ive said, the first call in 2018 was a very brief query. In my view it wouldve been 
disproportionate of Standard Life to provide a great deal of information during that call. During the second, lengthier, call Standard Life did indicate to Mr M that if he switched to 
flexible drawdown he could take as much as often as he wished. So I think Mr M was told 
that he didnt have to take all that he needed at one time, although I appreciate he wasnt 
explicitly told he could spread the drawdown over two years during that call, and that doing 
so could have tax benefits. Whether ultimately that wouldve been of benefit to him would 
depend on his own personal circumstances. 
But Mr M was given information about how emergency rate tax would be deducted, and that 
he could reclaim the excess tax from HMRC. The information he was given was correct. And 
as Ive said, Standard Life isnt required by law to give information in the way Mr M thinks it 
should be. So I dont think Standard Life should be required to do anything further in 
response to Mr Ms complaint, although I do appreciate this will disappoint him. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 
Helen Wheatley
Ombudsman