DRN-3042871
The complaint
Mr B complains that when he entered into a hire purchase agreement for a car with a 
company that I will call W, Pendragon Finance and Insurance Services Limited (PFISL) 
misadvised him about the maximum annual mileage allowable under it.
What happened
In September 2015 Mr B entered into a hire purchase agreement (agreement) with W for a 
new car costing £48,240.74.
The agreement Mr B signed states the maximum total mileage as 32,000 miles and the 
maximum annual mileage as 8,000 miles.
Mr B returned the car to W and voluntary terminated the agreement, as was his right. And 
after doing so W invoiced him £243.62 for excess mileage. This charge was based on a 
pro-rated annual mileage of 8,000.
Mr B says he shouldnt have to pay this excess mileage charge on the basis that he was 
advised by PFISL that despite the paperwork making reference to a maximum annual 
mileage of 8,000, the system was noted with a maximum annual mileage of 9,000 miles 
and W would actually apply no maximum.
Mr Bs complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that it 
shouldnt be upheld. In summary he said he wasnt persuaded that Mr B had been 
misadvised by PFISL about the maximum annual mileage that would apply.
Mr B didnt agree and so his complaint has been passed to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I can confirm that Ive come to the same overall conclusion as the 
investigator and for broadly the same reasons. There is also very little I can usefully add to 
what has already been said.
Its clear Mr B has very strong feelings about this complaint. He has provided detailed 
submissions in support of his view which I can confirm Ive read and considered in their 
entirety. However, I trust that Mr B will not take the fact that my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in considerably less detail, as 
a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every point raised. The purpose 
of my decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them.
I would also point out that where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or 
contradictory, Ive to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
I accept that I cant say for certain what was, or wasnt, discussed between PFISL and Mr B 
about the maximum annual mileage that would apply to his agreement. But I dont find his 
submissions to be particularly plausible or persuasive. I say this for the following reasons:
I would have expected Mr B, if he was advised that different terms would apply to 
those outlined in documents he was being asked to sign, not to go ahead and sign 
those documents  especially given that a consumer is usually bound by documents 
they have signed whether they understood them or not.
I can see no reason as to why the system would be holding a different maximum 
annual mileage to those on the documents that were produced and presented to 
Mr B for his signature.
Although I accept that in situations such as this there may well have been some 
discussion around the maximum annual mileage that would apply, I see no reason 
why PFISL, if it had said the system was recording the maximum annual mileage as 
9,000, would then go on to say that W would actually apply no maximum.
Mr B has been unable to provide any documentary evidence in support of his 
submissions, for example previous agreements (showing a maximum annual mileage 
of more than 8,000 miles), quotes for finance provided at the time (with a maximum 
annual mileage of more than 8,000 miles), or insurance documents (with a declared 
annual mileage of more than 8,000 miles).
I appreciate that Mr B will be disappointed, but given what I say above I find that on the 
balance of probabilities he wasnt misadvised by PFISL as to the maximum annual mileage 
under his agreement.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman