DRN-3739043
The complaint
Ms H complains that Moneybarn No.1 Limited (Moneybarn), irresponsibly granted her a 
conditional sale agreement she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In August 2019, Ms H acquired a used car financed by a conditional sale agreement from 
Moneybarn. Ms H paid a deposit of £400. Ms H was then required to make 59 monthly 
repayments of £172.94. The total repayable under the agreement was £10,603.46.
Ms H says that Moneybarn didnt complete adequate affordability checks. She says if it had, 
it would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Moneybarn didnt agree. It said that it 
carried out a thorough assessment which included checking her credit file and obtaining 
proof of income. It said that her existing credit in general was being properly maintained. 
Ms H started missing her monthly repayments shortly after taking out the agreement. Ms H 
contacted Moneybarn in August 2019 when her financial situation had deteriorated. She later 
entered into a payment plan but in October 2020 she voluntarily terminated the agreement 
and returned the car. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Moneybarn didnt 
act unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
As Ms H didnt agree. She said Moneybarn was wrong to let her take out the agreement.
The complaint has therefore been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneybarn will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Moneybarn used credit reference agency information to help assess Ms Hs application. 
From the available information, Moneybarn was aware that Ms H had county court judgment 
around 41 months before entering into the agreement. It also said it was aware of a previous 
default on her debt file, around 16 months earlier. A credit report provided to us by Ms H 
showed a more recent default, three months prior to the agreement. I cant be sure if 
information about the more recent default was available to Moneybarn at the time. But given 
that she was taking on a significant financial commitment for a period of five years, I think it 
would have been proportionate for Moneybarn to have gathered additional details about 
Ms Hs financial circumstances at the time before lending to her. By doing so it could have 
gained a fuller picture of her financial situation at the time, including her daily living costs. 
But I also need to consider what Moneybarn would likely have found out if it had completed 
reasonable and proportionate affordability checks at the time. To help us understand this 
better, we asked Ms H to provide us with further evidence about her financial circumstances 
at the time the lending was taken out. With Ms Hs agreement, we obtained some bank 
statement information. These statements were largely redacted for reasons that Ms H has 
explained to us. But from what weve been able to see, Ms H appeared to have only limited 
outgoings, being mainly for food and petrol. Looking at the three months before the 
agreement, these totalled an average of £280 per month. This is based on those costs being 
shared with her partner at the time. Even allowing for contingencies and the possibility that 
not all her regular and committed expenditure would have been shared with her partner, 
from the information available it seems that Ms H would have had sufficient disposable 
income to meet the monthly payments. I appreciate Ms Hs personal situation may have 
changed at around the time she entered the agreement. But she didnt tell Moneybarn, and 
nor would I have expected it be something it would have necessarily seen from the checks it 
carried out. 
Ms H has also told us she became unemployed in early July 2019. Whilst this clearly would 
have an impact on her financial situation, again its not something that Moneybarn could be 
expected to know or find out a month later unless Ms H informed them of it. 
As Ms H hasnt been able to demonstrate that the agreement was unaffordable, I cant 
reasonably conclude that Moneybarn ought to have known she would struggle to make the 
repayments. Im therefore not persuaded that Moneybarn acted unfairly in approving the 
finance. 
I note that Ms H still owes Moneybarn a significant outstanding balance. Given the financial 
difficulty Ms H continues to experience, Moneybarn ought to exercise forbearance with her 
and continue to take steps to explore all available options to help her to reduce the debt. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman