DRN-4349942
The complaint
Mr T complains Santander UK Plc treated him unfairly when he applied to port his mortgage 
to a new property.
What happened
Mr T had a mortgage with Santander and he wanted to take this mortgage rate with him to a 
new property through porting the mortgage. He spoke with Santander ahead of his property 
sale to ask about the port process and he says he was told to make the application once his 
property had been sold. This would have meant Mr T would have been refunded his early 
repayment charge (ERC).
Mr T called Santander after he sold his property and had redeemed the existing mortgage 
and paid the ERC. At this point he made an application to port the previous mortgage to his 
new property.  Santander declined the application and Mr T complained about the decision. 
He said hes lost out because of Santanders decision to allow the port. He needed to pay an 
ERC and moved to rented accommodation for an extended period when he was unable to 
obtain a new mortgage with Santander and he lost out on a property he was hoping to 
purchase.
Santander looked at the complaint and said it didnt think it had acted unfairly when the 
application was declined. It said it couldnt confirm what was said to Mr T and whether he 
was advised to sell his property before making an application to port his mortgage. This was 
not correct and he should have been told to make the application before the sale. But 
regardless of this, the application didnt meet its lending criteria and it didnt think it needed 
to do anything else including refunding the ERC that Mr T had paid. 
Our investigator looked at this complaint and didnt think Santander needed to do anything 
else. She wasnt persuaded that it had provided Mr T with correct information about the 
porting process ahead of this being applied for. And he should have been told to make an 
application before hed sold his previous property and redeemed the mortgage. But she 
didnt think this impacted the overall outcome which would have remained the same even if 
an application had been made at this point. She was satisfied that Santander had 
considered Mr Ts application fairly and in line with its lending criteria. And regardless of 
when the application was made she didnt think it had done anything wrong when declining 
this. 
Mr T disagreed and provided evidence of his credit score and information about his 
unsecured debts which were all repaid with the proceeds of his house sale. He didnt think 
Santander was treating him fairly when it didnt allow for these to be removed from his 
liabilities when his applications were made. He couldnt understand why he was being 
declined on affordability and he didnt think this was a fair outcome.
The complaint was reviewed by another investigator and their opinion matched that of the 
first. They didnt think Santander had acted unfairly when declining the new mortgage 
application and because the previous mortgage had been redeemed, it had correctly applied 
the ERC.
Because Mr T disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for much the same reasons as our investigator. I 
know this will be disappointing for Mr T but Ill explain why I dont think it is fair to ask 
Santander to do anything else.
Santander has not been able to provide the initial calls where Mr T has said he was given 
incorrect information about the porting application and process. So it has not been able to 
say this wasnt said and it has been accepted that it did not give Mr T accurate information 
about the port and how this should have been applied for. Based on the call information that 
is available and later calls in May 2022, I agree that it does look likely Mr T was provided 
with incorrect information about this process.
What needs to be determined is, but for this error, is it more likely than not that Mr T would 
have been able to successfully port his mortgage. If this was the case it wouldnt be fair that 
he has lost out financially. 
Mr Ts previous mortgage allowed it to be transferred to a new property. This was providing 
the application met the lending criteria and affordability assessment done at the time.
Santander said when Mr T applied for a new mortgage after his previous one was 
redeemed, he didnt meet its lending criteria and because of this, the applications were 
declined. This was even after the application was referred to Santanders underwriters for 
consideration.  
Ive considered the information provided by Mr T and Santanders lending policy with a focus 
on the Loyal Movers criteria and whether I think Santander has fairly assessed Mr Ts 
applications. This is because I agree it made an error when not giving clear direction on the 
steps he needed to take to apply to port his mortgage. And had it done this, this is the 
criteria it should have assessed his application against. Having done so, I am satisfied that 
his application for the new mortgage was not in line with this.
I cannot share the details of the tolerance levels as this is commercially sensitive to 
Santander and its policy. But the new property Mr T wished to purchase and port his 
mortgage to was cheaper than his previous property. Even with a reduced amount of 
borrowing there was a significant difference in the loan to value (LTV) ratio. The new 
properties valuation meant the LTV was moving from around 51% to 75%. This difference 
meant the application for the port could not be treated as a like for like and a full application 
and underwriting with credit checks would have been required.
Mr T has given a great deal of focus to his credit score and the impact of his loans and credit 
commitments being repaid with some of the equity of the previous property and that the 
credit file did not immediately reflect these debts being repaid. I understand the frustration on 
this point and belief that this was a key driver in the applications being declined, but I dont 
think Santander has done anything wrong when it assessed the applications it did and took 
these into consideration. It relies on the information on a credit file to understand the 
liabilities and commitments a borrower has elsewhere and it is unable to simply rely on 
confirmation that debts have or will be repaid if this isnt reflected on the credit reports.
When these had not updated, Santander was relying on the information available to it when the checks were done. This meant the overall debt to income ratio was too high and 
Santander was not prepared to offer the mortgage. Mr T was offered the chance to apply 
again at a later date, allowing more time for all of his reports to update, but there is no sign 
of any application made with Santander after July 2022.
I know Mr T spent time focusing on getting his credit file up to date and he feels Santander 
failed to remove his previous mortgage balance as quickly as it should have too. But Ive not 
seen anything to suggest it did anything wrong here and I dont think it would have affected a 
later application had one been made when the rest of his credit file had updated.
Mr T withdrew from the new property he was hoping to purchase in late August but as Ive 
said, Ive not seen he approached Santander ahead of this to see if its decision on the 
lending had changed based on his amended credit file. The previous Santander mortgage 
was still showing at this point but unlike external credit commitments where it relies on the 
credit file to confirm whether these are still in existence, it can confirm whether a balance is 
outstanding with it from its records. 
Had Mr T made an application to port his mortgage before it was redeemed, I think 
Santander would have had the same concerns about the lending based on his other credit 
commitments. And Mr T would have needed to show these were repaid and this was 
reflected on the credit file before Santander could have agreed the new application. So I 
think he would still have had a period between the mortgage ending and him being able to 
do this. And so I think he would always have incurred some costs with needing to find 
alternative accommodation while being between able to purchase a new property with a 
mortgage and I cannot agree it would be fair for Santander to cover these.
Overall, Im not persuaded that Santander has acted unfairly when it considered Mr Ts 
application to port his mortgage. It did this retrospectively after it gave incorrect advice about 
this being made ahead of the move and so gave it fair consideration. It follows that when the 
previous mortgage was redeemed and the option to port the mortgage was not available, 
that the ERC has been correctly applied and I dont think it would be fair to ask Santander to 
refund this.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman