DRN-3156509
The complaint
Mrs H complains, with the help of Mr H, that the advice St James Place Wealth Management 
Plc gave her to invest in an onshore bond was unsuitable.
What happened
Mrs H and Mr H saw an adviser for SJP in 2015 for advice about investing £1 million. 
Although the advice was to them jointly, the adviser recommended they invest in an onshore 
bond to be held in Mrs Hs name only because she was a non-taxpayer. 
The bond was surrendered in December 2020 and an early withdrawal charge (EWC) was 
paid as a result. Mrs H complained to SJP about the advice that she was given to invest in 
the onshore bond.
SJP didnt uphold the complaint. It said that after discounting investment in Unit Trusts and 
an ISA the default recommendation for someone who was a non-taxpayer and would remain 
so at the time of encashment was an International Investment bond. It said this option was 
discounted for the reasons set out in the suitability letter. It said that it had found no evidence 
the advice to invest in the onshore bond was unsuitable. 
Mrs H referred the complaint to us. One of our investigators considered the complaint but 
didnt think it should be upheld. Mrs H didnt agree with the investigator and the matter was 
referred to me for review. I issued a provisional decision upholding the complaint. In 
summary I made the following key findings:
I am not satisfied that the advice to invest in the bond was suitable.
The adviser should have advised Mrs H to invest some of her money in a Unit Trust. 
The reason the adviser put forward in the suitability report, for not investing in a Unit 
Trust  namely that Mrs H and Mrs H already had around £200,000 in Collective 
investments and ISAs  wasnt a reason to invest everything in the bond.
Im not persuaded that Mrs Hs and Mrs Hs IHT position was a reason to invest 
everything in the bond, as the adviser has suggested was the case.
Mr H may well have been financially astute but that doesnt mean he would 
necessarily have understood the benefits and downsides of the different investment 
options.
I didnt think it was possible to say exactly how much Mrs H should have invested in a Unit 
Trust and therefore said redress should be based on SJP repaying a third of the notional 
20% deducted from the bond in respect of tax payable.
My findings are set out in full below:
I think it is important to make clear that where there is a dispute between the parties my 
findings are made on a balance of probabilities  what is more likely than not. In simple 
terms, in this complaint the evidence would need to show that it is more likely than not the 
advice to invest in the onshore bond was unsuitable.
The suitability report sent with a letter dated 13 July 2015 from the adviser showed that Mrs 
H and Mr H had £100,000 in an EIS, around £56,000 each in Collective Investments, 
£60,000 each in Stocks and Shares ISAs and £2.1 million cash funds.
Their objectives were recorded as being to invest tax efficiently for the medium to long term 
 the adviser refers to 5-15 years and possibly longer - for capital growth and with the 
potential for income. I have noted that Mr H has suggested the 15-year figure was added by 
the adviser afterwards but I think it is likely there was some discussion about holding the 
bond beyond the initial five years.
The suitability report sets out the main alternatives for investment. This included both the 
possibility of using an International Investment Bond (an offshore bond) and the possibility of 
using a Unit Trust investment.
The use of an offshore bond was discounted on the basis that Mrs H could become a basic 
rate taxpayer in the potential timescale of the investment of 15 years or longer. The adviser 
also referred to the possibility of a significant tax charge being triggered on surrender (or on 
significant withdrawals from the offshore bond) given the timescale over which it could be 
held. The adviser went on to discuss the possibility of investing in Unit Trusts. She stated:
For both basic and higher rate taxpayers (and indeed for some non-taxpayers who have 
larger sums to invest), the Unit Trusts almost always offers the highest assumed net return 
over the timescale we have discussed.
However, she went on to say:
However, I have not recommended a Unit Trust for this proportion of your monies because 
you already hold over £200,000 in collective Investments and Stocks and Shares ISAs and it 
was important to you to begin diversifying your approach at this stage as you are mindful of 
the different tax treatment that Unit Trust and Investment Bonds attract.
And:
As you do not currently have any Bonds and bearing in mind that you would like to have a 
number of flexible income streams available in future years, we agreed it would be sensible 
to lay the foundations for this now by diversifying across different types of investment.
I note that Mr H has suggested that the suitability report wasnt created at the time of advice 
because there is a reference to him setting up his own company and the possibility of him 
working part-time both of which werent something he had considered at the time of advice.
However, SJP has provided the advisers client transaction record which shows all the main 
notes of the various interactions she had with Mr H and there is a record on 13 June 2015 of 
the suitability letter being sent and an email the same date stating that the FCA letter was 
on its way.
In the circumstances I think it is more likely than not the suitability report SJP has provided 
was sent. Its possible it wasnt received as Mr H says they have no record of it, but even if 
that is the case, I think it is more likely than not that the report shows what was discussed 
with Mrs H and Mr H.
However, whilst I note the advisers reason for recommending the bond over the Unit Trust I 
am not persuaded that her advice was suitable. The reason that the adviser recommended the bond over a Unit Trust was stated to be to provide diversification of investment 
approach.
However, the evidence doesnt suggest that Mrs H and Mr H were never going to invest into 
a Unit Trust. They had a further £1.1 million in cash left after the investment. Mr H was also 
due to receive further money from the takeover of his business.
The suitability report also stated that Mrs H and Mr H could invest further funds into a Unit 
Trust at any time and that this may be something they would consider as further funds 
became available. In correspondence with Mr H when he first raised an issue about the 
advice the adviser stated that:
We also discussed that the next tranche of your investment would be earmarked for a Unit 
Trust depending on the exchange rate of $:£.
So, I think future investment in Unit Trust was something Mrs H and Mr H were likely to 
make in the future in any event. Given the adviser was aware that Mrs H was at the time of 
advice a non-taxpayer and also that she wasnt making full use of her CGT allowance  as 
she stated in the suitability report that you currently make some use (my emphasis) of your 
Capital Gains Tax allowance each year  it would have made sense for the adviser to have 
advised Mrs H invest some of the money in a Unit Trust so she could benefit from her 
current tax position.
I acknowledge there is reference in the suitability report to Mr H possibly transferring shares 
to Mrs H to make full use of her CGT allowance and her becoming a basic rate taxpayer 
within the 15-year timescale referred to in the suitability report. Firstly, these were not certain 
and secondly, if anything, these potential future events made investing some money in a 
Unit Trust in 2015 rather than at some later date more suitable.
If Mrs H was fully utilising her CGT allowance in the future, she wouldnt be able to use this 
as against the gains made from some future Unit Trust investment. What the adviser knew in 
2015 was that Mrs H was a non-taxpayer who was at the time not fully utilising her CGT 
allowance and so at that time further investment in a Unit Trust would have made more 
sense.
I can see no reason that the adviser didnt advise Mrs H and Mr H to invest some of their 
money in a Unit Trust in 2015 in Mrs Hs name. The reason put forward in the suitability 
report  that they had around £200,000 in Collective Investments and ISAs already and 
wanted to diversify their investment approach  may have been a reason not to put 
everything in a Unit Trust and put some of the £1 million in a bond. I cant see it was a 
reason to put everything in the bond given investment into a Unit Trust is something Mrs H 
and Mr H were likely to do in the future in any event.
I note that the adviser, in response to a query that I put about investing the whole amount in 
the bond referred to Mrs H and Mr H having a large IHT liability. There is brief reference to 
IHT in the suitability report  it refers to Mr H being aware he would need to start mitigating 
this at some stage in the future and to the adviser making him aware that he may have a 
significant liability to IHT in view of the value of the joint estate.
However, the suitability report states that this wasnt something they wished to focus on and 
preferred to let things settle before undertaking long-term planning. The IHT position is not 
something that the adviser put forward in the suitability letter as a reason to invest in the 
bond rather than a Unit Trust. She also hasnt explained why this would mean investment in a Unit Trust in 2015 was unsuitable. Im not persuaded that Mrs Hs and Mr Hs IHT position 
was a reason not to advise investing some money in a Unit Trust.
The adviser has also referred to Mr H being financially astute and that his professional 
experience included takeovers, mergers and corporate finance transactions. She said that 
he and Mrs H had shares and options for which they both utilised their CGT allowances each 
year.
I have considered what the adviser has said but Mr H and Mrs H came to her for her to use 
her experience and knowledge to advise them on what they should do. Mr H may well have 
been financially astute, but his professional experience wasnt in investments and doesnt 
mean he would have necessarily understood the benefits and downsides of the different 
investment options that were available. Also the evidence from the time of sale doesnt show 
Mrs H was fully utilising her CGT allowance at the time.
I gave both parties the opportunity of responding and providing any further information they 
wanted me to consider before making my final decision. SJP said that it didnt necessarily 
agree with the conclusion I had reached but were willing to accept my decision to bring 
matters to a conclusion although questioned the redress.
SJP said that whilst I thought it was difficult to say how much would have been invested in a 
unit trust and how much in the bond it still wanted to explore this scenario. It suggested that 
because the CGT rate was 18% in 2015/2016 this meant investing un a Unit Trust wasnt 
that advantageous at the time of advice and that redress should be calculated on the basis a 
sum of £220,000 was invested in a Unit Trust with the balance on the bond. The figure put 
forward was based on Mrs H using her CGT allowance of £11,100 and achieving growth of 
5% on her investment. 
I responded to SJP and said I wasnt satisfied that Mrs H would only have invested enough 
in a Unit Trust to make use of her CGT allowance. I pointed to what the adviser had said 
about a Unit Trust almost always providing better returns over the long run.
SJP provided a further response confirming full surrender of the bond in December 2020 and 
arguing that the EWC shouldnt be repaid to Mrs H on the basis that I had not found she 
would have invested nothing in the bond so a charge would have been payable in any event.
Mr H also responded saying he didnt understand why I had based redress on around a third 
of the amount being invested in a Unit Trust. He suggested at least two thirds should have 
been put into a Unit Trust. He also argued that the consequences of wrongly being totally 
invested in the bond werent limited to the tax and identified other consequences of the 
unsuitable advice he thought Mrs H should be compensated for, such as repayment of the 
fees paid to SJP.
I responded to Mr H and said that I hadnt said a third of the amount invested would have 
been put into a Unit Trust as there is no way of knowing how much she would have invested 
in this. I said that documents didnt suggest Mrs H wasnt making any use of the personal 
allowance at the time and there was nothing to suggest she would have paid significantly 
less in fees if she invested in a Unit Trust.
Mr H provided a further response saying there was no evidence the suitability letter was sent 
and the reference to Mrs H potentially working was hypothetical based on the optimal 
outcome for the future  of him going to part time employment with his current employer 
around 2020. He said Mrs H had not paid tax for the 10 years or before the advice or since.Mr H said that as the advice was wrong the fee should be repaid. He also said that it was 
reasonable to compound this as the money wrongly paid would have remained in the 
portfolio and grown in value. He set out how he thought redress should be paid. He 
calculated the total allowances for the period in question were greater than the tax paid on 
the bond so argued the total tax should be repaid. He also said the EWC should be repaid.
I thereafter fully reviewed the case and having done so was not satisfied that the redress I 
had set out was fair and reasonable as I was no longer satisfied Mrs H should have been 
advised to invest anything in the bond. I wrote to both parties explaining that my current view 
was that there was no benefit to Mrs H in investing anything in the bond at the time, given 
her non-taxpayer status. I said I thought the starting point for redress should be that Mrs H 
should have invested everything in a Unit Trust. I invited both parties to comment on this.
Mr H said that in principle he agreed with the approach I had indicated and that he could 
provide evidence of Mrs Hs tax position whilst invested in the bond. He said if Mrs H had 
been invested in a unit trust there would have been no need to surrender this in 2020 as 
happened with the bond. He said Mrs H incurred a tax liability because of the surrender 
which would not otherwise have been incurred. He also said the EWC of £8,839.48 should 
be paid to Mrs H and argued that the charge made for the advice should also be repaid 
given the advice was wrong.
I asked for SJPs comments on the points made by Mr H as well as the change in my 
redress. It instructed its actuaries with a view to providing actual calculations in relation to 
the comparison between the bond and the position if Mrs H had been invested in a unit trust 
instead. This caused a significant delay and I therefore asked it to confirm just whether it 
agreed with the change to redress based on all the money being invested in a unit trust.
SJP said that whilst it didnt necessarily agree that rerouting all funds originally invested in 
the bond into a unit trust constituted the optimal investment planning it would accept my view 
on this.
It also said that in theory it didnt object to repayment of the EWC but said this would be 
taken into account in the comparison between the bond and a unit trust investment. It also 
said that it didnt object in theory to repayment of the tax paid on surrender being 
incorporated in the redress. It pointed out that the bond had no initial charge but the unit trust 
would have had 5% deducted at the outset.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is now agreement between the parties as to the outcome of this complaint. In short 
SJP raise no issue with the complaint being upheld and have agreed the change to redress I 
have set out in subsequent correspondence  based on Mrs H being invested wholly in a 
unit trust. Likewise Mr H, on behalf of Mrs H, has broadly agreed the proposed redress 
although he has made certain points about the redress payable as set out above.
For the avoidance of doubt I am upholding this complaint on the basis that Mrs H should not 
have been advised to invest in the bond but should instead have been advised to invest the 
whole amount she was investing in a unit trust.Putting things right
The purpose of the redress is to put Mrs H as close to the position she would have been in if 
she been advised to invest everything in a unit trust rather than the bond. On the face of it 
the redress payable as a result of this should be straightforward, in that to put Mrs H in the 
position she would have been in if she had been given suitable advice a comparison needs 
to be made between the investment she made in the bond and the investment she should 
have made in a unit trust, with SJP to pay any difference.
Mr H has said the EWC charge payable on surrender of the bond should be repaid to Mrs H. 
I agree, because if Mrs H was invested in a unit trust she would have had no reason to 
surrender this in 2020. SJP has also agreed that this should be repaid but has said this will 
form part of the calculation when comparing the bond with a unit trust. 
I take it to mean that the calculation of what the unit trust would have been worth at 
surrender wont include the EWC whereas the figure for the bond will include this. If the 
EWC is taken into account when comparing the investment in the bond with investment in a 
unit trust then no separate amount is payable for this. However if that isnt the case for 
whatever SJP should repay this as separate amount. 
Mr H has also argued that the advice fee for the bond should be repaid as the advice was 
unsuitable. However, that would only be fair and reasonable if Mrs H would not have paid 
anything if she had been given suitable advice. As there is an advice fee of 5% for the unit 
trust, which would be deducted at outset from the amount invested, there is no basis for 
asking SJP to repay the advice fee. This would put Mrs H in a better position than she would 
have been in if given suitable advice. 
However, when comparing the bond with a unit trust investment SJP will need to take 
account of the what Mrs H paid by way of the fees for the bond and what she would have 
paid for the unit trust.
The tax treatment of the bond and a unit trust investment are different. In short, for the bond 
a notional 20% is deducted from the bond itself regardless of the investors tax position 
whereas for a unit trust the tax is payable on income from interest and dividends and on any 
capital gains - subject to any allowances the investor can use such as any unused 
allowances for dividends, interest, or CGT.
In calculating redress SJP will need to calculate the tax that Mrs H has paid as a result of 
being invested in the bond as against the tax she would have paid if invested in the unit trust 
and pay the difference. It will therefore need to know what allowances Mrs H would have 
been able to utilise as against any tax it calculates would have been payable if Mrs H had 
invested in a unit trust. As part of its calculations in relation to tax SJP will also have to take 
into account the tax that Mrs H paid on surrender of the bond.
SJP will have to pay simple interest at 8% each year on any amount it calculates is payable.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained. St James Place Wealth 
Management Plc must calculate and pay redress as I have set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2022.
 
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman