DRN-4109036
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with the amount Lloyds Bank General Insurance plc (Lloyds) paid 
to settle their claim for damage caused by an escape of water.  
Mr and Mrs B jointly held buildings and contents insurance with Lloyds. For ease of reading, 
Ill refer only to Mr B throughout my decision and any reference to Lloyds includes its agents.
What happened
In summary, Mr B claimed under the policy after water from a burst pipe flooded his kitchen 
and damaged some of the fitted units. Lloyds accepted the claim.
After a failed attempt to repair the kitchen unit doors, and after being informed that the same 
doors were unavailable, Lloyds arranged for Mr B to select a new kitchen from its preferred 
supplier.
However, before work started, Lloyds contacted Mr B to say his policy didnt provide cover 
for matching sets, and never had. Mr B disagreed. After he complained, Lloyds accepted 
that his policy had provided matching sets cover in the past but now it only included 50% 
towards undamaged items.
Lloyds offered a cash settlement of a little under £13,000, which Mr B accepted in dispute.
A local company fitted Mr Bs kitchen, charging him just over £26,000. Because Mr B 
believed he had full matching sets cover, he wanted Lloyds to reimburse the difference 
between the invoice and its cash settlement.
Lloyds issued a final response to Mr B saying that it wouldnt be increasing the cash 
settlement. However, it acknowledged its service shortfalls and paid £150 compensation by 
way of apology. Lloyds also considered elements of its service shortfall in an earlier 
compensation payment of £300.
Mr B remained unhappy and brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said Lloyds had settled the claim in line 
with the policy, and it was fair to make its offer based on 50% of the cost to replace the 
undamaged kitchen units.
Mr B didnt agree, although his reasons were based on the sale of the policy which he 
believed shouldve included full matching sets cover. The sale of the policy is being looked at 
separately, so the complaint about Lloyds cash settlement was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint against Lloyds about the cash 
settlement it paid for the water damage. 
Theres no dispute about the circumstances surrounding the claim. The key issue is that 
although Lloyds accepted the claim and offered a cash settlement which it considered to be 
in line with the policy, Mr B didnt think it was a fair offer or reflective of his policy. To be 
clear, I havent considered his complaint about the policy sale here. Therefore, my decision 
is about Lloyds handling of the claim under the policy in place at the time.
Policy
Page 9 of the policy booklet sets out the cover available to Mr B for undamaged parts of a 
matching set. A fitted kitchen is considered a matching set under the buildings insurance.
Matching sets and suites 
Where weve agreed to pay a claim for something thats part of a matching set or suite, 
well always do our best to match it. Well try to repair the damaged item and, where this 
isnt possible, well look to replace it. Well carry out thorough searches to make sure that 
the damaged item is replaced with a reasonable match. This may not be an exact match, 
but it should look reasonably similar to the rest of the set or suite. This may result in 
repainting kitchen doors or re-spraying a bathroom sink to match. Where we cant replace 
the damaged item with a reasonable match, well make a cash contribution of 50% 
towards the cost of replacing the undamaged item forming part of the same set or suite. 
Im satisfied that the policy wording under which Lloyds considered Mr Bs claim is clear. 
Only some of the kitchen units were damaged, so I think Lloyds offer to cover 50% of the 
cost of replacing the undamaged units was in line with the policy.
Replacement cost
Mr B provided a copy of the invoice for the replacement of his kitchen. The invoice total was 
for over £26,000. Lloyds offer was for a little under £13,000 which was just under 50% of the 
overall replacement cost. 
Ive considered the items listed on the invoices and, having done so, Im satisfied that 
Lloyds offer is fair despite being less than 50% of the total cost. Thats because Mr Bs 
invoice includes items for which Lloyds isnt responsible, such as new taps, new tiles, and 
replacing freestanding appliances with integrated appliances. These items wouldnt be 
covered under the matching sets element of the policy because they didnt form part of the 
uniform nature of the kitchen units. It appears that Mr B is taking the opportunity to update 
and renew his whole kitchen at a time when it would already be in disarray, and thats 
completely understandable. But I cant fairly hold Lloyds responsible for paying to upgrade 
any part which wasn't damaged by the escape of water or which isnt covered under the 
matching sets section of the policy.
Im satisfied that Lloyds final offer and payment was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.Claim handling
Ive noted that Lloyds didnt consider Mr Bs claim for undamaged items initially because it 
incorrectly believed he didnt have matching sets cover. I can understand that wouldve 
caused him frustration and inconvenience and delayed settlement of the claim. However, I 
think Lloyds acknowledged that in its final response and its compensation payment reflects 
what I wouldve required if it hadnt already made the payment. I see no reason to ask Lloyds 
to pay any more. 
Overall, Im satisfied that the evidence shows Lloyds settled Mr Bs claim fairly and in line 
with the policy terms and conditions. Therefore, I wont be asking Lloyds to do any more in 
respect of Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs 
complaint because the evidence shows Lloyds Bank General Insurance plc made a fair and 
reasonable offer to settle their claim in line with the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 August 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman