DRN-3165360
Complaint
Mrs J has complained on behalf of the estate of Mrs R that Barclays Bank UK PLC held 
Mrs R liable for transactions on her account that she didnt make or otherwise authorise.
Background
Mrs R had a current account with Barclays. Throughout 2016 and 2017, there were multiple 
transactions made from this account. There were also multiple movements of funds into the 
current account from Mrs Rs three savings account. Mrs R has since passed away, but Mrs 
J is legally authorised to represent her estate in bringing this complaint. Mrs J says that 
these transactions werent authorised by Mrs R. In total, just over £120,000 worth of 
transactions were paid out of the account.
Shes said that this activity was carried out by Mrs Rs granddaughter and partner. This 
allegation has been the subject of a lengthy police investigation and I understand it is 
expected to go to trial in 2022. In addition to the disputed payments, a loan application was 
made in Mrs Rs name in December 2016 and a Power of Attorney was registered in 
February 2017 appointing Mrs Rs granddaughter as an attorney. 
Around the time the disputed transactions started, Mrs R was living with her granddaughter 
temporarily. I understand this was initially because shed been injured following a minor fall 
and, later, that she was having some renovation work carried out to the bathroom in her 
home. According to the police investigation, she didnt have any care needs  she was still 
relatively mobile, had full mental capacity and was in generally good health. 
In March 2017, Mrs R went to her local branch of Barclays and cancelled the Power of 
Attorney that had recently been set up. She informed Barclays that her granddaughter had 
been accessing funds without her knowledge and had taken a large amount of money. Mrs 
Rs online banking facilities were cancelled at that point and her cards were reordered.
Barclays system notes from the time recorded the following:
Branch called to report fraud  grand-daughter is financially abusing the 
grandmother.
Barclays attempted to contact Mrs R to discuss its fraud investigation, but its system notes 
show it couldnt establish contact. However, in June 2017, Mrs R visited the branch and 
asked for an update on the fraud investigation and gave a bank employee the details of a 
contact at the police who were investigating her granddaughter.
In September 2017, Mrs R contacted Barclays and asked to withdraw her fraud claim. 
Barclays system notes from the time say: 
spoke with mrs  who has advised me that she does not wish to prosecute her 
granddaughter  and is happy for me to remove her claim of fraud.
As a result, Barclays didnt continue with its investigation. However, Mrs R continued to co-
operate with the police investigation into the complaint against her granddaughter. She gave 
a detailed statement to the police in June 2018. The allegations against Mrs Rs 
granddaughter were wider in scope that just these disputed payments, but they do form the 
basis of one of the offences that her granddaughter has been accused of. 
Sadly, in March 2019 Mrs R passed away. As a representative of Mrs Rs estate, Mrs J  
submitted a complaint to Barclays regarding the disputed transactions in December 2019. 
Barclays rejected the complaint. It said:
On 23 May 2017 a Fraud Investigator contacted your mother by phone but she didnt 
want to talk and asked for a letter to be sent  Nothing further was heard from the 
police, or your mother, until 21 September 2017 when your mother advised a Fraud 
Investigator that she did not wish to prosecute her granddaughter  Your mother 
confirmed that she was happy for us to remove her claim of fraud  As our records 
show your mother requested the claim be removed, were not prepared to re-open 
the claim.
Mrs J referred a complaint to this service. It was looked at by an Investigator who upheld it. 
The Investigator said that she thought it was more likely than not that the transactions in 
dispute hadnt been authorised by Mrs R.
She wasnt persuaded by the fact that Mrs R appears to have withdrawn the complaint 
necessarily meant that Barclays could hold her liable for the transactions if they werent 
authorised, although she accepted that it had made it harder for Barclays to investigate the 
allegations.
She found it significant that the Crown Prosecution Service thought there was a reasonable 
prospect of obtaining a conviction of Mrs Rs granddaughter at trial, particularly given that 
such a decision will have been made by someone with access to the full range of available 
evidence and have to decide whether its likely a court would find Mrs Rs granddaughter 
guilty beyond all reasonable doubt. I understand shes been charged with a range of alleged 
offences. Some of these have no connection with the accounts Mrs R held with Barclays. 
Nonetheless, the disputed transactions are part of that criminal complaint and its highly 
unlikely that charges would be brought if the evidence suggested Mrs R had in any way 
consented to those transactions.
Barclays didnt respond to the Investigators opinion and so the complaint has been passed 
to me to consider. 
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case, the relevant regulations are the Payment Services Regulations 2009 and 2017 
(PSR 2009 and PSR 2017). These say that a payment transaction is regarded as authorised 
by the payer only if the payer has given consent to the execution of the payment transaction. 
If a payment transaction was not authorised, then the payment service provider must refund 
the unauthorised payment transaction to the payer and, where applicable, restore the 
debited payment account to the state it would have been in had the unauthorised payment 
transaction not taken place.
The regulations also say that the payer will be liable for losses in respect of an unauthorised 
transaction where the payer has with intent or gross negligence failed to comply with their obligations to in relation to any payment instrument or personalised security credentials. This 
includes using the payment instrument in accordance with the terms and conditions 
governing its issue and use; notifying the payment service provider following the loss of the 
card; and taking reasonable steps to keep any personalised security credentials safe. 
Ive thought about this when looking at this complaint and, based on what Ive seen, the 
principal questions for me to consider when reaching a decision on this complaint are:
- Did Mrs R authorise the transactions that were made from her account?
- If not, is it nevertheless fair for Barclays to have held her liable for them?
Authorisation
Its not straightforward to a reach a finding as to whether these transactions were authorised. 
Unfortunately, Mrs R cant tell us her recollections of how they took place or what her 
intentions were at the time.
Nevertheless, its significant that she did clearly make an allegation of fraud to Barclays and 
that she acted very swiftly in rescinding the Power of Attorney that had been set up in 
connection with her. I also agree with the Investigator that significant weight must be 
attached to the fact that Mrs Rs grand-daughter has been charged with an offence related to 
these transactions and so lawyers at the Crown Prosecution Service are satisfied that 
theres a reasonable prospect of obtaining a conviction. 
I recognise that Barclays didnt fully investigate Mrs Rs complaint back in 2017 because she 
appeared to withdraw it. I dont know for sure what her reasons were for doing so and 
Barclays hasnt been able to provide a recording of the conversation. I accept that this has 
caused some practical difficulties for Barclays in terms of investigating the complaint, but Im 
not persuaded that Mrs R telling Barclays to withdraw her claim automatically supersedes its 
obligation under the PSRs to refund transactions that were more likely than not 
unauthorised. In the absence of further information, I cant confidently conclude that, 
because she withdrew the claim, she was conceding that shed authorised the transactions. 
I think its noteworthy that the system notes recorded that she was a victim of financial 
abuse. In those circumstances, Barclays needed to take particular care in the way in which it 
investigated what Mrs R had told it. I can see that a bank employee had tried to call Mrs R 
but that she didnt want to discuss her claim on the telephone. I think Barclays shouldve 
been alive to the risk that Mrs Rs circumstances meant she couldnt have an open 
discussion about her complaint if there was a risk her granddaughter was nearby. For the 
same reasons, I dont think Barclays shouldve taken it at face value when she called to say 
that she wanted to withdraw her fraud complaint.
Overall, Im satisfied that the weight of the evidence supports the position that Mrs R did not 
authorise the transactions.Is it fair and reasonable for Barclays to have held Mrs R liable for the transactions?
Ive also considered the fact that the regulations say that Barclays can hold the payer liable 
for these losses if she failed with intent or gross negligence to comply with her obligations in 
relations to the account or her personalised security credentials  for example, if she failed 
to take reasonable steps to keep any security credentials safe. The bar for gross negligence 
is a high one and it would require Mrs R to have displayed a very significant degree of 
carelessness.
Its not clear how the security of Mrs Rs account was compromised. From the information 
that has been shared with us by all parties and the police, its known that Mrs R stayed with 
her granddaughter for a period and that, at other times, her granddaughter had access to her 
home. That would have presented her with the opportunity to gather enough information 
about Mrs R and her account so as to enable her granddaughter to take control of it. I dont 
think the fact that such information could be gathered by someone with access to Mrs Rs 
home is enough to say that shes displayed a significant degree or carelessness and so I 
dont find it fair and reasonable for Barclays to hold her liable on those grounds.  
Final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold this complaint.
Barclays Bank UK PLC now needs to:  
- Refund each unauthorised payment transactions to the estate of Mrs R.
- Refund each payment (if any) made from Mrs Rs accounts to the loan account that 
was taken out in her name.
- Pay interest on those sums that would otherwise have remained in Mrs Rs savings 
accounts at the rate that wouldve applied.
- Pay interest on each payment that would otherwise have remained in Mrs Rs current 
account at a rate of 8% simple per annum from the date each payment was made 
until the date its refunded to the estate of Mrs R.
- Refund any overdraft interest or charges paid during the period of disputed activity.
- From this total sum, it can deduct the £38,400 which was paid into Mrs Rs account 
but didnt originate from Mrs Rs funds.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs R 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman