DRN-3193907
complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1996. Mrs H and the estate of Mr H say Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (BoS) mis-
sold them PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mrs H and 
the late Mr Hs circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, 
limitations and exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this 
information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mrs H and the estate of Mr Hs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they 
didnt raise any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and 
arguments theyd previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs H and the late Mr Hs. I havent set out that 
detailed information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding 
Mrs H and the estate of Mr Hs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
BoS had to make it clear that Mrs H and the late Mr H didnt have to take out the PPI.
Because things happened so long ago  its also the case that the mortgage account 
ended in 2001 - BoS no longer has any of the paperwork from the time of sale. And Mrs 
H hasnt given much detail about what happened  again unsurprising given the passage 
of time. 
So taking everything into account, including the limited evidence about an event which 
happened in the mid 1990s, I cant now fairly say that BoS likely misrepresented the 
policy as not being optional or that it didnt get Mrs H and the late Mr Hs agreement to 
take it out.
BoS says it recommended the PPI to Mrs H and the late Mr H - so it had to check that 
the PPI was right for them. And the evidence about Mrs H and the late Mr Hs 
circumstances at the time, shows that the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or 
unsuitable for them. For example they were eligible for the cover and although they had 
some sick pay they couldve used to make the repayments on their mortgage if they 
werent working, the policy would have paid out alongside this and for longer if necessary 
 up to 12 months per claim. So given this and because Mrs H and the late Mr H didnt 
have any savings to fall back on, I think they had a need for cover. 
There was nothing about Mrs H and the late Mr Hs employment or occupation which 
would have made it difficult for them to claim. And they didnt have any pre-existing 
medical conditions that could affect their ability to claim. So I dont think it was wrong for 
BoS to have recommended it.
Its possible the information BoS gave Mrs H and the late Mr H about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose to take it out - so it looks like 
they wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mrs H and the 
late Mr H as I concluded above, or too dissimilar to what they reasonably thought they 
were buying from the information I think they were likely given.  And at less than £10 a 
month it also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would have been useful for 
them if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mrs H and the late Mr H 
would have declined the cover had BoS done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mrs H and the late Mr Hs circumstances at the time of sale and 
despite its limitations and exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or 
unsuitable for them. So I think they would have still thought they had some good reasons 
to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Mrs H and the late Mr H would have still taken out PPI. I think the 
policy could provide a useful benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. I 
also think the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were getting. 
And in those circumstances, I think that they would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mrs H and the estate of Mr Hs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be 
general complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points 
include: a claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the 
regulators rules and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor 
value because of the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with 
the low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant BoS should have disclosed the 
poor value and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it 
had on the chances of making a claim.
But Mrs H and the estate of Mr Hs representative has not said how these points apply to the 
specific facts and circumstances of Mrs H and the estate of Mr Hs individual complaint  just 
that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs H and the estate of Mr 
Hs particular case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out 
above I dont uphold this complaint.
This means BoS doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mrs H and the estate of Mr Hs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs H, on behalf 
of herself and of the estate of Mr H, to accept or reject my decision before 3 February 2022. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman