DRN-4195022
The complaint
Mr Z complains that the vehicle he acquired through Startline Motor Finance Limited 
(Startline) was not of satisfactory quality. 
What happened
Mr Z acquired a used car in March 2021 via a hire purchase agreement through Startline. 
The car was five years old and had travelled around 80,000 miles at the point of purchase.
 Mr Z had an issue when the DPF warning light came on after a few weeks and booked the 
car in for a service at an authorised garage. The garage noted this down as a 42,000 
mile/2nd service despite the mileage being over 82,000 miles at the time and appear to have 
resolved the DPF filer issue at the same time as carrying out the service.
In March 2022, Mr Z had the car serviced again at the same garage. The mileage at this 
point was just under 100,000 miles. At this service the garage also repaired two engine 
mounts, repaired and replaced some brake parts and sensor pads, renovated the air 
conditioning unit and replaced a tyre which had failed during the MOT test. 
Then at some point between the end of September and November 2022, Mr Z had problems 
with the car and took it to a local garage. Mr Z has told us the mileage was around 110,000 
at this point and the invoice from the garage in November shows they stripped and rebuilt 
the engine and replaced the turbo, the oil pump, and other parts, which totalled over £5,000. 
Then in February 2023 the same garage replaced all four injectors, a fuel pump, the battery 
and carried out an MOT. The mileage at this point was 110,000, Mr Z has said he hadnt 
driven the car between September 2022 and March 2023. 
In March 2023 Mr Z complained to Startline about the quality of the vehicle and asked to be 
compensated for the repairs carried out since he had been supplied the car. The business 
responded in April 2023 not upholding the complaint. They said that the hadnt authorised 
any of the repairs, hadnt been told about any of the problems with the car, and had seen no 
proof of the faults having been present or developing at point of sale. 
Unhappy with this, Mr Z brought his complaint to our service. An investigator here 
investigated the case and did not uphold the complaint. They said that the repairs carried out 
are all items with limited lifespans. They could potentially last longer than the mileage of the 
vehicle at the time, but this would be dependent on regular maintenance and servicing, and 
theyd seen no evidence that the car had a full service history when supplied. 
They also explained that they had seen no evidence of what had happened to cause the 
repairs to be required in November 2022, so they couldnt say what had caused the 
problems, or when. They said that as Mr Z had driven 30,000 miles in the two years he had 
owned the car, they felt the issues were most likely a result of wear and tear, and that the 
car was most likely of satisfactory quality when it was supplied. 
Mr Z didnt agree with this and asked for an Ombudsman to make a final decision. He said 
that the vehicle had failed three times in the first 18 months, and hed spent as much on the 
repairs as the car was worth, which couldnt be fair. He said that the problems he had to 
have repaired led from an oil pump failure and so werent simple wear and tear.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr Z was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to investigate complaints about it.
Mr Z was supplied with a car which had travelled 80,000 miles when it was supplied. The 
first issue he has raised was a few weeks after supply and was regarding the DPF filter. This 
is a wear and tear part and appears to have been cleaned or replaced as part of the general 
service he paid for. 
I would not deem work on the DPF filter to be an indication of the car being of unsatisfactory 
quality when supplied, as this is a wear and tear issue requiring regular maintenance and 
replacement. Its also important to note that the authorised dealer carrying out the service 
noted this as the 42,000 mile/2nd service. This indicates that the car had likely not been 
serviced at the required intervals prior to Mr Z acquiring it, as it had covered 80,000 miles 
when supplied. 
Whilst the previous service history clearly isnt Mr Zs fault, it would up to him to make 
himself aware of the maintenance history of a car, usually via its service history, as part of 
his decision to acquire the car. 
Its then almost a year later when the next service is carried out, and Mr Z has covered 
almost 20,000 miles in that year of owning the car. There were some further repairs carried 
out at this point, but again, these appear to be wear and tear items being repaired or 
replaced, and there is no evidence to confirm anything different. And hes then travelled 
another 10,000 miles in the car in the following few months before having major problems in 
September to November 2022. 
Im sorry to hear of the repair expenses Mr Z has incurred, but I have to consider the 
evidence provided, and the relevant law, to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of the case. Mr Z has said that the vehicles engine failure wasnt wear and 
tear but was a chain reaction following on from the oil pump failing. Hes said he believes the 
original DPF blockage led to all of this happening. 
Unfortunately, theres no evidence to back up this theory. The only evidence provided has 
been repair bills for work carried out, with no diagnostic reports or engineer reports 
commenting on the problems hes had with the car or what might have caused them. 
Startline in their final response letter to Mr Z said they were not upholding the complaint 
because none of the repairs were authorised by themselves or their agents, indeed they said 
they were unaware of the issues Mr Z was having with the vehicle until he complained in March 2023. 
Ive thought about this, as Mr Z has said he was discussing the problems with the business 
or their agents prior to this. Mr Z has also told us that after the major repairs in November 
2022, the car didnt do any more mileage until March 2023 because he only collected the car 
back in March 2023. In fact, he has told us that between September 2022 and March 2023 
the car was not with him but in the garage, and therefore he didnt add any mileage to it. 
But Mr Z didnt raise a complaint with Startline until March 2023. Im not persuaded that Mr Z 
would have been discussing the problems with the business for the previous six months 
without raising a complaint. During that period, he paid significant repair bills to garages 
which Id have expected to trigger him to complain about the costs he was incurring. 
If there was evidence which showed the potential chain reaction of one fault leading to 
another, I would consider the merits of Mr Zs request for the business to contribute to 
repairs. This would be despite the fact that Startline dont consider they are responsible as 
they werent informed of any problems. But the only evidence we have is that repair bills 
were paid by Mr Z. 
Mr Z acquired a car which had already done 80,000 miles and added another 30,000 miles 
in around 18 months before suffering some significant repair bills. There is no independent 
report about the causes of the problems, or any garage or mechanic testimony of any kind 
explaining what they believe has happened. I dont agree with Mr Z that its a case that one 
problem must have led to another. It is just as likely, indeed more likely, that there was a 
variety of wear and tear issues with the car which caused the problems. 
There is evidence that the car hadnt been serviced at the required intervals before Mr Z 
acquired it, which is generally an indicator that a car may suffer from more wear and tear 
issues sooner than might otherwise be the case. With no further evidence to show an issue 
with the quality of the vehicle, and Mr Z having been able to drive the car for 30,000 miles 
before any significant problems occurred, I am not persuaded that the car was of 
unsatisfactory quality at the point it was supplied to Mr Z. 
I empathise with Mr Z for the issues hes had with the car, and the costs incurred, but theres 
no evidence that these faults were present or developing at the point he acquired the car. As 
such, I cannot uphold his complaint, and wont be asking Startline to do anything further.    
My final decision
I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2023.
 
Paul Cronin
Ombudsman