DRN-3192988
The complaint
X complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) removed a fee waiver for the benefits from his 
Gold Account (GA) without his agreement.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
X has had his GA for very many years, during which if he kept the balance above a set level, 
he received benefits such as insurances for no cost. He says that Lloyds wrote to him in 
2021 to say the fee waiver would shortly be removed and he would have to pay a certain 
amount per month for the same benefits going forward.
X says this is unfair as he has had this contractual agreement with Lloyds for a very long 
time and he believes Lloyds does not have the right to unilaterally change it.
I have considered the points he has raised carefully, and I can understand why he is very 
disappointed by this change. 
Ive asked for copies of the original agreement he signed. But there is no requirement on 
Lloyds to keep documents from over 25 years ago and understandably they are not available 
after so many years.
However, in my experience of looking at the terms and conditions of packaged bank 
accounts such as the GA over many years, there is always a clause that enables both 
parties to end the agreement with suitable notice. So, I think its more likely than not that 
such a clause was present in the agreement X signed.
So, this means that Lloyds was entitled to end the old agreement with X with suitable notice. 
My understanding is that Lloyds wrote to X two months in advance of the change and in my 
view, this was not an unreasonable notice period. 
So, overall, while I accept that X is disappointed he has lost the fee waiver after having it for 
so many years, in my view its more likely than not that Lloyds has not done anything wrong 
in removing it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Xs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2022.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman