DRN-4303086
The complaint
Mr H complains that Scottish Widows Limited has failed to effectively manage his pension 
investments, resulting in them suffering a large fall in their value.
What happened
Mr H holds pension savings with Scottish Widows in two separate pension plans. This 
complaint only relates to the savings Mr H holds in the pension plan **312. In this decision, 
when I refer to Mr Hs pensions savings, or his pension plan, I am only referring to those 
held in that plan.
Mr Hs pension plan started in September 2013 and since that time it had received 
contributions from Mr Hs employer. The pension savings were invested using one of 
Scottish Widows Pension Investment Approaches (PIA). In the case of this plan the 
approach that was being used was Balanced  Targeting Annuity. Mr Hs retirement date 
had been set as his 65th birthday in May 2022. But although Mr H later amended that date to 
the following year, he instructed Scottish Widows to leave his investment strategy 
unchanged. Mr H said he took that decision in order to leave his pension savings invested in 
a low-risk strategy.
The lifestyling features of the PIA meant that, as Mr H approached retirement, his pension 
investments would automatically be switched into specific investments targeted to provide 
the best outcomes for his retirement. So, in Mr Hs case, that meant by May 2022 his 
pension savings were invested across two Scottish Widows funds  a Pension Protector 
fund, and a Cash fund. Those funds were designed to mirror movements in the price of 
annuities, allowing a degree of protection for Mr Hs retirement income from changes in the 
investment markets.
In the latter part of 2022 a number of market changes were experienced. They resulted in a 
fall in the cost of annuities. And, as Scottish Widows says might have been reasonably 
expected, they saw a fall in the value of Mr Hs pension savings. Mr H complained to 
Scottish Widows about the way it had managed his pension investments.
Mr Hs complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. She didnt think that 
Scottish Widows had done anything wrong that had led to a fall in the value of Mr Hs 
pension savings. She thought that the fall in value was due to market conditions, and 
regardless of how low risk investments might be there is always risk, and growth can never 
be guaranteed. So she didnt think that the complaint should be upheld.
Mr H didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr H and by Scottish Widows. Where the evidence is unclear, or there 
are conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
I think it is important to first set out the basis of the relationship between Mr H and 
Scottish Widows. Mr Hs pension had been with the firm for many years, and his pension
investments are set via a lifestyling approach. That meant that Mr Hs pension investments 
altered as he approached his normal retirement age to reduce their risk. But as I said above, 
in 2022, Mr H agreed that his retirement date should be deferred by a year, but that the 
investment approach should remain unchanged. So his pension savings remained in the 
funds that they had been placed into in anticipation of his retirement.
Scottish Widows is not Mr Hs financial advisor. So it simply acts on the instructions he 
provides. It isnt for Scottish Widows to ensure that any investment decisions are suitable for 
Mr Hs needs  those were essentially decisions he needed to make for himself. And I have 
seen that Scottish Widows website (or by post on request) provides comprehensive 
information for investors about the range of funds that are offered.
Mr Hs pension savings were targeted to provide him with an annuity at retirement. 
Scottish Widows set out in its literature how the investments would be changed in the 
15 years leading up to Mr Hs selected retirement date. I appreciate that Mr H didnt start 
saving with Scottish Widows until around nine years before his retirement. But that simply 
meant that his investments entered his pension plan at the appropriate stage of its lifecycle. 
And, as would be expected for his selected approach (Balanced  targeting annuity) by the 
time his retirement age was reached, the pension savings were entirely invested in the 
Pension Protector and Cash funds. I have noted that Mr H held another pension plan with 
Scottish Widows that followed an alternative approach  targeting flexible access. But that 
approach wasnt mirrored on the plan that is the subject of this complaint.
The information that Scottish Widows provides for the Pension Protector fund gives a 
general description of its objectives. It says it is intended to provide a return consistent with 
the variations in market annuity rates with the aim of reducing annuity conversion risk. And 
it goes on to further explain that The Fund Manager will aim to reduce the risk of annuity
conversions, the fund management strategy may change in line with market annuity rates 
and fixed interest yields. Investment in the asset classes will be direct and indirect
using derivatives to seek to meet the Funds aim.
Mr H is right that the aim of the lifestyling switches was to reduce the risk in his pension 
investments around the time of his retirement. But the risk that was managed by this 
investment fund wasnt against a fall in the cash value of his pension savings. As Mr H has 
unfortunately seen, the value of his pension savings have fallen greatly. The fund was 
designed to ensure that, at retirement, any variations in the amount of annuity income Mr H 
could purchase with his pension savings would be minimised.I appreciate that Mr H has said that his intention wasnt to use his pension savings to 
purchase an annuity, so the investment approach appears to have been unsuitable for his 
needs. But Ive not seen anything to suggest that he told Scottish Widows that was his 
intention in the years leading up to his retirement. When he first took out his pension plan, 
taking an annuity was the only option available so that would have been the approach taken 
at that time. And the annual statements sent to Mr H clearly showed the changes in his 
investments were following the targeting annuity glidepath. As Ive said earlier, it wasnt for 
Scottish Widows to check whether the investments Mr H held were suitable for his 
circumstances.
There is no doubt that the performance of Mr Hs pension investments will have caused him 
great disappointment. During 2022, the value of his pension investments fell. But those falls 
mirrored falls across a whole range of investment classes and were entirely outside the 
control of Scottish Widows. The information provided to investors about the funds into which 
Mr Hs pension savings were invested clearly set out that their values werent guaranteed, 
and might fall.
Given that Scottish Widows was not providing Mr H with any advice about his pension 
savings, it would not have been appropriate for it to contact him specifically about the 
change in value of any of his underlying investments. Doing so might reasonably lead a 
consumer to consider that Scottish Widows was recommending a change in the chosen 
investments. Information about the value of a pension investment is readily available either 
through online reporting, or from Scottish Widows directly.
So I dont think that I should hold Scottish Widows responsible for general falls in the market 
value of investments. I am satisfied that the underlying portfolio that supported the lifestyle 
portfolio into which Mr Hs pension savings were invested was suitable for that level of risk 
and its specified use to purchase an annuity. But, in 2022 in particular, there was uncommon 
volatility in those asset classes that led to the falls in value Mr H experienced. Those could 
not have been reasonably anticipated, and so wouldnt have been mitigated by any 
investment approach that was taken by Scottish Widows.
Ultimately it fell to Mr H to monitor his pension investments, and instruct Scottish Widows to 
make changes to his portfolio if he felt it had become unsuitable for his circumstances.
I think that Scottish Widows has met its obligations in the information it provided to Mr H 
whilst he held his pension investments.
 
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr H. But I dont think that 
Scottish Widows has treated him unfairly, or done anything wrong. So I dont uphold his 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Scottish Widows Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman