DRN-1579406
 
The complaint
Miss H complains that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading at the time of sale as Halifax) mis-sold 
her two mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policies.
background
Miss H bought a regular premium MPPI policy in May 1998 alongside a mortgage. She took 
the mortgage and policy out in one of Halifaxs branches. 
In December 2006 Miss H applied for a further advance and at the same time took out a new 
MPPI policy. Halifax called this policy a Total Mortgage Protection Plan and there was also 
life and critical illness cover provided.
Both MPPI policies covered Miss H against accidents, sickness and unemployment. 
Miss H thinks Halifax mis-sold the policies to her. She says Halifax has not provided enough 
proof that the optional nature of either policy was clearly explained to her. She also says she 
had sufficient cover and so doesnt think Halifax didnt do enough to find this out.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Miss Hs complaint. As Miss H doesnt agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Hs case.
Ive looked at all of the information provided by both parties and decided not to uphold        
Miss Hs complaint. I will explain why.
Miss H says Halifax has not provided enough proof that the optional nature of the MPPI 
policies was clearly explained to her. So I looked into this first. 
1998 sale
I acknowledge what Miss H has said about the 1998 sale and that it was carried out in a face 
to face meeting. I cant be sure how the policy was presented during the meeting between 
the parties and Halifax has not provided much about this. But Miss H has also not been able 
to recall the sale in too much detail either. This though is understandable due to the many 
years that has passed. So its been difficult for me to consider whether Miss H was given a 
choice or not as to whether she should have the MPPI policy or whether she was told it was 
compulsory.But Im not aware of any known issues with the way Halifax sold these policies around this 
time. I have not been able to read anything that would persuade me the advisor did anything 
other than offer Miss H a choice to have MPPI. I say this after looking through the original 
sales documentation from the time. I can see that Miss H signed a separate MPPI 
application form called mortgage repayments insurance application. On this form I can see 
the PPI policy was presented as optional, and she has signed separately for it. So on 
balance, it is more likely that the policy in 1998 was provided as an optional requirement and 
Miss H were aware of this based on what I have seen.
2006 sale
I have again considered Miss Hs complaint that Halifax have not provided proof that it gave 
her a choice to have MPPI when it sold her the policy in December 2006. This sale was 
again conducted in a face to face meeting and again I cant be sure what was said between 
the parties when they arranged a further advance and the insurance. I have looked though, 
at the sales documentation from the time of sale to give me a better idea as to what more 
likely would have been said between the parties.
I can see an offer of mortgage document that would have been given to Miss H. Within this 
document in section 9 it says Insurance  Insurance you must take out through Halifax  
you do not need to buy any insurance through Halifax plc. In addition to this statement, I 
can also see in a letter sent to Miss H on 13 December 2006, it says thank you for choosing 
our Total Mortgage Protection Plan. I think when I see these 2 documents, I am persuaded 
Miss H was given a choice to have MPPI in 2006 and she chose to have it.
Moving on, from the sales documentation I have seen in both sales, I think Halifax advised 
Miss H to have the MPPI policies during the meetings in 1998 and 2006. So as it did 
recommend the policies to her, it had additional responsibilities during the sale to make sure 
the policy was suitable for Miss Hs needs. But it doesnt look as if either was unsuitable for 
her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time of each sale. Miss H had 6 
months full and 6 months half sick pay and she says she had other cover and savings. But I 
think the policys benefits would have been of use to her during a difficult time and over an 
extended period. She would also have been able to claim benefit in addition to her means. 
She would have also been able to claim unemployment benefit as well as receive a 
redundancy payment from her employer. I can see no other issues that would have made 
the policy unsuitable for Miss H such as a limitation or significant term that would have 
affected their ability to claim benefit. Miss H did have medical conditions at the time of each 
sale but she has told our service that they wouldnt have affected her day to day living. At 
least not enough that it would have made either policy unsuitable.
Halifax has provided some information about the costs relating to the PPI policy that Miss H 
took out. I cant be sure if the costs were clearly disclosed during either meeting. But even if 
they were, I dont think it would have made a difference to her decision to take either policy 
for the reasons I have already given. The policies seemed affordable and Miss H could have 
cancelled either policy at any time.
Its possible Halifax didnt point out the main things the policies didnt cover or give clear 
information on the significant terms. But its unlikely Miss H wouldve been affected by any of 
these due to her circumstances at the time.
I understand this will come as a disappointment but in conclusion I do not uphold Miss Hs 
complaint. 
But Halifax has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss H for the sale in 1998 (it paid a 
goodwill payment also for the sale in 2006) because: Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss H about that. Because Halifax didnt tell her, 
that was unfair. 
 
To put that right, Halifax has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Miss H.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have to pay back to Miss H any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 June 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman