DRN-1573692
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken by Mrs P in 1998 
when she applied for a credit card. Mrs P says Bank of Scotland Plc  trading as Halifax 
(Halifax) - mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ps case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
Halifax should have made Mrs P aware she had a choice in buying the PPI. Mrs P says the 
policy wasn't wanted or needed. Halifax doesnt have any paperwork Mrs P would have 
completed at the time but it has provided a sample copy of the application form Mrs P is 
likely to have completed. Looking at the sample copy, I can see it asks applicants to tick a 
box if they want the policy. 
Ive thought about what I know about how Halifax sold these types of policies at the time, 
alongside what Mrs P has told us. From what we know about how Halifax presented these 
policies at the time, it usually made it clear it was optional. Nothing Mrs P has told me makes 
me think Halifax did anything different in selling the PPI to her. So I think its more likely Mrs 
P selected to take the PPI. 
Halifax says it recommended the PPI to Mrs P so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.
Mrs P says she had 6 months sick pay and 3 months worth of savings. But the PPI would 
have paid out alongside her employee benefits, as well as covering her repayments if she 
was too unwell to work. Mrs P says she had some savings, but having the PPI wouldve 
meant she couldve used her savings for other things. So I dont think Halifax was wrong to 
recommend the policy to her.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But it seems like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put 
her off taking out the cover.
Overall I dont think Mrs P has lost out from anything Halifax might have done wrong. So 
Halifax doesnt need to refund everything Mrs P paid for it. 
 But Halifax has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs P because: Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs P about that. Because Halifax didnt tell Mrs P, 
that was unfair. 
 
To put that right, Halifax has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
I know Mrs P will be disappointed by this outcome and Ive thought carefully about all the 
points shes raised. But for the reasons explained above, these points dont change my 
decision. 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland Plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs P.
But Bank of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to Mrs P any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman