DRN-3380800
The complaint
Mr G and Ms D have complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has unfairly declined 
their claim. 
What happened
Mr G and Ms D have travel insurance cover, underwritten by UKI, through a packaged bank 
account. 
They travelled abroad on holiday in December 2020 and were due to return in January 2021. 
Whilst they were on holiday, they were told by other holidaymakers and hotel staff that the 
airline they were using had suspended all flights to the UK. They were due to fly back on 4 
January 2021.
Ms D suffers from anxiety and as they were worried and upset, they booked alternative 
return flights back to the UK. They returned home on 4 January 2021. And made a claim for 
their additional costs. 
UKI declined the claim on the basis that the original return flights did go ahead as scheduled 
and they could have returned as planned. And so their circumstances werent covered. 
Unhappy, Mr G made a complaint and referred his complaint to this Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think UKI had done anything wrong as 
there was no cover under the terms and conditions of the policy. 
Mr G agreed that their circumstances dont clearly fit under any section of the policy. But he 
asked me to speak to UKI and ask it to make a payment as a gesture of goodwill. 
And so the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. And largely for the same 
reasons as already explained by our investigator. 
The relevant industry rules and guidance say UKI should handle claims fairly, promptly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
The policy terms and conditions set out the circumstances in which UKI will pay a claim. 
They outline the specific scenarios which are covered as well as any applicable exclusions 
to those scenarios. The terms and conditions make up the contract of insurance between 
UKI and Mr G and Ms D.
The missed, delated or abandoned departure section confirms cover is provided if Mr G and 
Ms D are unable to return to the UK on their planned return date. But Mr G and Ms D would 
have been able to return on their planned return date as their return flights went ahead after 
all. And so there is no cover under this section.
The cutting short your trip section provides cover for specific reasons including death, 
injury, illness, FCO travel advice and natural disasters. As Ms D suffers from anxiety, this 
section potentially provides cover if her illness was the reason for cutting short a trip. But to 
claim under this section, Ms D would need to provide:
Relevant medical certificates from a doctor if you cut short your trip due to death, 
injury, illness or quarantine.
Ms D doesnt have any medical evidence to show that she cut her trip short due to illness. In 
addition, this section confirms loss of enjoyment isnt covered and says:
We wont pay forAny claim due to you not enjoying your trip.
And so there is no cover under this section either.
Ive considered the terms and conditions in full and Mr G and Ms Ds circumstances. I 
understand they accept that their circumstances arent covered by the policy but they say 
they acted reasonably and so UKI should cover the claim. 
Mr G booked alternative return flights as Ms D suffers from anxiety and the uncertainty of 
their original return flights was causing stress and worry. Although the original airline had 
suspended flights whilst they were on their holiday, by the time of their return date, this 
suspension was lifted and their original flight home went ahead as scheduled. Their flights 
were not therefore cancelled. And so Mr G and Ms D could have returned home on their 
original flight as planned.
Mr G said UKIs refusal was unreasonable as when flights are suspended, they are 
suspended until further notice. He also said it was unreasonable for UKI to expect a doctors 
letter for Ms Ds anxiety as anyone in this situation would be anxious. Mr G said he took 
steps to ensure a return to the UK which were reasonable and responsible and anyone else 
in the same situation would have done the same thing. 
I understand why Mr G took the actions he did but I dont think I can fairly ask UKI to pay the 
claim. There is no cover under any section of the policy. And medical evidence is a 
requirement if the reason for cutting a trip short is illness. An insurer can decide the risks it 
chooses to cover and doesnt have to cover everything. It also wouldnt be possible to detail 
an exhaustive list of exclusions. Mr G says his circumstance isnt specifically excluded. But 
his circumstance is that he bought alternative flights in case his return flights were cancelled. 
He said he did so as the uncertainty was causing anxiety and they werent able to enjoy their 
holiday. Loss of enjoyment is specifically excluded. And so I dont think UKI needs to do 
anything further. 
Lastly, Mr G has asked me to speak to UKI to ask it to make a payment as a goodwill 
gesture. I can see that UKI did already consider whether it could make a payment, outside of 
the policy terms but decided not to do so. I have to remain independent and impartial and my 
role is to make a formal and final decision when an agreement cannot be reached. And so I 
wont be asking UKI to do anything further. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 May 2022.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman