DRN-2674839
The complaint
Mrs and Mr G have complained that they didnt consent to the cost of a packaged bank 
account being charged to them each month by Barclays Bank UK PLC. 
What happened
Mrs and Mr G had had a Barclays Additions packaged bank account for several years. This 
gave various benefits, in return for a monthly fee. The benefits included mobile phone 
insurance, extended warranty cover, and car breakdown cover. 
In 2016, Barclays decided to end the Additions account and transfer existing customers over 
to an ordinary account, but with similar benefits added separately. The bank account was 
free, but the extra benefits incurred a monthly fee. 
In September 2016 Barclays wrote to Mrs and Mr G with a letter headed: Your Additions 
account will soon become a Barclays Bank Account with Tech Pack - offering changes to 
your features for a reduced monthly fee. The letter said this would happen in January 2017. 
With the Tech pack, the account would still give mobile phone insurance and would now 
also include gadget insurance, but it wouldnt include car breakdown cover, extended 
warranty and some other more-minor benefits. The letter said the monthly fee would 
decrease to £9.50, instead of the £13.50 that was charged for the Additions account. 
Mrs and Mr G complained that they hadnt consented to the Tech pack fees. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the evidence and said they thought the complaint shouldnt 
be upheld. Mrs and Mr G didnt agree, and so the matter has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On our website, weve set out our approach to the sale of packaged bank accounts. Ive 
kept that approach in mind when considering this case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
When Barclays was changing Mrs and Mr Gs account, from the Additions account to the 
account with a Tech pack it didnt, in my view, need to ask Mrs and Mr G for new 
permission to charge the Tech pack fees. This is because Barclays was largely just 
continuing the same service it gave under the Additions account, albeit under a different 
name with some differences in benefits. I think Barclays could reasonably have relied on 
the permission which it will already had from Mrs and Mr G to deduct fees for the 
Additions account. 
(Ive no evidence Barclays didnt have that permission. If Mrs and Mr G believe they never 
agreed to the Additions account, or that it was in some way mis-sold, they would need to 
complain about that to Barclays.) 
Barclays have also shown us copies of letters it sent later on, to confirm the change and to 
update Mrs and Mr G on changes in charges. The letter of September 2016 described what 
Mrs and Mr G should do if they didnt want the Tech pack.
These letters were sent to the address which Barclays held for Mrs and Mr G  and I can 
see its the same address that we have for them. Mr G has told us that he didnt receive 
these. However, I dont have evidence that Barclays were aware of any problem with Mrs 
and Mr G receiving post. So I think Barclays took enough steps to make Mrs and Mr G 
aware of the changes.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mrs and Mr G s complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 June 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman