DRN-3363548
The complaint
Miss N complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HLAM) caused 
delays in transferring her shares to a new provider. She says she had to pay its commission 
and foreign exchange fees until the shares were transferred. And that she missed the 
opportunity to trade for around three weeks when prices were volatile.
What happened
On 30 April 2020 Miss N gave instructions to transfer her shares to a new provider, who Ill 
refer to as F. The shares werent transferred until the end of August 2020. And one 
shareholding, which Ill refer to as B, wasnt transferred until 23 September 2020. Miss N 
says she decided to transfer her shares because she didnt want to pay HLAMs foreign 
exchange fees. So she wants it to refund these fees, plus its commission charges, for the 
trades she transacted during the period 30 April 2020 to 6 July 2020 inclusive  a total of 
£1,563.11.
She says that, once the transfer had started, she wasnt able to trade. She is particularly 
concerned about the period from 19 August to 9 September 2020 when the market was 
volatile, and prices dropped.
HLAM apologised that there had been a delay in acting on Miss Ns transfer instructions. It 
paid her £150 for the inconvenience caused. It didnt agree to refund its foreign exchange 
and commission charges as it said these had been charged in line with the agreed terms 
and conditions. And it said Miss N was still able to deal during the transfer process by using 
its telephone dealing service.
Our investigator agreed that Miss N was still able to trade and that HLAM wasnt responsible 
for any investment loss. But she thought HLAM should pay Miss N an additional £100 
compensation for the further delays and overall service shed received.
HLAM said the further delay in transferring B shares wasnt its responsibility. It said the delay 
was due to issues caused by F, and the additional complexity of completing an overseas 
transfer. It would have agreed to pay an additional £50 compensation.
Miss N said, in summary, that:
It wasnt practical for her to place dealing instructions by phone due to waiting times, the 
number of trades she would typically place in a day, and rapid price movements. She 
also said she couldnt trade at times when the US and French markets were open, but 
when HLAM was closed.
£100 compensation isnt enough to compensate her for the 1% foreign exchange fee and 
the commission charges.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same conclusion as our investigator for the following 
reasons:
HLAM received Miss Ns transfer instructions on 30 April 2020. It didnt act on those 
instructions until 16 June 2020. I find this was an unreasonable delay. HLAM has apologised 
to Miss N and paid her £150 compensation. Miss N continued to trade online during this 
period. She remained subject to HLAMs terms and conditions whilst her stocks remained 
with it. I appreciate she says her main reason for transferring to a new provider was to avoid 
the foreign exchange charges. But I dont find this means HLAM is obliged to refund its 
charges during this period. 
Miss N was still able to trade during the transfer process. I appreciate the drawbacks of a 
telephone dealing service over the online service she was used to using, particularly taking 
into account the nature of Miss Ns typical trading. But Im satisfied that HLAM continued to 
provide trading facilities for Miss N during this period, and she chose not to use them. Miss N 
says she is particularly concerned about the approximate three-week period from 19 August 
2020 when markets were volatile, and prices fell. But she hasnt specified what trades she 
would have placed during this period if she could have traded online; and what financial loss, 
if any, she thinks shes made. Even if she thought she had made a financial loss, I wouldnt 
find HLAM was liable for it because Im not persuaded that she did anything to mitigate that 
loss, for example, by trying to give dealing instructions by phone.
HLAM says its dealing phone lines remain open until the US market closes. So I dont find 
Miss N was prevented from trading her US shares. And whilst she points out that HLAM isnt 
open on US and French bank holidays, she hasnt told us about any trades she wanted to 
place on such days. So I dont find shes made a loss for which HLAM is responsible.
Miss N says there was a period of nearly two weeks when her shares had been transferred 
out of her HLAM account, but hadnt appeared in her account with F. I havent seen anything 
to show that this was due to something HLAM did or didnt do. Im satisfied that it followed 
the correct process in transferring out the shares.
Miss Ns shares in B werent transferred until 23 September 2020. Im satisfied from what 
HLAM has told us that this was mainly due to technical difficulties at Fs end of the process. 
And that HLAM did its best to help F resolve the issues and complete the transfer. Miss N 
says the shares werent showing in her account with F until March 2021, but I dont find this 
further delay  after HLAM had successfully transferred the shares  was HLAMs 
responsibility.
For the reasons Ive explained, I think HLAM was responsible for the delay in acting on the 
transfer instructions  which it received on 30 April but didnt action until 16 June. I think a 
compensation payment recognising the distress and inconvenience caused by its delay is 
appropriate. It paid Miss N £150. It anticipated the transfer process could take six weeks, but 
longer depending on Fs efficiency. Bearing in mind more than seven weeks had already 
passed since HLAM received Miss Ns instructions, I think it should have done more to 
ensure the transfers were given some urgency. Whilst I appreciate much of the delay in 
transferring B shares was out of HLAMs control, Im not persuaded that it couldnt have 
done more to expediate the transfer of the other shares. Our investigator recommended 
HLAM pays an additional £100 compensation for the delays caused after 16 June. I agree 
this is fair and reasonable.My final decision
My final decision is that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited should pay 
Miss N £100 (in addition to the £150 it has already paid).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman