DRN-3339169
The complaint
Ms W complains that the loans she had from Novaloans Ltd (trading as Cash4unow) were 
unaffordable to her.
What happened
Ms W had two loans from Cash4unow between August 2018 and November 2018 as 
follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Monthly 
RepaymentDue Repaid
1 9 Aug 2018 £500 4m £175.04 15 Nov 2018 On time
2 4 Nov 2018 £800 6m £250.13 15 May 2019 Sold to DCA*
* Debt Collection Agency
Ms W says she already had multiple loans at the time of the lending, and she says it should 
have been apparent that she couldnt afford further repayments. She says she is now on a 
repayment plan, but that this has ruined her credit rating and is very distressing.
Cash4unow says it conducted a credit check and asked Ms W about her income and 
outgoings before each loan. It says it verified the income figure and found there was nothing 
of concern in the credit check. Cash4unow says its checks showed the repayments were 
affordable, but it offered to reduce the outstanding balance from £615.71 to £290. It also 
offered to remove both loans from Ms Ws credit file when loan 2 is repaid.
Ms W did not accept the offer and Cash4unow has confirmed it is now no longer available to 
her.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. He found its checks 
were proportionate and didnt consider the available information or the pattern of lending 
indicated the repayments were unsustainable for Ms W.
Ms W requested an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Cash4unow needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms W 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Cash4unow should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers net income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customers been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Cash4unow was required to establish 
whether Ms W could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Ms Ws complaint.
Loan 1
Im satisfied that Cash4unows checks went far enough for this loan because:
This was Ms Ws first loan with Cash4unow;
The repayments were less than 6% of her income;
Cash4unow says it verified Ms Ws income;Ms W was asked to declare her living expenses;
The credit check showed no defaults, County Court Judgements, or short-term loans;
Cash4unow calculated Ms W had over £400 of disposable income with which to 
make the £175 repayment.
There was nothing in the available information to indicate Ms W was in financial difficulties, 
or that Cash4unow needed to carry out further checks. Im satisfied, therefore, that 
Cash4unow made a fair lending decision for loan 1.
Loan 2
Ms W made all her repayments on time for loan 1 before applying for loan 2 nine days later. 
Cash4unow repeated the same checks and again I find those checks were proportionate, 
even though the repayments had increased slightly to over 8% of Ms Ws income. The credit 
check did not reveal any adverse information and the affordability calculation showed Ms W 
had over £600 of disposable income before the new loan repayment.
So, I cant conclude Cash4unow was irresponsible to have approved loan 2. I note Ms W 
only made the first two payments on time for this loan but is now paying a regular amount 
each month to the debt collection agency.
In summary, I find Cash4unow carried out proportionate checks for both loans and that those 
checks indicated both loans were affordable to Ms W.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman