DRN-2875264
The complaint
Miss M complains that Santander UK plc (Santander) registered a fraud prevention marker 
against her without due cause.
What happened
On 15 March 2020, two payments were made into Miss Ms Santander current account 
totalling approximately £1,050. There were also numerous logins to mobile banking, balance 
enquiries at ATMs, an ATM withdrawal, nine declined attempted ATM withdrawals, and a 
transfer out of £900 via mobile banking. The sending bank got in touch with Santander on 26 
March to request that the funds were returned as the sender had been the victim of fraud. 
Miss M spoke to Santander on 15 and 16 March which she said was due to the fact she had 
lost her card and couldnt log on to her online banking. The contents of these calls are in 
dispute, and unfortunately the recordings were not available. Santander have been able to 
provide contemporaneous notes made by their call-handlers. They explained that they asked 
Miss M about the first incoming credit as it was so unusual when compared with her usual 
account activity. These notes say that in the first call Miss M said the money had been sent 
by a relative  though she was not sure which one  in order to help her pay for insurance. 
Miss M said she doesnt know why they referenced insurance and says she didnt say this to 
them. The notes from the second call say that she said she didnt know anything about the 
money that was sent to her account. Santander say they asked her to attend a local branch 
with ID and proof of her entitlement to the funds. In April 2020, after Miss M hadnt provided 
any proof of her entitlement to the funds, Santander closed her account and referred Miss M 
to Cifas to register her on the National Fraud Database for misuse of facility. 
Miss M complained, so Santander reviewed their decision. They said that they were satisfied 
that their original decision was correct as Miss M had received confirmed fraudulent funds 
into her account, and that shed given conflicting accounts about what she knew of the 
funds. So, they thought it was most likely that she had been involved in the fraud, and the 
decision to refer her to Cifas and close her account had been correct. 
Miss M remained unhappy, so she came to this service. She said she was not involved in 
the activity on her account on 15 March 2020, nor had she allowed someone else to use her 
account. She said the first time she was aware of the fraudulent credits that went into her 
account was when she called on 15 March due to her inability to access her online banking. 
She explained that she had lost her wallet which contained her card and possibly her PIN 
code around the time of these transactions. She confirmed she had her phone on her person 
throughout this period. She said she did have her mobile banking details recorded on her 
phone in a notes application, in her diary at home and on a piece of paper in her wallet. 
Our investigator reviewed what had happened and didnt recommend that her complaint be 
upheld. They said they accepted that losing her wallet with her card and PIN in it could 
explain how someone could have attempted to withdraw the fraudulent funds from an ATM. 
However, their review of Santanders technical evidence showed that her mobile device was 
used to transfer the £900 to another account and her testimony had been that her mobile 
phone had been on her person throughout this period. They felt that this evidence showed 
that Miss M was most likely aware of the fraudulent payments into her account and was 
involved in attempting to withdraw them and moving the funds on via mobile banking  so 
the Cifas loading and account closure were fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint.
Miss M remained dissatisfied, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion as our investigator  and for broadly 
the same reasons. 
The type of Cifas marker that Santander asked to be applied is for misuse of facility  
relating to the account being used to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a marker, 
theyre not required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Miss M is guilty of a fraud or 
financial crime, but they must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or 
concern. Cifas guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police. 
So, the relevant finding for me to make is whether I believe Santander have sufficient 
evidence to conclude that the money sent to Miss M was as the result of a fraud, and that 
she was deliberately dishonest in relation to this, such that it would be able to escalate its 
concerns to Cifas. I do think Santander were entitled to do so, Ill explain why. 
It is not in dispute that Miss Ms account was used to receive and send on fraudulent funds. 
The sending account holder was tricked into sending the funds as the result of a scam. Miss 
M denies any knowledge of how these funds came into her account or how they were sent 
on. So, the question that remains is whether on balance I think it is most likely that Miss M 
was involved in the receipt, attempted withdrawals and onward transfer of these funds  and 
whether she was deliberately dishonest in her actions with regards to these funds. And I 
think Santander are entitled to conclude that she was indeed deliberately dishonest, 
because: 
Santanders technical evidence shows that Miss Ms mobile phone was used to login 
to her online banking numerous times on 15 March, including to make the transfer of 
£900. Whilst I accept that someone could have attempted to withdraw money from 
ATMs if they came across her wallet with her card and PIN within in, Miss M has not 
been able to provide any explanation or evidence as to how someone else could 
have used her mobile phone. Her testimony was that she had her phone on her 
person throughout this period and didnt lose it at any point. 
Santander have also been able to show that they sent a one time password (OTP) to 
Miss Ms mobile phone, which was correctly entered along with an online banking 
passcode in order to transfer the £900 out of her account. Even if her online banking 
details were in her purse as she has alleged and an unknown third party could have 
seen them, they could not have accessed her phone to make the transfer, and to 
receive the OTP. So, when considering all of this, I see no conceivable way that someone else was responsible for the online activity on Miss Ms account on the day 
in question.
Miss M doesnt dispute that she spoke to Santander on the 15 March. The call was 
made from her registered mobile number  which further supports that she had her 
phone on her person during this time. I understand that Miss M disputes the contents 
of this call and says she spoke to them because she couldnt access her online 
banking. But as the records show that her online banking was indeed accessed from 
her mobile device that day  I am inclined to believe that the contemporaneous notes 
made by the call handler are what was most likely discussed during this call.
The call notes suggest that she said she was expecting these funds from an 
unknown relative to pay for insurance. The notes also say that she said she was 
attempting to withdraw some of these funds from her account earlier that day before 
losing her card. And the notes certainly suggest she knew about the funds  though 
she was being rather vague around who was sending them to her. 
The notes from the second call demonstrated a change in her account of what 
happened  Santanders notes regarding what she purportedly said in this call 
broadly reflect what she has told this service. Ive carefully considered Miss Ms 
testimony that she was truly unaware off these funds  and I must say I dont find it 
particularly plausible. If she were not complicit in the receipt, attempted withdrawals 
and transfer of fraudulent funds  I am not sure why she would have changed her 
story. 
When considering all of this, I dont think either version of events that Miss M has given to 
Santander and this service are what most likely happened here. I am of the opinion that it is 
most likely that Miss M was complicit in the receiving of fraudulent payments. And so, it 
follows that Santander have met the requirements to refer her to Cifas and I wont be asking 
them to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 November 2021.
 
Katherine Jones
Ombudsman