DRN-4473034
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that his packaged bank account wasnt downgraded after he raised a mis-
sale complaint with Lloyds Bank PLC.
What happened
The circumstances that led to this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat 
them in detail here. But, in summary:
In mid-2017 Mr H complained to Lloyds that his packaged bank account had been mis-
sold. The banks records indicate hed held a packaged account since at least 2001  at 
that time it was a Gold Service account, it was upgraded to Premier Plus in 2004 and 
changed to a Premier account in 2014.
Lloyds upheld Mr Hs complaint in part and paid almost £3,000 compensation into his 
account, which represented a partial refund of the monthly account fee and interest. 
Mr H says he was told during a phone call at that time, that someone would contact him 
in order to discuss his ongoing account needs, but this call never came. And it wasnt 
until June 2022 that his account was downgraded to a fee-free account. Mr H thinks 
Lloyds should refund all the monthly fees that were taken in the interim, but the bank has 
refused to do so
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. They thought 
the bank had made clear, on more than one occasion, that the account had not been 
downgraded and Mr H needed to get in touch to discuss his account needs. Mr H 
disagreed, so the complaint has come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as the investigator for much the same 
reasons. I say this having noted the following, in particular.
Lloyds no longer has any call recordings relating to the events that led to this complaint. I 
note Mr H previously worked for the bank and he says, at that time, it was easy to retrieve 
recordings of calls with customers. But Im satisfied Lloyds has searched for the calls and 
has not been able to locate any recordings. This doesnt surprise me, given the time thats 
passed and I wouldnt expect a bank to retain this type of record indefinitely. In the absence 
of a call recording I must take into account each partys recollection of events along with any 
other written evidence thats available.
Mr H says he was told in mid-July 2017 that someone would call him to discuss his account 
needs. His recollection may be accurate. But the only call note made by the bank at the time 
doesnt reflect that this had been agreed. And the final response letter that was subsequently 
sent to Mr H explains that he needed to review which account was right for him and, if the 
existing account wasnt, then he needed to act now. It also explained that he could go into 
branch or phone the bank if he wanted to change the account. And, if the bank heard 
nothing within the next 60 days then they would assume he was happy with the account he 
held. Mr H says he didnt receive this letter. But Im satisfied from the banks records that it 
was, more likely than not, sent to him and the content reflected what he was told during the 
phone call. But, even if Im wrong about that, the fact remains that Mr H knew the account 
hadnt been downgraded. He was waiting for a phone call to discuss this and I think it was 
his responsibility to chase this up if the call wasnt forthcoming and he remained unhappy 
with the packaged account.
Nor do I think it was wrong of the bank not to downgrade the account automatically to a fee-
free account when Mr H raised the mis-sale complaint. Although Mr Hs complaint about the 
mis-sale of the Gold account had been upheld in full, his complaint about his Premier 
account had only been upheld in part. The bank had concluded he had made use of, so 
knew about and valued, some of the benefits the Premier account afforded. But the account 
offered other benefits which he hadnt used and he could have obtained the benefits he had 
used from a cheaper packaged account. It is for this reason that the bank only refunded part 
of each monthly fee Mr H had paid for the Premier account. 
As our investigator pointed out, a consumers needs may change over time and Mr H may 
have been able to get some benefits from a packaged bank account in 2017 even though he 
had moved overseas. In the circumstances, I dont think it was unreasonable for the bank to 
leave it with Mr H to review the range of accounts that were available and contact them if 
and when hed decided which account most suited his needs.
I can see from the banks records that Mr H did get in touch again at the end of July 2017. 
He sent an email which explained that he hadnt received the letter he was expecting. He 
didnt mention the expected, but missing phone call, in that email. It doesnt look like the 
bank replied at that point  this is unfortunate and not the level of service I would expect 
from Lloyds. But I dont think this omission, in and of itself, means the bank should refund 
any of the account fees.
In January 2020 Mr H wrote to the bank and reiterated that he hadnt received the letter 
relating to his previous complaint. He apologised for not chasing this earlier but explained 
that some personal circumstances meant it had been hard for him to keep on top of 
everything. He said hed been told, when he originally complained, that his account would be 
downgraded immediately but this had not happened and he was still being charged. That 
seems to contradicts what he now recalls having been told about  that someone would call 
him to discuss his account needs. I also note that the monthly fee would have shown on 
Mr Hs account statements each month.
Lloyds records indicate they wrote to Mr H in mid-January 2020 after being unsuccessful in 
contacting him by email, text and phone. The letter again explained that Mr H needed to 
consider which account was right for him. He could go into branch or phone the bank if he 
wanted to change the account. And, if the bank heard nothing within the next 60 days then 
they would assume he was happy with the account he held. 
Its not clear if Mr H received this letter, but Im satisfied from the banks records that it was 
addressed correctly and was, more likely than not, sent. The banks records dont show any 
post having been returned. And I wouldnt expect the bank to have sent this, or any of the 
other letters, to Mr H via other means such as recorded delivery. Again, if Mr H didnt receive 
this letter I think he ought to have chased the bank for a reply. It seems, given what hes told 
us about his personal circumstances, that other matters again took priority. Further correspondence took place between Mr H and the bank in 2021 and 2022 regarding 
Mr Hs ongoing concerns about being charged a fee for his account as well as some issues 
with his address. And its not entirely clear to me why the issue with his post-code, in and of 
itself, prevented the bank from downgrading the account. The two things do not seem, to 
me, to be intrinsically linked and the bank has shown that they could have verified the 
correct format for the address using online tools. But, again, theres nothing which suggests, 
at that time, Mr H had told the bank which account he wanted instead of the Premier 
account.
Mr Hs address was eventually updated, to a new address, in August 2021 after he provided 
the supporting evidence requested by the bank. And Mr H raised a separate complaint about 
that matter which he has not asked us to review, so I will comment no more about that.
Lloyds downgraded Mr Hs account in June 2022. But this seems to have happened off the 
back of an internal review and mass mailing that was sent to customers in April 2022 who 
held more than one packaged account, those who lived overseas and/or those who were 
over-age for the travel insurance benefit. In all the circumstances, I cant fairly conclude that 
the bank ought to have undertaken this review and/or downgraded Mr Hs account sooner.
Ultimately, I think Lloyds made clear on more than one occasion that Mr H needed to take 
action himself by reviewing the range of accounts the bank offered and telling them which 
one he wanted. I dont think thats entirely unreasonable in the circumstances. I think its 
more likely than not that Mr H knew he was still paying for his account and could have done 
more, sooner to rectify this if he was unhappy with the situation. 
Overall, taking all of the above into account, I cant fairly instruct Lloyds to refund any more 
of the historic account fees.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman