DRN-2157707
The complaint
Mr M has complained about U K Insurance Limiteds decision to reject his claim for storm 
damage under the buildings section of his home insurance policy. 
What happened
In December 2019 Mr M reported damage to a rear bedroom of his home. He discovered 
water was coming in from the loft above the bedroom. 
Mr M reported the damage to his insurer, UKI. He was unhappy about the questions asked 
of him as he felt some werent relevant to the claim he was making. He was unhappy that he 
hadnt been given advice about arranging emergency temporary repairs as the water was 
continuing to leak into his home.
UKI called Mr M back and apologised for failing to explain the options to Mr M regarding 
temporary repairs and the handling of the call. It paid Mr M £30 compensation for its failings. 
UKI instructed a loss adjuster (LA) to visit Mr Ms home to determine whether the damage 
was caused by an insured event. The LA took photos with a telescopic device of the roof at 
the rear  and of the loft and bedroom. He also identified damage to a dry verge on the roof 
line at the side of the property. 
The LA provided a breakdown of the costs to carry out repairs to the side verge - and the 
contents as these were covered under the accidental damage section of Mr Ms policy. 
However the LA said he couldnt identify any damage to the roof to conclude that the water 
ingress was caused by a one off storm event. The LA said hed discussed the matter with a 
local builder.
Mr M was very unhappy with the findings of the LA. He identified a number of errors in the 
information the LA provided as to the reasons why his claim for roof repairs wouldnt be met. 
He also challenged the costs breakdown the LA gave. He didnt feel it was reasonable of the 
LA to reject his claim based on photos taken of the roof from several metres away. He 
invited the LA to inspect the roof after scaffolding was erected for the roofer to access the 
property. 
Mr M was unhappy that the LA had spoken to a local roofer about the damage. He thought 
there may have been a breach of his personal data and wanted to know who the roofer was 
that the LA had spoken to.
In the meantime Mr M arranged for a roofer to carry out repairs. Hes provided an invoice for 
the works done to repair the rear of the roof. This included removal of existing tiles and felt to 
the rear of the roof, installing and covering plyboards and installing new tiles, tile batten, 
verge and flashing. The costs came to £1,884 inclusive of VAT.
In March 2020 UKI replied to Mr Ms complaint. It accepted that the LA had provided 
incorrect information as to the reasons for rejecting the claim for roof repairs. And it accepted 
that the costs for the works to the side verge and contents wasnt accurate. UKI rectified the 
costs element and apologised to Mr M for the upset caused. It paid Mr M £250 
compensation and said it gave feedback to the LA involved. 
UKI said the LA contacted a local roofer to discuss materials and the roof type to help Mr M 
with identifying a possible cause of the damage. But it said the LA didnt provide any 
personal details about Mr M. 
However, UKI said its decision to reject the claim was correct. Having viewed photos of the 
roof, it couldnt see any damage that could be attributed to a one off storm event. 
Mr M remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. 
Our investigator said there was no dispute that storm conditions had happened at the time of 
the event. And although the LA had made errors, there wasnt any evidence that the damage 
had been caused by a storm. So she thought UKIs decision was reasonable. She thought its 
compensation for the upset caused by the LAs handling of the claim was enough to put 
things right. 
The investigator said the general conclusion was that the water ingress was due to 
underlying problems which was maintenance-related. UKI told the investigator while it 
doesnt know what the underlying cause was, the damage to the felt would fall under the 
gradually operating cause, which would be a decline in any event. The investigator 
recommended it best for Mr M to ask an independent roofer to provide a report of their 
findings to forward to UKI.
Mr M didnt agree. He says weve mentioned a third different reason to support UKIs 
decision to reject the claim. Mr M has referred to our website. It says that where a claim has 
been rejected for wear and tear or a gradual operating cause  also known as gradual 
deterioration  well assess what the main cause of damage actually was (i). And that we will 
bear in mind that the onus is on the insurer to show that an exclusion applies in order to rely 
on it to decline a claim (ii). 
Mr M said that there is no evidence of wear and tear. UKI refused to examine the damage 
properly and it doesnt know what the cause of the damage was. So he doesnt agree we 
have fairly reviewed his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Insurance policies are intended to provide cover for specified perils, rather than for anything 
that might happen to a property. These include perils such as fire, theft, subsidence, flood, 
and storm. Anything outside of the listed perils is an uninsured loss and so wouldnt be 
covered by the policy. 
I understand Mr Ms claim for contents and the damaged dry verge was accepted and settled 
by UKI. So Ive focused on the claim for roof repairs caused by storm damage. 
Damage caused by extreme weather conditions such as a storm is classed as an insured 
peril. Theres no dispute in this case that storm conditions occurred at the time of the event. 
However, a storm can highlight an ongoing issue. So it isnt enough to say that because 
storm conditions occurred at the time of the event, the claim is covered. As the investigator 
explained, we ask three questions when considering claims for storm damage. These are: Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
 If so, is the damage being claimed for consistent with damage that a storm typically 
causes? and;
 Were storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer to all these questions is 'yes' then the claim is likely to succeed. But, if the 
answer to any of the above questions is 'no' - the claim for storm damage is unlikely to be 
covered.
Its accepted that the answer to the first question is yes. 
The LA provided photos that he took of the rear of Mr Ms roof using a telescopic device. I 
appreciate that Mr M invited UKI to arrange a close up inspection of the roof after scaffolding 
was erected. But UKI said its contractors would not do this for health and safety reasons. I 
dont think this is unreasonable. 
From the photos provided, there isnt any sign of damage to the rear of the roof caused by a 
storm. So to the second question, I think the answer is no. 
The LA reported that he was unable to identify what the main cause of the damage was (i). I 
agree with Mr M that the LA was incorrect in saying that the damage could have been 
caused by faulty workmanship by relying on building regulations that werent in effect until 
after Mr Ms home had been built  or that the damage to roof tiles wouldnt be covered 
under a storm damage claim under the policy. I agree that the incorrect information provided 
by the LA caused unnecessary distress and upset. I can see that Mr M was put to time and 
trouble in challenging the information incorrectly provided. And I can understand why this led 
Mr M to have little faith in UKIs handling of the claim.
However, in this case there isnt any evidence to show storm damage to the rear roof. The 
invoice from the roofer provides details of the works carried out but doesnt say what the 
cause or origin of the damage was. So I think UKIs decision to decline the claim for repairs 
to the rear roof was reached reasonably and in line with the policy. This means I think the 
compensation it paid of £250 for the distress caused by the LAs inaccurate information was 
fair and in line with awards we give for similar circumstances.
UKIs policy has a very common term which excludes cover for damage caused by gradual 
deterioration  or wear and tear (ii). However, in this case I dont think UKI is relying on this 
exclusion as reason to decline the claim. It says there isnt enough evidence to show a valid 
claim for storm damage. 
I understand Mr M will be very disappointed with my decision. But I think UKIs decision to 
decline his claim for storm damage based on the information available was reasonable. So I 
dont think it needs to do any more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2020.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman