DRN-2701227
The complaint
This is a complaint that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold Mrs and Mr M payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy which covered a mortgage. The 
mortgage and PPI started in February 1993. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs and Mr M disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
The start of the PPI was about 28 years ago and, not surprisingly, none of the original 
documents from the time are now available. There are just some computer records of 
transactions. Also, I wouldnt expect someone to recall in detail everything that happened so 
long ago, so it can be difficult to know whether its fair to rely fully on everything they 
remember.
Mrs and Mr M have said the PPI was added without their knowledge or consent. They say 
they had a long meeting with the Nationwide adviser in which they were pressurised into 
taking PPI, but they refused. They say that PPI was added to the account anyway by 
Nationwide, and they became aware of this a year later. This was when premiums started to 
be charged after the 12-month free period, and they noticed and told Nationwide they didnt 
want PPI. 
Nationwide says two premiums in total, of £2.43 each, were taken. Mrs and Mr M then paid 
off all but a nominal amount of their mortgage in May 1994, and the PPI ended.  
The problem is that I dont have strong enough evidence to uphold Mrs and Mr Ms 
complaint. It wouldnt be fair to make Nationwide prove it didnt do something wrong  
instead, fairly, I would need reasonable evidence to show that it probably did do something 
wrong. And I cant say that there is that kind of evidence. So I cant say that the PPI was 
mis-sold in the way Mrs and Mr M now believe. 
I also dont have any other grounds to say the PPI was mis-sold (I acknowledge, of course, 
that Mrs and Mr M are clear they never agreed to PPI  but it is fair to check anyway 
whether there are other grounds for saying the PPI was mis-sold): 
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs and Mr M as being particularly suited to 
their individual needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted their 
circumstances. It would have been for Mrs and Mr M to decide whether it was 
suitable.  
Its hard now to know how well Nationwide explained the costs and benefits of the 
policy. But I dont anyway think its likely that full and clear information about this 
would have affected whether Mrs and Mr M took the PPI. I say this because the 
consequences of not being able to pay your mortgage can be serious; and the 
potential benefits were greater than Mrs and Mr Ms employer sick pay (Mr M was 
entitled to no sick pay) and the cost wasnt significantly high. Mrs and Mr M say they 
had an inheritance, but I dont have details or proof of how much that was, or whether 
it was fully available to them in February 1993. Also PPI would have saved them from 
eating into any such savings, and would have kept them financially secure for longer 
if they lost their income due to sickness or redundancy. So I cant see that fuller 
information is likely to have made a difference to whether they took PPI. 
Its possible Nationwide didnt clearly point out the main things the policy didnt cover. 
But its unlikely Mrs and Mr M would have been affected by any of these. 
So, overall, I dont have enough evidence to say the PPI was mis-sold. But Nationwide has 
paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs and Mr M because: 
 Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs and Mr M about that. Because Nationwide 
didnt tell Mrs and Mr M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs and Mr M.
But Nationwide Building Society does have to pay back to Mrs and Mr M any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 May 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman