DRN-4207530
Complaint
Mr R has complained about personal loans Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday 
Loans) provided to him. He says the loans were unaffordable and were therefore 
irresponsibly lent to him.
Background
Everyday Loans initially provided Mr R with a first loan for £3,000.00 in April 2018. This loan 
had an APR of 77.7% and a term of 24 months. This meant that the total amount to be 
repaid of £5,279.52, including interest, fees and charges of £2,279.52, was due to be repaid 
in 24 monthly instalments of just under £220. This loan was repaid in full with some of the 
proceeds from loan 2.
Everyday Loans provided Mr R with loan 2 for £3,590.00 in April 2019. £1,531.28 of the 
funds went towards settling the outstanding balance on loan 1. This loan had an APR of 
77.7% and a term of 36 months. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of £7,821.00, 
including interest, fees and charges of £4,230.91, was due to be repaid in 36 monthly 
instalments of just under £220. This loan was repaid in full with some of the proceeds from 
loan 3.
Mr R was then provided with a third loan, for £5,000.00, by Everyday Lending in          
December 2020. £969.92 of the funds went towards settling the outstanding balance on loan 
2. This loan had an APR of 69.4% and a term of 36 months. This meant that the total 
amount to be repaid of £10,329.84, including interest, fees and charges of £10,329.84, was 
due to be repaid in 36 monthly instalments of just under £290. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed Mr Rs complaint and he thought Everyday Loans ought to 
have realised that it shouldnt have provided Mr R with any of his loans. So he thought that 
Mr Rs complaint should be upheld. Everyday Loans agreed with the outcome on loans 2 
and 3 but disagreed with the outcome on loan 1. So the case was passed to an ombudsman 
for a final decision. 
As the parties are in agreement over the outcome for loans 1 and 2, this decision will only be 
looking at whether the complaint about loan 1 should also be upheld.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Rs complaint. 
Having carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Mr Rs complaint. Ill explain 
why in a little more detail.
Everyday Loans needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Everyday Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr R could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
The information Everyday Loans has provided suggested that it carried out credit checks 
before these all of Mr Rs loans were provided. The results of which showed that Mr R 
already had a significant amount of existing debt. 
Furthermore, Im also concerned that Everyday Loans own income and expenditure 
calculation for this loan showed that the monthly repayment would be taking Mr R right to the 
margin of his disposal income. This was in circumstances where the calculation relied on the 
use of average data and Mr Rs indebtedness didnt suggest that he fit the profile of the 
average borrower. 
I also have concerns that Mr R was also consolidating debts which had a significantly lower 
rate of interest. So its unclear to me how this loan, which was on such disadvantageous 
terms, was going to improve Mr Rs already precarious financial position going forward.
All of this leaves me persuaded by what Mr R has said about already being in a difficult 
financial position at the time. And while its possible Mr Rs financial position reflected his 
choices rather than financial difficulty, Id add that my experience of these types of cases 
suggest this is unlikely, in the absence of any reasonable or plausible arguments from 
Everyday Loans, Ive been persuaded to accept Mr Rs version of events here. 
As this is the case, I do think that Mr Rs existing financial position meant that he was 
unlikely to be able to afford the payments to loan 1 (as well as loans 2 and 3), without undue 
difficulty or borrowing further. 
Im therefore satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more like than not 
have shown Everyday Loans that it shouldnt have provided loan 1 to Mr R. As Everyday 
Loans provided Mr R with loan 1, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed to act fairly and 
reasonably towards him. 
Mr R ended up paying interest, fees and charges on a loan he shouldnt have been provided 
with. So Im satisfied that Mr R lost out because of what Everyday Loans did wrong and that 
it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Everyday Loans needs to do to put things right for Mr R
Having thought about everything, Everyday Loans should put things right for Mr R by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Mr R paid on loan 1 (as well as loans 2 and 3 
as it has already agreed to do);adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded payments from the date they 
were made by Mr R to the date of settlement
any and all adverse information recorded about loan 1 (as well as loans 2 and 3)  
should be removed from Mr Rs credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to take off tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans must give Mr R a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he 
asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Rs complaint. Everyday Lending Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman