DRN-2960746
The complaint
Mr W, as director of P, complains about the decision of QBE UK Limited to decline Ps 
business interruption insurance claim for losses sustained during the COVID-19 pandemic.
What happened
The following is only intended as a brief summary of the events, as the details are known by 
both parties. I have not referred to all of the initial exchanges and have focussed on the final 
positions reached. I have also only referred to QBE, as whilst much of the correspondence 
involved other parties, the decision being complained about is ultimately that of QBE.
P held a commercial insurance policy, the relevant sections of which were underwritten by 
QBE. The policy provides a number of areas of cover, including for business interruption. In 
March 2020, P closed its premises and claimed for the losses it sustained as a result. 
QBE declined Ps claim. It has said that the two extensions to the business interruption 
section that P is claiming under do not offer cover in the circumstances of Ps claim. QBE 
has said that the Disease extension only provides cover in relation to a specified list of 
diseases. And the Government Action extension requires access to Ps premises for the 
purpose of carrying on its business to have been prevented  and that this prevention didnt 
occur. QBE has said that P was not one of the businesses required to close by the 
regulations introduced by the Government in March 2020 and that P would still have been 
able to operate had it chosen to. 
Mr W was unhappy with this decision, which was not changed following a complaint to QBE. 
He referred Ps complaint to this service, but our Investigator didnt think the complaint 
should be upheld. He thought the Disease extension only provided cover in relation to the 
diseases listed in the policy and as this didnt include COVID-19, he didnt think QBE acted 
unreasonably by declining the claim under this term. And he also didnt think P was a 
business that was included in the Governments instructions to close, so he didnt think QBE 
were incorrect to decline the claim under the Government Action extension either. 
Mr W remained unsatisfied, saying P was not an essential business so was required to close 
and it was not until further instructions were given in April 2020 that P was able to reopen. 
Mr W has also said that he doesnt think the Disease extension should exclude COVID-19, 
as this wasnt something that anyone was aware about when the policy was taken out. 
Ps complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact COVID-19 
restrictions have had on P, I wont be upholding its complaint. My reasons are substantially 
the same as the Investigators.
The type of cover its looking to claim under is business interruption insurance. There are a 
range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering different risks. For 
example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, whilst others provide 
cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional add-ons. The starting 
point is to consider the specific policy P took out.
The standard cover provided by the business interruption section of Ps policy, as well as a 
number of the extensions to this cover, is based on an interruption to the business of the 
insured which has been caused by damage to property. Whilst I appreciate the pandemic 
has caused substantial financial loss, I dont think COVID-19 caused damage to property 
which has led to an interruption of Ps business.
So, I dont think either the standard business interruption cover, or the extensions that rely 
on there having been damage, provide cover in the circumstances of Ps claim. And I think 
QBE acted fairly and reasonably in not meeting Ps claim under this area of cover.
The Disease extension
Ps policy does include an extension to the business interruption section that provides cover 
where a disease has led to the premises being closed. But this is limited to providing cover 
in the event of certain diseases.
The Disease, Infestation and Defective Sanitation extension to the business interruption 
section of Ps policy provides cover for, in part, losses caused by the occurrence of:
Notifiable Human Infectious or Contagious Disease within a 1 mile radius
However, this section of the policy defines Notifiable Human Infectious or Contagious 
Disease as:
Acute Encephalitis, Acute Poliomyelitis, Anthrax, Chickenpox, Cholera, Diphtheria, 
Dysentery, Legionellosis, Legionnaires Disease, Leprosy, Leptospirosis, Malaria, 
Measles, Meningococcal Infection, Mumps, Opthalmia Neonatorum, Paratyphoid 
Fever, Plague, Rabies, Rubella, Scarlet Fever, Smallpox, Tetanus, Tuberculosis, 
Typhoid Fever, Viral Hepatitis, Whooping Cough or Yellow Fever.
Having considered this term, Im not persuaded this section of the policy would have 
provided P with cover for the circumstances of its claim. This is because COVID-19 isnt one 
of the diseases listed in the definition.
When reaching this finding Im mindful of Mr Ws comments that COVID-19 is a new disease 
that no-one had the foresight to cover. So, it might not have been possible for QBE to 
include it in the policy at the time it was written. But I dont think that changes anything. 
Thats because I dont think QBE intended to, or suggested they would, provide cover for all 
diseases. QBE deliberately chose to define the term above by reference to a static list of 
certain diseases.
I dont think the list is indicative of the kind of diseases that are included, I think its an 
exhaustive list. There is nothing in the policy which implies that it provides cover for other 
diseases, including any new diseases which might emerge.As Ive said above, a range of policies are available. And some provide cover for all 
notifiable diseases  a list of diseases updated by the Government. These policies might, 
depending on the circumstances, provide cover. But this is not the type of policy P has.
I think the purpose and effect of the policy P has is to provide cover in the event of the 
diseases listed in the policy definition above. There are many potential illnesses and 
diseases that the policy does not cover including, for example, SARS (another type of 
Coronavirus). I dont think the policy can or should fairly be read as covering any and all 
diseases that fall outside of the defined list set out above.
So, the policy clearly only intended to cover certain diseases. And I dont think it can fairly 
and reasonably be read in a different way.
Ps claim resulted from a disease that was not included in the list of covered diseases. As 
cover was not provided under this area of Ps policy for losses resulting from business 
interruption caused by COVID-19, I am satisfied QBEs decision to decline the claim was in 
line with the policy, and in all the circumstances of this case fair and reasonable.
The Government Action extension
A further extension to the business interruption section of Ps policy is the Government or 
Local Authority Action extension. This provides cover for losses caused by:
Prevention of access to The Premises due to the actions or advice of a government 
or local authority due to an emergency which is likely to endanger life or property.
The COVID-19 pandemic is an emergency which is likely to endanger life and the 
Government did take actions and issue advice as a result of it. The question is whether or 
not this prevented access to Ps premises. 
I feel I need to stress that the requirement here is a prevention of access. Hindrance of 
access is not enough. So where certain events made access more difficult, but where 
access was still possible, there would not be a prevention of access. 
It is then necessary for me to consider the relevant actions and advice of the Government. I 
consider that two types of instruction are potentially key here. 
The first are the instructions given for certain businesses to close. A number of specific types 
of business were told to close by the Prime Minister on 18 and 20 March 2020. These 
included schools, pubs, restaurants, etc. Then on 23 March 2020, the Prime Minister said:
we will immediately:
close all shops selling non-essential goods, including clothing and electronic stores 
and other premises including libraries, playgrounds and outdoor gyms, and places of 
worship

This requirement for certain businesses to close was put into law by the Health Protection 
(Coronavirus, Restrictions) (England) Regulations 2020 (the 26 March Regulations). 
Regulation 4, along with Schedule 2, of the 26 March Regulations set out which types of 
business were required to close. I have not repeated this list here, but it did not include 
manufacturing businesses such as that operated by P. I appreciate that Mr W may have considered P not to be an essential business. But it wasnt 
a shop selling non-essential goods. It is a manufacturing business. And manufacturing 
businesses were not required to close by these instructions. 
I note Mr W has referred to some later instruction that was given by the Department for 
Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy. But this merely appears to be clarification that there 
was no extant requirement for such businesses to be closed, rather than a change of 
position or new instructions.
The second set of instructions I think were potentially relevant were those giving advice to 
stay at home. On 23 March 2020, the Prime Minister also said:
From this evening I must give the British people a very simple instruction - you must 
stay at home
That is why people will only be allowed to leave their home for the following very 
limited purposes:

travelling to and from work, but only where this is absolutely necessary and cannot 
be done from home.
Again, this was given legal force by the 26 March Regulations. Regulation 6 stated, in part:
1) During the emergency period, no person may leave the place where they are 
living without reasonable excuse.
(2) For the purposes of paragraph (1), a reasonable excuse includes the need

(f)to travel for the purposes of work or to provide voluntary or charitable services, 
where it is not reasonably possible for that person to work, or to provide those 
services, from the place where they are living;

I note that Mr W has said this was an instruction to stay at home. But was is also caveated 
with the reasons why people could leave their homes. And this included for the purpose of 
going to work where that work could not be done from home. Ps business was one where 
the majority of the work could not be done from home, so those employees were allowed by 
this reasonable excuse to leave home and attend Ps premises. This means that the 
instruction to stay at home did not prevent Ps employees from accessing its premises. 
I do note that there were a number of other actions and advice taken by the Government 
which may have impacted how P operated  for example the social distancing 
requirements. However, whilst these may have caused a change to how P operated  
potentially a hinderance of use of the premises  I am not persuaded that they would have 
prevented access to the premises. 
I also note that there were a number of other potential reasons why P did not operate during 
the period in question. But whilst I appreciate there may have been both a lack of demand 
and a reduction in available materials, these are not insured events. And whilst I also 
appreciate that Mr Ws own health concerns meant that he did not consider it sensible to 
work and so potentially expose himself to a life-threatening illness, again this is not an event 
that is insured under Ps policy. I have sympathy with Ps position. It may be that it took actions that it considered best for the 
health and safety of its staff, and the rest of the nation. But the question I have to determine 
is whether the events in question are covered by Ps policy and so whether QBE acted 
appropriately when declining Ps claim.
Having considered the rest of the policy carefully, I do not consider there to be any area of 
cover that means QBE should have met Ps claim. I know this decision will be disappointing 
for Mr W, but I hope Ive provided him with a thorough explanation of why this policy doesnt 
offer cover in the circumstances of this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W, on behalf of 
P, to accept or reject my decision before 20 January 2022.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman