DRN-2798920
The complaint
Mr A says Calpe Insurance Company Limited wrongly avoided his motor insurance policy on 
the basis that he hadnt told it about some of his driving convictions.   
What happened
Mr A took out a policy with Calpe in October 2019 to insure a leased car that was worth 
around £50,000. He declared three driving offences from 2017 and 2018 at the time. The car 
was stolen on 25 January 2020. 
When validating the theft claim, Calpe found that Mr A had an MS90 conviction (for failing 
to provide the police with details of the cars driver in May 2019). Mr A said he wasnt aware 
of the polices request and he didnt know about the MS90. He said he only found out that 
hed been charged with an offence in May 2019 when he was given correspondence from 
court meant for him in January 2020 that had been addressed to a neighbour in error.
Mr A then investigated what had happened. He told Calpe that he was driving a hire car in 
May 2019 when it was recorded exceeding the speed limit. The police had sent a notice of 
intended prosecution to the cars owner (the hire firm) seeking the name of the driver. The 
hire firm tried to send the notice to Mr A, but it put the wrong number for his apartment on 
the letter. Mr As neighbour didnt pass it on, so he was unaware of the situation. 
   
When Calpe avoided the policy, it said it wouldnt have offered Mr A cover on the same 
terms had it known about the MS90 offence - and that it believed his non-disclosure was 
deliberate or reckless. Despite Mr As explanation about why he wasnt aware of the MS90 
when he bought the policy, Calpe didnt change its decision, so he complained to us. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr As complaint. She thought that when Mr A bought the 
policy, he should have been aware of the incident in May 2019 and that there was a  
possibility of further points on his licence. She noted that Mr A had sent us evidence to 
support his contention that he didnt know about a pending court date until 28 January 2020. 
But she thought that in a call with his broker on 7 February 2020, hed indicated that he knew 
in September 2019 that another offence was pending.
 
The investigator also said that - despite repeated requests - Calpe hadnt provided its 
underwriting criteria. She said there was no evidence of how it would have treated the risk 
had Mr A disclosed in October 2019 that he had a prosecution pending as well as the three 
offences he'd declared. So she said Calpe should reconsider the claim and review what it 
would have done at inception had Mr A told it what he knew at the time. If it wouldnt have 
offered him cover, she said it should consider whether his misrepresentation was careless 
rather than deliberate or reckless. 
  
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.  I issued a 
provisional decision as follows:
The relevant law in this case is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). It requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies if the misrepresentation is 
what CIDRA describes as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a qualifying 
misrepresentation, the insurer has to show that it would only have offered the policy on 
different terms  or not at all  if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether a consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless. 
Calpe said Mr A failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
bought the policy, as he failed to disclose that there was an MS90 conviction on his record. It 
says Mr A was asked about his existing and pending motoring convictions, both online and 
when he contacted the broker. Ive listened to the call with the broker, in which Mr A 
confirmed the three convictions hed declared online. The broker then asked if there was 
anything else to disclose, including anything pending, and Mr A said there wasnt. 
I think Mr A was asked clear questions about his driving record, but I dont think Calpe has 
shown that he didnt take reasonable care in responding to the questions. Mr A has said 
consistently that he wasnt aware of the MS90 or a pending speeding offence when he took 
the policy out, so he only disclosed the three convictions he was aware of at the time. 
Mr A told Calpe that the correspondence from the police went to the wrong address and why 
that had happened. He provided evidence that letters meant for him went to the wrong 
address, including written confirmation from the neighbour living at the address the 
correspondence was sent to. She said shed been getting letters addressed to Mr A (who 
was unknown to her) but had thrown them away. She only tried to contact him when she 
noted that a letter she got with his name on it at the end of December 2019 was a court 
summons. She said she then tracked Mr A down and gave it to him on 28 January 2020. 
The court summons shows that it went to her address, rather than to Mr As address. 
Ive listened to the call between Mr A and the broker in February 2020 in which he was 
asked about the MS90 offence. I think its clear that even then, Mr A had no idea what an 
MS90 was. I dont think he said anything during that call that showed he was aware of it, or  
of a pending speeding offence, before taking the policy out. I think his evidence confirms that 
he was unaware of the court summons (and all that led to it) until his neighbour finally 
contacted him in January 2020. I cant see how else he could have known about it. 
Calpe doesnt appear to have carried out any enquiries into the explanation Mr A put forward 
after it told him it was going to avoid the policy. That was despite his neighbour offering to 
provide further information if that would assist. Theres no reference to it having considered 
his evidence at all. In its final response letter, Calpe just confirmed that the avoidance would 
stand, and said that it thought Mr As misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless. 
I dont think Calpe has shown that it had a sound basis on which to conclude that Mr A made 
a misrepresentation by not taking reasonable care when he took the policy out. So I dont 
think I need to consider anything further under CIDRA. As I dont think it was fair and 
reasonable for Calpe to avoid the policy, I think Mr As complaint should be upheld.  
I think Calpe should remove the record of the policy avoidance from all databases. I think it 
should have noted the evidence Mr A provided to show that he didnt know about the MS90 
and the pending speeding offence when he bought the policy. I think Mr A has faced a 
substantial amount of distress and inconvenience so far as a result of Calpes actions, so I think it would be fair for it to pay him £500 compensation. In addition, currently I think Calpe 
should now reconsider the claim, in line with the remainder of the policys terms and 
conditions. 
I asked the parties for their comments on my provisional findings. Mr A accepted them, but 
Calpe hasnt responded, despite several requests. 
       
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr A accepted my provisional findings  and Calpe didnt comment  I see no reason to 
depart from them. I dont think Calpe has shown that Mr A didnt take reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation to it, so Im upholding his complaint.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr As complaint. I require Calpe Insurance Company 
Limited to do the following:
Remove any record of the policy avoidance from databases  and write to Mr A 
informing him when that has been done
Pay Mr A £500 for distress and inconvenience
Reconsider the claim, in line with the policys remaining terms and conditions 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman