DRN-3471150
The complaint
Mr O complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua was irresponsible in its lending to him.
What happened
Mr O says that adequate checks werent carried out before he was provided with an Amazon 
credit card by NewDay. He says at the time he had several other cards.
NewDay says that Mr O raised a complaint about irresponsible lending on his Amazon 
Mastercard account in September 2020. When investigating it found he also had an Aqua 
Mastercard and so it investigated both lending decisions. It issued a final response 
upholding Mr Os complaint in regard to the credit limit increase on his Aqua credit card and 
the provision of the Amazon card. It didnt accept that it was wrong to provide the Aqua card 
with the initial £450 limit in November 2016.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. He thought that the information available to NewDay 
raised concerns about Mr Os financial circumstances and noted that Mr O was in a Trust 
Deed. He thought all interest and charges on the Aqua card should be refunded.
NewDay didnt agree with our investigators view. It said it lent to Mr O based on the 
information it received in November 2016 and this showed no evidence of any public 
records. It said that while in a Trust Deed Mr O shouldnt have been making applications for 
credit without the authority of the trustee. It didnt accept that it had lent irresponsibly.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. My conclusions were in summary:
NewDay upheld Mr Os complaint in relation to the provision of the Amazon credit 
card and offered a refund that was in line with our usual recommendations. However 
no mention was made about Mr Os credit file and I thought it reasonable that any 
adverse information applied to Mr Os credit file in regard to his Amazon credit card 
should be removed. 
Before the Aqua card was provided, NewDay carried out a credit check as well as 
gathering information through its application process. At the time of the application 
Mr O declared an annual income of £23,000. Mr O had unsecured debt of £1,100 
and his credit check showed no arrears or public records. It was then established that 
at the time of the application Mr O was subject to a Trust Deed. Had NewDay been 
aware of this I would have expected it to have had an impact on its lending decision. 
However, as there was nothing recorded in the public records I accepted that 
NewDay wasnt aware of the Trust Deed at the time of the Aqua credit card 
application.
The credit check results showed no arrears or recent defaults on Mr Os accounts. 
But he had five historic defaults recorded with a total value of £2,700. Mr Os credit 
report also recorded £740 outstanding on payday loans (active or defaulted). So, 
while I accepted having no arrears was a positive sign, given the amounts still 
outstanding on payday loans and defaulted accounts I thought it would have been 
reasonable to have carried out further checks to ensure the lending was affordable 
for Mr O.
Mr Os bank statements leading up to his application supported the income Mr O 
declared. The statements showed that in the months leading up to the provision of 
the Aqua credit card, Mr O was spending as much as he was earning and there were 
two occasions of unarranged overdraft charges being applied. He was also making 
frequent payments to a payday loan provider throughout the three months which 
suggested he was potentially reliant on this type of borrowing (which is intended for 
short term use) and as such was struggling to manage his finances.
On balance, I didnt think that NewDay should have considered it responsible to 
provide Mr O with an Aqua credit card in November 2016.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I set out in my provisional decision, NewDay has already made an offer in regard to the 
credit limit increase on Mr Os Aqua card and the provision of his Amazon card. However, in 
this case, based on the information available at the time, I didnt think the Aqua card should 
have been provided. Therefore, I think Mr O should be refunded all interest and charges on 
the Aqua account as well as his Amazon account. I also think that Mr Os credit file should 
be amended in regard to both of the credit cards. 
As Mr O accepted by provisional decision and NewDay didnt provide any new information in 
response to it, my conclusions havent changed.
Putting things right
NewDay Ltd offered to refund charges and proportionate interest on the Aqua credit card 
from March 2019 and refund all charges and interest on the Amazon card. However, as I do 
not think the Aqua credit card should have been provided in November 2016, I find that 
NewDay should:
Refund all interest and charges applied to Mr Os Aqua credit card account from the 
inception of the account in November 2016.
As it has offered, refund interest and charges applied to Mr Os Amazon credit card 
account; and
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Os credit file in regard to both the 
Aqua and Amazon credit card accounts.
My final decision
My final decision is that NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua should take the actions set out above 
in resolution of this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Jane ArcherOmbudsman