DRN-2114688
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E believe they were mis-sold their interest-only mortgage and linked mortgage 
endowment policy as the arrangements were not suitable for them.  They have also said 
they believed the endowment guaranteed to repay the mortgage and give them additional 
funds; the risks were not explained. 
The policy and mortgage were sold to Mr and Mrs E took in 1986. The mortgage was with 
Bank of Scotland plc and Mr and Mrs E believe it also sold them the endowment policy.
What happened
In 1986 Mr and Mrs E decided to buy a home. They arranged a mortgage with BoS for 
£44,950 over 25 years on an interest-only basis. Alongside the mortgage, they were sold a 
mortgage endowment policy with a matching target value, life cover and term. It was a 
traditional with-profits arrangement. The endowment policy was assigned to BoS.
In 1992 Mr and Mrs E re-mortgaged to a different lender. The new mortgage was also 
arranged on an interest-only basis and Mr and Mrs E recollect being sold a new endowment 
policy with a different provider to cover the entire amount of the new borrowing. The existing 
endowment policy was reassigned to Mr and Mrs E as BoS had no further interest in it. 
It appears that in 2011 Mr and Mrs E contacted the product provider to enquire about the 
endowment policy. However, the provider was unable to find any information about the 
policy.
In 2019 Mr and Mrs E raised a complaint about the endowment policy having been mis-sold 
because it was unsuitable for them. Neither BoS or the product provider had any evidence 
about the sale of the endowment policy, and both suggested initially that the other might be 
responsible for the sale. However, BoS then said that it considered the complaint had been 
made too late as it was more than six years from the date the policy had been sold and more 
than three years from when Mr and Mrs E ought to have known they had cause for 
complaint. It considered the three years would have started when they converted their 
mortgage to repayment in 2014. 
Mr and Mrs E werent happy with this conclusion and continued to exchange 
correspondence with BoS. This eventually resulted in a further response from BoS in 
December 2019. It said that it couldnt comment on the advice and recommendation they 
were given in 1986 because there wasnt sufficient evidence available from the time. 
However, it didnt think there was any reason why Mr and Mrs E shouldnt have had an 
interest-only mortgage with an endowment policy supporting it. It said Mr and Mrs E would 
have been given information about the policy and if they hadnt wanted to, they didnt have to 
take the policy. It also directed them back to the product provider if they were concerned 
about the performance of the policy.
Mr and Mrs E referred their complaint to this service. One of our investigators considered the 
complaint and felt that it was one we could consider. He went on to consider the evidence 
available, but he wasnt persuaded there was sufficient evidence to be able to uphold the 
complaint. He explained to Mr and Mrs E that in order to do so there had to be evidence that 
BoS had made a mistake and that mistake had led to them suffering a loss  neither of these 
things were apparent.
Mr and Mrs E didnt accept the investigators conclusion that the complaint shouldnt be 
upheld. They said that they had only had dealings with BoS at the time of the sale. They also 
said they hadnt received any money from the policy at any time, but theyd also not received 
any correspondence from the product provider saying the policy was about to lapse. They 
said the fact that they hadnt received any payment from the policy meant they had suffered 
a loss. 
Mr and Mrs E then said that they now understand that with-profits endowment policies were 
monsters that promised to smooth out the returns in good and bad years, but in reality, 
were opaque investments no-one understood. As such financial businesses could easily 
massage figures to make then look better. 
They said they remain of the opinion that BoS mis-sold the policy to them and it should have 
provided the appropriate documents for them to rely on and establish exactly what was said 
in discussions about the mortgage. This would also have allowed them to verify that the 
adviser didnt fall short in the advice given. BoS is not able to confirm that the risk-based 
nature of the endowment plan was fully explained and that Mr and Mrs E understood it, so 
they are not able to satisfy themselves that the advice provided was entirely suitable for 
them. There is no evidence BoS did a fact find and if it had, it would have been in the papers 
that were provided to Mr and Mrs E. 
Mr and Mrs E also confirmed the new mortgage in 1992 came with a new endowment policy, 
which means that the old endowment policy was not assigned to the new lender. They dont 
know what happened to the policy, but know that they didnt surrender it. 
I issued a provisional decision on 29 October 2020, in which I set out my conclusions and 
reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt.
Mr and Mrs E say that at points BoS directed them to the product provider to have their 
complaint considered. The product provider sent them back to BoS.  I think some clarity is 
needed about the arrangements at the time of the sale of this policy.
In 1986 there were no regulations or voluntary codes in place to govern the sale of 
mortgages or investment products. Effectively, this meant that any financial business that got 
agreement from a product provider for it to do so, could sell its products. As such, when 
establishing the responsible party for the sale of an investment product we would usual ask 
the product provider. Unfortunately, it doesnt have any record of the policy sale and hasnt 
been able to confirm the answer to that question.
Mr and Mrs E have said everything was done at the time the mortgage was arranged. It is 
possible that a representative from the local office of the product provider went into the 
lenders branch to complete the sale of the endowment policy, but I know the lender involved 
in this case did sell endowment policies itself at the time. Given Mr and Mrs Es recollections 
and the situation at the time, I think it likely that the lender made the recommendation for the 
endowment policy and so BoS is responsible for the sale of the endowment policy.
I have noted Mr and Mrs E have commented on the information they now believe they 
should have been given at the time of the sale. Whilst there are many requirements of 
lenders and financial advisers now, there werent at the time of the sale of their policy. There 
was no requirement for a lender or adviser to document the discussions that took place before a product was recommended. I cant find against BoS because it doesnt have 
documentation it never needed to produce. 
It would have been normal in 1986 for the advising company to provide a consumer with a 
policy booklet (produced by the product provider) for the endowment policy being 
recommended. An illustration of potential returns at the end of the term would also likely 
have been produced for their information. This document would have been created using a 
growth rate based on what that type of policies had typically achieved by maturity over 
recent years. It was expected that similar returns would continue. It is unlikely the illustration 
would have shown the policy falling short of the amount needed to repay the mortgage, 
although it would have pointed out that the illustrated returns were not guaranteed amounts. 
At the time with-profits endowment policies were generally considered to represent a 
negligible amount of risk and so were considered appropriate for almost all people taking a 
mortgage. The requirement for suitability as it is now assessed, was not in place at the time; 
a policy simply had to be appropriate. Whilst the view of such policies has changed since 
1986, I cant apply hindsight when considering if a policy was appropriate. Its not possible 
for me to determine with complete certainty the policy was appropriate for Mr and Mrs E at 
the time of the sale, but it is likely it would have been when assessed against the standards 
of the time.
However, even if I were to find that the endowment policy was not appropriate for 
Mr and Mrs E (which I havent), in order to determine if they have made a loss, we would 
need more information about the policy than we have. At the very least we would need to 
know how long the endowment premiums were paid and what happened to the value of the 
policy. 
If Mr and Mrs Es recollections are accurate in that the policy stopped being used for 
mortgage purposes in 1992, as it was a with-profits, the policy likely had a value. Whilst they 
dont remember surrendering the policy, that is usually what happened when a new one was 
sold in the circumstances Mr and Mrs E have described. Alternatively, they may have left it 
invested, but as the value would have been modest having only been in place for less than 
six years, it is likely the policy lapsed without value due to deductions for protection benefits 
continuing to be taken from its value. Any resultant loss of either of these things happening, 
would be attributed to the advice in 1992 to stop using the policy for mortgage purposes, 
rather than the original advice to take the policy out in the first place. I cant hold BoS 
responsible for the consequences of any advice that may have been given about the policy 
in 1992.
Based on what the product provider said in 2011 about having no records associated with 
the policy, that would indicate whatever happened to the policy happened before the 
mid-2000s. I say this as a business is required to keep records for at least six years after the 
contract ends. Given endowment providers were dealing with significant numbers of 
endowment mis-sale complaints from the late 1990s throughout the 2000s, most didnt 
destroy records during that period. This would indicate the policy ceased, by whatever 
method/cause, sometime in the 1990s. Given the time that has elapsed, its not surprising 
there is very little information available about the policy.
As for the discussions around the type of mortgage to have  interest -only or repayment 
requirements in 1986 were again very basic. Effectively the mortgage arrangement had to 
allow the consumer to do what they wanted  buy a house  and be affordable at the time. If 
an investment would have been considered appropriate for the consumer, an interest-only 
mortgage would also have been considered suitable. In addition, as Mr and Mrs E were 
asking for advice, they wouldnt have been offered a choice of options for what mortgage arrangements to have; the adviser would have assessed their situation and recommended 
the arrangement they thought was appropriate for Mr and Mrs E.
Overall, whilst I know that Mr and Mrs E will be disappointed, I dont consider there is 
sufficient evidence to conclude the endowment mortgage arrangement was inappropriate for 
them, based on the standards in place in 1986.
BoS confirmed that it had received my provisional decision and had nothing further to add.
Mr and Mrs E didnt accept my provisional decision. They explained that the 2011 enquiry to 
the product provider didnt involve making any reference to a mis-sold endowment policy, as 
they didnt know they had cause to complain. They wouldnt have ever known they had 
cause to complain if it had not been for an article they read, which said that mis-selling 
applied to mortgage endowment policies as well as PPI. They reiterated their comments 
about BoS and the product provider attributing responsibility for the sale to each other. They 
believe that BoS should have known it had responsibility for the sale of the policy as they 
believe the data subject access request they made included documents that made this clear. 
Mr and Mrs E highlighted that the information they received didnt include anything showing 
details from the point of sale about what had been discussed, what recommendations were 
given or evidence that the adviser followed procedures in respect of evaluating their 
personal and financial circumstances. They went on to say that there was nothing to indicate 
the endowment policy was suitable or was properly explained to them  that the return was 
linked to the stock market; there was a risk of a shortfall and that a repayment mortgage 
couldnt have such a shortfall. 
In addition, Mr and Mrs E wanted it noted that in 1986 banks and building societies were 
held in high esteem and were trusted implicitly. They had been customers of BoS for many 
years and didnt have financial acumen or financial advisers  the mortgage arrangements 
were what the lender decided they should be. It knew what it was doing, and Mr and Mrs E 
didnt. 
In response to my comment that there was not enough evidence to calculate redress even if 
I were to uphold the complaint, Mr and Mrs E reiterated that the policy wasnt surrendered by 
them. As it didnt mature, the only alternative was that it had lapsed with deductions for 
protection benefits having eroded the value. They asked that if that were the case, why did 
the product provider not refund part of their premium payments and/or pay them the value of 
the policy as a lapsed policy refund? They dont know how much of a loss they suffered 
because of the advice in 1986, but believe they have suffered one.
Mr and Mrs E provided some documents from BoS which detail the endowment policy. The 
documents, in response to a question about commission, state that it was an existing policy. 
They also highlighted some information about MGT cover.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I concluded that, given Mr and Mrs Es recollections, it is more likely BoS sold the policy in 
question here. However, as I said in my provisional decision, the definitive information for 
such cases is usually the product providers records. They dont exist and the documentation 
Mr and Mrs E have provided from BoS records is not conclusive. So I dont think BoS was 
trying to avoid responsibility for the sale; indeed I cant say with 100% certainty that it was definitely responsible for the sale, only that its likely. So I am not surprised that the two 
businesses were unsure of which of them was responsible.
Mr and Mrs E have highlighted the MGT cover in the documents they provided in response 
to my provisional decision. Whilst not relevant to the merits of this complaint, I thought it 
appropriate to explain that this is nothing to do with the endowment policy. Rather the 
reference is likely about mortgage indemnity guarantee, which is something that would have 
been arranged for mortgages with a higher loan to value ratio. 
As for the documentation Mr and Mrs E have again commented on as being absent, I would 
reiterate that there was no regulation in place at the time and none of the documentation 
they have mentioned needed to exist. I have dealt with many endowment sales complaints 
from before regulation existed and almost none had any documentation detailing the sort of 
information Mr and Mrs E think should be available. I cant find BoS was negligent or made 
an error because it doesnt have documentation that was probably never produced and 
didnt need to be. 
I note that Mr and Mrs E are convinced that theyve suffered a loss because they were sold 
the endowment policy. Thats possible, but not guaranteed  we have seen many cases 
where no loss has been suffered by a consumer by having an endowment policy. Indeed, 
there are times when the endowment policy has resulted in consumers being in a better 
financial position than they otherwise would have been with a repayment mortgage. 
Furthermore, in order to make an award of redress I would need to be persuaded the policy 
was mis-sold and there to be enough evidence for a loss calculation to be done. What 
evidence we have doesnt persuaded me that the policy was mis-sold and even if I were 
persuaded, there isnt enough information about the policy to establish if Mr and Mrs E 
suffered a loss by having it. 
Having considered all of the evidence and Mr and Mrs Es further comments in response to 
my provisional decision, I havent been persuaded to change the conclusions I set out in my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs E to accept or reject my decision 
before 4 January 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman