DRN-2342143
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy because HSBC UK Bank Plc hasnt refunded money lost as a result of a 
scam.
  
What happened
Mr S needed to book flights for himself, his wife and child. He began searching online and, 
whilst looking, entered his details into an online form on a travel website. He was contacted 
shortly after by someone claiming to be from a travel agency. Unbeknownst to Mr S the 
caller was in fact a fraudster. 
The fraudster discussed flight options with Mr S. This was followed up with an email 
confirming the details of two bookable options, with different airlines, and the price of each 
booking. 
Mr S decided to proceed with one of the options, with the total price of £548. He thought the 
price was good and has told us of how friends and colleagues had explained to him that 
some agents are able to offer discount tickets following other customers cancelling their 
bookings.
Mr S made the payment for the flights by way of bank transfer, as instructed by the fraudster. 
This was on 1 October 2019. Hes said how this is quite common in his home country and so 
he was comfortable with the method of payment. Hes described how he is apprehensive 
about sharing card details as hes aware these can be used without permission.
Mr S received a booking confirmation email, complete with ticket numbers. But he grew 
concerned when the fraudster stopped responding to his emails. He contacted the airline 
and found there was no booking in his name. Its at this stage he contacted the bank, 
believing he may have fallen victim to a scam.
HSBC is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
CRM Code which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP 
scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances.  HSBC says one of those 
exceptions applies in this case.
Its said Mr S made the payment without having a reasonable basis for believing it was a 
genuine payment. It feels he ought to have done more checks to make sure the payee was 
legitimate.
HSBC did recognise it hadnt met the standards it was required to under the CRM Code. It 
said it hadnt done enough to warn him about scams like this at the time he made the 
payment. And the beneficiary bank also said it bore some liability. Mr S was refunded 66% of 
his loss, as per the provisions of the CRM Code.
Mr S feels he should be refunded his loss in full.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im upholding the complaint as Im satisfied:
Under the terms of the CRM Code, HSBC should have refunded the money Mr S 
lost.  I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply in 
the circumstances of this case. 
Mr S has received a refund of 66% of his loss already. And so HSBC should refund 
the remaining 34% now.
If HSBC had refunded the money when it ought reasonably to have done, the money 
would have more likely than not have remained in Mr S account and so the bank 
should also pay interest calculated at the account rate from 11 November 2019 (the 
date HSBC ought to have refunded) to the date of settlement. 
I have carefully considered the bank representations about whether Mr S had a reasonable 
basis for believing the transaction to be genuine. But they do not persuade me to reach a 
different outcome to that reached by our investigator, who upheld the complaint. Im not 
persuaded, in all the circumstances of the case, that Mr S failed to take the requisite level of 
care required for HSBC to choose not to fully reimburse under the terms of the CRM Code.
Im satisfied that the firm has not shown that Mr S lacked a reasonable basis for believing 
that he was making the transfer for a legitimate payment. The bank has raised a number of 
points in support of its position  many of which were not, in my view, unreasonable things to 
think about as part of an investigation into this complaint. 
What I dont believe it has done adequately is weigh up why Mr S didnt make all the 
additional checks that it believes he could have done, or actions he could have taken, in all 
the circumstances at the time the transfer was made. The mere fact these things did not 
happen is not sufficient to meet the reasonable basis for belief exception of the CRM Code 
in all the circumstances of Mr S case.
Mr S was actively looking for flights and had checked a number of websites. He completed a 
form on one of those sites and shortly later received a call. The call was therefore not out of 
the blue and seemed to come from a source Mr S had directly interacted with. At least one of 
the company names used in the correspondence that followed is genuine.
HSBC has said the price quoted to him ought to have caused suspicion and has suggested it 
was too good to be true. It hasnt given any context for this. It hasnt said, for example, what 
average prices for such flights were at the time Mr S fell victim to the scam. Conducting a 
search now reveals prices as low as £288 for a single adult fare, suggesting the price given 
to Mr S wasnt suspiciously low to the extent it ought to have been obvious something wasnt 
right. And it doesnt take account of the fact flight prices may vary greatly depending on 
availability, ongoing sales and so on. Mr S also had the advice of colleagues about some 
firms being able to rebook cancelled seats at a discount. So Im not persuaded the price was 
so low that Mr S ought to have been immediately concerned, particularly considering other 
aspects of the scam that made it convincing, which Ill address now.
Mr S was sent a series of emails about the flights and booking, prior to making payment. Ive 
seen these emails and they are professional in appearance and I can understand why Mr S 
would have been convinced he was dealing with a legitimate travel agency:They contain the kind of terms and conditions one might expect to see when booking 
flights. And there are also logos and details confirming the company name and 
industry partners it works with.
The emails are sent from what looks like a genuine address linked to the company 
Mr S believed he was dealing with.
Mr S was presented with different options for his flights. They were real flight details 
and so helped to make the emails, and the scam overall, more convincing.
It also seems more likely than not this scam did actually involve the placement of a 
reservation. Mr S was able to see his booking on the airlines website. All of his details had 
been submitted for the flights he wanted. But the reservation was not fully confirmed as 
payment was never made by the scammers. Its not clear exactly when Mr S checked these 
details. But I believe it goes to show just how prepared and sophisticated these scammers 
were, and why Mr S had a reasonable basis for believing he was making a payment for a 
legitimate booking.
HSBC has pointed to the fact Mr S included a reference on the transfer that bore no relation 
to the name of the company he was paying. But what its failed to notice is that the reference 
its talking about is the booking reference Mr S was given. Mr S hasnt said he particularly 
noticed the reference, or he at least didnt question it. I dont find that, in not doing so, he 
lacked a reasonable basis for believing what he was doing was legitimate. Many businesses 
will have a different reference or payee name to that which they trade under.
The bank has also suggested Mr S ought to have checked the legitimacy of the company by 
looking it up on Companies House and, had he done so, he would have seen that it had 
been dissolved. Whilst its true he might have discovered that, I believe this is a step many 
reasonable customers would not take, particularly when the circumstances of what they 
were doing did not seem suspicious. Im satisfied the same reasoning applies to checking 
ATOL numbers, another point the bank has made. And I can see that there were positive 
reviews online (for at least one of the company names) at the time Mr S went to make the 
booking. 
Mr S has explained why he wanted to make a bank transfer. I find his explanation to be 
reasonable in the circumstances and Ive no reason to doubt what hes said about how 
things are usually done in his home country. It seems he was offered the opportunity to pay 
by card but was apprehensive about doing so, for the reasons already explained. And I note 
here that the bank gave no advice or suggestion to Mr S that he ought to consider using a 
card for more protection.
As Ive said, its not that the steps the bank has suggested would have made no difference 
or that they arent useful tools in preventing fraud. Its that Mr S hasnt acted without a 
reasonable basis for belief in not carrying them out, considering all of the circumstances of 
the case. 
After our investigator issued his opinion on the case HSBC added to its reasons for believing 
Mr S failed to meet his requisite level of care. It referred to warnings provided at the time the 
transfer was made. This is despite the bank having already acknowledged it ought to have 
done more here and refunding Mr S some of his loss on that basis. But, in any case, the 
bank has provided little evidence or argument to persuade me it provided an effective 
warning. As Ive noted above, if nothing else, the warning failed to advise Mr S how he might 
protect himself, such as by paying with a credit or debit card. And so I dont find the bank 
has demonstrated a reason to withhold a refund when it talks about the warning it gave.HSBC also suggested Mr S had been grossly negligent but provided no context or argument 
to suggest why that might be the case. Ive already said why Mr S had a reasonable basis 
for belief in this case. And whilst the considerations for gross negligence are different  and 
the bar for it is higher  its difficult to see how HSBC would be able to persuasively establish 
a case for it here given all of the circumstances. Its certainly failed to do so to date.
I find that Mr S did meet his requisite level of care under the CRM Code and the bank was 
wrong not to refund him in full.  
Putting things right
Ive established that HSBC didnt act fairly and reasonably when it declined to refund Mr S in 
full under the CRM Code when he reported the scam. It ought to have refunded him then 
and so its right that it refunds him now.
HSBC should:
refund the remaining 34% of Mr S loss. From the evidence Ive seen it appears 
£365.34 was refunded on 31 October 2019 meaning £182.66 remains;
pay interest at the applicable account rate from 11 November 2019 (the date HSBC 
ought to have refunded) to the date of settlement.  
My final decision
I uphold the complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman