DRN-3728634
The complaint
Mr S complains Pension Works Limited (PWL) provided him with misleading information, 
when he approached them to seek pension transfer advice, ultimately causing him to incur a 
financial loss. 
What happened
Mr S had a defined benefit workplace pension (DBS), from a previous employer about 20 
years ago. He approached PWL in October 2020 to enquire about transferring that pension -
then valued at about £390,000  to a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). He wanted to 
place the funds in a SIPP, and then use those funds to purchase a large plot of agricultural 
land (which hed been renting for many years for his new business) adjacent to his home. 
Mr S was told by PWL he was too young for them to consider providing advice. Their policy 
was theyd only consider giving DBS transfer advice to a consumer who was within six 
months of their 55th birthday  Mr S was over nine months from that date. Mr S sought 
reassurance that his intended investment was possible, to be told on the phone by PWLs 
service agent she thought it may be possible, but would need discussing in a detailed fact-
find call with one of their financial advisers. 
Mr S re-approached PWL in June 2021, one month before his 55th birthday. He again asked 
about transferring his DPS to a SIPP, and for the same reason. In an initial call, he explained 
he didnt want to unnecessarily incur PWLs advice fee if their advice would be negative. He 
had another call with PWL a few days later, during which he was asked whether he was a 
self-investor. He asked what this meant, and following a vague explanation answered no. 
The advice process was also explained to him in detail. Further information was sought and 
provided, and a formal advice call took place on 27 July 2021. 
PWLs financial adviser made it immediately clear that PWL considered Mr S to be a self-
investor, and as such they would not be able to provide the advice Mr S was seeking. The 
adviser explained the difficulties that could exist if a SIPP were to purchase commercial land 
or property  relevant legal issues would take time to resolve, and PWL didnt have the 
necessary experience to advise on that type of transfer, so they wouldnt be able to advise 
on whether such a transaction was in Mr S best interests  the fundamental requirement 
when transferring a DBS pension was being explored. Unhappy PWL hadnt explained this 
to Mr S when he contacted them in October 2020, he complained to them. He said he was 
clear what his intention was, and believed hed been given assurances from the outset such 
a transfer/subsequent investment was something that was (a) possible, and (b) something 
PWL would be able and willing to undertake. 
PWLs Head of Compliance then contacted Mr S in October 2021 to try and explore an 
amicable solution. PWL suggested theyd be willing to consider his wish to transfer his DBS 
to a SIPP in the first instance, but that would still be as part of an official review process. And 
there was still no guarantee they would conclude a transfer was in his best interests. Mr S 
chose not to take advantage of this opportunity, as it appeared any such review would still 
not be able to consider a land purchase within the SIPP.
PWL didnt uphold Mr S complaint. They said theyd been clear in the October 2020 call he 
would need to discuss his options in detail with an Adviser  once he was close enough to 
his 55th birthday  as it was the Adviser who was best placed to provide the detail Mr S was 
seeking. There was no further contact from Mr S until nearly eight months later, and he was 
then advised within six weeks PWL would be unable to provide the advice or consider the 
specific transfer he was seeking. PWL also mentioned Mr S had advised them, during his 
various calls with them, he had access to other personal funds that could have been used to 
purchase the land - suggesting the SIPP wasnt essential for the land purchase in any event. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr S brought his complaint to this Service. Whilst hed still not 
transferred his DBS, hed now purchased the land using bank finance, personal funds and 
loans from family. He said he was now significantly worse off as a result  his DBS transfer 
value had reduced to £235,000, and not being able to purchase the land and place it in a 
SIPP had long-term tax consequences. He felt PWL were responsible for this. 
One of our Investigators explained it was up to PWL to decide who they were willing to 
provide advice to, and in what circumstances, and they didnt provide advice to self-investors 
and insistent clients. But she did think PWL should have made it clearer to Mr S earlier in the 
process that they couldnt provide him with the advice he was seeking. 
And because Mr S said hed been unable to find any other Financial Advisor to provide the 
advice hed been seeking in the intervening period, she felt PWLs delay in telling him they 
couldnt advise him hadnt contributed to any loss or change in his circumstances. But she 
felt Mr S experienced a loss of expectation because of PWLs actions and said they should 
pay him £200 compensation because of this.
Mr S didnt accept this and asked for his complaint to be considered by an Ombudsman, so 
its been passed to me to consider further. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has provided significant commentary and opinion on his complaint. I can assure him 
Ive read and thoroughly considered everything hes said. Ive also listened to all calls he had 
with PWL, including the two initial ones he had with them in October 2020, and those in June 
and July 2021. And having done so, I wont be asking PWL to do anything further, beyond 
paying the £200 compensation our Investigator suggested. I appreciate this will come as a 
big disappointment to Mr S, who feels very strongly about this matter, so Ill explain why. 
The October 2020 calls
When Mr S first approached PWL in October 2020, he spoke with one of their phone agents. 
Ive listened to those two calls. I think Mr S was extremely clear what his intentions were  to 
move his DBS to a SIPP to purchase some land. And he was clear in trying to seek 
reassurance from her that this was a process PWL could assist him with. 
PWLs phone agent didnt give any indication in these calls this wasnt a service/advice PWL 
would be able to provide  in fact she suggested she may have come across such a 
situation sometime in the past (without giving any specifics). But she was also sufficiently 
clear, in my opinion, such questions could only be properly addressed during a formal fact-
find call with one of their financial advisors. Mr S said he understood this. Mr S also clearly explained his DBS allowed access/transfer from age 50 onwards and 
queried why PWL couldnt provide him with advice now, given this. The PWL agent made 
enquiries to see if this made a difference and called Mr S back two days later to advise their 
policy remained and they couldnt help him at that point. She said shed understand if Mr S 
chose to seek another Firm if he wanted to explore an earlier transfer. Mr S asked if she 
could recommend anyone  she said she would have done if she knew any, but she didnt. 
Mr S believes PWL had told him in these early calls they would be able to help him, and he 
was entitled to rely on what he was told. However, having carefully listened to both calls, I 
dont agree. I think PWLs phone agent was sufficiently clear that any technical questions 
about the type of transfer and investment Mr S was seeking to make could only be 
discussed with the Financial Advisor  and that was only after Mr S was close enough to his 
55th birthday for PWL to consider taking him on as a client. Yes, the operative provided a 
vague recollection about similar past transactions, but that didnt constitute advice of any 
sort. And I dont think there was anything in those calls that should have led Mr S to 
reasonably conclude PWL had told him theyd be able to undertake the transfers and 
investment hed approached them about - PWL had provided no assurances in that regard.
Further, the second call ended with PWL acknowledging Mr S may choose to look elsewhere 
for quicker advice, with Mr S asking if the phone agent knew of anyone else  and so there 
was no apparent indication at that stage Mr S had made up his mind that he would be using 
PWL in any event. 
The above being the case, I cant reasonably hold PWL responsible for the fact Mr S may 
have finished those October 2020 calls believing PWL said they would be able to help him 
with his DBS transfer, in the way hed mentioned.  
Mr S second approach to PWL in June 2021
Mr S was similarly clear about what he was seeking to achieve when he called PWL again in 
June 2021. This time, however, I think the circumstances were different.
In Mr S first call on 8 June 2021, he repeats what he wants to do with his DBS funds. The 
phone agent comments that PWL dont always say the best option is to leave a DBS where it 
is and advise against transferring it, and also says Mr S will need to complete a letter of 
authority (LOA), allowing PWL to get information from the DBS scheme. Mr S provides the 
signed LOA immediately, prompting a further call three days later from PWL, during which 
Mr S is asked to confirm certain information, including whether he is a self-investor.
Mr S asked what a self-investor is, to be told its someone who has their own personal 
pension which they manage themselves rather than a third party. Hearing this, Mr S says he 
wasnt one. PWL say theyve already contacted his DBS to get fund value information, and 
once received will arrange a detailed fact-find interview with one of their financial advisers. 
PWLs agent explains in detail about the advice process. PWL calls Mr S on 15 July 2021, and the fact-find is arranged for 27 July 2021. On this call, 
Mr S is told PWL consider him to be a self-investor, because he wanted to invest in land that 
he had identified. The financial advisor further stated such an arrangement was outside of 
PWLs remit, and their investor proposition usually involved advising clients to invest in 
vanilla-type investments such as stocks and shares. 
Mr S pointed out he was asked if he was a self-investor in the earlier call, when hed been 
very clear what his intention was, and the phone agent said nothing to suggest his answer 
was wrong. The adviser apologised for this misunderstanding, suggesting the phone agent 
probably didnt understand the question. 
However, Mr S was asked specific  and clearly key  questions about self-investment on 
11 June 2021 and answered honestly. He couldnt have been any clearer what his intention 
was, and I think he was entitled to reasonably conclude, after that call, PWL were able and 
willing to consider his DBS transfer proposal. 
Thats not to say I think Mr S could reasonably have thought PWL would proceed with his 
suggested transfer. There would still need to have been a full fact-find, which Mr S knew, 
which would have needed to conclude his DBS transfer was in his best interests.  
But, there was a period between 11 June 2021 and 27 July 2021 (a period of just over six 
weeks) when I think PWL were in possession of enough information about Mr S intentions to 
have at least alerted him his favoured investment was something they were unlikely to be 
able to progress. So, the next question is whether I think Mr S suffered any detriment during 
this period. And having considered what Mr S has told us, I dont think he did. Ill explain.  
Mr S told us he was always aware he could have looked for another IFA to conduct an 
insistent client transfer, but he chose not to as he wanted the advice service he believed 
PWL said theyd give him. And hes also since told us he did eventually try  after it was 
clear PWL wouldnt help him  to approach other IFAs to seek advice on his intended 
transfer. However, hes told us none of these enquiries resulted in him finding an IFA who 
would progress the transfer in the way he wanted. Thats not a criticism of Mr S, or the 
efforts he made, but does reflect the problems he did face when he made enquiries in the 
market. 
I think this strongly suggests, had PWL made it clear on 11 June 2021 they wouldnt act for 
Mr S in the way hed hoped, hed most likely have faced the same issues at that time trying 
to locate a willing IFA to act for him as he experienced later on. So, I dont think he lost an 
opportunity to locate an IFA in that short period (or, clearly in the months that followed). 
I also dont think he lost the opportunity to transfer his DBS pension in the way he wanted 
because PWL didnt tell him on 11 June 2021 they were unlikely to provide the advice he 
was seeking. And nor can I fairly say its PWLs fault Mr S chose not to further explore the 
insistent client options that may have been available in the market. 
Reduction in DBS transfer value
Mr S was also unhappy PWL approached his DBS for an up-to-date transfer value. He thinks 
this fixed his transfer value for six months, preventing him from seeking another value at a 
later stage if he so wished  and him missing out on any increase in that value in that time. 
PWL had secured a transfer value of just under £384,000, fixed for 90 days (not six months 
as he has suggested) dated 28 June 2021. However, I note Mr S told us by July 2022 (so 
only one year later), the transfer value had reduced to £270,000-odd (and has reduced 
further since). As such, providing a guaranteed value until the end of September 2021 would appear 
(accepting I dont have information to show how the value changed in that period) to have 
provided an element of protection in relation to the transfer value of his DBS. As such, I dont 
see any detriment having been caused by PWL seeking a transfer value when they did.
Conclusion
Whilst I think PWL should have told Mr S about six weeks earlier than they did it was unlikely 
theyd be able to consider his DBS transfer/reinvestment request in the way hed hoped, 
I havent seen any evidence to show this delay caused him any financial loss.
I appreciate Mr S did eventually purchase the land for the originally agreed price, using a 
mixture of savings and bank and family loans. He says purchasing the land in this way 
exposed him to increased bank interest, and not then being able to use his savings to repay 
the mortgage on his home. 
He rightly points out the transfer value of the DBS in June 2021 was more than enough to 
have purchased the land outright  leaving his savings free to clear his mortgage. He 
explains, and I appreciate, he is now continuing to pay interest on the mortgage on his 
home, and has new loans (and interest) to fund the land purchase  all of which could have 
been avoided had he been able to use the DBS to purchase the land (although he accepts 
he still has his DBS, which remains untouched). He says this proves he is significantly worse 
off because of not being able to transfer and reinvest his DBS in the SIPP as hed intended, 
and that is PWLs fault. 
I do appreciate Mr Ss distress at this situation, but for the reasons Ive stated I dont think 
I can fairly hold PWL responsible for it. The evidence Ive seen suggests Mr S would have 
been unable to fund the purchase of the land via the DBS transfer/SIPP purchase as (and 
when) hed hoped in any event. And I cant fairly or reasonably hold PWL responsible for his 
subsequent choice to use savings and finance for the land purchase (or not to explore and 
pursue in more detail an insistent client arrangement with another IFA), or any extra costs 
subsequently incurred.
But I do agree PWLs poor communication between 11 June 2021 and 27 July 2021 created 
confusion, and likely caused Mr S distress and inconvenience. And for this, I agree Mr S 
should be compensated, and I think the £200 suggested by our investigator is a fair award. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr S complaint, and require Pension Works Limited 
to pay him £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience experienced. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2023.
 
Mark Evans
Ombudsman