DRN-2126236
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy with the way AXA Insurance UK Plc has handled his claim under his travel 
insurance policy. 
 
What happened
 Mr D had a travel insurance policy with AXA. He booked a family holiday through a travel 
agent, which he was paying for in instalments. Unfortunately, Mr Ds wife became severely 
unwell unexpectedly, and they were no longer able to go. 
Mr D contacted his travel provider to cancel the trip and was told there was a cancellation 
charge so he contacted AXA to make a claim. Mr D completed the claims pack sent to him 
by AXA and returned it along with all the necessary supporting documentation. 
Whilst Mr D was waiting for AXA to progress his cancellation claim, he was receiving 
payment demands from the travel agent who wanted to continue to take his instalments, in 
the absence of a cancellation. AXA was aware of these demands, but they admit the claim 
wasnt progressed in a pragmatic or timely manner. 
Mr D complained to AXA about the way it had handled his claim. AXA acknowledged there 
had been a lack of urgency in dealing with the claim and service failings such as Mr D 
enduring long wait times and poor communication. AXA upheld Mr Ds complaint and paid 
£200 compensation. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She thought AXA had handled the claim 
poorly and she recognised the impact of their poor service of Mr D. She recommended Mr D 
should be paid an additional £150 compensation for the stress and inconvenience caused to 
him during the claim. 
AXA agreed with the additional compensation, but Mr D didnt. He explained the current 
financial difficulties he is faced with following his wifes illness, so he didnt think the 
compensation was high enough.
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 The relevant rules say that AXA has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. 
And, they should give a policyholder reasonable guidance when making a claim. So Ive 
carefully considered if AXA has treated Mr D fairly.  
Im sorry to hear about the difficult situation Mr D has been through and that Mrs D is so 
unwell. Im sure this has been a worrying and stressful time and I would expect AXA to 
respond appropriately. But I dont think they did here.  I agree with our investigator that a 
further £150 in compensation is fair and reasonable and Ill explain why. 
Mr D made AXA aware of his unforeseen circumstances in relation to his wifes health. She 
became unexpectedly sick with an infection, which sadly left her with brain and spinal 
damage. So AXA should have tried to make the claims process as easy as possible for Mr 
D.  
AXA has already acknowledged there was a lack of urgency in dealing with the claim. And 
Mr D was kept waiting longer than he should have during calls. AXA also asked for 
information that Mr D had already taken the time to provide, so I can understand why this 
would have been frustrating for him. AXA recognised their poor communication throughout 
the claim and paid £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience this had caused 
Mr D. It also paid a further £50 compensation as a gesture of goodwill. 
In relation to the delay in progressing the claim, what appears to have been the issue is that 
Mr D was purchasing his holiday through instalment payments, and it hadnt been paid in full 
at this stage. So he was unable to provide AXA with a cancellation invoice from the provider. 
But AXA continued to request this from Mr D on multiple occasions, despite being made 
aware of his situation. I think this was unfair and caused Mr D unnecessary stress and worry 
at an already difficult time. 
 
AXA failed to provide Mr D with concrete information about the cancellation claim and what 
would happen. He had told AXA that he couldnt afford to pay for the remainder of the 
holiday after his wife had fallen ill. So AXA should have supported Mr D and provided 
reassurances when he told them the travel agent had begun demanding further instalments 
were paid. 
I also agree AXAs communication was poor and caused Mr D unnecessary confusion during 
what shouldve been a simple claims process. In particular when AXA said that a payment 
had been raised but this didnt happen and instead another cancellation invoice was 
requested.
Ive carefully considered Mr Ds submissions about the distress and frustration caused by 
AXAs lack of meaningful support and communication during a difficult time. 
Mr D has explained how he has been feeling during such a difficult time and I want to thank 
him for being so open. I can see his wifes illness has had an impact on him emotionally and 
financially. As explained, I think AXA added additional stress to Mr D at a time they could 
have helped to ease one of the pressures he was under. However, its important to separate 
the way Mr D is feeling about his current financial situation following his wifes unexpected 
illness, and the upset caused by AXA through poor claims handling. 
Im also mindful that AXA had settled and paid the claim by 5 February which was a month 
after Mr D had submitted his claim documentation. So, although the claim took longer to 
progress than AXA would have liked, Im not persuaded AXA caused Mr D distress over a 
significant period of time. 
Having considered everything, Im persuaded an additional £150 is reasonable 
compensation to recognise the poor service provided by AXA. Taking account of the 
payments already received, this means Mr D will receive £400 compensation in total which I 
think is fair. Putting things right
AXA Insurance UK Plc should put things right by paying Mr D an additional £150 
compensation for the poor service he received. This includes poor communication and 
providing confusing advice at an already difficult time. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold this complaint. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to 
pay Mr D an extra £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by poor 
claims handling. 
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman