DRN-2454118
The complaint
Mrs O complains that Loans2Go Limited irresponsibly lent to her.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the adjudicator for these reasons:
The loan documents suggest that the loan was for consolidation, but it is isnt clear 
which of Mrs Os debts were being consolidated and how the consolidation was to 
impact her financial circumstances overall.
The results of Loans2Gos checks show that Mrs Os income was slightly less than 
she declared. Loans2Go found her income to be around £1,487 and it also found that 
her expenses were more than she declared, Loans2Go lent on the basis that Mrs Os 
expenses were around £1,120. This means after making the loan payment of 
£217.13, Mrs O would have been left with around £150.09. With or without the buffer 
Loans2Go added, Mrs O is likely to have struggled to repay this loan. Mrs O had one 
dependent and I think what she was left with was unlikely to be sustainable over the 
loan term.
Further, the credit file suggests Mrs O may have had wider financial problems with 
managing her money, her credit card was over its limit and she was in arrears on the 
same credit card. I can also see that Mrs O settled a number of her short-term loans, 
but she still had around three active short-term loans.
So overall, I dont think Loans2Go should have lent to Mrs O in the circumstances.
The loan agreement set out clearly the terms of the loan and I can see that Mrs O 
signed the agreement and so Im satisfied that she was aware of the loan terms 
including the applicable interest.
I dont think Loan2Gos contact with Mrs O about the arrears on her loan was 
excessive. Loans2Go has a duty to keep Mrs O informed about the status of her loan 
and I dont think it has done anything wrong in this regard.  
Putting things right
To put things right, Loans2Go should:
Treat all Mrs Os payments as payments towards the capital amount of £950.
If there are payments over the capital amount, then this should be returned to Mrs O 
with 8% simple interest* from the date of the payments to the date of settlement.
But if theres still a balance outstanding, the Loan2Go should agree a suitable 
repayment plan with Mrs O.
Remove any negative information about the loan from Mrs Os credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans2Go Limited to deduct tax from the interest payment referred 
to above. Loans2Go Limited must give Mrs O a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if she 
asks it for one.  
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be partly upheld.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2021.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman