DRN-3889458
The complaint
Mr K complains about Allianz Insurance PLC (Allianz) who declined his claim under his 
home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr K said that he owned his property for several years without any major structural defects. 
In 2014, there was a storm that caused damage to his property. Allianz accepted the claim 
and carried out repairs to his roof as well as other areas. 
In 2020 Mr K instructed a contractor to carry out some maintenance work. During this time, 
the contractor found a crack and bulging in a wall. Mr K then instructed a structural engineer 
(SE) to investigate the cause of the damage. The SE in his report, said that the chimney was 
leaning, and he thought that the lean only extended to the external portion of the chimney 
(that is not below the roof line). He also found that the cause of the lean was due to 
inadequate lateral restraints. So, Mr K submitted a claim to Allianz. 
Allianz sent a loss adjuster and ultimately, Allianz declined the claim, as its loss adjuster 
came to the same conclusion as Mr Ks SE and found that the lean wasnt as a result of 
subsidence. 
Mr K then chose to carry out a program of renovation on the property. The contractors had to 
remove part of the roof. As a result, the roof timbers were exposed and they saw the extent 
of the movement of the chimney, as well as the conditions of the roof timbers.  
Mr K contacted his SE who inspected the roof. All work was stopped to allow Allianzs loss 
adjuster to attend and re-inspect. Mr K said that despite repeated requests for them to 
attend, the loss adjuster did not. In the meantime, Mr K asked for the claim to be re-opened, 
due to this new evidence, that the lean to the chimney was caused by subsidence. 
Mr K decided to stop the building works, in anticipation that Allianzs loss adjuster would 
carry out a further inspection. Mr K said that he received limited communication from Allianz 
during this time.  Eventually, Allianz instructed another loss adjuster and a desktop 
assessment was conducted. Around five months later, this loss adjuster came to the same 
conclusion as the previous loss adjuster. In that, there had been historic movement of the 
building and the cause of the movement wasnt due to subsidence. Allianz declined Mr Ks 
claim. 
Mr K raised a complaint to Allianz as he felt it had failed to consider the new evidence. 
Allianz maintained its position and the claim remained declined. Mr K was given his referral 
rights and referred a complaint to our service. He wanted Allianz to accept the claim but as 
the building works had been completed, he wanted Allianz to reimburse the building costs of 
£90,680.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. He said 
he had considered all of the reports from the experts and concluded that the reports from Mr 
Ks experts were more persuasive than Allianzs experts, in part as Mr Ks experts carried 
out a physical inspection of the property.
He also said that Allianz ought to have provided updates to Mr K, which it didnt do. And 
because his view was to accept that there was subsidence and Allianz had provided poor 
service, he recommended that Allianz reimburse Mr Ks repair costs, the cost of his SE and 
pay Mr K £250 compensation for the trouble and upset caused, due to the poor service.
Mr K accepted the view. Allianz neither accepted nor rejected the view. It made an offer to 
settle initially for 50% of the costs. But later increased its offer to 80% of the costs. Both 
offers were rejected by Mr K as he said there appeared to be no valid reason why Allianz 
would not agree to reimburse his costs in full. So, a decision from an ombudsman was 
requested. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our investigator. 
And I will explain why I think this is fair. 
From what Ive read, Allianz has made two offers to Mr K in order to settle the claim.  Both 
offers have been rejected by Mr K, given that all the works have now been completed and 
that Mr K would like the full costs to be reimbursed. I think the offers made, indicate that 
Allianz effectively accepted that it was wrong to decline the claim in the first place. This 
being said, I think the main issue of this complaint now is whether Allianz has been fair in its 
offer of 80% contribution towards the building costs. 
For completeness, Allianz have accepted to pay Mr K £250 compensation for the poor 
service he experienced, so I wont be commenting further on this, as I do think that this level 
of compensation, is fair and what I wouldve recommended, had Allianz not accepted to pay 
this amount.
I have next considered Allianzs offer of an 80% contribution towards the building costs 
incurred by Mr K. With this in mind, I asked Allianz for its comments on why it felt that 80% 
should be the total contribution. Despite my requests for this information, Allianz did not 
provide me with any comments.
Mr K explained that when Allianz initially declined his claim, he had to raise funds in order to 
ensure that the repairs were carried out. He said that because of this, he scrutinised the  
repairs and costs. He said this meant that the repairs were not for betterment and were 
entirely necessary and competitively priced. 
He has provided evidence to show that the costs of the repairs totalled £90,680. Given that 
Allianz has not provided any reasons why it should only pay 80% of those costs. And given 
that Im satisfied that it had accepted that it was wrong to have declined the claim, in the first 
place, I think that its fair and reasonable for Allianz to reimburse the total costs incurred by 
Mr K for the repairs carried out, including the costs for the structural engineer costs. Putting things right
To put matters right, I direct Allianz as below. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold Mr Ks complaint. 
To put matters right, Allianz Insurance PLC to:
Pay Mr K £250 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
Reimburse Mr K the total cost of the repairs carried out of £90,680, on production of the 
receipts. 
Reimburse Mr Ks structural engineer costs, on production of the invoice.
Allianz Insurance PLC must pay the amounts within 28 days of the date on which we tell it 
Mr K accept my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the 
amount from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If Allianz Insurance PLC considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr K how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr K a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman