DRN-3333661
The complaint
Mr S, the sole director of T, a limited company, is unhappy that Metro wont refund
transactions made from Ts account as part of a scam.
What happened
On 5 February 2021, Mr S was called by someone claiming to be a BT Openreach 
engineer. They said his internet wasnt secure so they needed to install security 
systems. To do that, they asked Mr S to download software so they could remotely 
access his computer.
They also said his email address wasnt secure so they would need to install security 
systems wherever it was registered, including his bank. Mr S said he logged on to Ts 
online banking to do this. Afterwards, the screen went black so he couldnt see what 
happened.
Its not clear how the rest unfolded. In calls with Metro from February 2021, Mr S 
recalled receiving text messages from Metro with codes that he needed to relay to 
fraudsters. He remembered being told they would his money to a secure place and 
confirmed he was aware of the transactions. He later told our service that wasnt the 
case  he was assured they couldnt do anything with his money and the codes were 
to protect his account.
The next day, Mr S realised that hed been a victim of a scam. Three payments had 
left Ts account, totalling £10,708. I understand £19.16 was recovered from the banks 
these funds were sent to.
Metro declined to refund the remaining amount, as it believed Mr S acted with gross 
negligence by allowing access to Ts account and sharing information without 
checking it was BT. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on 22 February 2022 explaining why I didnt plan to 
uphold Ts complaint. Metro didnt have anything further to add. Mr S responded  he 
said Metro didnt warn him they were releasing the transactions or try to verify him. 
He said they couldve called or text him.  
Im satisfied I considered this in my provisional findings. Because T made similar 
transactions in the past, I dont think Metro ought to have intervened. Afterall, they 
shouldnt delay legitimate transactions, so Id only expect them to intervene if 
something didnt look right. 
Its worth adding that Metro did sent text messages to Mr S  these told him that the 
codes were for setting up new payees and not to share them if hed not done that. 
It follows that Ive not changed my mind about the outcome of this complaint. For 
completeness, Ive included my provisional findings below. 
Did Mr S authorise the payments?
Under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), the starting position is that T 
is liable for payments Mr S authorised.
Mr Ss recollection of the scam has changed. He told our service that he didnt know 
the fraudster was making payments. But Ive listened to his calls with Metro. In these, 
he recalled how the fraudster said they would his money to a secure place and that 
he was instructed to share the codes (which ultimately allowed them to set up the 
new payees). He repeated this in later calls with Metro.
Given his consistency with Metro and how these calls were closer to when the scam 
happened, I think its more reliable than what he since told our service. It follows that 
I think Mr S was aware that payments were being made.
Under the PSRs, for a payment to be considered authorised, Mr S needed to only 
consent to the execution of a payment transaction. So he didnt need to consent to 
the details of each payment, like who the money goes to. And Mr S didnt need to go 
through the steps himself to give that consent  he could give permission for 
someone else to do that on his behalf.
Here, by allowing someone to access his online banking and handing over codes 
with the awareness that they were moving money, Im satisfied that he gave the 
fraudster permission to make payments on his behalf. So, under the PSRs, the 
transactions are authorised and the starting position is that T is liable.
The Contingent Reimbursement Model
As Mr S was the victim of an authorised push payment (APP) scam, my 
considerations dont end with the PSRs. Thats because Metro is a signatory to the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM). This requires Metro to refund victims of 
APP scams in all but limited circumstances.
Those exceptions are:
o The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made.
o The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that:
 the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay;
 the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
 the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
o The customer has been grossly negligent
There are further exceptions within the CRM, but these arent relevant here.
Did Mr S ignore an effective warning?
Given the value of the individual transactions, Im satisfied Metro shouldve identified 
a scam risk and provided an effective warning. And I think its unlikely that any warnings provided by Metro met the CRMs definition of effective. But even if they 
had been, I dont think they wouldve prevented the scam that took place.
Thats because Mr S wasnt directly involved in the payment journey. So he wouldnt 
have seen any effective warning that couldve protected him from being defrauded.
This also means that Mr S didnt ignore an effective warning. Afterall, Mr S must have 
had the chance to see the warning to conclude that he ignored it.
On this basis, Ive gone on to consider the next relevant exception under the CRM.
Did Mr S make the payment without a reasonable basis of belief?
Ive set out the three factors where Metro could establish that Mr S made the 
payment without a reasonable basis for belief.
Given the circumstances of this scam, its not materially relevant whether Mr S 
reasonably believed the payee was the person he was expecting to pay. Thats 
because he didnt set up or complete the payment. Similarly, I dont think it could be 
argued that Mr S didnt reasonably believe that the payments were for genuine goods 
or services because this wasnt the premise of the scam.
However, I have considered whether Mr S had a reasonable basis for believing that 
the business with whom he transacted was legitimate. I dont think he did. Ill explain 
why.
I can see how Mr S initially believed he was talking to BT and how the situation that 
they presented  that his internet and email address werent secure so they needed 
to install security systems  sounded plausible.
But when they asked for one-time-passcodes from Metro on the basis that they were 
moving Ts money to a secure place, I think the scam became less plausible, to the 
extent that Mr S ought to have had doubts whether this was BT.
Instead, it seems Mr S didnt question why a telecoms company would call under one 
premise and then proceed to move his money to a secure place. Neither was it clear 
where BT would move his money to, or how Mr S would get it back.
Ive also considered that when Mr S logged on, his screen went blank. Given they 
now had access to his online banking but Mr S couldnt see what they were doing, I 
think he ought to have questioned their legitimacy before providing further 
information.
In saying this, Ive considered Mr Ss submissions to our service that he did question 
them and was reassured they couldnt access his money. But thats not consistent 
with what he told Metro that they were moving his money to a secure place. In any 
event, Im not convinced it was reasonable for Mr S to take their word that BT had a 
different level of access to Mr S, when he logged on while they had remote access.
Im also mindful that the fraudsters hadnt gone to particularly sophisticated lengths to 
establish that they were who they said they were. They called from a mobile number; 
it seems that they didnt know any of Mr Ss personal details; nor did they provide 
information about themselves that couldve shown they were a BT engineer.Taking this all into account, I think the payments were made without a reasonable 
basis for believing that the business with whom Mr S transacted was genuine. So Im 
persuaded that one of the exceptions to reimbursement applies.
The outcome under the Contingent Reimbursement Model
There are provisions under the CRM where T could receive some reimbursement, 
despite Mr S not meeting his requisite level of care. But I dont think this applies here.
The code explains thats only the case if Metros failures impeded Mr Ss ability to 
avoid falling victim to a scam. As Ive explained, I do think Metro failed to provide an 
effective warning. But, because Mr S didnt make the payment himself, I dont think 
this would have prevented T from being defrauded.
So, in all, Im satisfied that Metro acted fairly in not reimbursing these transactions 
under the CRM.
Were the disputed transactions unusual, out of character or otherwise suspicious?
Separate to the CRM, I have also considered whether Metro shouldve noticed from 
the payments that something didnt look right and intervened before the payment 
went ahead.
Having reviewed Ts statements before the transactions, Ive noted there are several 
payments that are of a similar value to the ones disputed here. That means I dont 
think these looked unusual to the point that Metro shouldve stepped in before 
allowing them to go through.
Conclusions
I dont doubt that Mr S has been a victim here. But, having considered everything 
carefully, I dont think Metro are responsible for refunding these disputed 
transactions.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Ts complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman