DRN-3417722
The complaint
The estate of Ms P contends that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) provided credit 
to the late Ms P that wasnt affordable for her at that time.
What happened
In February 2014, the late Ms P applied for a NatWest credit account. Her application was 
successful, and she was issued with a credit account with a credit limit of £2,950.
In August 2021, following the death of the late Ms P, an account was raised by the estate of 
Ms P as it felt that Ms P hadnt been able to afford the credit provided to her by NatWest in 
2014.
NatWest looked at this complaint. They confirmed that theyd undertaken checks into Ms Ps 
financial position before providing the credit to her, and that there hadnt been anything 
resulting from those checks which they felt should have given them cause to suspect Ms P 
might not be able to afford the credit she was subsequently offered.
The estate of Ms P wasnt satisfied with NatWests response, so it referred the complaint to 
this service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they didnt feel that 
NatWest had acted unfairly or unreasonably by providing the credit to Ms P, and so they 
didnt uphold this complaint.
The estate of Ms P remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for 
a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its for a business to decide whether it will offer credit to a customer, and if so, how much 
and on what terms. What this service would expect would be, that before approving a 
customer for a new line of credit, or before increasing the amount of credit available to a 
customer on an existing line of credit, the business would undertake reasonable and 
proportionate checks into that customers financial position at that time.
 
NatWest say that they did that here, and note that at the time of the application they took 
information from Ms P directly about her income, as well as obtained information about Ms P 
from a credit reference agency so as to get a better understanding of her wider financial 
position. And NatWest contend that there was nothing resulting from that information that 
they feel should have given them any reasonable cause to believe that Ms P might not be 
able to afford the credit she was subsequently approved for.
When Ms P applied for the credit account in 2014, she told NatWest that she had net income 
of £1,800 per month, which equates to a net annual income of £21,600. Additionally, when 
NatWest reviewed Ms Ps credit file it showed that Ms P had existing unsecured debt of 
£12,100  which although being a notable amount doesnt represent a debt-to-income ratio 
that I feel should have been prohibitive. Finally, Ms Ps credit file also didnt include any 
significant indicators of potential financial difficulty, such as defaulted accounts, and 
appeared to show that Ms P was maintaining her existing credit commitments without major 
incident at that time. 
The creditworthiness checks that NatWest undertook here seem reasonable and 
proportionate to me, given the relatively moderate level of the credit under consideration, 
and Im satisfied that the information that NatWest gathered from these checks shouldnt 
reasonably have given NatWest cause to suspect that Ms P might not be able to afford the 
new credit she was applying for. And consequently, Im also satisfied that it wasnt 
incumbent on NatWest to have performed any further checks into Ms Ps position at that 
time.
Im aware that the estate of Ms P feels that Ms P had provided NatWest with incorrect 
information about her income, and that NatWest should have confirmed her income as part 
of any creditworthiness assessment. But such income verification could only be obtained by 
some form of further check, and as explained above, NatWest were only required to 
undertake reasonable and proportionate checks, in consideration of the amount of credit 
being applied for. And as also explained above, Im satisfied that the checks that NatWest 
did undertake, including asking Ms P to declare her income, did constitute reasonable and 
proportionate checks in this instance.
It also must be acknowledged that the criteria for creditworthiness checks in 2014 were 
different to those in place today. At that time, the requirement was only that the credit 
provider assess whether the consumer was likely to be able to pay the monthly payments 
that may become due on that credit, and didnt include whether it would be sustainably 
affordable for a consumer to be able to make such payments.
And ultimately here, given Ms Ps declared income and the seemingly unproblematic nature 
of her credit file, including her level of unsecured debt, Im satisfied that it was reasonable for 
NatWest to have concluded that Ms P would in all likelihood have been able to make the 
monthly payments that may have become due on the new line of credit she was applying for.
All of which means I find it difficult to conclude that NatWest have acted unfairly or 
irresponsibly within the circumstances of this complaint as the estate of Ms P contends. And 
it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing NatWest to take any 
further action at this time. 
I realise this wont be the outcome the estate of Ms P was wanting, but I hope it will 
understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Ms P 
to accept or reject my decision before 31 August 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman