DRN-4210389
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as G, is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC withdrew 
a payment holiday from its Bounce Back Loan (BBL) it had previously agreed to apply.
Gs complaint is brought to this service by its director, whom Ill refer to as Mr P.
What happened
In June 2020, Mr P successfully applied to Barclays for a BBL on Gs behalf, and G received 
the loan funds shortly thereafter. 
In May 2022, Mr P spoke with Barclays and asked whether a Pay As You Grow (PAYG) 
payment deferment plan could be applied to Gs BBL. Barclays told Mr P that a PAYG plan 
could be applied to Gs BBL. But shortly after applying the PAYG plan to Gs BBL, Barclays 
withdrew it, meaning that G was then expected to make the full contractually agreed 
payments on the loan. Mr P wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint on Gs behalf.
Barclays responded to Mr P and explained that Barclays had made a mistake when 
informing him that a PAYG plan could be applied to Gs BBL. This was because Gs BBL 
was already in a position of arrears at the time that Mr P had spoken with them.
Barclays did acknowledge that their agent shouldnt have approved the PAYG plan for Gs 
BBL as they did, and they apologised for their agents mistake. Barclays also explained that 
their agents error also applied to a separate complaint that Mr P had raised regarding Gs 
parent company, and noted that in their response to that linked complaint they had offered 
£150 as compensation for their agents error. Mr P wasnt happy with Barclays response, so 
he referred Gs complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that Barclays had acted 
unfairly in how it had managed to situation and so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr P 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays have explained that their agent made a mistake when speaking with Mr P and that 
a PAYG plan should never have been applied to Gs BBL. One reason for this was because 
Gs BBL was already in a position of arrears at that time and because G hadnt met the 
repayment terms of a previous PAYG plan that had been applied to its loan.
Barclays position here seems fair and reasonable to me for several reasons. The first of 
which is that it appears that G was never eligible to have received a BBL in the first instance.
This is because the rules of the BBL scheme include that a parent and subsidiary company, 
structured in the way that it appears that G and Mr Ps other company (the company which 
holds the majority shareholding in G) are structured, are only eligible to receive one BBL 
between them. But Mr P applied for, and received, BBLs for both companies  which is not 
permitted by the BBL scheme rules.
I feel that G not being eligible to have received a BBL fairly justifies, in and of itself, Barclays 
not being willing to apply a PAYG plan to Gs BBL. And I feel that the fact that Barclays now 
consider the full outstanding BBL balance that was illegitimately received by G to be 
repayable in full is also fair for this same reason.
It must be remembered that the BBL scheme was self-attested. This means it was the 
responsibility of the applicant, in this case Mr P, to have understood the scheme rules and to 
have only submitted a valid BBL application. However, as explained above, Gs BBL 
application doesnt appear to have been valid in this instance.
Additionally, G hasnt met the contractual repayment terms of the BBL it received. This 
includes a previous PAYG plan that Barclays had applied to Gs BBL, whereby G was only 
required to make interest payments for the loan during the term of the plan, with the capital 
balance repayments being suspended. But G didnt make the interest-only payments as 
required by the prior PAYG plan, and its BBL fell into arrears.
Its also clear that Barclays have provided financial support to G to give it an opportunity to 
recover its financial position. This includes that Barclays withdrew the first final demand it 
had issued to G to allow G more time to resolve its financial issues. And while I acknowledge 
Mr Ps position that G is engaged in a legal process thats impacted its ability to meet its 
repayment commitments, I dont feel that this means that Barclays should fairly be expected 
to suspend collections and recovery action on Gs BBL indefinitely.
Finally, I note that Barclays offered £150 compensation to Gs parent company in its 
response to that companys complaint. Given that only one of either the parent company or 
the subsidiary company was eligible to receive a BBL, I dont feel it would be fair to instruct 
Barclays to pay two amounts of compensation here  one for each company  and so I wont 
be issuing any further instruction to Barclays in this regard.
All of which means that I dont feel that Barclays did anything wrong or acted unfairly by 
withdrawing the PAYG plan from Gs BBL as it did. And it follows from this that I wont be 
upholding this complaint or instructing Barclays to take any different or further action here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman