DRN-3764684
The complaint
Miss S and Mr S are unhappy Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) have 
declined their claim for storm damage on their home insurance policy.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties and has been detailed by our 
investigator previously. So, Ill summarise the key points Ive focused on within my decision.
Miss S and Mr S made a claim in February 2022 and Lloyds requested they provide 
two quotes for the works required.
Lloyds considered the costs to be too high and so chose to use its own contractor to 
provide a report as to the cause of damage. Upon inspection of the damage, the 
claim was declined due to it being a result of wear and tear, and not a storm.
Miss S and Mr S were unhappy with the claim decision and made a complaint. Whilst 
Lloyds maintained its decision to decline the claim, it recognised the level of service 
had been poor and offered £175 compensation.
Our investigator considered the complaint and initially upheld it, saying he didnt feel 
B had shown the cause of the damage was wear and tear.
Lloyds then provided further photos and comments which persuaded our investigator 
that the storm had highlighted an ongoing issue with the roof, and that the storm 
hadnt been the main cause of the damage.
Miss S and Mr S disagreed with our investigator, saying Lloyds hadnt inspected the 
correct part of the roof. And they disagreed with the surveyors comments. So, they 
asked for an Ombudsmans decision on their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering a storm complaint, our service considers three main questions.
The first one is whether there was a storm at the time the damage is said to have occurred. 
Lloyds accepts there were storm conditions around the date of loss, so Ive considered the 
next two questions.
Starting with, whether the damage to Miss S and Mr Ss property is consistent with what Id 
expect a storm to cause. And if it is, whether the storm was the main cause of the damage 
thats being claimed for.
Miss S and Mr S say the felt roof lifted during the storm and caused leaks internally. This 
type of damage isnt unusual in a storm, so I need to consider the evidence to see if the 
storm was the main cause of the damage. 
Miss S and Mr S didnt instruct their own surveyor or professional to consider the damage. 
Whilst I understand Lloyds only requested they provide quotes for the repairs needed, this 
means I dont have any evidence from a professional which supports Miss S and Mr Ss view 
that the damage was caused solely by the storm. The onus is on them as the policyholders 
to show they have a valid claim that can be considered under an insured peril of the policy.
Ive seen pictures of the roof, and comments from a surveyor who attended, along with a 
report from Lloyds that details evidence of the wear and tear. The roof is a bitumen felt roof 
and these types of roof do have a limited life span, meaning that over time the felt will lose 
its ability to remain watertight. Whilst Miss S and Mr S say they kept the roof clean and free 
of debris, this isnt the same as maintaining the felt.
From reviewing the photos, its apparent the felt lining above where the water ingress has 
happened is shown to be slightly dipped and deflected. I wouldnt expect a well maintained 
and tight felt roof to be showing areas of deformation. Im persuaded that even if this type of 
roof does show this, its not something that wouldve been a result of a storm. Instead Im 
more inclined to say that this wouldve been something that has happened over time.
For the damage to be considered as a result of a storm, it has to be shown that there werent 
any contributing factors which wouldve affected the performance of the roof. Im satisfied 
that the expert reports have highlighted that the roof is showing signs of general wear and 
tear and in need of maintenance. And I cant identify that the storm conditions were the sole 
cause of the damage.
Therefore, I consider Lloyds decision not to settle this claim for storm damage to be fair and 
reasonable. I understand Miss S and Mr S will be disappointed with this outcome, and I 
acknowledge their comments on the investigations that were carried out as part of the claim. 
However, based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont consider that theres a valid claim for 
storm damage for Lloyds to answer here.
I do recognise that Lloyds couldve provided a better claim journey, however it has already 
made an offer to pay £175 compensation to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in 
all the circumstances. I understand Miss S and Mr S accepted the £100 compensation but 
rejected the £75. I will therefore direct Lloyds to pay the remaining £75 compensation.
My final decision
So, my decision is that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited should pay £75 
compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman