DRN-3652641
The complaint
Miss C is unhappy that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y
Reaseguros, S.A. (Mapfre) declined her travel insurance claim.
What happened
Miss C had an annual multi-trip travel policy which was underwritten by Mapfre.
She booked a one-way flight to her intended destination on 12 October 2019. Miss C
travelled to the destination country on 9 January 2020 and arrived there on 10 January 2020.
A return flight to the UK hadnt been booked. She had also booked accommodation
separately from 10 January 2020 until 6 April 2020.
Due to the Covid-19 pandemic and issues with international travel restrictions in March
2020, Miss C says she couldnt return to the UK and therefore extended her accommodation
from 6 April 2020 to 15 July 2020. She returned to the UK on 15 July 2020. She incurred an
additional cost of £1000 for the extended stay at the accommodation so she submitted a
claim to Mapfre to cover the cost.
Mapfre looked into the complaint and declined Miss Cs claim. It said that Miss C hadnt
booked a return flight so there was no cover for additional costs on her policy. It also said if
Miss C was able to provide information showing that she attempted to return to the UK
before July 2020, there was a possibility Mapfre could look into this further.
Unhappy with Mapfres response, Miss C brought the complaint to this service. Our
investigator looked into the complaint. She concluded that the neither the cancellation
section of the policy nor the delayed departure or abandoning your trip section applied to the
circumstances that led to the claim. She also said there were no other sections of the policy
that applied either and therefore the additional costs Miss C was claiming for werent 
covered.
Miss C disagreed with the investigators assessment and asked for the complaint to be 
referred to an ombudsman. So, it was passed to me.
I issued a provisional decision on 3 August 2022 to both parties. 
I said the following:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly
and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
Miss Cs policy provides cover for a return holiday or journey which begins and ends in the
policyholders home area.
The cancellation and curtailment section of Miss Cs policy on page 20 says Mapfre will pay
for the following:
A - Cancelling and cutting short your holiday
What you are covered for
If you have to cancel or cut short your trip because of one of the reasons listed below
we will pay up to the amount shown in the table of benefits on pages 5 and 6 for:
 Unused travel and accommodation expenses that you have paid or have agreed to
pay under a contract and which you cannot get back, including any local prepaid
excursions, tours or activities, if it is necessary and you cannot avoid cancelling or
cutting short your trip; and
 Reasonable extra travel costs if it is necessary and you cannot avoid cutting short
your trip.
The policy provides a list of reason for which the claim could be accepted. They are as
follows:
The following are reasons we will accept for you cancelling or cutting short your trip:
1. You die, become seriously ill or get injured.
2. A relative (see Definition on page 14), business associate, a person you have
booked to travel with or a relative or friend living abroad, who you plan to stay with,
dies, becomes seriously ill or gets injured.
3. You have to go to court to be a witness or be on a jury (but not as an expert
witness) or you are put in quarantine.
4. There is an accident involving a vehicle you were planning to travel in, which
happens within seven days before the date you planned to leave and means you
cannot use the vehicle. This only applies to self-drive holidays.
5. You are a member of the armed forces, police, fire, nursing or ambulance services
and you have to stay in your home area because of an emergency or you are posted
overseas unexpectedly.
6. You being made redundant, as long as you had been working at your current place
of employment for a minimum continuous period of two years, and that at the time of
booking the trip or the date you purchased this insurance cover, you had no reason
to believe that you would be made redundant. This cover would not apply if you are 
self-employed or accept voluntary redundancy.
7. It is necessary for you to stay in your home area after a fire, storm, flood or
burglary at your home or place of business within 48 hours before the date you
planned to leave. We will need a written statement from a relevant public authority
confirming the reason and necessity.
8. It is necessary for you to return to your home area after a fire, storm, flood or
burglary at your home or place of business. We will need a written statement from a
relevant public authority confirming the reason and necessity.
9. You cannot commence travel to your intended destination due to the (FCO)
Foreign and Commonwealth Office advice for your destination/location changing to
as a minimum all but essential travel after the purchase of your policy or after the
booking of any individual trip, whichever is the latter. This also applies to where such
FCO advice changes are announced after you have commenced your trip/holiday.10. If you become pregnant after we have sold you this policy, and you will be more
than 32 weeks pregnant (or 24 weeks if you know you are having more than one
baby) at the start of, or during, your trip. Or, your doctor advises that you are not fit to
travel because you are suffering from complications of pregnancy or childbirth.
11. If you will be more than 32 weeks pregnant (or 24 weeks if you know you are
having more than one baby) at the start of, or during, your trip and you still choose to
travel, you may not claim for cutting short your trip unless as a result of the
complications of pregnancy or childbirth.
Based on the above, while the policy provides cover for all of the above reasons, and indeed
because of the FCO advice against all but essential travel, Miss C didnt cancel her trip and
she also didnt curtail the trip. She extended it. So theres no cover for the additional costs
Miss C is claiming for under this section of the policy.
Miss C is claiming for additional accommodation costs she incurred as a result of having to
extend her stay. But Miss C didnt have a return flight booked to the UK, so I cant fairly say
she incurred any extra costs. Under Miss Cs policy, she had the benefit of cover from
9 January 2020 until 24 hours after leaving immigration control at the final destination on her
trip. Mapfre covered the risk of a successful claim being made during this time.
Ive considered all the arguments Miss C has made. I understand that the restrictions in the
northern part of the country were different to the southern which meant that she couldnt
return to the UK before July 2020. But ultimately this doesnt make a difference, the crux of
the issue is that a return flight wasnt booked and there simply is no cover for the additional
costs Miss C is claiming for. And, there are no other sections of the policy that allow for
cover.
I also acknowledge Miss Cs comments that Mapfre informed her the claim could be
reconsidered if she could show the additional costs incurred was unavoidable. However this
is in the context of her not being able to provide information on why she hadnt started to
look for a return flight in March 2020 when there was more information about forthcoming
restrictions that were going to be put into place. I appreciate that the borders in the northern
part of the country were closed but there was a window where potentially Miss C could have
returned to the UK or shown that she made every attempt to return to the UK. But this isnt
available and in the absence of this, I cant fairly ask Mapfre to reasonably accept the claim
as the terms and conditions simply do not provide cover for what happened in the
circumstances of this complaint.
Overall, Im sorry to disappoint Miss C, but I dont think Mapfre has been unfair or
unreasonable in declining Miss Cs claim. It follows that I wont be asking it to do anything
further.
Mapfre did not respond to my provisional decision. 
Miss C responded and, in summary, said the following:
Flights were being cancelled at the time, so it wasnt possible for her to arrange a 
flight to the UK. And even if shed booked a flight, it would have been cancelled.
Shes provided evidence to show flights were cancelled from 24 March 2020 until 21 
June 2020 (where it shows the flight was altered). 
No-one has commented on the length of time Mapfre took to reach a decision on her 
claim.Theres been nothing but confusion and misunderstanding throughout the process.
Theres been no mention of the section of the policy that covers accommodation 
costs.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Miss has taken the time to provide a response to me and Ive carefully 
considered her comments. Having done so, I see no reason to depart from what I said in my 
provisional decision and I wont be upholding the complaint. Ill explain why.
Ill respond to Miss Cs comments first:
Flights were being cancelled at the time, so it wasnt possible for her to arrange a 
flight to the UK. And even if shed booked a flight, it would have been cancelled.
I understand that flights were being cancelled from the northern part of the country and that it 
might not have been possible to arrange a flight to the UK. But the point is, Miss C didnt 
herself try to make any arrangements to return to the UK as she says the flight would been 
cancelled anyway. So, as I said in my provisional decision, theres no evidence that Miss C 
tried to return to the UK at any point between 6 April 2020 and 15 July 2020.
Shes provided evidence to show flights were cancelled from 24 March 2020 until 21 
June 2020 (where it shows the flight was altered). 
Ive looked at the evidence Miss C has provided of someone else having booked a flight and 
those being subsequently cancelled. I appreciate that flights were cancelled until July 2020 
but as Ive said above, theres no evidence Miss C herself had attempted to return to the UK.
No-one has commented on the length of time Mapfre took to reach a decision on her 
claim.
This isnt a complaint that Miss C had made initially to Mapfre therefore isnt something that 
we can comment on.
Theres been nothing but confusion and misunderstanding throughout the process.
Im sorry that Miss C has found the process confusing and theres been misunderstanding.
Theres been no mention of the section of the policy that covers accommodation 
costs.
The accommodation section of the policy only provides cover in the event that the 
policyholder cannot continue with their trip and if they cannot reach or cannot live in their 
booked accommodation. As none if this applied in Miss Cs circumstances, there is no cover 
for her accommodation costs in her circumstances. 
Overall, Ive carefully considered Miss Cs comments and all the available evidence. Im not 
persuaded that cover is available for what happened in her circumstances. There was no 
return flight booked so there is no cover for the additional accommodation costs shes 
claiming for. And, there are no sections of the policy that allow for this cover. As such, Im satisfied that Mapfre hasnt declined Miss Cs claim unfairly or unreasonably. It 
follows that I dont require Mapfre to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Miss Cs complaint against Mapfre Asistencia, 
Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman