DRN-3227535
Complaint
Miss D has complained about the overdraft charges HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) applied 
to her current account. Shes said the charges left her in financial difficulty.
Background
Miss Ds complaint was looked at by one of our adjudicators. She didnt think that HSBC 
had done anything wrong as it didnt have reason to suspect she may have been in 
financial difficulty. So she didnt uphold the complaint. Miss D disagreed with the 
adjudicator and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im not upholding Miss 
Ds complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the 
various amounts HSBC charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or proportionate 
in comparison to the costs of the service provided. Ultimately how much a bank charges for 
services is a commercial decision. So while Miss D has commented on the cost of some of 
her fees in relation to the amount she was over her limit by, Ive not looked at this as it isnt 
something for me to get involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at HSBCs charging structure per se, it wont have 
acted fairly and reasonably towards Miss D if it applied these interest, fees and 
charges to
Miss Ds account in circumstances where it was unfair to do so. Miss D says it was unfair 
for HSBC to charge her the fees it did here because these charges caused her financial 
difficulties.
So Ive considered whether there were periods where HSBC continued charging Miss D 
even though it ought to have known she was in financial difficulty or it ought to have 
realised this was the case. Ive looked through Miss Ds statements throughout the period 
concerned. And I cant see that HSBC ought to have been aware that Miss D might have 
been struggling during the period weve looked at.
Its fair to say that Miss D did use her overdraft regularly and also went into an 
unarranged overdraft on occasion. But Miss Ds overdraft limit was low  certainly in 
comparison to her
monthly income - and the unarranged overdraft charges on Miss Ds account were incurred 
sporadically. And while Im not seeking to make retrospective value judgements over Miss 
D expenditure, nonetheless there are significant amounts of non-committed, non-
contractual and discretionary transactions account going from the account. So I dont think 
its fair to say that it was the interest, fees and charges which unfairly prevented Miss D 
from exiting her overdraft, in the way she appears to be suggesting, when it appears to be 
case that she had the disposable income to repay her overdraft within a reasonable period 
of time.
I accept neither of these things in themselves (or taken together) mean that Miss D wasnt 
experiencing financial difficulty. And I know Miss D that these charges did cause her 
difficulty. But there isnt anything in these transactions in themselves which ought to have 
alerted HSBC that this might have been the case and which meant that it would have been 
fair and reasonable to step in here. I say this while especially mindful that corrective action 
in relation to Miss Ds overdraft facility is likely to have resulted in more extensive adverse 
information being recorded on her credit file, which the content of her complaint suggests 
she would have been unhappy with.
So, in these circumstances and in the absence of being told anything by Miss D, I dont 
think that it was unreasonable for HSBC to have proceeded adding the charges that it did. 
And I dont think HSBC unfairly charged Miss D in circumstances where it ought to have 
realised that she may have been experiencing financial difficulty. This means that I dont 
think that HSBC needs to refund any interest, fees and charges and Im not upholding  
Miss Ds complaint.
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Miss D. But I hope shell understand the 
reasons for my decision and that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman