DRN-3378723
The complaint
Mrs T is represented by her daughter, Mrs P, in bringing her complaint. Mrs T says that she 
was mis-sold a whole of life policy by a firm that was taken over by Succession Wealth 
Management Ltd, (Succession). She is unhappy because the policy no longer provides the 
cover she says she was promised after it failed a review leading to a reduced sum assured 
in February 2020.
What happened
The policy was initially taken out in Mr Ts name but then transferred to Mrs T. For ease I will 
refer to Mrs T as the policyholder from the outset.
It was taken in January 2006 after receiving advice from an independent financial adviser 
who was working for Investors Planning Associates (IPA). Succession took over IPA in 
2019 and accordingly accepts responsibility for this complaint.
The policy was a reviewable unit-linked whole of life policy. It had an initial sum assured of
£400,000, written in trust to Mrs P. The policy was subject to annual reviews and was also 
index linked. Mrs T has said the policy was taken to mitigate her inheritance tax (IHT) liability 
upon her passing.
In 2012, Mrs Ts policy was altered by her IFA. She reduced the premium and the sum 
assured (by cashing in 4 policies within the plan), which would thereafter be £150,000. The 
policy provider sent a letter dated 9 March 2012 to confirm the new sum assured and 
premium to Mrs T. Mrs T issued her instructions to proceed and this was also confirmed in 
writing on 14 March 2012.
In November 2016, Mrs Ts policy was reviewed again with a notice that the premium may 
be insufficient to sustain the sum assured in the future. The policy provider wrote to Mrs T to 
confirm that either her policy premium would need to increase or she could reduce the 
policys sum assured to £137,205 which would likely remain in place for the next four years. 
Mrs T didnt reply to that letter or further letters of November 2017 and November 2018.
In 2020, the policy failed a review again. The provider told Mrs T that the premium was now 
insufficient to sustain the sum assured. Without an increase to her premium, the sum 
assured would decrease - this time to £66,749. That change took effect on 1 February 2020.
Mrs P brought a complaint to this service on behalf of Mrs T in August 2020. Mrs T said she 
spoke with the adviser in 2012 and he reassured her that a tax-free payment of the £150,000 
sum assured would be paid in the event of her death to Mrs P. She was therefore shocked to
receive the letter from the policy provider in February 2020 informing her the sum assured 
was now only a little over £66,000.
Mrs T has raised three main issues of complaint:
She believes she was mis-sold the policy by the adviser as its failed to operate in the 
way she was promised.
She was promised by the adviser in 2012 when she amended the policy that 
£150,000 was guaranteed to be paid out upon her passing.
She has never received any written investment advice, guidance or client agreement 
or any information about the commission arrangements with her adviser.
Succession didnt uphold the complaint. It said the records showed there was a clear trail of 
information about the policy from the provider and how it worked which had been given to 
Mrs T. Further, the suitability letter issued in November 2005 explained why the policy was 
recommended and Mrs T had signed that letter to say she agreed and understood the 
advice she had received.
When the complaint came to our service it was assessed by an investigator who also felt the 
complaint couldnt be upheld.
He was satisfied the policy was suitable for Mrs T from the outset. And he also found 
evidence that paperwork had been provided to Mrs T at the time she took the policy out that 
set out the adviser/client relationship. In regards to the adviser promising the policy would 
definitely pay out £150,000 upon Mrs Ts death he was unable to find anything in the 
information provided that documented this and in fact found letters from the policy provider 
which confirmed the premiums and or sum assured may need to be amended in the future.
Mrs T disagreed with the assessment. She remained of the view the policy had ben mis-
sold. She said since 2012 she had been continually informed by the IFA if she  passed away 
the policy would pay out £150,000 plus a further £5000 plan value tax-free to Mrs P. She 
added that at the time of the advice they had just wanted a no-frills whole of life policy for 
Mrs T, however, the way Successions adviser has handled the policy has been confusing 
for them, especially given Mrs Ts advancing age. She believes she has been the innocent 
victim of mis-selling and that the advisers commission charges were disproportionate to the 
service provided.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think the complaint can be upheld.
Mis sale of the policy 
As noted above the policy was taken to provide some IHT mitigation on the event of Mrs Ts 
passing. So it started out with a sum assured that matched Mrs Ts predicted IHT liability in 
2006. This can be seen from the point of sale documentation. Also in this documentation it 
was noted that balanced cover prohibitive  maximum cover is the best solution. This 
indicates to me that various costings of the policy were discussed when Mrs T was being 
advised and the lowest initial premium was chosen for affordability reason. I can also see the 
policy was indexed linked and this would have been chosen by Mrs T at the outset.
Looking at the information provided to Mrs T at the time of the slae I am satisfied it was set 
out clearly that the policy would be reviewed at regular intervals and what could happen at 
each review (a review  could fail meaning an increase in premiums or decrease in sum 
assured could be required). I am also satisfied that the regular indexation increase was also 
fully explained. In light of all this information I am satisfied the whole of life policy was largely suitable for 
Mrs Ts objectives at the point in time  IHT mitigation. And the fact it was written in trust for 
her daughter supports this. This type of policy is useful for IHT mitigation providing it is made 
clear at the start that the only guarantee would be the sum assured for the first 10 year 
(which I think it was in this case) because of the reviewable nature of the policy. Mrs T may 
have been able to take out a non-reviewable policy which means the sum assured and 
premium would be absolutely guaranteed for the entirety of the policy, but given she opted 
for the policy to be on a maximum basis due to the affordability I think its unlikely Mrs T 
would have been in a position to take out the non-reviewable policy given it would have been 
much more expensive.
The promise from the adviser in 2012 that the policy was guaranteed to pay out £150,000
Mrs T has said the adviser assured her in 2012 when she reduced the sum assured and 
premiums that the policy would always pay out £150,000 plus another £5,000.
As Mrs T is aware there is no written record of this. So, whilst I dont doubt her, I must weigh 
up both sides of the evidence and I cant find anything in all the information provided to me 
that confirms she was told this. I also think its unlikely this would have been said by the 
adviser because there is no way he would have known that the policy could stay at that sum 
assured because of the way reviewable whole of life polices work. The indexation of the 
policy was removed at this point and the policy remained a reviewable one so it stands to 
reason that the policy would continue to go through the same processes it had done before 
this time  in other words that it would be subject to regular reviews and action could have to 
be taken accordingly.
Further to this, when Mrs T made the changes to the policy in 2012 the policy provider sent 
her a letter to confirm the new sum assured and premiums of the policy.  I have seen this 
letter and it states that the new premium would be sufficient to provide the £150,000 of life 
cover for a further 10 years. It also states that it cannot be guaranteed that the cover would 
continue to be supported for the full 10 years. And if the specified growth rate is not achieved 
by the funds selected it may be necessary to increase the premium before the 10th year.
I havent been told Mrs T didnt receive this letter, so I think its reasonable to assume she 
read it an understood it. Therefore, she would have known that the sum assured and/or 
premiums could still change in value over the next few years. And if she had been promised 
something different by the adviser verbally, I think its reasonable that she would have 
questioned the conflicting information.
Receipt of written investment advice guidance or client agreement or any information about 
the commission arrangements with her adviser.
In the information provided to me from the time of the sale I can see that a suitability letter 
was issued to Mrs T on 29 November 2005 written by the adviser. This confirmed his 
business card, terms of business, key facts about the service provided and the costs of 
service had all been provided to Mrs T at the time. There was also a risk warning included in 
this letter that stated the risk warning document for the whole of life policy  was to be read in 
conjunction with the suitability letter and the enclosed brochure as well as the key facts 
document that the policy provider had already sent. I can also see in this paperwork that the 
details about the commission to be paid to the adviser were also set out along with the 
illustration of the policy. These documents were signed on 29 November 2005 indicating 
Mrs T had accepted and received the information.
So in light of this information I am satisfied that when Mrs T took the policy out in 2006 she 
was provided in writing with all the information about the policy and the relationship with the adviser that I would have expected. 
In summary, while I can appreciate how disappointed Mrs T is with the policy, I am of the 
view it was suitable for her stated objectives at the time she took it out. There is no evidence 
that the adviser promised her the policy would definitely pay out £150,000 upon her death. 
And I am also satisfied Mrs T was given all information about the policy and her relationship 
with the adviser in writing at the time of the sale.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman