DRN-4416564
The complaint
Miss M is complaining about Moneybarn No.1 Limited (Moneybarn).  She says they were 
irresponsible in lending to her as the loan was unaffordable. A representative has brought 
the complaint on Miss Ms behalf but for ease Ive written as if weve dealt directly with 
Miss M.
What happened
In October 2019, Miss M took out a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn to finance 
the purchase of a car. She paid a deposit of £635 and borrowed £16,365 - the cash price of 
the vehicle was £17,000. The agreement required her to make 59 monthly repayments of 
£536.52  the total amount repayable was over £32,000. Miss Ms direct debits bounced 
frequently and her payment history was sporadic. Moneybarn issued a default notice in 
August 2021 and Miss M chose to return the car and terminate the agreement. She was left 
with a balance of over £8,000 to pay.
In March 2023, Miss M complained to Moneybarn, saying they shouldnt have lent to her 
because the loan was unaffordable. 
In their response to Miss M, Moneybarn said they had carried out enough checks before 
deciding to lend to Miss M. They said theyd checked her credit report and used one of the 
credit reference agencies (CRAs) to verify her stated monthly income of £2,354. They added 
that Miss Ms existing borrowing levels and monthly credit commitments appeared affordable 
and her previous County Court Judgement (CCJ) and defaults werent recent  they said the 
most recent default was 27 months prior to her application. In summary they said the finance 
application was assessed fairly and the amount offered was affordable. 
Miss M was unhappy with Moneybarns response and brought her complaint to our service. 
At this stage, Moneybarn added that theyd used Office for National Statistics (ONS) data to 
estimate Miss Ms non-discretionary expenditure and calculated that Miss M had disposable 
income of around £840 per month from which to make the monthly repayments required 
under the agreement.
One of our investigators then looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it, saying that he 
thought Moneybarn had completed proportionate checks and made a fair lending decision. 
Miss M disagreed. She said in view of the CCJ and the number of defaulted accounts, as 
well as the size and term of the lending, Moneybarn ought to have done more checks. She 
asked for a decision and the complaints come to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Miss Ms complaint for broadly the same reasons as our 
investigator - Ill explain why below.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out in a part of its handbook known as CONC 
what lenders must do when deciding whether or not to lend to a consumer. In summary, a 
firm must consider a customers ability to make repayments under the agreement without 
having to borrow further to meet repayments or default on other obligations, and without the 
repayments having a significant adverse impact on the customers financial situation. 
CONC says a firm must carry out checks which are proportionate to the individual 
circumstances of each case. 
Did Moneybarn carry out proportionate checks?
Moneybarn said they conducted a full credit search and checked Miss Ms income using one 
of the CRAs. They also said theyd used ONS data to estimate Miss Ms expenditure. 
Whether or not these checks were proportionate depends on various factors, including the 
term of the loan, cost of credit, and overall amount repayable  as well as what Moneybarn 
found during their checks. Given the loan was for five years, at a high interest rate, and 
Miss M would need to pay back over £32,000 over that time, the checks needed to be 
thorough.
CONC isnt specific about exactly what checks would be proportionate. But it does say that 
businesses are entitled to rely on statistical data unless they have reason to believe the 
statistical data might not be appropriate in the circumstances.
Moneybarn havent sent us a copy of the credit report they used. Theyve told us it showed 
Miss M had three defaults, with a total balance across the three of around £1,200. And they 
said the balance on her CCJ was around £800. They also said it showed Miss M had active 
credit balances totalling around £2,640 with monthly repayments totalling around £280. 
Moneybarn noted that Miss Ms most recent default was 27 months prior to the lending 
decision. From what theyve said, there werent any indicators that Miss M might be in 
financial difficulties at the time. 
Because Moneybarn havent been able to share the credit report they looked at, Ive looked 
at Miss Ms copy of her credit report to check there werent any other indicators that the 
statistical data might not be relevant to Miss M. Although this was produced in 2023 it still 
gives an indication of Miss Ms credit status at the time of her application. Having done so, I 
couldnt see anything that contradicts what Moneybarn said theyd seen  theres no sign 
that Miss M missed any payments to creditors in the months before the lending decision or 
any other indicators that she might be struggling financially.
In Miss Ms case, the statistical data suggested Miss M had significant disposable income. 
And I dont think any of the information Moneybarn had available to them suggested this 
wasnt the case.
In summary, Moneybarn checked Miss Ms income using CRA data and used ONS data and 
data from her credit report to calculate her monthly disposable income. CONC allows a 
lender to rely on this statistical data as long as they dont have reasonable cause to suspect 
the data doesnt apply. Moneybarn calculated a figure of nearly £850 from which she would 
need to pay around £540 per month for the vehicle. So I havent seen anything to suggest 
the checks they carried out werent proportionate in the circumstances.
Did Moneybarn make a fair lending decision?
Having concluded that Moneybarn carried out proportionate checks, I need to decide 
whether they made a fair lending decision. Moneybarn verified Miss Ms income of £2,354 per month and estimated her monthly non-
discretionary expenditure at £1,165 using ONS data. Ive seen nothing unusual in these 
estimates and Im satisfied theyre reasonable. Moneybarn said they used Miss Ms credit 
report to estimate the amount shed need to pay to creditors each month, and having looked 
at her credit report I havent seen any reason to think her payments to creditors would be 
higher than the £280 per month Moneybarn calculated. Moneybarn added a buffer of £65 
per month to allow for differences between the ONS data and Miss Ms actual expenditure, 
and calculated that her total non-discretionary expenditure was around £1,510 per month. 
Deducting that from her income figure of £2,354 gave them a net disposable income figure 
of around £845 per month. So I cant say Moneybarn acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
deciding the monthly repayments of £540 were affordable for Miss M.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding Miss Ms complaint about Moneybarn No. 1 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman