DRN-3365528
The complaint
Mr F and Miss H are unhappy with how Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited dealt with a 
claim about a leak. Theyve said it unfairly declined to cover the claim.  
What happened
Ill set out a brief summary of the main points relevant to the dispute.
Mr F and Miss H took out a home insurance policy with Admiral in August 2020
In June 2021, Mr F and Miss Hs property was damaged due to the escape of water 
from their upstairs shower. They got in touch with Admiral to make a claim and 
contacted plumbers for advice. 
Admiral appointed its agents to deal with the claim. The agents contacted Mr F and 
Miss H a few days later. Mr F and Miss H told the agents that a plumber thought the 
leak may have been caused by faulty sealant. Admirals agents declined the claim. 
As Mr F and Miss H couldnt confirm the sealant was the issue the agents asked 
them to provide a report from a plumber. 
In early July 2021 Mr F and Miss H provided a report to Admiral confirming the leak 
was caused by a loose shower waste pipe. Admiral continued to decline the claim 
stating faulty sealant wouldnt be covered under the policy.
Mr F and Miss H continued to chase Admiral. It agreed to reinstruct its agents, who 
visited the property in July 2021. 
Mr F and Miss H were told the waste pipe would be covered and someone would 
contact them further. 
As Mr F and Miss H had no contact, they chased the claim further and were told the 
claim was being reinvestigated. Unhappy with this Mr F and Miss H complained to 
Admiral.
In August 2021 Admiral arranged for Mr F and Miss Hs damaged contents to be 
collected for repair, but no further assessment had been made to the damage to the 
property. 
In late August 2021 Mr F and Miss H contacted Admiral again to discuss the claim, 
but they declined the offer of settlement made by Admirals agents.
In September 2021, Admiral responded to Mr F and Miss Hs complaint and while 
upholding the complaint for the poor service provided it confirmed it had decided to 
decline the claim again due to the gradual damage exclusion in the policy. 
Our investigator thought Admiral acted unfairly in relying on the gradual damage 
exclusion on the policy, so he upheld the complaint. 
He said Admiral should settle the claim in line with the policy terms, pay Mr F and 
Miss H 8% interest on any payments theyd already made towards repairing the 
damage and he asked Admiral to pay a further £150 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience caused. 
Admiral didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point for a claim to be considered is that an insured event has taken place, in 
this case an escape of water. It is normally for the insured to show that is the case. Once this 
has been done, the insurer should meet the claim in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy, so long as no exclusions apply. 
In this instance it isnt disputed that an insured event has occurred, the water leak. Admiral 
declined the claim initially because it felt the issue was caused by the failed sealant and 
subsequently because it says the gradual damage exclusion applies to the claim. Ill take 
each issue in turn.
Failed sealant
When Mr F and Miss H initially reported the leak and damage to their property, they said a 
plumber had verbally suggested the leak may have been caused by failed sealant around 
the shower. This was also mentioned to the agents appointed by Admiral to deal with the 
claim. 
Admiral declined the claim due to the issue being sealant failure. Mr F and Miss H didnt 
agree with the decision and didnt feel Admiral had adequately investigated the claim. Mr F 
and Miss H told Admiral that a plumber hadnt visited their property or fixed the leak. Admiral 
asked them to provide a cause of damage report and it would then instruct its agents to 
investigate further.
On 7 July 2021 Mr F and Miss H provided a report from their plumber which confirmed the 
leak was caused by a failed waste pipe under the shower. Admiral emailed Mr F and Miss H 
to reiterate its position that the claim was closed, and it still felt the sealant issue wouldnt be 
covered, but it didnt seem that it had taken into account the recent report from the plumber. 
Eventually after chasing Admiral further it passed the matter back to its agents. After some 
time it was agreed by Admiral and its agents the claim should be covered. 
Having considered the report provided by Mr F and Miss Hs plumber, Im satisfied that the 
leak wasnt caused by failed sealant as it stated the leak was caused by a faulty waste pipe 
under the shower which was likely to have loosened over a period of time. Its also clear 
from some of Admirals internal notes that this was considered and from the notes there 
doesnt seem to be any reason as to why the claim couldnt proceed. And so it follows that 
whilst Admiral didnt unreasonably declined the claim initially, once the report was provided I 
dont think Admiral could reasonably rely on failed sealant to decline this claim. 
Gradual causes exclusion
In September 2021, Admiral said it wouldnt be providing cover for the claim as the gradual causes exclusion applied. Admiral say that according to the report provided it suggested the 
damage happened over a prolonged period of time. And as wear and tear wasnt something 
Mr F and Miss H were covered for under the policy, Admiral declined the claim. 
The policy terms say under the General Exceptions to your Home Insurance cover:
10. Gradual Causes 
Any loss or damage caused by anything that happens gradually including wear and 
tear, wet and dry rot, damage due to exposure to sunlight or atmospheric conditions, 
due to settlement, or any due to mildew, rust, corrosion, birds, insects, woodworm, 
pest or vermin. 
So, Admiral seem to have applied the exclusion in line with the policy terms. And most 
policies do have similar exclusions. But I dont agree that this term is fair considering Mr F 
and Miss Hs circumstances. Generally, the longstanding approach of this service is that it is 
unfair for an insurer to rely on such an exclusion if the consumer couldnt reasonably have 
been aware the damage was occurring.   
Normally this situation is where the damage cant be seen. Mr F and Miss H have provided 
us photographs of the shower room and the downstairs room where the damage occurred. 
Ive also been provided photographs by Admiral, which were taken by its agents during a 
visit to Mr F and Miss Hs property. The damage was primarily under the shower, so was 
unlikely to have been visible until the damage to the downstairs ceiling. 
There are no signs on the photographs provided that Mr F and Miss H should have been 
aware of the leak sooner. And no other evidence has been provided by either party to 
support this assertion. Therefore, Im not persuaded they ought reasonably to have been 
aware there was a problem or acted sooner. As such, I dont consider the gradual causes 
exclusion can fairly be applied here. 
Ive also considered if the £350 Admiral offered as compensation for the poor service 
provided to Mr F and Miss H is sufficient in the circumstances. But I dont think it was, Ill 
explain why. Mr F and Miss H first raised the issue in June 2021. With the claim being 
declined soon thereafter. They provided further information in a timely way, but the 
information wasnt considered and despite chasing on numerous occasions Admiral closed 
the complaint on the face of it without considering the information they had provided. 
When the claim was then approved Mr F and Miss H had to continue to chase for the 
inspections to be carried out which took a considerable time. No visit to scope the work had 
been done by the end of August 2021, in spite of Mr F and Miss H reporting at the outset 
that the carpets had started to go mouldy and the smell within the property being particularly 
unpleasant.  
Subsequently on 3 September 2021, Admiral rejected the claim again but this time relying on 
the exclusion mentioned above. A number of Mr F and Miss Hs belongings had already 
been removed for repair or replacement. So I can understand why this would have been 
particularly distressing for Mr F and Miss H, they had been waiting a long time for any work 
to be progressed on their damaged home but now in addition to all the delays, they were told 
that the claim was being rejected again. This was despite there being no new additional 
information but simply a delay in Admiral dealing with the claim itself appropriately and in a 
timely manner. 
Mr F and Miss H have told us that they have tried to get some of the work completed 
themselves in the meantime, but they have been unable to complete all the work. Having considered the reasons for rejecting the claim Im not satisfied Admiral acted reasonably or 
fairly. It should have considered the report provided by Mr F and Miss H sooner and it should 
also have been aware of our approach to exclusions relating to gradual causes. 
So I dont consider the delay was reasonable and I am satisfied that it has had a significant 
impact on Mr F and Miss H over many months. And I agree with the investigators opinion 
that Admiral should compensate Mr F and Miss H with a further payment of £150 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused to them on top of the £350 already offered.
Overall, I dont think it was fair for Admiral to decline the claim on the basis of the failed 
sealant or the damage happening gradually, as in my view, Mr F and Miss H were unlikely to 
have been aware of this.   
Putting things right
As a result, Admiral should:
settle the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy, not 
relying on the exclusions mentioned in this complaint; and 
if the claim is accepted, any costs incurred by Mr F and Miss H to repair the damage 
caused by the leak should be reimbursed subject to any policy excess. Admiral 
should also add simple interest* at the rate of 8% per year from the date of any 
payment until it reimburses them; and
provide a further payment for £150, in addition to the £350 already offered, for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
*Admiral is required by HM Revenue and Customs to deduct tax from any interest paid. Should Mr F 
and Miss H request it, Admiral should provide them with a certificate showing how much tax has been 
taken off so that, if appropriate, they can reclaim it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) 
Limited to pay the award mentioned above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Miss H to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 June 2022.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman