DRN-4447234
Complaint
Miss F has complained about a loan Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) provided to her. She says 
the payments were unaffordable.
Background
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Miss F and L2G had told us. And he thought that L2G 
hadnt done anything wrong or treated her unfairly. So she didnt uphold Miss Fs complaint. 
Miss F disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at her complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Fs complaint.
L2G needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is
L2G needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Miss F 
could afford to repay before providing this loan. Our website sets out what we typically think 
about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we think its
reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much information it
gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
L2G provided Miss F with a loan for £300 in July 2020. It had an APR of 1,013.3% and was 
to due be repaid in 18 instalments of £68.57 which meant the total amount to be repaid was 
£1,234.26.
L2G says it agreed to Miss Fs application after she provided details of her monthly income 
and expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against information on a credit search it carried 
out on Miss F. The information Miss F provided about her income and expenditure showed 
shed be able to make the repayments she was committing to. But it, in any event, adjusted 
Miss Fs income and expenditure information to account for what its checks showed and this 
still showed the required payments were affordable. L2G says, in these circumstances it was 
reasonable to lend. On the other hand, Miss F has said she was in financial difficulty. 
Ive carefully thought about what Miss F and L2G have said. The first thing for me to say is 
that this was Miss Fs first loan with L2G. The information provided suggests Miss F was 
asked to provide details of her income and expenditure. Equally, L2G did carry out external 
checks and didnt simply rely on what it was told. 
L2G carried out a credit search which didnt show anything alarming. There were no 
significant adverse information recorded against her  such as defaults or county court 
judgments (CCJ) and Miss Fs recent commitments were being relatively well maintained. 
Bearing in mind the amount of the repayments appeared affordable and Miss Fs lack of any 
previous lending with L2G, I dont think it was unreasonable for L2G to proceed on the basis 
of the information it obtained as, on the face of things, it appeared to be accurate. 
I accept Miss Fs actual circumstances may not been reflected in the information she 
provided and the other information L2G obtained. And I can see that here situation did 
worsen after this loan was taken out But L2G could only make its decision based on the 
information it had available at the time. And, at this stage of the lending relationship and 
bearing in mind the circumstances, I dont think proportionate checks wouldve extended into 
L2G asking Miss F to provide further information.
Equally its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances a lender
did something wrong. And, in this case, I dont think that L2G did anything wrong in deciding
to lend to Miss F - it carried out proportionate checks even though Miss F now argues that 
what it was provided with didnt tell the whole story. 
L2G reasonably relied on this information and given its lack of history with Miss F, I dont 
think it was unreasonable for L2G to provide this loan notwithstanding the fact that the funds 
might have been to consolidate other loans Miss F already had. And I also say this while 
particularly mindful that Ive not been provided with anything that clearly shows me the loan 
was unaffordable.
As this is the case, Im not upholding Miss Fs complaint. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Miss F. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Miss Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman