DRN-3155737
The complaint
Miss R complains that the interest rates Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) offered her 
when her product expired, were much higher than what she was able to obtain previously. 
What happened
Miss R has a mortgage with Halifax and the fixed rate she was on for 2.29% was due to 
expire in April 2020. She said she contacted Halifax to see what options were available to 
her and after they gave her the information, she says she questioned why the rates were 
higher than what she was offered previously. 
Miss R said she accepted a 3.19% three-year fixed rate because she needed the security of 
a fixed rate, but she remained unhappy with what Halifax were able to offer her. She also 
wanted to know why the rates offered to her were higher than what she has had before. 
Halifax said that based on the product range available to Miss R at the time, she was eligible 
for either a three-year fixed rate at 3.19% or a five-year fixed rate at 3.69%. Halifax said that 
if Miss R didnt transfer her mortgage to a new product after the previous one expired, her 
mortgage would have reverted to their standard variable rate (SVR) of 3.59%. Halifax said 
Miss Rs contractual monthly payment increased from £273.68 to £279.35 from May 2020.
Miss R was unhappy with what Halifax said so she brought the complaint to our service 
where it was looked at by one of our investigators. Our investigator didnt uphold the 
complaint and was satisfied that Halifax offered Miss R the rates they had available and 
didnt think they had done anything wrong. 
Miss R disagreed with our investigator. She said she wants to know why Halifax have 
increased her interest rate and feels that she is not in a position to move her mortgage 
because its at the tail end of getting paid off. Miss R said shes a good customer and has 
nearly paid off her mortgage so doesnt understand why they cant offer her a lower interest 
rate. 
As Miss R disagreed, she asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so it 
has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive firstly looked at the products that were available to Miss R at the time her fixed rate 
expired in April 2020. The products Halifax were offering at the time were the same whether 
she contacted them directly, or through a broker. They offered Miss R two rates, either a 
three-year fixed at 3.19% or a five-year fixed at 3.69%. This is all that they could offer Miss R 
based on her eligibility due to the outstanding mortgage balance and the loan to value (LTV) 
 which is the amount outstanding on the mortgage against the value of the property. 
Although Miss R wasnt happy with the options, she decided to opt for the three-year fixed 
rate as she wanted the security of a fixed rate. The product transfer offer dated 22 April 2020 
shows that Miss Rs mortgage balance at the time was £22,997 and she had 7 years and 9 
months left on the mortgage  on a capital repayment basis. Its not unusual for lenders to 
offer different  or sometimes even no promotional interest rates at all, for customers with a 
small balance left on their mortgage.
The previous mortgage offer from April 2018 shows that Miss R was on a rate of 2.29% for 
two years so I understand her point that the rate was much lower then. The offer did make it 
clear that after the fixed term expired, the mortgage would revert to the SVR of 3.99% at the 
time, unless Miss R secured a new interest rate  which is what she did. 
Based on what I have seen, I can see that Halifax have offered Miss R the rates they had 
available specifically for her based on the balance left on her mortgage and the LTV. I 
appreciate that Miss R would like an explanation as to why Halifax are not offering lower 
interest rates to her, but what Halifax choose to offer their borrowers, is a commercial 
judgement on their part and not something we would interfere with. 
Halifax are entitled to determine what interest rate products they will offer their customers as 
long as they treat customers with similar characteristics in the same way. How they set their 
interest rates is a legitimate exercise of their commercial judgement.  And I cant say that 
Halifax have treated Miss R any differently to how they would have treated any other 
customer who was in the same position. 
Its not reasonable to say that Halifax should offer Miss R a lower interest rate just because 
they have done so in the past. And like I have explained, its up to them to determine what 
interest rate products they offer, as long as they treat Miss R fairly  and I think they have. 
Although Miss R would like an explanation as to why the interest rates Halifax are offering 
are higher, Halifax dont have any obligation to explain how theyve set their interest rate 
products. All they need to do is treat Miss R and other borrowers with similar characteristics 
in the same way, and Im satisfied they have done that. 
I appreciate that Miss R will be disappointed with my decision, but Im satisfied that Halifax 
has treated Miss R fairly and in line with how they would have treated any other customer in 
a similar position. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Maria Drury
Ombudsman