DRN-3113052
The complaint
Miss M believes Billing Finance Limited (BFL) acted irresponsibly by approving car finance 
shed applied for.
What happened
On 19 October 2016, BFL approved a hire purchase agreement Miss M had applied for. 
Miss M paid a deposit for £680, and the loan was for £5,570 over 60 months, with monthly 
repayments of £176.66. Miss M started to fall behind with her payments in September 2017 
and, as I understand it, her account is currently in arrears.
Miss M has complained BFL didnt act responsibly when approving the loan. She said she 
was working part-time, and her family were struggling with money at the time. Especially as 
her partner had been made bankrupt in 2008. Which meant that she was using payday loans 
to manage financially. Miss M also said that she only had a provisional driving licence at the 
time the finance was approved, and that the car was used by her partner.
BFL thought theyd acted reasonably when they approved the finance Miss M had applied 
for. Miss M wasnt happy with this, and she brought her complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator thought BFL had carried out reasonable and proportionate checks when 
they assessed Miss Ms application. But the investigator thought that these checks showed 
Miss M was struggling financially, and she couldnt sustainably afford the repayments. So, 
the investigator didnt think BFL had made a fair decision by approving the finance.
The investigator recommended that BFL should repay Miss M anything shed paid, over and 
above the original loan amount (plus statutory interest) and remove any adverse information 
about the loan from Miss Ms credit file.
BFL didnt agree with the investigator. They said they provide finance to people who may 
struggle to obtain this elsewhere, and that theyd always worked with Miss M to make 
affordable arrangement for her once she fell behind with her payments. They also said that 
Miss M couldve voluntarily terminated agreement, once shed paid half of the amount owing, 
handed the car back, and walked away with nothing more to pay.
BFL also said that Miss M was maintaining payments to her existing credit commitments 
when she applied for the finance, and they cant have foreseen the problems that occurred 
later down the line. But, recognising Miss Ms current situation, they offered to end the 
agreement with nothing more to pay, and with Miss M keeping the car.
Miss M didnt accept BFLs alternative offer, and this matter has been passed to me to make 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, there are two 
overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint. These are:
1. Did BFL complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss M 
would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
a. if so, did BFL make a fair lending decision?
b. if not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Miss M 
could sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did BFL act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
And, if I determine that BFL didnt act fairly and reasonably when considering Miss Ms 
application, Ill also consider what I think is a fair way to put things right.
Did BFL complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss M would be 
able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportionate checks are, but Id expect lenders 
to consider things such as the amount, duration and payments of the finance being applied 
for; as well as the borrowers personal circumstances at the time of each application. 
As part of the application process, BFL checked Miss Ms credit file and two months bank 
statements. They assessed her income and expenditure based in the information theyd 
obtained. They also spoke to Miss M to confirm she was comfortable making the payments.
Based on the checks theyd done, BFL said that Miss M had passed their lending criteria and 
the finance was deemed to be affordable.
Given the amount of credit, the monthly repayments, and the term; Im satisfied that BFL 
completed reasonable and proportionate checks.
Did BFL make a fair lending decision?
Because I think BFL carried out reasonable and proportionate checks, I need to consider 
what information those checks revealed, and whether BFLs decision was fair as a result.
Ive seen a copy of the credit file BFL checked at the time of the application. This shows that 
she had a loan with a payment of £206 a month (with one payment remaining); and that she 
owed £2,365 on revolving credit accounts.
The credit file also showed Miss M had two defaults, dating back to 2011, which hadnt been 
satisfied. And Miss M had outstanding default balances of £438. Lenders have different 
lending criteria, so I wouldnt expect BFL to decline the application just because there were 
outstanding defaults. But I would expect them to take these into consideration when making 
their lending decision, including accounting for payments to any outstanding amounts.
BFL also checked Miss Ms bank statements for the period 1 August to 12 October 2016. 
These showed Miss M had an average monthly income of £1,260.16 from her employment; 
as well as receiving £70 a week tax credits and child benefit of £82.80 every four weeks. 
This gives Miss M an average monthly income of £1,653.19.However, BFL assessed this to be £1,757.22  both the tax credits and child benefit had 
reduced in September 2016, but BFL used the higher figures as part of their calculation.
The bank statements show Miss M was paying £249.86 a month for her council tax, TV 
licence, to HMRC, for a leisure subscription, for her mobile phone bill and for an insurance 
policy. And, in addition to the credit commitments showing on her credit file, she was also 
paying £140 a month to a credit union.
While the £206 a month loan payment on the credit file can be discounted, as Miss M only 
had one payment to make; the amount she was (or shouldve been) paying to her revolving 
credit accounts and defaults cannot. Assuming a minimum payment of 5%, this comes to 
£140.15 a month.
So, when taking all the above into consideration, Miss M would have £1,123.18 disposable 
income each month, from which to pay BFLs payment of £176.66, as well as food, clothing, 
any housing and energy costs, as well as any other discretionary expenditure. 
The bank statements show that Miss M paid £462.13 towards her mortgage in August 2016, 
but they dont show any payments in September or October 2016. While Miss M had said 
that the mortgage was usually paid by her partner; because shed made a payment to this, 
and because the mortgage wasnt showing on the credit file, Id expect BFL to have either 
obtained some evidence of the mortgage payment history, or accounted for the payments  
as part of their income and expenditure calculation.
The banks statements also show that Miss M was reliant on payday loans to fund her 
monthly expenditure. During August and September 2016, the banks statements show that 
Miss M took out four payday loans, to the value of £1,360, and that she also received a 
£2,000 bank transfer from a family member. During this same two-month period, Miss M also 
paid an average of £799.17 a month to payday lenders.
The mortgage payment and the payments to the payday lenders account for more that Miss 
Ms monthly disposable income. And the reliance on payday lending shows that Miss M was 
struggling financially. Which indicates that repaying BFLs finance was unlikely to be 
sustainable for the full term of the agreement. So, for these reasons, Im satisfied that the 
finance wasnt affordable for Miss M, and BFLs decision to approve this wasnt fair.
Did BFL act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I havent seen anything to make me think BFL acted unfairly or unreasonably in
some other way.
Putting things right
Putting things right
As I dont think the finance shouldve been approved, Ive thought about how to put Miss M 
back in the position she wouldve been in if this hadnt happened. But Ive also taken into 
consideration that Miss M had the benefit of the money she borrowed and should pay this 
back.
So, BFL should add up the total amount of money Miss M has paid them and deduct the 
amount of money she received.if this results in Miss M having paid more than she received, BFL should refund any 
overpayments, along with 8% simple interest a year calculated from the date of the 
overpayments to the date of the refund ; or
if this results in an outstanding capital balance, BFL should attempt to arrange an 
affordable and sustainable repayment plan with Miss M.
BFL should also remove any adverse information relating to this agreement from Miss Ms 
credit file.
HM Revenue & Customs requires BFL to take off tax from this interest. BFL must give Miss 
M a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold Miss Ms complaint. And Billing Finance Limited 
should follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 December 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman