DRN-2193830
The complaint
Mr F complains that HSBC UK Bank plc mishandled a payment dispute he raised and gave 
him incorrect information when he applied to upgrade his bank account.
What happened
Mr F disputed a payment that hed made to a retailer and asked HSBC to pursue the matter 
on his behalf. According to HSBCs records, Mr F raised this issue several times from at 
least October 2019 and he wasnt happy that HSBC hadnt progressed the matter very far. 
HSBC noted that it told Mr F it would need more information from him to take the matter any 
further. Mr F said hed already sent HSBC lots of information, but HSBC said it didnt have 
much detail to support a claim.
Mr F spoke to HSBC in January 2020. According to its notes, it told Mr F how he could raise 
a dispute with VISA and the type of information that would be needed, such as proof of 
return/attempted return; order confirmation; the original advert (if the goods or services 
provided werent as advertised); an explanation of what hed done to attempt to resolve the 
issue with the retailer and a covering letter detailing the events. During another call the 
following month, Mr F again said hed provided HSBC with the necessary information and 
assumed it must have lost it. 
Mr F also applied to upgrade his HSBC bank account from a basic to an advance account. 
HSBC said its procedures required Mr F to wait a set number of days to progress his 
application, because of a returned transaction on his account. Thinking hed waited the 
required number of days (in line with the advice HSBC gave him), Mr F got in touch with 
HSBC. It then became apparent that it had given him the wrong information about waiting 
times and he had to wait a bit longer to progress his upgrade application. HSBC 
subsequently declined his application to upgrade his account. 
Mr F complained to HSBC  particularly about the conflicting information hed been given 
about waiting times. HSBC apologised that it gave Mr F the wrong information and gave him 
£50 compensation. Mr F wasnt happy with HSBCs response, so he complained to us. He 
said he was seeking an admittance of failure; a full and sincere apology and compensation 
to the maximum amount allowed for things such as this.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt feel HSBC needed to do anything more. 
In relation to the disputed payment, the investigator said it looked like Mr F had only given 
HSBC basic information about the dispute  such as the amount; the name of the retailer 
and the type of transaction. The investigator didnt think it was unreasonable for it not to 
progress the matter any further in the absence of supporting information being provided. In 
relation to Mr F being given incorrect information about waiting times to progress his account 
upgrade application, she was satisfied HSBC had recognised the inconvenience caused by 
that when it gave Mr F £50 compensation. Mr F didnt agree with the investigators 
assessment, so the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In bringing this complaint, Mr Fs indicated that this isnt the first time he feels hes been let 
down by HSBC. Im sorry to hear that. And whilst that may be the case, in this decision, Ill 
focus on what I believe to be the key concerns Mr F referred to us. 
In terms of the payment dispute, the process that needed to be followed was for a 
chargeback to be raised. Thats a process by which disputes can be settled between the 
card issuer (in this case HSBC) and the merchant (the retailer) in line with the relevant card 
schemes rules  in this case VISA. I should say that theres no automatic right to a 
chargeback, so theres no guarantee that a payment will be reversed, as certain criteria 
needs to be met. In general, before a card issuer considers instigating a chargeback 
request, it will want to understand the steps a cardholder has already taken to try to sort out 
the problem. And where theyve been unsuccessful, it will typically ask for more evidence to 
back up the claim. If the card issuer thinks it can make a successful chargeback request it 
will usually submit a claim to the relevant card scheme.
Theres a dispute between Mr F and HSBC about what happened. Mr F says he sent in lots 
of information for HSBC to consider. But HSBCs indicated it didnt receive it. According to 
Mr F, HSBC must have lost it.
Its not clear where Mr F sent the information to  or when. And he hasnt given me any 
supporting evidence such as an email receipt to show it was sent, or proof of postage. 
Whilst that would have been helpful, I also appreciate it would only have shown the 
information was sent, not that HSBC received it. 
Mr Fs also indicated that he spoke to HSBC about the information hed sent. HSBC hasnt 
been able to send me call recordings, so I cant determine exactly what was discussed or if 
HSBC confirmed having received the detailed information Mr Fs referred to. But, on 
balance, Im not persuaded it did receive it. I say that because the call notes Ive seen 
indicate that HSBC discussed only brief details about the payment dispute with Mr F. I think 
its likely that had HSBC received and discussed more detailed information, its call notes 
would have reflected that. And if it had received it, it seems unlikely that it would then have 
asked Mr F to provide detailed information in January 2020 to support his claim. And, as Im 
not persuaded HSBC did receive the information, it follows that I dont think it then lost it.     
It seems to me that HSBC couldnt do very much at all without knowing what attempts Mr F 
had already made to raise the payment dispute and without having further information to 
support the claim. So, given the problem with the information apparently going astray, I think 
HSBC acted reasonably by telling Mr F during calls that it would need more information to 
take things further. I appreciate though that Mr F was probably frustrated to hear that  as far 
as he was concerned hed already sent information in. Im also satisfied that HSBC didnt 
just leave it there. It gave Mr F a fairly detailed explanation in January 2020 about the 
information it would need from him. And whilst Ive seen Mr F repeatedly told HSBC that hed 
sent the information in, it seems he was referring to what hed originally sent. Ive seen no 
evidence to suggest he sent copies of that information when HSBC told him what it needed 
to progress his claim.  
I dont think it would be reasonable to expect HSBC to progress a payment dispute without 
supporting information. Not least because the rules surrounding these types of disputes 
arent set by HSBC  theyre set by the relevant card scheme  and the scheme rules require supporting information. So, given everything Ive said, I think HSBC acted fairly and 
reasonably in the circumstances. 
Turning now to Mr Fs complaint about the incorrect information HSBC gave him. Mr Fs 
explained to us some of the benefits of him potentially having an upgraded account. So, I 
can appreciate why he was keen to have his application progressed as soon as possible. 
And, I can also appreciate why he was frustrated to learn - having already waited what he 
believed to be the required number of days  that hed have to wait even longer. 
HSBC accepts it got things wrong and apologised for that. Im satisfied that the impact on 
Mr F isnt likely to have extended beyond the inconvenience in having to wait longer than 
expected. I say that because his upgrade application wasnt ultimately successful. And I 
think the £50 compensation HSBC has already given Mr F fairly recognises the 
inconvenience caused by the mis-information it gave him. So, I dont intend to direct HSBC 
to do anything else. 
My final decision
Im aware that HSBC UK bank plc has already apologised and given Mr F £50 compensation 
to recognise the inconvenience and frustration caused by its incorrect information. Im 
satisfied thats an appropriate response in the circumstances, so HSBC doesnt need to do 
anything else.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Amanda Scott
Ombudsman