DRN-1179499
 
The complaint
Mrs S says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. AXA France 
IARD, as the insurer, have taken responsibility for the sale. To keep things simple, Ill only 
refer to AXA in this decision, rather than any other business.
What happened
Mrs S bought the policy in 1997 at the same time as taking out a store card.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ss case.
Having done that, I dont think this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mrs Ss credit agreement had a section for PPI. It gave an overview of what the policy was 
for and then had a box Mrs S could tick if she wanted to pay for PPI, or which could be left 
blank if she didnt want it. The box was ticked and Mrs S signed the agreement to confirm 
her choices. So I think its most likely that AXA made Mrs S aware she had a choice about 
buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it at the time  though I can understand if she no 
longer recalls doing so after so long.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs S, so they didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
They did have to give Mrs S enough information to decide if the PPI was right for her.
Its possible that the information AXA gave Mrs S about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed 
her mind. Here, it looks like Mrs S chose to take out the policy, which implies she wanted 
this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look 
like she was affected by any of the policys main exclusions or limitations, and the PPI could 
have been useful for Mrs S in case something went wrong. And the policy was paid for on a 
rolling monthly basis, so Mrs S could cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont 
think better information about the PPI was likely to have put her off taking out the cover.
 
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman