DRN-3849283
The complaint
Ms N is unhappy with Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money. She wants to change 
her title but has been asked for documentation.
What happened
Ms N asked Virgin Money to change her title from Miss to Ms. Virgin Money asked her to 
provide two forms of identification.
Ms N raised a complaint. She said the requirement was discriminatory.
In response to the complaint, Virgin Money said the process to change a customers title was 
the same for all customers regardless of gender. It said it required customers to provide a 
document from a specified list of documents, together with a covering letter signed with the 
customers old and new signatures. Virgin Money said it wasnt upholding Ms Ns complaint 
because it had acted in line with its process.
Ms N remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She explained that this service could look to 
see whether a business had followed its process correctly, but couldnt require a business to 
change its process.
Ms N asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint.
What Ive decided  and wh
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at Virgin Moneys process for changing a customers title. It requires customers to 
provide an original or certified copy of one of the following documents: drivers licence, 
passport, deed poll, marriage/civil partnership certificate. Divorce/dissolution of civil 
partnership certificate, professional certificate.
In addition to one of the documents, the customer is required to provide a cover letter, 
signed with the cardholders old and new signature and including the card number and 
customer address.
I understand Ms Ns strength of feeling about this. Shes said that its unfair that shes 
required to provide documents, when her husband didnt have to go thorough the same 
process to change his details with another bank.
The process for changing title varies between banks and other financial institutions. And 
although I have no reason to doubt what Ms N has said about her husbands experience, Im 
unable to say that Virgin Moneys process is unfair simply because another bank has a 
different process. For the sake of completeness, Ive had a look at what other financial 
institutions require for a change of title. The majority of them have similar processes to Virgin 
Money. So I dont think theres anything unusual about Virgin Moneys process. 
This service isnt able to require Virgin Money to change its process, or disapply it in the 
case of a particular customer or class of customers. My role is to look at whether the process 
has been applied correctly. In this case, having looked at the process and having considered 
what Virgin Money asked Ms N to provide, Im unable to say that Virgin Money has made an 
error in the application of its process. So I cant say that Virgin Money treated Ms N unfairly 
here.
I understand that this issue is important to Ms N. A person has the right to choose a title, be 
that Miss, Mrs, Ms or Mx, or something else. I appreciate that Ms N views Virgin Moneys 
requirements as discriminatory. However, I dont think that is the intention behind the 
process. The process applies to all customers.
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im unable to uphold the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman