DRN-1901987
The complaint
Mr A complained because he feels the advice given by Harvard Financial Management Ltds 
advisor was unsuitable.
Capital Professional Limited (trading as Ascot Lloyd) is now responsible for the advice. For 
ease, Ill refer to the parties as Ascot Lloyd.
What happened
Mr A says that in mid-2012 he received information from a third party promoting investment 
in a car park. He further says that he forwarded the information to Ascot Lloyds advisor, 
asking for advice on the investment.
In July 2012 the advisor completed a fact find document. Of note, under the Clients needs 
heading the advisor recorded that Mr A needed to move funds from his existing self-invested 
personal pension (SIPP) in order to access a different investment  ie the car park.
In September and October 2012 the advisor sent Mr A two retirement planning reports. The 
reports were essentially the same, except the first one recommended that Mr As 
company/employer pay £5,500 into the new SIPP whereas the second one recommended 
that £8,000 be paid in. Both reports said:
advice was being given on the respective single payment into the new SIPP
Mr A was undertaking his own investment (in the car park) via the SIPP
no advice was being given in respect of assets held
The ultimate outcome was that Mr A transferred the whole of his pension funds in his original 
SIPP to the new SIPP, and then invested the whole of his funds in the car park.
In October 2018 Mr A complained to Ascot Lloyd about the advice he was given to transfer 
his previous pension funds and the lack of consideration and advice in relation to the 
suitability of the underlying investment. Ascot Lloyd didnt think it had done anything wrong. 
It said the only advice it gave was in respect of the payments Mr As employer wanted to 
make into the SIPP; it gave no advice in respect of the underlying investment in the car park.
Our investigator felt the complaint should be upheld. In summary, he concluded that:
the entire reason for the new SIPP was so Mr A could invest in the car park (as the 
previous SIPP provider wouldn't allow the investment)
the suitability of the new SIPP was inextricably linked to the suitability of the investment
the advisor recommended the new SIPP
the advisor didnt recommend the underlying investment in the car park, but he should 
have advised Mr A as to the unsuitability of the investment  as he couldnt have suitably 
advised on the new SIPP without also advising on the suitability of its purpose
the advisor should have advised Mr A that both the investment and the SIPP were 
unsuitable for him
had Mr A received this advice he most likely would have followed it and not taken out the 
SIPP or invested in the car park.
Our investigator concluded that Ascot Lloyd should compensate Mr A for any losses he 
suffered due to the unreasonable advice.
Ascot Lloyd disagreed with our investigators conclusion and asked for the matter to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. It said its advisor was involved in facilitating the new SIPP but 
he told Mr A that he couldnt provide advice regarding the investment as he wasnt 
authorised to provide that sort of advice.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The advisor needed to treat Mr A fairly, act in his best interest and make sure any 
recommendation given was suitable.
One of Ascot Lloyds arguments is that the advice was solely in respect of payments into the 
new SIPP and not in respect of the underlying investment in the car park. Ive therefore firstly 
considered what advice the advisor did and didnt give Mr A.
 
The third party who promoted the investment to Mr A gave the advisor details of SIPP 
providers who would facilitate investment. The advisor then completed the fact find and the 
SIPP provider later told the advisor that it had carried out due diligence into the investment. 
An application from was then completed, in which the advisor confirmed that he advised 
Mr A to specifically take out the new SIPP. The two retirement planning reports specifically 
said that Ascot Lloyd didnt advise on the commencement of the plan. I cant see that Mr A 
was specifically involved in any of the ground work in sourcing the SIPP provider or 
arranging the SIPP.
So, despite what the retirement planning reports said, I think the overall nature of the 
evidence points to the fact that the advisor most likely advised Mr A to take out the SIPP. I 
therefore conclude that Ascot Lloyd did advise Mr A to take out the SIPP.
I dont think theres any doubt  and it doesnt appear to be in dispute  that the advisor 
advised Mr A on the two payments his employer paid into the new SIPP. This is evidenced 
by the recommendations made in the two reports. 
I havent seen any evidence which suggests that the advisor gave Mr A any advice or 
recommendation either to invest or not to invest in the car park. So I conclude that the 
advisor was silent on this point.
I think the question therefore turns to whether the advisors responsibility in recommending 
the SIPP extended to providing advice/a recommendation on the underlying car park 
investment.
Its inconceivable to me that the advisor didnt know what the purpose of the new SIPP was. 
This is because the fact find detailed that Mr A needed to move his funds in order to invest in 
the car park, the advisor was directly involved with the promotor about appropriate SIPP 
providers, and the advisor was directly involved with the SIPP provider about the investment.
COBS 9.2.2 says a financial business needs to get enough information from a customer in 
order to make sure a recommendation meets the customers objectives, the customer is able to bear any related investment risk, and the customer understands the risks involved. As Ive 
just said, Im satisfied that the advisor was aware of the investment sitting behind the SIPP. 
In January 2013 and April 2014 the regulator issued warnings to financial businesses. 
Although they came after the advice was issued, they didnt add anything to what 
businesses were required to do  they provided clarification on what their responsibilities 
were under the existing rules.
The warnings said:
the regulator was aware that advisors were giving advice on pension transfers/switches 
without assessing the advantages and disadvantages of investments proposed to be 
held within the new pension  particularly when advisors were moving retirement savings 
to SIPPs that invest wholly or primarily in high risk unregulated investments
the general model was that when a customer expressed an interest in the investment 
theyre introduced to a financial advisor to provide advice on a SIPP capable of holding 
the investment; the advisor says theyre only providing advice on the SIPP; sometimes 
the advisor assists the customer to unlock funds they hold in other investments so that 
they can invest in the unregulated investment
financial advisors using this model are under the mistaken impression that they dont 
have to consider the unregulated investment as part of their advice to invest in the SIPP
when advice is given on a product like a SIPP which is a vehicle for investment in other 
products, the regulators view was that the provision of suitable advice required 
consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition ie the SIPP and the underlying 
investment
where a customer seeks advice on a pension transfer in implementing a wider 
investment strategy, the advice on the pension transfer must take account of the overall 
investment strategy the customer is contemplating. 
What happened in this case isnt far removed from the typical model outlined above. I 
therefore conclude that in recommending the SIPP the advisor had an obligation to also 
consider the suitability of the underlying investment.
As Ive said above, I havent seen any evidence that such considerations were made. And I 
havent seen anything showing that a recommendation on the underlying investment was 
made one way or the other. This is supported by Ascot Lloyds main argument that it didnt 
give Mr A any advice in regard to the investment.
Ascot Lloyd also said to us the advisor told Mr A that he wouldnt recommend that he invest 
in the car park. Apart from this statement being contradictory to its main argument  it either 
gave advice or it didnt  I havent seen anything supporting the assertion that Mr A was 
specifically advised to not invest in the car park.
The question I now need to consider is whether the advice to take out the SIPP (and by 
extension to invest in the car park) was suitable.
Mr As attitude to risk was described in the retirement planning reports as conservative. But 
as well as his attitude to the risk posed, when assessing whether an investment is suitable 
consideration also has to be given to Mr As capacity to suffer a loss. For example, Mr A 
might have the capacity to suffer a £50,000 loss if his overall pension pot is £500,000; but he 
might not have the same capacity if his pension pot was £50,000.
I dont think the car park investment fell within Mr As conservative attitude to risk. It was 
riskier than that and as Mr A was investing everything into one type of investment it lacked 
diversification. I also dont think Mr A had the capacity to suffer the loss of his entire retirement savings (he didnt have any other pension savings that I am aware of). So had the 
advisor considered the underlying investment, I think he should have advised Mr A not to 
proceed with the SIPP/investment as it was clearly unsuitable for him.
In response to our investigators opinion Ascot Lloyd said it disagreed that the advisor should 
have provided Mr A with a recommendation on an investment that he was not authorised to 
provide advice on. If the advisor wasnt authorised to advise on the underlying investment, 
then I dont think he should have advised on or recommended the SIPP at all.
So overall, for the above reasons, I conclude that Ascot Lloyds advisor treated Mr A unfairly 
as it recommended a product and investment that was unsuitable for him.
But this is only part of the equation. I also need to consider whether Mr A suffered a loss 
because of the recommendation.
I note that Mr A had a relationship with the advisor that went back many years. It therefore 
seems likely to me that Mr A relied on the financial advice he received from the advisor. On 
that basis, if the adviser had told Mr A that the SIPP/investment was unsuitable for him as it 
was too risky and advised him to not take out the SIPP and invest in the car park, I think its 
most likely that he would have heeded that advice. And had he done so, he wouldnt have 
suffered the losses hes now suffered in investing in the car park.
 
Putting things right
My aim is to put Mr A as close as possible to the position he would probably now have been 
in if he had been given suitable advice and not, therefore, invested in the car park. I think he 
would have invested differently, although its not possible to say precisely what he would 
have done. Im nevertheless satisfied that what our investigator suggested, and what Ive set 
out below, is fair and reasonable given Mr A's circumstances and objectives when he 
invested.
To compensate Mr A fairly I think Ascot Lloyd should compare the performance of his 
investment with that of the benchmark shown below. If the fair value is greater than the 
actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than 
the fair value, no compensation is payable. If there is a loss, Ascot Lloyd should pay into 
Mr A's pension plan, to increase its value by the amount of the compensation and any 
interest. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. 
Ascot Lloyd shouldn't pay the compensation into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance.
If Ascot Lloyd is unable to pay the compensation into Mr A's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a 
taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional allowance should be 
calculated using Mr A's actual or expected marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement 
age. For example, if he is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, 
the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if he would have been able 
to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation. 
Any such allowance for tax should be applied to the full redress sum, and not to the 
compensation limit if applied.
In addition, Ascot Lloyd should pay Mr A £300 for distress and inconvenience caused.
It should also provide the details of the calculation to Mr A in a clear, simple format.Investment 
nameStatus Benchmark From
(start date)To
(end date)Additional 
interest
SIPP Still existsFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return 
Index;
For the other 
half: average 
rate from 
fixed bondsDate of 
transferDate of final 
decision8% simple 
per year from 
the date of 
decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within 28 
days of Ascot 
Lloyd being 
notified of 
acceptance)
Actual value means the actual transfer value of the SIPP at the end date. If, at the end date, 
the car park investment is illiquid (meaning it cant be readily sold on the open market), it 
may be difficult to find the actual value of the SIPP. So, the value of the car park investment 
should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Ascot Lloyd should take 
ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension 
provider. This amount should be deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as 
above.
If Ascot Lloyd is unable to purchase the investment, its value should be assumed to be nil for 
the purpose of calculation. It may wish to require that Mr A provides an undertaking to pay it 
any amount he may receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking must allow 
for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the pension plan. 
Ascot Lloyd will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking. And the undertaking 
should account for the compensation limit, if applied.
Fair value is what the SIPP would have been worth at the end date had it achieved a return 
in line with the benchmark. To arrive at the fair value when using the average rate for fixed 
rate bonds as the benchmark, Ascot Lloyd should use the monthly average rate for one-year 
fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown 
as at the end of the previous month. Apply those rates to the investment on an annually 
compounded basis.
Any additional sum paid into the SIPP should be added to the fair value calculation from the 
point in time when it was actually paid in. This would include any contributions, but it would 
not include any rental payments from the car park, as they represent Mr As actual 
investment return rather than payments in. Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out 
of the SIPP should be deducted from the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it 
ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on.
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr A wanted growth and potentially income with a small risk to his capital
the average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to their capital
the FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds; its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher returnI consider that Mr A's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared to 
take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 combination 
would reasonably put him into that position. It doesnt mean that Mr A should have 
invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of index tracker 
investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the 
sort of return he could have obtained from investments suited to his objective and risk 
attitude.
My final decision
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation to be paid by a financial 
business of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs/interest on costs that I think are 
appropriate. If I think that fair compensation is more than £160,000, I may recommend that 
the business pays the balance.
Decision and award: I uphold the complaint. I think fair compensation should be calculated 
as outlined in the Putting things right section above. My decision is that Capital Professional 
Limited trading as Ascot Lloyd should pay Mr A the amount produced by that calculation  
up to a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation is more 
than £160,000, I recommend that Capital Professional Limited trading as Ascot Lloyd pays 
Mr A the balance. 
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. Capital Professional Limited 
trading as Ascot Lloyd doesnt have to do what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr A can 
accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. He may therefore want to get 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Paul Daniel
Ombudsman