DRN-3350568
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy that TSB Bank plc wont reimburse a transfer that he made incorrectly to 
the wrong account.
What happened
Mr N transferred £7,000 from his TSB current account to an incorrect recipient by mistake. 
TSB requested a recall of the transferred funds from the recipients bank at Mr Ns request, 
but the recipient bank was unable to return the funds to TSB. 
TSB confirmed to Mr N that theyd been unbale to recover the transferred funds for him, and 
they provided Mr N with the details of the recipient account holder so that Mr N could pursue 
the recovery of the money by other means. Mr N wasnt happy that TSB hadnt been able to 
recover the money, especially as hed been told by TSB staff member that they would be 
able to do so, and he felt TSB should reimburse him the £7,000. So, he raised a complaint.
TSB looked at Mr Ns complaint. They confirmed that theyd tried to recover the money but 
had been unable to do so, and so they didnt uphold that aspect of Mr Ns complaint. 
However, while TSB had no record that any staff member had advised Mr N that the 
recovery of the money was guaranteed, they couldnt discount that Mr N had been told that 
verbally by a staff member, and so they offered to pay Mr N £50 by way of compensation for 
potentially being given such incorrect information.
Mr N wasnt happy with TSBs response, so he referred his complaint to this service. One of 
our investigators looked at this complaint, but they didnt feel that TSB had acted unfairly 
towards Mr N in how theyd managed the situation, and so they didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr N remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how Mr N would want TSB to recover the £7,000 that hed incorrectly 
transferred to the wrong recipient, and Im satisfied that TSB did attempt to recover that 
money, having been informed by Mr N of his mistake.
But the £7,000 had been transferred by Mr N to an unintended recipient whose account was 
held with a third-party bank and not with TSB, and this means that TSB were dependent on 
that third-party bank returning the incorrectly transferred funds to them.
TSB have been able to demonstrate that they requested the return of the money from the 
third-party bank, but that unfortunately in this instance the third-party bank confirmed theyd 
been unable to recover the transferred funds from the unintended recipients account in order 
that it could then be returned to TSB.
In such circumstances it would be expected that TSB would then have provided Mr N with 
the details of the recipient account holder so that Mr N could pursue the recovery of the 
incorrectly transferred money via other means. 
TSB did that here, and having attempted to recover the money for Mr N, and having given 
Mr N the information needed to pursue the recovery of the money via other means, Im 
satisfied that TSB fulfilled their obligations to Mr N in respect of the incorrectly transferred 
amount and I dont feel that there is anything more that TSB could reasonably have done.
Im aware that Mr N has reported this matter as potential fraud. But Im satisfied that any 
such fraud would be in relation to the unintended recipient removing the transferred funds 
from their account so as to prevent their legitimate return, and doesnt include TSB 
processing the transfer  which was done to a recipient account able to accept such 
transfers at the mistaken request of Mr N.
Im also aware that Mr N feels that TSB, having failed to recover the money for him, should 
reimburse the money to his account themselves as a result, especially as he was advised as 
such by a TSB staff member. 
I can appreciate why Mr N would want this, and I can sympathise with the position he finds 
himself in. But TSB havent done anything wrong here. Rather, Im satisfied that TSB have 
made every reasonable effort to assist Mr N in rectifying a mistake that he made, and I dont 
feel that TSB should fairly be held accountable for any loss that Mr N may incur resulting 
from that mistake. Furthermore, I feel this is the case regardless of whether Mr N was or 
wasnt incorrectly advised by a staff member that the money would definitely be recoverable.
I realise that this wont be the outcome Mr N was wanting, but it follows that I wont be 
upholding this complaint or instructing TSB to take any further action. Im not unsympathetic 
to Mr Ns position here, and I hope hell be able to recover this money via other means. I 
also that Mr N will understand, given all that Ive explained above, why Ive made the final 
decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2022. 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman