DRN-2523544
The complaint
Mr E and Mrs E complain that Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead) have unfairly declined 
part of their claim on their home insurance policy. 
What happened
In late November 2019, Mr E and Mrs E made a claim following a burst pipe in their 
swimming pool system. Fairmead accepted the claim under Mr E and Mrs Es home 
insurance policy. On 4 December 2019, Mr E sent Fairmead the costs related to the repair.
 
Mr E says oil was delivered to fill two tanks at the property on 12 December 2019. One of 
the tanks services the house and the other services the annex which houses the swimming 
pool where the problem occurred. As a consequence of the burst pipe, Mr E says he had a 
further delivery on 10 January 2020 of oil for the tank that services the annex. The cost of 
that oil was £507.45. Mr E says the delivery wouldve happened before 10 January 2020 if 
possible, but that the Christmas break got in the way. Mr E shared the oil invoices with 
Fairmead on 29 January 2020. He asked them to pay him back for the cost of the additional 
oil hed had to buy to get the swimming pool back to its normal running temperature. 
Fairmead had covered the cost of the rest of the claim by this time. But they said they hadnt 
seen proof that additional oil had been needed following the burst. So they declined to pay 
Mr E and Mrs E back for the cost of the oil.
Mr E and Mrs E complained to Fairmead but they didnt uphold their complaint. So they 
asked this service to consider their complaint.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He felt that Fairmead had treated Mr E and Mrs E 
unfairly when they declined their claim. 
Fairmead didnt agree. So the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr E has noted that the normal running temperature of the swimming pool area is 31 
degrees. After the burst pipe which led to the claim, he said that the temperature had 
dropped to 15.5 degrees. Mr E sent a photo showing the engineers watch, showing the 
date, next to the thermometer, showing that temperature. Mr E shared that photo with 
Fairmead on 2 April 2020 as part of his claim. So Im satisfied that the temperature in the 
swimming pool area was far below its normal running temperature as a direct result of the 
burst. I would expect Fairmead to cover the costs of getting the swimming back to its normal 
running temperature. This would put Mr E and Mrs E back in the position they were in before 
their claim.
In their claim notes covering 24 January 2020, Fairmead stated they would cover the 
additional usage. But that this was subject to proof of that additional usage. They asked for 
oil bills for the last 12 months for that purpose. Mr E provided those bills on 29 January 
2020. But Fairmead said the bills didnt prove additional usage. They said they showed that 
less oil had been used over the period in question than over the same period the previous 
year. I agree that on the face of it, the bills dont show that more oil was used directly after 
the claim than over the same period the year before. But I dont agree that means there was 
no additional usage as a direct result of the burst. Mr E has explained that he needed to heat 
the swimming pool over the same period the year before the claim as it hadnt been used for 
18 months. I can see that wouldve used additional oil at that time. So when Fairmead tried 
to establish normal use from the oil used over the previous 12 months they werent getting a 
true picture of normal oil use.
In fact, Mr E had provided Fairmead with evidence that he filled the annex oil tank on 12 
December 2019. And that he had to partially fill it again on 10 January 2020 due to using a 
large amount of oil to get the swimming pool back to normal running temperature. Given the 
evidence that the post-burst temperature in the swimming pool area was 15.5 degrees, it 
was inevitable that additional heating wouldve been required to increase the temperature 
back up to 31 degrees following the burst. Additional heating clearly wouldnt have been 
required if the pipe hadnt burst. So Im satisfied that additional heating costs should be 
covered under the claim for the burst pipe. And that the additional heating costs can be 
measured by looking at the cost of the partial fill on 10 January 2020. 
Looking at the evidence provided by Mr E, Im persuaded that the additional oil delivered on 
10 January 2020 was only needed to put Mr E and Mrs E back to the same position they 
wouldve been in if the burst hadnt occurred. So Im satisfied that the cost of that oil should 
be considered alongside the rest of the claim for the burst. 
Putting things right
Fairmead Insurance Limited should pay Mr E and Mrs E an additional £507.45 as part of the 
original claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E and Mr E to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman