DRN-3977156
The complaint
Mr B complains about the service he received from Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as 
Tesco Bank in relation to his car insurance policy. 
What happened
In January 2023, Mr B says he was involved in an incident which left him with a punctured 
tyre. He says he contacted Tesco Bank, as he has breakdown cover provided as part of his 
car insurance policy. He said he received poor service from Tesco Bank and so he made a 
complaint. 
Mr B says he has complained to the breakdown provider who have compensated him for a 
days lost income. He adds that he wants Tesco Bank to compensate him £125 for the other 
days lost income  as he said it took him around 20 hours to resolve matters.
Tesco Bank responded to Mr Bs complaint to say that it was the breakdown service provider 
who are responsible for the issues Mr B says he had with the breakdown cover. However, 
Mr B doesnt agree with this, and he feels that because he has a contract with Tesco Bank, 
they should be partly responsible for the issues he says hes faced.
The Investigator didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. They didnt think that Tesco Bank had done 
anything wrong, and ultimately, the Investigator didnt think Tesco Bank were responsible for 
the things Mr B was complaining about. 
Mr B didnt agree, he said that Tesco Bank had broken the contract he has with it, but he 
wasnt specific about which bit of the contract he thought Tesco Bank had breached. Mr B 
also said that the Investigator had relied only on what Tesco Bank said and hadnt taken into 
account the evidence he had submitted  specifically the policy documents he sent.
Because Mr B didnt agree with the Investigator, the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide on the matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed all of the information available to me, I wont be upholding Mr Bs 
complaint, and Ill explain my reasons for this below. 
Mr B provided this service with a number of documents relating to his car insurance policy 
with Tesco Bank. One of the documents, entitled ABOUT OUR INSURANCE SERVICES, 
explains that Tesco Bank are a general insurance intermediary. An insurance intermediary is 
essentially the link between a consumer and the insurer. An insurance intermediary doesnt 
provide insurance itself or pay claims from its own funds, that is the role of the insurer.
Further down the document I mentioned previously, it confirms that Breakdown Cover is 
provided by [breakdown provider] and underwritten by [breakdown provider underwriter]  
neither of these firms are Tesco Bank and are the breakdown provider. 
Mr Bs complaint relates to how the breakdown provider dealt with his call out. And how it 
handled some of the calls he had with it. Based on what Ive seen, Mr B didnt contact Tesco 
Bank as the intermediary of the policy  he called the breakdown provider and spoke to the 
breakdown providers staff. Tesco Bank have also confirmed that it has had no direct contact 
with Mr B (other than to the breakdown provider, which isnt Tesco Bank).
Mr B says that Tesco Bank should be partly responsible for what happened with the 
breakdown provider, because the contract is provided by Tesco Bank. Im sorry to disappoint 
Mr B, but I dont agree with this. 
The contract Mr B has with Tesco Bank, states that the breakdown cover  and the car 
insurance itself for that matter  is provided and underwritten by a different firm. The 
breakdown cover itself is an optional extra to the car insurance and is a separate contract, 
with separate policy documents to confirm the terms of that particular type of cover. 
I can understand why Mr B feels that Tesco Bank should be responsible. Hes provided a 
copy of the breakdown cover policy terms and conditions which say Thank you for choosing 
Tesco Bank Breakdown Cover. Cover is arranged by Tesco Personal Finance plc (trading as 
Tesco Bank), acting on behalf of [breakdown provider] and [breakdown provider 
underwriter]. But all this means is that Tesco Bank arranged the cover. It doesnt mean that 
they are responsible for the performance of the contract  and ultimately Mr Bs complaint is 
about the service he received under the contract. 
Tesco Bank has shown us that these same policy documents says This policy is a contract 
between us and you. Us is defined as the breakdown provider and/or the breakdown 
provider underwriter. So again, I dont find that Tesco Bank can be responsible for the 
performance to Mr Bs breakdown cover  or the service he received as part of the claim.
I havent seen anything that leads me to conclude that Tesco Bank are responsible for the 
issues Mr B says hes had with the breakdown service he got. And I havent seen any 
evidence of Mr B having any contact with Tesco Bank (the intermediary) at all in relation to 
the breakdown cover. I know Mr B thinks he spoke to Tesco Bank, but from what Ive read, it 
appears he was in touch with the breakdown provider directly. 
I havent found any evidence of Tesco Bank having done anything wrong  this includes 
treating Mr B unfairly, or breaching the contract it has with Mr B. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman