DRN-3902076
The complaint
Miss A is unhappy Starling Bank Limited (Starling) wont reimburse the money she lost after 
she fell victim to an Authorised Push Payment (APP) scam. 
When bringing her complaint to this service, Miss A was initially being represented. The 
representative has since been removed from the complaint. But for ease, Ill refer to Miss A 
throughout this decision, even where the submissions may have been made on her behalf at 
the outset. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it all here. 
But briefly, and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to be as follows.
In December 2021, Miss A was looking for accommodation to rent. She says she came 
across a flat advertised for rent, within an affluent area of Central London, on a well-known 
marketplace. This was advertised as £1,000 per month. Miss A also told us the property was 
advertised on an online rental accommodation website. 
Miss A says she was sent an email from the rental accommodation website which contained 
a link for her to follow to request the payment details. Miss A received an email on 
24 December 2021, from whom she believed to be the rental accommodation website, which 
included details of the rental property, a picture of a room and which requested a total 
payment of £2,000 (this was £1,000 for the monthly rent and a £1,000 security deposit). 
Miss A explained that she didnt view the property in person before making the payment 
which shes said is typical for the rental accommodation website. 
Miss A believing all to be genuine, proceeded to make a payment of £2,000 on 
27 December 2021 from her Starling account to whom she believed was an agent managing 
the property for the accommodation website. But when Miss A was unable to gain access to 
the property and when shed tried to contact the landlord and was unable to, she realised 
shed been the victim of a scam. 
Miss A reported the matter to Starling via its live chat on 1 January 2022. Starling say it 
contacted the receiving bank the same day but received a response to say no funds 
remained.  
Starling considered Miss As scam claim under the Lending Standards Board Contingent 
Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code), which provides additional protection to scam 
victims against the impact of APP scams, and to which Starling is a signatory. Having done 
so, it declined to reimburse Miss A the money shed lost. It said she didnt have a reasonable 
basis for believing that the person she was transacting with was legitimate. In brief, Starling 
considered Miss A ought to have carried out more checks, for example, it believes a check 
she should have made would have been to view the property before making the payment. It 
noted that shed not received any agreement or contract before making the payment and it 
also felt Miss A should have questioned why she was not paying the rental accommodation 
website directly if the property was from its platform. Starling felt there were flags within the 
communication she received that ought to have caused her concern. It further raised that 
Miss A provided misleading answers when making the payment online, in response to its 
payment review. 
Unhappy, Miss A brought her complaint to this service. Our Investigator having looked into 
the matter, didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In summary, she thought there was 
enough going on that ought to have led Miss A to have concerns about the payment she was 
making. She recognised that Miss A hadnt provided all the information shed requested or 
answered all of her questions when reviewing the complaint, so reached her assessment 
based on the evidence available to her. Given what shed seen and been told, our 
Investigator wasnt clear on what persuaded Miss A that the person she was dealing with 
was legitimate. She didnt think Miss A had a reasonable basis for belief under the CRM 
Code when making the payment. 
When thinking about the payment, she also didnt think the scam risk wouldve been 
apparent to Starling when the payment was made. She didnt think the payment was 
significantly different to previous account activity and so she didnt think Starling ought to 
have intervened. She wasnt persuaded Starling needed to provide an effective warning for 
this payment. Despite this, she noted that Starling had made efforts to provide Miss A with a 
warning at the time and it initiated the payment review process where it asked her questions 
about the payment she was attempting to make. Among these questions, Miss A said she 
was paying for renting a property or room, to live in and when asked if the person she was 
renting from is a trusted friend of family member, she answered yes. In light that Miss A 
hadnt answered the questions accurately, which our Investigator felt impacted the banks 
ability to protect her from the scam, she didnt think it was fair to hold Starling liable for this. It 
followed that she didnt think Starling was at fault or that it had applied the CRM Code 
incorrectly. 
As Miss A didnt agree with our Investigator, the complaint has now been passed to me to 
reach a final decision.
Whilst awaiting a final decision, our Investigator reached out to Miss A to give her a final 
opportunity to provide any further information and to provide a response to the questions 
shed been asked but not yet received a response to. But Miss A didnt respond with any 
further submissions.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.Having done so, I have reached broadly the same conclusions as those of the Investigator 
and for similar reasons. I realise this will be a disappointment for Miss A, so Id like to explain 
why.
Firstly, Im extremely sorry to hear about what happened. I can understand entirely why 
Miss A feels so strongly that her money should be returned to her, and why she doesnt 
accept that Starling isnt responsible to refund her here. She was tricked into sending money 
for what she believed was an accommodation rental, but instead didnt receive anything in 
return. Shes been left out of pocket as a result of this scam.
However, the main cause of Miss As loss was the scammer who deceived her. It does not 
necessarily follow that Starling is responsible for reimbursing her.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer even though they 
authorised the payment. 
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether 
Starling should have reimbursed Miss A under the provisions of the CRM Code and whether 
it ought to have done more to protect her from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Both sides agree that Miss A was tricked into making the payment. She thought she was 
making a payment which represented a months rent and a refundable deposit to secure an 
accommodation rental.  
But this isnt enough, in and of itself, for Miss A to receive a refund of the money under the 
CRM Code. The CRM Code requires a certain level of care to have been taken by Miss A 
too. 
The CRM Code 
As Ive mentioned above, Starling is a signatory of the CRM Code, which requires firms to 
reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP scams like this, in all but a limited 
number of circumstances and it is for Starling to establish that a customer failed to meet their 
requirements under one of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code. 
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to fully reimburse a customers loss if it can 
establish that - amongst other things - that customer made the payment without having a 
reasonable basis for believing that:
- the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; 
- the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or 
- the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate.
Having regard for the requirements of the CRM Code, Ive taken into account all of the 
circumstances of this case, which includes Miss As knowledge and wider circumstances as 
well as the complexity of the scam. I think the concerns Starling has raised about whether 
Miss A had a reasonable basis for belief about the points listed above are sufficient to 
support its position that she failed to meet her requirements under the CRM Code in making 
the payment she did. Ill explain why.Miss A told us she was in communication with the landlord or agent managing the rental for 
the rental accommodation website via numerous methods  email, messaging app and that 
she also contacted the rental accommodation website via its chat function. However, Im not 
satisfied these were sufficient to have given her a reasonable basis for believing the 
person/people she was transacting with were legitimate. Ill now explain why. 
Ive carefully considered the price Miss A believed she was paying for the flat, which was a 
two bedroom flat in an affluent area of Central London. Having conducted my own search 
online for property rentals within the area Miss A was looking to rent, I found the cost of 
rentals to be considerable more than what Miss A was offered  with prices starting from 
around £2,500 and upwards. I think it should be noted that these rental prices were reflective 
of a one bedroom flat. With this in mind and, in the absence of any other information from 
Miss A about the rental price or plausible reason as to why the monthly rent was much lower 
than what Ive seen for the area, I think this ought to have given her pause for thought. Im 
persuaded the monthly rental amount Miss A was accepting ought to have appeared too 
good to be true and ought reasonably to have given her cause for concern that it may not 
have been legitimate. Ive not seen anything which suggests Miss A questioned the price 
being what it was and in the absence of this, it appears Miss A seemingly took the price, at 
face value. I think the rental price ought to have led to a greater degree of checking and a 
more cautious approach on Miss As part. 
From my review, I note there is limited information provided to us across the communication 
channels Miss A says she was using to speak with the various parties  agent, landlord, the 
rental accommodation website. But from what I have seen, I consider there to have been red 
flags which fairly and reasonably should have caused Miss A concern. For example, within 
the email Miss A received, which contained the property details and requested payment  
under instructions for payment it said if you or bank says it cant verify your payment details, 
you need to skip this step because it is a new payment and a new bank account. I think this 
ought to have prompted Miss A to question what she was being told. I say this because, Im 
not persuaded a legitimate company would ask a customer to ignore the security procedures 
/steps a bank puts in place to protect its customers. 
Im mindful Miss A told us she was in contact with the genuine rental accommodation 
website and so she had no reason to believe subsequent communication would not be 
legitimate. Miss A added that she believed everything was legitimate because the rental 
accommodation website sent her a link on the message platform, and it took her to the real 
website. Ive thought carefully about what Miss A has told us, but from the limited information 
Ive seen, on balance, Im persuaded it is more likely than not that the rental accommodation 
platform Miss A has referred to wasnt genuine. I think what Miss A saw was most likely 
created by the scammer. I say this because, while there is an indication that Miss A had 
been in contact with the genuine accommodation website - the dates of the contact show 
this was after she made the payment. And while Miss A has given us information that shows 
some contact with the rental accommodation website prior to this, had Miss A been in touch 
with the genuine accommodation website, I think it is more likely than not that the scam 
wouldve unravelled at this point. I say this, as Im not persuaded it wouldve asked Miss A to 
make a payment outside of its platform. Miss A has explained that she was told to make the 
payment to the details provided as it was a long-term rental. But from what Ive seen for the 
rental accommodation website it explains long term rentals are dealt with via its platform. I 
think Miss A ought to have questioned further what she was being asked to do and in the 
absence of such questions and any plausible reason being given to her, I dont find she 
acted fairly and reasonably here. Miss A also hadnt viewed the property prior to making the payment. Shes said she verified 
the property through the screenshots she had and when she went through the link provided, 
she says this link was correct. Shes also said she didnt think this was unusual for the rental 
accommodation website. While Ive thought carefully about what Miss A has told us, I 
havent seen that she made any attempts, other than looking at the screenshots and link 
sent to her, to verify that who she was speaking to was who they said they were and that 
they did have the property available to rent. I cant see that she asked for any documentation 
 it appears Miss A received no contract or agreement for the property prior to making the 
payments. 
In short, whilst there is limited information provided in order for me to fully understand and 
see the communication Miss A had with the various parties, on balance, I dont think the 
steps she took gave her a reasonable basis for believing she was dealing with a legitimate 
person or business or that the payment was for genuine goods or services, and so the 
exception to reimbursement under the CRM Code has been fairly applied by Starling.
That said, I have considered Miss As comments about her wellbeing and mental state at the 
time and I can see that our Investigator has asked Miss A to provide some additional 
information about this  to which Miss A has provided some information but not responded to 
all the questions the Investigator asked. 
With this in mind, Ive also thought about whether Miss A might have met CRM Codes 
definition of a vulnerable customer at the time of the payment. If that were the case, then 
Starling would be required to reimburse Miss A regardless of the applicability of the CRM 
Codes exceptions.
Miss A has explained to us that she considers herself to have been vulnerable at the time of 
the scam. She told us that she was staying with a friend after moving out of her previous 
residence and that shed been with her friend for a long time and was under pressure to find 
new accommodation. Shes also shared with us that she suffered from anxiety and 
depression and commented that she was scared of being homeless. 
 
Our Investigator has asked Miss A more about this and how this affected her, but limited 
information has been provided and Miss A has not responded fully to our Investigators 
questions about this aspect. Because of this, where the information is incomplete or 
inconsistent in parts, I have to reach my findings on the balance of probabilities. That is what 
I think is more likely than not to have happened based on the information I do have. 
Having carefully considered the information that has been provided  what Miss A has said  
I find on balance that Miss A did not meet the CRM Codes definition of vulnerability. In 
summary, the CRM Code defines vulnerability as circumstances where the victim couldnt 
reasonably have been expected to protect themselves from the scam. 
While I dont think the steps she took were sufficient for her to have had a reasonable 
basis for believing she was sending the payment to a legitimate person or business or that 
the payment was for a genuine goods or service  flat rental, I dont find it more likely than 
not that Miss A was vulnerable to the extent that it wouldnt have been reasonable to expect 
her to have protected herself.
I want to emphasis though that this is not to diminish the circumstances she was in at the 
time, or the subsequent impact the scam has had on her. It is simply that I dont find the 
evidence would justify a finding that Miss A was unable to have taken further steps to protect 
herself here. I dont find Starlings assessment under the CRM Code was at fault here.Should Starling have done anything else to prevent the scam?
Good industry practice requires that regulated firms such as Starling engage in the 
monitoring of customer accounts and to be on the lookout for suspicious or out of character
transactions with an aim of preventing fraud and protecting customers from financial harm.
And under the CRM Code, where it identified a risk of a customer falling victim to an APP
scam, it was required to provide that customer with an effective warning.
We now know, with the benefit of hindsight, that Miss A was falling victim to a scam. But
based on the information that was available to it at the time, I dont consider Starling 
wouldve had any reasonable basis for coming to that conclusion. Having reviewed her 
transaction history for the period leading up to the scam, Im not persuaded that the payment 
would have stood out as out of character or unusual  whilst I recognise the payment was a 
lot of money to Miss A, Im not persuaded the amount of the payment was so remarkable 
given the previous account activity that it ought to have caused Starling concern. 
Im mindful Starling had made efforts to provide Miss A with a warning at the time and it 
initiated the payment review process where it asked her questions about the payment she 
was attempting to make. I recognise Starlings attempts to provide an appropriate warning 
may have been impeded by Miss A not answering its questions correctly. But, in an event, I 
dont think the CRM Code required that Starling display an effective warning as part of the 
payment process, and Im not persuaded it wouldve had any grounds for intervening to 
question the payment with Miss A before allowing it to be processed. All in all, I cant 
reasonably conclude that the payment should have stood out enough from Miss As previous 
account usage for Starling to have been concerned that she might have been at risk of 
financial harm from fraud. It follows that I do not find it at fault here  I find its intervention in 
this case to be proportionate and Im satisfied Starling is not obliged to refund Miss A the 
money she lost on the grounds that it didnt provide an effective warning.
Once it was made aware of the scam, the available evidence shows Starling acted quickly 
and appropriately to try to recover the funds Miss A had sent, but no funds remained to be 
recovered. Unfortunately, it is not unusual that scammers will quickly move funds on leaving 
nothing to be retrieved and the evidence supports that being the case here. 
Based on the evidence available to me I dont think there is anything further I could 
reasonably have expected from Starling in the attempts it made here to recover Miss As lost 
money.
Overall 
In saying this, I want to reiterate that I am extremely sorry to hear about what happened to 
Miss A, and I am sorry she has lost out. But I cant fairly hold Starling responsible for the 
actions of the scammer here. I can only look at its assessment of Miss As fraud claim under 
the CRM Code and any other obligations it had at the time.
 
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im satisfied Starling considered her claim 
appropriately under the CRM Code and isnt liable to refund her for any other reason.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss As complaint about Starling Bank Limited.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman