DRN-4439444
The complaint
Mr V complains that he bought actual shares in four companies through eToro (UK) Ltd 
(eToro) and not American Depository Receipts (ADRs). He is unhappy as trading in them 
has been suspended. 
What happened
Mr V says he bought shares through the eToro platform in four Russian companies on         
1 March 2022. Shortly after this and following sanctions imposed on Russian companies, 
trading in them was suspended. I have been made aware that three of them have 
subsequently delisted from the London Stock Exchange (LSE). 
Mr V then complained to eToro. He said he wanted the shares certificated, so he could trade 
them over the counter. Or he would transfer them to a different broker to trade on the 
Moscow Exchange (MOEX). Failing this, he wanted eToro to pay him their current value on 
the MOEX. 
EToro responded to Mr V to say that the Russian stocks he held were issued as Depository 
Receipt programs (DRs). They said that the conversion and transfer process is complex, 
involves many counterparties, and many of the intermediaries are not processing these 
requests. They also felt that the conversion may be in conflict with sanctions requirements 
and potentially expose clients and/or eToro to sanctions risks.
Mr V remained unhappy and brought his complaint to our service for an independent review. 
He didnt believe he had bought Russian ADRs or that eToro had acted fairly. He said that if 
the stocks he held were Russian ADRs, that hadnt been made clear to him. Our investigator 
looked into it. He acknowledged that it wasnt the responsibility of the business that 
sanctions had been imposed and trading suspended. He believed eToro would have made it 
clear that Mr V was purchasing ADRs rather than actual shares and he thought eToro were 
acting fairly in not converting and certificating the stocks. 
Mr V didnt agree. He said he felt hed evidenced that the stocks werent shown as ADRs at 
the time of purchase. As no agreement was reached, the case has been passed to me for a 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same conclusion as the investigator. Ill explain why. 
I am satisfied from the information provided that the stocks Mr V purchased were Russian 
ADRs and I believe, on a balance of probabilities that this was made sufficiently clear to him. 
Whilst we dont have a copy of the webpages Mr V will have seen at the time of purchase, 
we do have a log of what Mr V purchased and this details them as ADRs. I cant be sure 
what he saw, but I am satisfied it likely would have detailed them as ADRs as the purchase 
log does. 
Even if Im wrong and eToro didnt explicitly state in the listing of the ADRs that they werent 
the real shares, I dont think that means they are at fault. Mr V holds an execution only 
account, I consider it to be Mr Vs responsibility to understand the product hes buying. The 
companies in which he wanted to invest were not available to buy shares in via eToro or any 
other platform that didnt have access to the Moscow Exchange. This is precisely the reason 
why companies arrange depository receipt programs  so that they can receive investment 
from investors in countries who wouldnt otherwise invest. In my experience the share 
issuing companies tend to detail both their share offerings and their ADR programs on their 
company website. A way to identify the difference is that the ticker name of the shares is 
different to that of the ADRs for each company. 
So, though I accept eToro could have made it clearer on their platform, it doesnt follow that I 
think they misled Mr V into thinking he was buying the underlying shares in these 
companies.  Mr V is clearly unhappy that eToro wont convert these ADRs into shares for 
him, as he hopes they can be certificated and then traded. eToro have provided us with a 
copy of the relevant terms and conditions. I havent seen anything that suggests eToro 
allows customers to convert and certificate ADRs using their service. 
I therefore have to consider if its fair and reasonable of eToro to refuse to assist with the 
conversion. eToro themselves wouldnt be able to hold the underlying shares in these 
companies post-conversion, as they dont access the Moscow Exchange. So conversion 
would have necessitated Mr V sourcing an account that could hold the shares  which would 
likely have needed to be in Russia, and I understand that currently that is a difficult thing for 
an individual to do. Even if he could do that, I dont think eToro would be treating him unfairly 
by refusing to be involved in the conversion process. This is because following the 
unprecedented sanctions that went into place following Russias invasion of Ukraine, there 
was a lot of uncertainty in the UK financial sector about whether (or how) assisting in the 
conversion process would breach any of those laws. Many firms have chosen to take a risk 
averse approach towards potentially breaching them, given the uncertainty, and have 
refused to assist. The level of risk a firm is willing to take (which has an influence on the 
products and services they offer their customers) is something Im satisfied is at eToros 
discretion.
I think its also important to note, that even if they were able to and had agreed to, its 
unlikely that Mr V as a UK based customer would be able to sell the shares. I say this 
because they would need to be traded through a Russian broker, but Russia currently bans 
anyone from the UK from selling Russian shares. Meaning I think its very unlikely Mr V has 
suffered any financial loss from the refusal to convert the ADRs. 
eToro did offer Mr V $200 as a gesture of goodwill for the time it took them to provide an 
answer to his concerns. Considering this and the impact it had on Mr V, I think the offer is 
fair and I wont be asking them to do anything more. 
In summary, I am satisfied that it was Mr Vs responsibility to understand the product he was 
buying. I think on a balance of probabilities this will have been made clear to him through a 
different ticker name for the ADRs. I also dont think eToro are acting unfairly refusing to 
convert the ADRs, a service not provided for within the terms and conditions. My final decision
My final decision, for the reasons stated above, is that the offer already made by eToro (UK) 
Ltd, of $200 to put things right is a fair one. eToro (UK) Ltd should pay this to Mr V if they 
havent done so already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman