DRN-1095776
 
The complaint
Mr T says Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold him a credit card payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy in 2005.
 What happened
Mr T took out a PPI policy that helped protect his credit card payments in the event of 
disability or unemployment. It also included life and critical illness cover. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr T didnt agree with the 
adjudicator, so the case was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ts case. 
Having done so, I dont uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr T says he wasnt aware the PPI was optional. I cant say for sure what happened but Ive 
taken into account what hes said, together with the paperwork thats still available. That 
includes a copy of Mr Ts signed credit card agreement. I note that he ticked a box, and 
signed in the relevant place just below, to indicate he wanted PPI. 
From what Ive seen overall, I think Halifax made it clear to Mr T that the PPI was optional 
and that he chose to take it out. 
Halifax says it didnt recommend the PPI to Mr T. I think thats probably right given it seems 
the sale took place, as far as I can tell, without him having spoken to a Halifax adviser. 
That said, Halifax still ought to have provided Mr T with clear, fair and not misleading 
information about the PPI so that he could decide for himself if it was right for him. I cant say 
for sure whether Halifax did that. But, from what I know of Mr Ts circumstances, I dont think 
better information about the PPI would have put him off taking it. I say that because:
It seems Mr T would have been eligible for the cover. And I dont believe he was 
significantly affected by the policys main exclusions and limitations. 
Mr T says hed have got full sick pay for 12 months from his employer. But thats an 
unusually generous benefit and, while weve asked for more information about that 
several times, we havent received a reply. So, I cant fairly say thats what hed have 
got. In any case, the PPI benefits would have paid out on top of that pay and covered 
him for unemployment too. So, I think Mr T would have considered the PPI provided 
him with useful extra security. Theres nothing to suggest Mr T couldnt afford the PPI. And it was flexible in that 
Mr T could have cancelled it at any time, and at no extra cost, if he decided it was no 
longer right for him.
 
Ive thought about everything Mr Ts told us, including that he held private healthcare cover. 
However, I dont consider that would have negated the need for PPI since, unlike the PPI, it 
wouldnt have provided a monthly benefit in the event of disability or unemployment. 
Taking everything into account, I dont believe Mr Ts lost out because of how Halifax sold 
him the PPI. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman