DRN-1876387
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
taken out in 2000 in connection with a joint mortgage. Mrs T and the Estate of the late Mr T 
say Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) mis-sold them PPI.
Mrs T has the legal capacity to bring the complaint on behalf of herself and the Estate of the
late Mr T, and so I shall refer to Mrs T and The Estate of the late Mr T as the complainants.
What happened
The complainants took out a PPI policy in connection with their joint mortgage. They paid a 
monthly amount for the policy which offered accident, sickness and unemployment cover. 
They complain they didnt know PPI had been added to their mortgage account and that the 
PPI details had never been discussed.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be rejected. The complainants disagreed with 
our adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again. They added the 
following main points through their representative:
PPI cost and benefits were never discussed;
there was no evidence the complainants signed a Safeguard application form or a 
direct debit mandate to add PPI to their account;
they had 12 months sick pay, so they didnt need PPI;
YBS has acted dishonestly by taking money for a service not discussed or requested 
by the complainants.
The PPI only covered the late Mr T, so sometimes I will only refer to him as Mr T. Although 
I will refer to both of the complainants wherever its appropriate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding the complainants case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
YBS should have made the complainants aware they had a choice in buying the policy. They 
said they were not aware the policy had been added to their mortgage.
Neither YBS nor the complainants have all of the paperwork from the time of sale. I dont 
think thats surprising given that the sale took place around 20 years ago. But it does mean I 
have limited information about the sale, so I have to decide what I think is likely to have 
happened, given the information I do have and the broader circumstances.
I saw that the mortgage application form invited consumers to read the PPI leaflet and to 
decide if they wanted PPI. YBS produced a sample of the PPI form which it said the 
complainants were most likely to have seen around the time of the sale. So as there was a 
separate form for PPI which most likely came with a separate direct debit mandate, I think 
its likely the optional nature would have been made clear as a consumer could decline to 
complete the form - and the complainants havent persuaded me to think YBS didnt follow 
its normal process here. 
I also noted the policy was tailored to cover Mr T only - so I think their primary concern was 
that only Mr Ts salary needed PPI support, even though Mrs T was also working. I think this 
means they probably were aware it had been added to the mortgage account because they 
most likely both decided to cover Mr T only. So overall, I think its more likely YBS made it 
clear to them they had a choice about the PPI, and they agreed to buy it to cover Mr T only, 
although I can understand why the complainants may not remember that now.
YBS didnt recommend the PPI to the complainants so it didnt have to check if it was right 
for them. But it did have to make sure the complainants got the information they needed so 
they could decide if it was right for them. So I looked at their financial circumstances at the 
time of the sale to see if they would have got any value from PPI.
I noted Mr T would have received employee benefits and had some savings. But I also noted 
the policy could have paid out for a maximum of two years for accident and sickness and 12 
months for unemployment cover. This could have been in addition to and for longer than his 
employee benefits and would have saved his other funds for other expenses. The mortgage 
was also a long term financial commitment secured on their home, and I think having the 
security that their mortgage repayments would be made if Mr T was unable to work would 
have been important to them. So I think they probably did think the PPI was of benefit to 
them. 
I then looked at the available documents to see what information had been given to the 
complainants about PPI so they could make their own decision about it.
Looking at everything Ive been given, I dont know exactly what was said to the 
complainants about the PPI cost and benefits and the exclusions and limitations of the 
policy. They said there was no discussion at all about it. However, I saw they did both sign a 
Service Levels  Information Checklist which specifically confirmed they had been given 
information on the description of the Safeguard PPI policy. So I think there probably was 
some discussion about PPI, which makes it unlikely that PPI was added because YBS was 
acting dishonestly.
Having already decided they chose to take out the PPI - it looks like they wanted this type of 
cover for Mr T. And  for the reasons Ive explained above - it looks like the policy would 
have been useful for them if something went wrong. So I think they most likely had enough 
information about the PPI cost, benefits and the exclusions at the time of the sale and I think 
its unlikely that more detailed information would have put them off from buying it.
So all of this means Im not going to uphold the PPI mis-sale complaint, so YBS doesnt 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to the complainants. 
But YBS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to the complainants because: 
YBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told the complainants about that. Because YBS didnt tell 
the complainants, that was unfair. 
To put that right, YBS has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.Ive thought about everything the complainants have said - including what they said about Mr 
Ts sick pay entitlements and the complainants not knowing PPI had been added to their 
mortgage account. But, as I have explained above, these points dont change my decision.
I realise that my decision is likely to be disappointing for the complainants. Its always difficult 
to decide a complaint on limited information. But Ive thought very carefully about what they 
said and about what YBS said. And I dont think  on balance  I can fairly and reasonably 
uphold their complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Yorkshire Building Society does not 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to the complainants. 
But Yorkshire Building Society does have to pay back to the complainants any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and the 
estate of Mr T to accept or reject my decision before 3 August 2020.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman