DRN-3302749
The complaint
Mr C complains that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Trusttwo (ELL) lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner.
What happened
Mr C has been assisted in making this complaint by a claims management company (CMC). 
But in this decision, for ease, I will generally refer to all communication as having been with, 
and from, Mr C himself.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint last month. In that decision I explained why 
I didnt have enough information to conclude the complaint should be upheld. Both parties 
have received a copy of the provisional decision but, for completeness, I include some 
extracts from it below. In my decision I said;
Mr C was given a single loan by ELL in March 2015. He borrowed £4,000 and agreed 
to repay the loan in 36 monthly instalments.
ELL gathered some information from Mr C before it agreed the loan. It asked him for 
details of his income, and his normal housing costs. It then used some industry 
statistical data to estimate the remainder of Mr Cs expenditure. And it checked his 
credit file to assess how much he was repaying to other creditors and how he had 
managed credit in the past.
Mr C was entering into a significant commitment with ELL. He would need to make 
monthly repayments for a period of three years. So I think it was right that ELL 
wanted to gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Mr Cs 
financial circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. I think that the checks Ive 
described above were sufficient to achieve that aim  I think that ELLs checks were 
proportionate.
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs 
to react appropriately to the information shown by those checks. In some cases, 
those results might lead a lender to decline a loan application outright. Or the results 
might sometimes lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers 
financial situation. And that is what I think should have happened in this case.
The credit check results showed that Mr C had faced problems managing his money 
in the past. His credit file showed four accounts that had been defaulted and 
remained outstanding. I accept that three of those defaults had been recorded a 
number of years before. But experience often shows that consumers who have faced 
problems managing their money in the past, frequently face similar problems in the 
future.
 
I think of most to concern to ELL should have been the fourth default on the credit 
file. That had been added earlier in the same month that Mr C applied for this loan. 
That might have shown that Mr C had not overcome the financial problems that hed 
faced in the past. I have seen that ELL says it discussed this default with Mr C and 
that he explained that it related to a mobile phone that had been lost. He said that he 
had informed the provider, but had not heard anything further. ELL says that it didnt 
think this problem showed that Mr C was still facing problems with his money.
But I dont agree that it was reasonable for ELL to simply accept Mr Cs explanation 
without further investigation. I agree that the credit check showed that in more recent 
times (with the exception of the last default) Mr C had made little use of credit. And 
that he had managed the credit he had taken well. At the time of his loan application 
he wasnt borrowing from elsewhere. But I dont think the proximity of the default 
made it responsible for ELL to provide the loan without more comprehensive checks.
But although I think ELL should have gathered more information, that in itself doesnt 
mean that Mr Cs complaint should succeed. Id also need to be persuaded that the 
results of those additional checks would have shown ELL that Mr C was facing 
problems managing his money and so couldnt sustainably afford the repayments.
Our investigator asked Mr C for copies of his bank statements from around the time 
of the loan. At this stage I want to be clear that I am not suggesting that this is the 
exact check that ELL should have carried out. I do think ELL needed further evidence 
to corroborate what
Mr C said was happening with his finances. And looking at his bank statements is 
one way of achieving that although there are of course many other ways that level of 
detail could be established. But I think that by looking at Mr Cs bank statements 
I could get a good idea of what further checks might have shown.
Mr C has told us that he is unable to provide copies of his bank statements from 
around the time the loan was agreed. Without that information Im not able to get an 
independent picture of what his financial circumstances were like at the relevant time. 
That means I cant say that if ELL had completed additional checks it wouldve found 
that Mr C couldnt afford to repay the loan.
So Im not able to say that the information ELL should have gathered at the time 
would have led it to reasonably decline Mr Cs loan application. If Mr C is able to 
provide us with copies of his bank statements I will of course reconsider my decision 
on this complaint. But, based on the information currently available to me, Im not 
able to conclude that the loan was lent irresponsibly.
I invited both parties to provide us with any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. ELL has said that it accepts my provisional findings. Mr Cs CMC says 
that it has tried to contact him on multiple occasions, but hasnt received any response. But it 
says that Mr C had previously said he was unable to provide any bank statements from the 
time the loan was agreed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither party has provided me with any new evidence or further comments I see 
no reason to alter the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. So Im not able to 
say that the information ELL should have gathered at the time would have led it to 
reasonably decline Mr Cs loan application. Based on the information available to me, Im not 
able to conclude that the loan was lent irresponsibly.My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold the complaint or 
make any award against Everyday Lending Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman