DRN-3298284
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) wont refund a payment
they made after falling victim to a scam.
What happened
In December 2019, Mr and Mrs S were looking for renewable energy investments online and 
found a company Ill refer to as C. Mr and Mrs S checked Cs website, downloaded 
brochures and left their contact details. They were contacted by someone purporting to work 
for C and were interested in an investment option to buy bonds relating to wind energy.
Mr and Mrs S says the people they spoke to at C had good knowledge of the European 
market and recent UK policy changes in respect of onshore and offshore wind farms. And 
that they had extensive phone conversations with them about the business model and the 
investment strategy. Following those calls Mr and Mrs S did online research and found 
schemes C had referred to existed and were successful.
Mr and Mrs S say the return C offered was 10.1% which was slightly higher than the rest of 
the market, but inline with other returns theyd seen offered including from FCA regulated 
companies.
Mr and Mrs S say they completed research before proceeding with the investment including:
speaking to industry experts who assured them this sort of return on windfarms was 
entirely feasible.
asking more experienced investors they knew to check the financial accounts of the 
parent company of C.
asking a friend who was an experienced investor if the investment appeared genuine.
checked reviews on independent investor forums which appeared ok.
Mr and Mrs S say they knew C wasnt authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
and were told by C this was due to them offshoring their business in a tax haven.  They say 
during the calls they were provided rationale for Cs business model including being based in 
a foreign European country for tax purposes and only using the UK to market their bonds. 
But that the bonds were primarily for government backed wind energy schemes in North 
America and the investment would be held in Escrow, so they felt the risk to their investment 
would be small even if the returns werent guaranteed.
Mr and Mrs S say they also felt confident in the way theyd found the investment and the 
checks theyd made as theyd done the same previously for a smaller investment with 
another firm  for which they received quarterly dividends. 
On 19 December 2019, Mr S and Mrs S made their payment to C in branch for the amount 
of £70,000.
In January 2020, the beneficiary bank Mr and Mrs S had sent their payment to contacted 
Lloyds. That Bank told Lloyds knows there were concerns about transactions into the 
beneficiary account, so Lloyds got in touch with Mr and Mrs S to ask if they couldve been 
the victims of a scam. Lloyds recommended that Mr and Mrs S raise a fraud claim and 
started an investigation including trying to recover Mr and Mrs Ss funds from the beneficiary 
bank.
Within a week the beneficiary bank let Lloyds know that no funds could be recovered.
Mr and Mrs S were in contact with Lloyds between January and May 2020, trying to get their 
money refunded. In May 2020 Lloyds issued their final response, letting Mr and Mrs S know 
they wouldnt be refunding them. 
Lloyds is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM Code) which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP 
scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances. 
Lloyds response to Mr and Mrs S didnt address whether theyd considered the fraud claim 
under the CRM Code, it simply said that as it was an authorised payment Lloyds wouldnt be 
refunding it. Lloyds did say theyd tried to recover the funds from the beneficiary bank but 
were unsuccessful. And that the service Mr and Mrs S had received from them was poor, so 
Lloyds made a payment of £250 to Mr and Mrs Ss account in recognition of this. 
Mr and Mrs S werent happy with Lloyds response, so they brought a complaint to our 
service. 
An investigator looked into Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. In response to our information request, 
Lloyds told us they felt Mr and Mrs S werent entitled to a refund under the CRM Code as an 
exception applied in their case. Lloyds say Mr and Mrs S didnt do due diligence before 
making their investment, and that theyd ignored an effective warning.
The investigator upheld Mr and Mrs Ss complaint, saying the warning provided by Lloyds 
wasnt specific to the scam Mr and Mrs S fell victim to - meaning the warning wasnt 
effective. And that Mr and Mrs S had a reasonable basis for believing the investment was 
genuine, therefore Mr and Mrs S were entitled to a full refund under the CRM code, as well 
as interest on the refund at the account interest rate.
Lloyds disagreed with the investigators opinion saying:
Mr and Mrs S didnt complete due diligence.
The returns quoted were too good to be true when compared to other investments at 
the time.
Mr and Mrs S didnt do sufficient checks on Companies House, and if they had, they 
shouldve had concerns regarding supposed profitable investment claims of income 
and dividends.
C shows as registered and based in the UK, as such as a financial firm they had to 
be authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), which they werent.
As Lloyds disagreed, the case was passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.As Ive said, Lloyds is a signatory of the CRM Code, which requires firms to reimburse 
customers who have been the victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, like the 
one Mr and Mrs S have been the victims of, in all but a limited number of circumstances. 
Under the CRM Code, a firm may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish that 
an exception applies. Lloyds has argued that two of those exceptions apply in this case: 
 The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made; 
 The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that: 
o the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; 
o the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or 
o the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate.
There are further exceptions within the CRM Code, but those dont apply here.
Did Mr and Mrs S ignore an effective warning?
Lloyds say that a High Value Checklist (HVC) was completed at the time Mr and Mrs S made 
the payment of £70,000 in a branch.  They dont have the one that was completed with      
Mr and Mrs S, however theyve given us a copy of a blank one they say wouldve mirrored 
the one completed. There are no records of exactly what was discussed in branch, but Mr S 
says he was asked questions about the purpose of the funds -  which he answered honestly. 
Lloyds internal notes suggest that a scam leaflet mayve been given, but its not clear if it 
was.
The CRM Code sets out criteria that an effective warning should meet which includes a need 
for it to be specific and impactful.
The warning script set out on the blank HVC isnt specific to the scam Mr and Mrs S fell 
victim to. It says: 
I need to advise you that there are a number of different scams some customers are falling 
victim to.  For example:
Fraudsters may contact you by, telephone, email, knocking on your door or via social 
medio. Often fraudsters claim to be from trusted organisations such as Police, 
HMRC, FCA, your Broadband Company or the Banks fraud team:
We also know fraudsters impersonate beneficiaries of payments for such things as a 
house purchase, by sending them an email which looks to be from the company they 
have been dealing with providing incorrect payment account details to divert money 
to an account they control
Its important that before making this payment we are both happy it is not in relation to a 
scam. Please be aware that if this transaction is later found to be fraudulent your money 
could be at risk 
This warning has no relevance to the scam Mr and Mrs S fell victim to. Mr and Mrs S had 
made contact with the investment firm first, leaving their contact details and asking for further 
information about an investment opportunity. So, the contact they received was expected 
and came from the firm theyd left their details with. They were in regular contact with C for months before making the payment, so I cant see that this warning wouldve been impactful 
in Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances or situation.
The next section on the HVC contains some questions to ask the customer including:
 if this is for an investment have you checked the company for example through the FCA 
website or checked reviews. 
Its likely that Mr and Mrs S wouldve answered yes to this question as they had checked the 
FCA website and found C wasnt listed. But there are no set follow-on questions, or wording 
that suggests Mr and Mrs S wouldve been given guidance or a specific warning about the 
risks associated with investing in a company that isnt FCA registered. The form does 
suggest that if the answer to this question is no, the staff member should refer to a senior 
colleague. But there is nothing to show what discussion was then held, or what                   
Mr and Mrs S were told.
In this case Mr and Mrs S say they asked C why they werent registered with the FCA and 
were satisfied with the explanation about C being based offshore. But I think if Mr and Mrs S 
were told or warned not to proceed with the payment without doing further checks, its 
unlikely Mr and Mrs S wouldve proceeded with the payment. I say this based on the 
extensive checks they had done before deciding to make the investment.
And Im conscious that Mr and Mrs S werent aware of cloned investment firms, or that 
illegitimate investment opportunities are advertised online. Lloyds was the expert in this 
regard, and I cant see that there was any warning given in relation to this type of scam, or 
about cloned investment firms.
So, Im not satisfied that Mr and Mr S were given an effective warning by Lloyds.
Did Mr and Mrs S have a reasonable basis for belief in making the payment? 
Lloyds also raised concerns that Mr and Mrs S didnt do due diligence before making the 
investment, and therefore didnt have a reasonable basis for believing the investment was 
genuine. However, I disagree for the following reasons:
Mr and Mrs S were given brochures and paperwork from C, all of which were very 
professional. They were also able to see a website for C, which has since been 
removed. All of the communication and documentation Ive seen from C, looks 
legitimate and doesnt show any warning signs that this might not be a genuine 
investment or firm. 
Mr S worked in a sector that was involved in renewable energy, so had knowledge 
around the renewable energy sector. And Mr S has told us he tested out what he was 
told by employees of C by researching online the information he was given, as well 
as by asking them questions to test their knowledge. Mr S says they appeared 
knowledgeable about the sector and the investment, and that he saw no warning 
signs.
Mr S says he did check the FCA website and saw that they werent registered. So, he 
questioned C about this. He says the explanation they gave about being based 
offshore didnt seem unusual, based on previous experience he had in investigating a 
firm through his employment which he says had a similar offshore structure.
Mr S also discussed the investment with other, more experienced investors, that he 
knew. He says that they suggested the investment looked genuine, so he had 
confidence in investing.Mr S also had a friend look C up on Companies House and says they reassured him 
that C had a consistent record of submitting accounts and that the balance sheet was 
healthy  which reassured him about the legitimacy of C.
The returns that Mr and Mrs S were cited of 10.1% wasnt unusual in the renewable 
sector at the time of the investment. Mr and Mrs S say they saw other similar 
investments offering 9 or 10% returns, and from what Ive seen Im not persuaded 
that the return shouldve caused Mr and Mrs S concerns.
The CRM code doesnt require Mr and Mrs S to do checks, unless there are warning signs 
or anything that may indicate the transaction isnt legitimate. But from what Ive seen, there 
wasnt anything that shouldve suggested to Mr and Mrs S that this investment wasnt 
legitimate. 
So, Im not satisfied that Lloyds have evidenced that Mr and Mrs S didnt have a reasonable 
basis for belief in making this payment under the CRM Code.
 
Im aware that Lloyds considers too high a standard has been applied to what is expected of 
it in terms of identifying payments that might indicate a consumer is at risk of financial harm; 
and it has referred to the Quincecare duty in support of its argument.
 
I am mindful that the courts have interpreted Quincecare narrowly and the circumstances of 
this complaint are different to that case. Our fair and reasonable remit also enables us to 
take account of regulatory and industry standards beyond the narrow legal duties considered 
in that and other court cases. In any event, I am not suggesting Quincecare applies to this 
case, however the broad legal position that a bank is expected to process payments that a 
customer authorises is not absolute  and Quincecare (along with regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and good industry practice at the time) is an example of 
that.
Should Mr and Mrs S have done more to mitigate their loss?
Ive also considered whether Mr and Mrs S should bear some responsibility by way of 
contributory negligence.
But its clear that Mr and Mrs S werent aware of scams involving cloned information firms. 
The paperwork they received looked professional, and all of the information they were given 
by C built on Mr and Mrs Ss confidence that the investment was genuine. Also,                  
Mr and Mrs S took reasonable steps to verify information they were given, including asking 
people they considered more experienced to undertake checks for them. From what Ive 
seen, I dont consider there were obvious warning signs that Mr and Mrs S ignored, and I 
dont think they acted unreasonably in making the payment.
The level of customer service Mr and Mrs S received
Mr and Mrs S arent happy with the level of service theyve received from Lloyds. Lloyds 
have acknowledged that the service they provided Mr and Mrs S couldve been better and 
paid them £250 in recognition of this.
From what Ive seen Lloyds couldve provided more timely updates to Mr and Mrs S and 
have provided incorrect and contradictory information at points. On that basis, I think the 
£250 already paid is a fair award and I wont be asking Lloyds to pay any more - in regards 
to the level of service theyve provided.
In summaryHaving considered everything, Im not satisfied that Lloyds have shown an exception under 
the code applies to the payment Mr and Mrs S made. Therefore, Lloyds should refund        
Mr and Mrs S in full under the CRM code and pay interest on that refund at the account rate 
of interest  for the account the funds were taken from.
Putting things right
To put things right Ill be asking Lloyds Bank PLC to:
refund the payment of £70,000
pay interest on this refund at the account interest rate (where the funds were taken 
from), from the date Lloyds shouldve refunded Mr and Mrs S under the CRM Code 
until the date of settlement
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman