DRN-4163098
The complaint
Mrs S has complained that Covea Insurance plc unfairly declined a claim on her pet 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs S first took out a pet insurance policy for her dog with Covea in March 2015. She made 
a claim under the policy to repair a ruptured cruciate ligament in the dogs left hind leg. 
Covea settled the claim.
Covea said Mrs S contacted it by phone before the policy was due to renew in March 2016 
to cancel the policy because of the increase in the premium. It said it had advised Mrs S on 
the call that she would lose continuity of cover for conditions that had developed since the 
policy had been taken out.
On 31 March 2016 Mrs S took out a new lifetime policy with Covea. That policy excluded 
cover for pre-existing conditions. In September 2021 Mrs S made a claim for the dogs 
osteoarthritis. Covea settled the claim.
In November 2022 Mrs S made a continuation claim. Covea reviewed the dogs clinical 
history. It said the history showed that the dogs osteoarthritis was secondary to the cruciate 
disease in his left hind leg that was the subject of a claim under the original policy. It said as 
this was before the present policy had started, the osteoarthritis would be treated as a pre-
existing condition and not covered by the policy. It said all claims relating to the dogs 
osteoarthritis had been paid in error but it wouldnt look to reclaim the monies.
Mrs S provided evidence from her vet that while the dog had osteoarthritis in his left hind leg, 
he also had arthritis in other limbs and the medication he had been prescribed was to 
manage pain in these limbs also. Covea didnt change its decision.
Mrs S brought a complaint to this service. Our investigator upheld it. He found that the dog 
had arthritis in his other legs and hips as well as in the left hind leg. The vet said that the 
same medication would be needed to treat the other limbs, so there was no way of splitting 
the cost. He didnt think Covea hadnt acted fairly in declining the claim. He recommended 
that Covea reassess the claim.
Covea didnt agree. It said no x-rays had been taken of the other joints to confirm the 
diagnosis. However, it was prepared to pay half the treatment costs for the osteoarthritis.
As the Investigator wasnt able to resolve the complaint, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having listened to Mrs Ss telephone call with Covea, Im satisfied it explained to her the 
consequences of cancelling the original policy and taking out a new one (namely that her 
dog wouldnt be covered for the cruciate condition that had developed since the policy had 
been taken out).
There is an exclusion in the policy for the cost of any treatment for a pre-existing condition. A 
pre-existing condition is defined as:
An injury that happened or an illness that first showed clinical signs before your pets 
cover started, or
An injury or illness that is the same as, or has the same diagnosis or clinical signs as an 
injury, illness or clinical sign your pet had before its cover started, or
An injury or illness that is caused by, relates to, or results from, an injury, incident, illness 
or clinical sign your pet had before its cover started. No matter where the injury, illness or 
clinical signs are noticed or happen in, or on, your pets body. This is in addition to any 
exclusion(s) stated on your Certificate of Insurance.
I need to consider whether Covea has treated Mrs S fairly in relying on this exclusion to 
decline the claim. That requires there to be sufficient evidence of a connection between the 
condition claimed for and the one that happened before the policy started.
Covea has said that the dogs osteoarthritis was caused by the cruciate ligament rupture that 
he had before the policy started. I can see from the clinical history that in May 2015 the dog 
had a full cruciate rupture in his left hind leg and on 1 September 2015 the vet recorded 
Lameness should settle, although discussion with owner re progressive arthritis 
anticipated. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for Covea to treat the osteoarthritis in the 
left hind leg as a pre-existing condition and one not covered by the policy.
Covea said no x-rays had been taken of the other joints to confirm the diagnosis of 
osteoarthritis. I agree but stiffness and arthritis have been diagnosed by Mrs Ss vet 
following an examination of her dog. In the absence of other evidence I place more weight 
on the opinion of Mrs Ss vet as his diagnosis was based on an actual examination of the 
dog.
Mrs Ss vet has said that the dog was on long term pain relief and joint supplements to 
manage osteoarthritis. While he has osteoarthritis in his left hind limb, in which he has a 
history of cruciate ligament rupture, he also displays stiffness and signs of arthritis in his 
other limbs, and the medication is to manage his pain in these limbs also.
In order to reject Mrs Ss claim for the treatment of arthritis in the other limbs excluding the 
left hind leg, Covea needs to prove, on balance, that the arthritis and stiffness in those other 
limbs was caused by, related to or resulted from the cruciate ligament rupture in the left hind 
leg. I havent seen any persuasive evidence that there is such a connection. On the contrary, 
Mrs Ss vet said it was unfair of Covea to exclude osteoarthritis affecting all limbs, as a 
result of a condition in his history affecting one limb.
In order to treat the osteoarthritis in the other limbs, the dog needs the same pain relief and 
supplements as if he only had osteoarthritis in the left hind leg. I agree with our Investigator 
that theres no fair way of splitting the cost as the medication treats the whole body not 
individual limbs. 
To put things right, I think Covea should settle the claim subject to the other terms and 
conditions of the policy. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Covea Insurance plc to 
settle Mrs Ss claim subject to the other terms and conditions of the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman