DRN-3043004
The complaint
Mr L complains about the advice he received from Future Wealth Management (FWM) when 
he transferred his existing pensions to a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). 
His funds were subsequently invested in investments including high-risk Contracts for 
Difference (CFD) and he lost the majority of his pension funds. Mr L says a SIPP wasnt 
suited to his circumstances and the risks of this transaction were never properly explained to 
him.
At the time FWM was an appointed representative of Pi Financial Ltd (Pi), so they are 
responsible for FWMs actions and for this complaint. For ease of reading Ill refer to Pi 
throughout this decision. 
 
What happened
Several firms will be mentioned in this decision. These are:
Alexander Money (AM) -unregulated introducer
Pi Financial Ltd (trading as FWM) - regulated financial adviser
Horizon Stockbroking Ltd (HS)  regulated discretionary investment manager-in liquidation
James Hay (JH)-SIPP provider
In 2014 AM introduced Mr L to Pi for advice on a SIPP.
Mr L signed a letter dated 5 September 2014 to PI saying: 
I would like to transfer my existing pension plan into a new Self Invested Personal 
Pension Plan, in order to allow me access a wider range of investments. 
Could you please recommend a suitable SIPP provider for me and arrange the transfer 
accordingly. 
Please note that I have a separate investment adviser who will be arranging the investments 
to be held within the SIPP and therefore I do not require any advice from you concerning 
this, or the suitability of a SIPP platform. 
I hope that you would be able to assist me and look forward to hearing from you.
On 8 September the adviser from PI replied saying:
Thank you for the letter of the 5 September 2014 in which you instructed me to transfer your 
current . Plan into a new Self Invested Personal Pension (SIPP).  I confirm I am happy to 
carry out your request and, as discussed, I will research the whole of the market to find the 
most appropriate SIPP for your requirements. 
I have made you aware that, under normal circumstances, I would carry out a full review of 
your personal and financial circumstances and assess them in relation to the suitability of the 
SIPP. However you have specifically requested this particular vehicle and did not want me to 
look into alternative options for you.
I will have no input in the investment strategy for your SIPP funds, as you are using a 
separate investment adviser for this, and therefore I will only be responsible for arranging, 
and transferring your funds into the SIPP.
Mr L signed a client agreement and a service agreement with Pi on 10 September 2014. 
The same day a Pension Replacement Contract Form was completed. It included 
information about Mr Ls existing pension and the new SIPP, including charges and whether 
the existing plan held any guarantees. The risk category for the SIPP was recorded as 
balanced, with an asset allocation being described as managed. This matched what was 
recorded for the existing plans.
The Reasons for Switching section had ticks next to the headings:
No longer suitable for clients investment objectives
Lack of features/flexibility
Other
A section on the form headed Alternatives Considered asked whether moving funds within 
the existing contracts was an option. This was ticked as no. And a note recorded: 
Client Wishes To Set Up A SIPP To Choose Own Funds.
Also on 10 September 2014, a fact find was completed. It showed Mr L was 54, divorced 
and had an annual income of £30,000 with regular overtime payments of £10,000-20,000. It 
said Mr L had £10,000 in cash, £8,000 in ISA/PEP and he owned a second property. Mr Ls 
objectives were recorded as have sufficient income in retirement to make life comfortable 
/adequate and retire at 65.
 Pi issued a suitability report on 6 November 2014 headed Personal Pension To SIPP 
Transfer. This said, amongst other things: 
My advice is based on the details you provided at our meeting.
You instructed me to specifically limit my advice to Pension Planning and setting up a Self 
Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) with no advice received on the Investment of the SIPP 
and I have acted accordingly. I have, therefore, only obtained the necessary information 
from you to advise on the above area. You should be aware that my recommendations may 
have differed if I had undertaken a full review of your financial circumstances.
You wish to invest in and choose your own Investment to invest your SIPP monies. I will 
have no input in where you wish to invest your monies of your SIPP and will set up the SIPP 
with a provider on your behalf. You have intimated that you may wish to invest directly in 
shares within your SIPP funds. I have given no advice on where you should invest your SIPP 
funds and have only set up your SIPP investment with the appropriate provider.

ObjectivesYou wanted me to recommend an appropriate SIPP into which you can transfer your 
..Personal Pension Plans.

Your Risk Profile
Ordinarily I would complete a risk profiling' questionnaire, however as you wished to carry 
out your own investments you felt this was not required.
And there was a section titled Replacement Business which said:
In reviewing your objectives, I have recommended that you surrender/discontinue the
contracts outlined in the Replacement Policy Form.
The rationale for this is also outlined in the Replacement Policy Form, which we completed
during our last meeting and a copy of which is attached to this letter.
The recommendation section said:
After doing my research on the most appropriate provider and plan to meet your needs, I 
have recommended a James Hay SIPP. James Hay was chosen over the other providers on 
the original research due to their low annual management charge, low set up fee and quality 
of service. 
It is worthwhile outlining the product features of the contract recommended to demonstrate 
why it is suitable to your current circumstances and stated objectives, which I outlined 
earlier.
It went on to set out the benefits of a SIPP. 
The report was signed to confirm that Mr L had received and understood it on 25 February 
2015. An application for the SIPP was completed the same day which recorded Mr Ls 
employment and income details. A file note indicates that Mr L was on holiday and working 
away for some time which is why there was a delay between the advice given and the 
paperwork being signed. Pi said they checked with Mr L and he still wanted to proceed.
By this point Mr L had also signed account opening forms for a stockbroker account and an 
account opening form with HS for a discretionary investment management service. 
Under Understanding & Experience it was recorded that in the past three years Mr L had 
traded four times in shares without advice. The average value of the trade was £200-£400.
A Knowledge and Experience section which asked if a customer had ever traded in a 
number of more complex investments including CFDs, Options, Derivatives, Commodities or 
Spread Betting was left blank.
The HS form had a section entitled Investment Risk and Objectives which said:
Please indicate below your tolerance to short term fluctuations in capital or income by 
ticking one of the following options:
The box for Medium was ticked as well as High which said, in brief, that the portfolio could 
be subject to increased risk and the possibility of significant fluctuation of capital value. 
There was the risk of substantial loss; potentially in excess of the initial deposit. It said the 
managed CFD account carried a high risk of loss compared to many traditional investments. A box was ticked as Yes to indicate that Mr L was willing to invest through a managed CFD 
account and that he was only investing money that he could afford to lose. It said: 
I understand that this is a high-risk speculative product, and that I might lose some or all of 
the funds invested.
Mr L became concerned about the advice hed been given when the value of his SIPP had 
reduced significantly less than a year after he transferred. He complained to Pi who didnt 
uphold his complaint and so it was referred to this service. 
One of our adjudicators investigated it. He recommended that it should be upheld. Pi 
disagreed and the complaint was passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Pi has submitted detailed submissions which I considered in full. However, Ill focus in this 
decision on what I consider to be the key material issues in deciding the fair outcome of this 
complaint. 
Pis position in summary is that:
Mr L instructed Pi to recommend an appropriate SIPP provider. It only provided Mr L 
with a limited advice service on these specific instructions. Given the limited nature of 
the retainer the firm took reasonable steps to ensure that its recommendation was 
suitable in full compliance with COBS 9.2.1 and 9.2.2. Any liability could only be in 
regard to whether a SIPP was appropriate for Mr L.
Pi didnt provide Mr L with advice on the switch from his personal pension plans to a 
SIPP or on the investment through HS. Mr L had already decided what he wanted to 
do before he approached Pi. And the HS forms made it clear the intended 
investments were high risk. They doubt additional information by Pi would have 
changed Mr Ls course of action. 
Mr L had confirmed that he would be using a separate investment manager. Pi 
established that manager was an authorised and regulated firm and appropriately 
qualified. They did compliance checks and there were no red flags which should 
have caused them to refuse to arrange the transfer for Mr L.
The investment strategy for the SIPP was the responsibility of HS who was also a 
regulated party. HS is responsible for Mr Ls losses and not Pi who only played a 
very limited role here. The fact that HS is now in liquidation doesnt change this.
relevant considerations
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
The FCAs Principles for Businesses (PRIN) apply to all authorised firms including Pi. Of 
particular relevance to this complaint is: PRIN 2: A  firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly 
PRIN 9: A firm must take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice and 
discretionary decisions for any customer who is entitled to rely upon its judgment. 
In addition, where regulated investment advice is given, the more detailed Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook (COBS) rules apply. Of particular relevance to this complaint are:
COBS 9 which applies where a firm makes a personal recommendation in relation to 
designated investment.
COBS 9.2.1(1): A firm must take reasonable steps to ensure that a personal 
recommendation, or a decision to trade, is suitable for its client.
COBS 9.2.1 (2) says that when making a personal recommendation, a firm must obtain the 
necessary information regarding the client's:
(a) knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the specific type of 
designated investment or service;
(b) financial situation; and
(c) investment objectives;
so as to enable the firm to make the recommendation, or take the decision, which is suitable 
for him.
COBS 9.2.2 provides:
(1) A firm must obtain from the client such information as is necessary for the firm to 
understand the essential facts about him and have a reasonable basis for believing, giving 
due consideration to the nature and extent of the service provided, that the specific 
transaction to be recommended, or entered into in the course of managing:
(a) meets his investment objectives;
(b) is such that he is able financially to bear any related investment risks consistent 
with his investment objectives; and
(c) is such that he has the necessary experience and knowledge in order to 
understand the risks involved in the transaction or in the management of his portfolio.
(2) The information regarding the investment objectives of a client must include, where 
relevant, information on the length of time for which he wishes to hold the investment, his 
preferences regarding risk taking, his risk profile, and the purposes of the investment.
(3) The information regarding the financial situation of a client must include, where relevant, 
information on the source and extent of his regular income, his assets, including liquid 
assets, investments and real property, and his regular financial commitments.
I am also mindful of the general legal position including: the law relating to causation, 
foreseeability and remoteness of losses.
My considerations here are:Did Pi give Mr L investment advice including a personal recommendation?
If so, was the advice suitable? 
If the advice was unsuitable I need to consider whether:
Mr L would have relied on the advice or whether he would have acted the 
same way he did irrespective of Pis advice and 
If Mr L did follow Pis advice, how fair compensation should be calculated in 
the specific circumstances of this case.
advising on investments
I have firstly considered whether, based on the facts of the complaint, Pi provided Mr L with 
regulated investment advice. 
Regulated activities specified for the purposes of section 22 of the Financial Services and 
Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) were set out in the Regulated Activities Order (RAO) and 
included:
Advising on investments
53.  Advising a person is a specified kind of activity if the advice is
(a) given to the person in his capacity as an investor or potential investor, or in his capacity 
as agent for an investor or a potential investor; and
(b) advice on the merits of his doing any of the following (whether as principal or agent)
(i) buying, selling, subscribing for or underwriting a particular investment which is a security 
or a relevant investment, or
(ii) exercising any right conferred by such an investment to buy, sell, subscribe for or 
underwrite such an investment.
Part III of the RAO listed the kinds of investment which are specified for the purposes of 
section 22 of FSMA. This included:
Article 82, Rights under a pension scheme which at the time read.
(1) Rights under a stakeholder pension scheme. 
(2) Rights under a personal pension scheme.
As far as I can see Pi agrees that they recommended a particular SIPP with a particular 
SIPP provider to Mr L. This is also clearly evidenced in the following documents:
The research report which was issued on 6 November 2014 and prepared by Pis 
adviser and which -after comparing several SIPPs and providers- recommended the 
James Hay Modular iSIPP for Mr L. 
The suitability report headed Personal Pension To SIPP Transfer which said 
amongst other things:
My advice is based on the details you provided at our meeting.You instructed me to specifically limit my advice to Pension Planning and setting up a Self 
Invested Personal Pension. (SIPP) with no advice received on the Investment of the SIPP 
and I have acted accordingly.
Under Objectives it said You wanted me to recommend an appropriate SIPP into which 
you can transfer your Personal Pension Plans. 
Pi went onto make a specific recommendation After doing my research on the most 
appropriate provider and plan I have recommended a James Hay SIPP. James Hay was 
chosen over the other providers on the original research due to their low annual 
management charge, low set up fee and quality of service. 
It is worthwhile outlining the product features of the contract recommended to demonstrate 
why it is suitable to your current circumstances and stated objectives [my emphasis], 
which I outlined earlier.
Having undertaken appropriate research on your behalf I believe that James Hay 
Partnership will offer the most suitable contract given your stated objectives.
A copy of the research undertaken . accompanies this letter for your
consideration which outlines in greater detail the reasons for the recommendation of the 
chosen provider. [my emphasis]
I think its clear from the documents that Pi recommended a particular SIPP with a particular 
provider which they said was suitable for Mr L. Im satisfied that recommending a suitable 
SIPP provider can be considered to be advising under Article 53 RAO. 
I am satisfied that Pi were giving regulated advice on investments and provided a personal 
recommendation to Mr L when they advised on the SIPP. Therefore the obligations in COBS 
9 were engaged.
was PI entitled to rely on their limited retainer? 
Pi has said it provided a limited advice service in accordance with Mr Ls instructions. Mr L 
had specifically asked for them to recommend a SIPP product and he told them he didnt 
require investment advice. Pi says they didnt provide advice on the switch from Mr Ls 
personal pension to the SIPP or where it would be invested.
The issue to determine is whether Pi was entitled to restrict their advice to the 
recommendation of the SIPP product only. Having considered this carefully I dont think it 
was fair and reasonable for them to do so.
The purpose of Pis regulatory duties under FSMA (and COBS) is to provide consumer 
protection taking into account the differing risks involved in different kinds of investments, the 
differing degrees of experience and expertise consumers have and the needs consumers 
may have for the timely provision of information and advice that is accurate and fit for 
purpose (Section 1B FSMA). 
When recommending the SIPP, Pi needed to have a reasonable basis for believing that their 
recommendation would meet Mr Ls objectives and that he was able to bear any related 
investment risks. 
I consider the risks of Mr L transferring his existing pensions and the risks of his intended 
investments through the SIPP with these monies were related to the establishment of the 
SIPP itself. Applying COBS 9.2.2, Im satisfied Pi couldnt simply ignore the context of why Mr L wanted a recommendation for a SIPP and what Mr L was intending to do once the 
SIPP was established. I consider that in order to advise on the merits of setting up a specific 
SIPP product, Pi needed to have regard to Mr Ls wider circumstances including how his 
funds were currently invested and what the intended investment strategy would be. 
Assessing the suitability of a SIPP in isolation without considering the whole transaction is 
not reasonably possible. 
The FSA published an alert in 2013 when they became concerned that regulated financial 
advisers were misinterpreting the rules. The alert focussed on unregulated investments 
which were introduced by unregulated introducers as these held particular risks for 
customers, however I consider the principles here still apply where regulated investments 
are concerned. The alert said:
The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable advice generally requires consideration of
the other investments held by the customer or, when advice is given on a product which is a
vehicle for investment in other products (such as SIPPs and other wrappers), consideration
of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the wrapper and the expected underlying
investments in unregulated schemes.
Financial advisers using this advice model are under the mistaken impression that this
process means they do not have to consider the unregulated investment as part of their
advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only need to consider the suitability of the SIPP in
the abstract. This is incorrect.
For example, where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will
transfer out of a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest in an overseas
property investment under a SIPP, then the suitability of the overseas property investment
must form part of the advice about whether the customer should transfer into the SIPP. If,
taking into account the individual circumstances of the customer, the original pension
product, including its underlying holdings, is more suitable for the customer, then the SIPP is
not suitable
In 2014 the FSA issued a further alert in which they reiterated [emphasis added]:
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will transfer or 
switch from a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest through a SIPP, then 
the suitability of the underlying investment must form part of the advice given to the 
customer. If the underlying investment is not suitable for the customer, then the 
overall advice is not suitable. 
The initial alert outlined our view that where advice is given on a product (such as a SIPP) 
which is intended as a wrapper or vehicle for investment in other products, provision of 
suitable advice generally requires consideration of the overall transaction, that is, the vehicle 
or wrapper and the expected underlying investments (whether or not such investments 
are regulated products).
Despite the initial alert, some firms continue to operate a model where they purportedly 
restrict their advice to the merits of the SIPP wrapper. 
I appreciate that the alert didnt mention explicitly situations where a second regulated party 
was involved to give investment advice. Pi says the alert was to provide guidance where 
there was an advice gap and the adviser was the only regulated party in the transaction. 
And this wasnt the case here. However, I think applying a narrow reading of the alert is misguided. The essence of the 
alert, in my view, was to remind advisers that they couldnt just advise on a SIPP in isolation, 
but that to comply with their regulatory obligations they needed to consider the consumers 
wider circumstances and whether what they were intending to do was suitable and in their 
best interest.  I want to be clear that I consider Pis obligations in this regard stem from 
COBS 9 and the Principles. The alert just provides clarification and sets out expectations 
from the regulator and good industry practice. The requirements of COBS 9.2.2 dont fall 
away when another regulated party is involved.
It follows that in order to give suitable advice on the SIPP Pi needed to consider Mr Ls wider 
circumstances and the suitability of the whole transaction, i.e. the switch from a personal 
pension to a SIPP, the suitability of a particular SIPP product and provider and the 
underlying investment strategy. 
I also point to COBS 2.1.2R which sets out clearly that a firm must not seek to exclude or 
restrict; or rely on any exclusion or restriction of any duty or liability it may have to the client 
under the regulatory system. So Pi couldnt limit their obligation in COBS 9 by taking 
instructions from Mr L to only consider the SIPP wrapper in isolation. 
Pi and Mr L were in an advisory relationship where Pi was the expert and they had a duty to 
meet their regulatory obligations. As explained above COBS 9 required Pi do consider the 
wider suitability of Mr Ls intended transactions when recommending a SIPP-whether he 
requested this or not. They failed to do this and therefore I consider they did not act fairly or 
reasonably when providing their advice to Mr L.
Pi Financial referred to the court case Denning v Greenhalgh Financial Services which it said 
considered the scope of duty of advisers. And the High Court decision - Adams v Carey 
Pension UK LLP, where it noted the court had considered the duty of a party performing a 
limited service and said the decision was relevant to Mr Ls case. 
 
With respect to the Adams v Carey Pension UK LLP High Court decision, that case was 
about an execution-only contract. The parties were a SIPP administrator and an investor. It 
was clear on the facts of the case that the SIPP administrator didnt act in an advisory role 
and it told the investor to seek independent advice elsewhere. The judge held that COBS 
2.1.1 would have to therefore be construed in light of the nature of the contractual 
relationship which was not advisory. I think the circumstances in this complaint are 
significantly different. Pi didnt act on an execution-only basis. They were giving advice on 
the SIPP, so the regulatory obligations of COBS 9 did apply. And as explained above part of 
the suitability assessment of the SIPP would have included the suitability of the pension 
switch and the underlying investment strategy.
I have also considered Denning v Greenlagh, but it doesnt change my findings either. 
For the reasons I have explained, Im satisfied that Pi gave regulated advice on the suitability 
of the particular SIPP. They had to comply with their regulatory obligations under COBS 9 
and, in that sense, I dont think Denning is of value to that determination.   
In summary, I consider that when advising Mr L on the suitability of the James Hay Modular 
iSIPP, Pi had to consider the suitability of the whole intended transaction including the 
pension switch and where Mr L intended to invest after the transfer.
did Pi provide suitable advice?
COBS 9 required Pi to take reasonable steps to provide Mr L with a suitable 
recommendation, so I considered whether they met this requirement.Pi didnt properly establish Mr Ls attitude to risk or to what extent he could bear financial risk 
(often referred to as capacity for loss). The suitability report suggests Mr L felt a risk profile 
wasnt required. However, it didnt matter what Mr L might have considered necessary or not 
in this regard. Pi was required to meet their regulatory obligations and COBS 9 required Pi to 
obtain this information about Mr L before making their recommendation. They failed to do 
this.
Pi has told this service that they knew Mr L was intending to invest through HS. They said 
they did due diligence on HS and pointed to email correspondence between the firms. 
However, this correspondence is from August 2015, so several months after Mr L was given 
advice. I dont know what (if any) enquiries were made beforehand. 
In those emails HS confirmed that "at present all our SIPP clients' have a portfolio containing 
ETFs and CFDs. This is consistent with the client's attitude to risk completed on the 
application form". Ive also seen email correspondence between Pi and HS in 2015 where Pi 
was requesting statements for their clients which included Mr L. Pi said : [The statements] 
are all off by quite a bit and [Pis adviser] wants to speak to them. The email chain indicates 
that Pi and HS were in frequent contact about their mutual clients.
This indicates that Pi was still actively involved after the investments were made which 
somewhat conflicts with Pis statement that they only recommended the SIPP and played a 
very limited role in the process. So on balance I think its likely Pi knew that Mr L, like other 
clients introduced by AM and other unregulated introducers, would invest through Horizon 
into CFDs. And even if I assume the adviser didnt know what Horizon would invest in, in 
order to give suitable advice they should have found out.
Based on the evidence Ive seen Mr L didnt have any significant investment experience and 
this was his main pension provision. I cant see evidence that Mr L had previously mainly 
invested into particularly high-risk investments (other than the few direct share investments 
he did which were of very low value) or was otherwise particularly knowledgeable when it 
came to investments. His personal pension for example was invested in a balanced 
managed portfolio. Even if Mr L had suddenly wanted to invest into high risk investments, I 
think its highly unlikely he had the knowledge and experience to understand the risks 
involved in CFDs. 
Looking at the information available I cant see any indications that Mr L had a high attitude 
to risk. He was also investing a significant part of his pension provision. So I think it should 
have been clear to Pi that Mr L likely didnt have the capacity for loss to invest this way.
Based on the information I have, Im satisfied the intended investment into CFDs was 
unsuitable for Mr L. If Pi wasnt able to identify this with the information they had, then at the 
very least I think this would have been evident if they had asked Mr L more questions about 
his circumstances-like they ought to have done. In any event, I note Pi have already agreed 
that CFD investments wouldnt have been suitable for a retail customer like Mr L. So I dont 
think this issue is really in dispute.
Pi knew-or ought to have known- that Mr Ls intended investments through HS were 
unsuitable as they were too high risk. Despite this, they recommended a SIPP in order to 
facilitate this investment.
In summary, I think Pi should not have recommended a SIPP to Mr L. They should have 
explained that his intended investments were too high risk and that given his limited assets, 
he couldnt financially bear the risks with his retirement funds. In my view Pi were in breach of the Principles and COBS when they recommended the SIPP 
and thereby helped facilitate investments which were clearly not suitable for him. They didnt 
pay due regard to Mr Ls interests and did not take reasonable steps to ensure that their 
personal recommendation was suitable for Mr L as per their regulatory obligations. Therefore 
I do not consider that Pis actions in their dealings with Mr L were fair or reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
would Mr L have transferred his pension to a SIPP and invested through HS anyway?
Pi say that even if they had refused to assist Mr L, he likely would have found someone else 
to complete the transaction for him.
I carefully considered Pis argument, however on balance I think Mr L would have listened to 
Pi if they had clearly told him they wouldnt recommend a SIPP and that they considered the 
intended investments through HS to be unsuitable for him. 
The HS account opening forms did make it clear that CFDs were high risk 
 
However, I think explicit advice from Pi acting as a professional firm recommending him not 
to proceed would have carried significantly more weight than the general wording in the 
application forms warning the investment was high risk. Mr L had no real investment 
experience so Im not convinced he would have been able to properly understand the risks 
he was taking with large parts of his pension here. The consequences of the loss of the 
pension were of great significance to Mr Ls overall financial position. In my view Mr L didnt 
have the capacity to bear significant losses to his pension, which was a real possibility with 
the investment in the CFD account.
So I think on balance if Pi, as a regulated adviser and independent third party, had told Mr L 
they couldnt recommend the SIPP as the intended investments were not suitable for his 
circumstances, the transaction wasnt in his best interest and he couldnt afford to risk his 
pension in this way, I think he would have decided not to proceed. 
If AM had continued to try and persuade him to proceed regardless, Mr L would have faced 
a choice between taking the advice of the unregulated introducer or the authorised firm. Im 
not persuaded the evidence suggests Mr L was so strongly motivated to make the 
transaction that he would have decided to press ahead with it against professional expert 
advice. For the reasons I have given above, Im satisfied that Mr L on balance would have 
followed Pis advice if they had explained the position in full and recommended against the 
SIPP and investment with HS.
reliance on another regulated party: COBS 2.4.4
Pi also said COBS 2.4.4 should be considered. They say they were entitled to rely on HS 
providing a suitable recommendation for Mr L. Pi doesnt accept that there was a regulatory 
obligation for them to assess the investment in detail and certainly not to the extent than it 
would be expected from someone who recommended the investment.
Firstly, I dont consider that COBS 2.4.4. applies here. The rule broadly says where a firm 
(F1) receives an instruction from another regulated firm (F2) to carry out a regulated activity 
on behalf of a client, F1 can rely on assessments or information provided to it by F2. Pi 
suggests in these particular circumstances they were F1 and HS were F2. However, Pi didnt 
receive any instructions here from HS. 
There was no need for Pi to assess the investment in encompassing detail. But they needed 
to have sufficient understanding of what Mr L would be invested in. They either knew or should have known that Mr L was intending to invest in CFDs. And Pi has told us on a 
another complaint that they agree CFDs are not suitable for retail clients. 
So in any event, even if COBS 2.4.4. applied, I cant see how Pi could reasonably rely on HS 
providing Mr L with a suitable investment, when they knew (or should have known) Mr Ls 
account would include CFDs which Pi considered unsuitable for him.
fair compensation
I have found that Pi gave Mr L unsuitable advice and if it wasnt for their advice, Mr L more 
likely than not would have remained in his personal pension. Having considered all the 
evidence and arguments, I consider it fair that Pi compensates Mr L for any losses he 
suffered by transferring into the SIPP and investing into high risk investments through HS.
Pi says it cant be required to pay compensation which is outside of its legal scope of 
responsibility and which is too remote to be recoverable as a matter of law. It referred to 
SAAMCO v York Montague Ltd [1997] and BPE Solicitors v Hughes-Holland [2018]. 
Pis scope of duty was to take reasonable steps to give a suitable recommendation. This 
included understanding Mr Ls knowledge and experience, objectives and financial situation. 
Part of this duty was the consideration of the pension switch and the underlying investment 
in the SIPP as explained above. 
Pi breached their regulatory duties when they recommended a SIPP although the intended 
investments in CFDs were evidently unsuitable for Mr L.  For the reasons I have given earlier 
in the decision, I think Mr L would have likely remained in his existing pensions but for Pis 
failings. So Mr L wouldnt have been in the SIPP or CFD account at all if Pi had met its 
obligations under COBS and PRIN. And consequently he wouldnt have suffered the 
investment losses he did. I therefore consider the losses Mr L suffered from the high-risk 
investment are related to Pis unsuitable advice.
Pi say HS, who was also a regulated firm, had their own obligations towards Mr L and it was 
their investment strategy that ultimately caused Mr Ls losses. Pi pointed to other decisions 
at this service were findings were made that HS had caused losses by excessive trades. 
Based on this, Pi say it seems likely that the losses suffered by Mr L are down to similarly 
excessive trade volumes by HS and a failure to keep the proportion of CFDs within portfolios 
to an acceptable level. They say these were not issues that could have been foreseen by Pi 
and the losses incurred are therefore too remote. 
I recognise that HS also had regulatory obligations and its possible that their actions may 
have also separately caused some of Mr Ls loss. And Ive taken into consideration that, in 
principle, if HS acted negligently or fraudulently, such actions might represent a break in the 
chain of causation. 
In these particular circumstances, however, I dont think Mr Ls losses were unforeseeable. 
Pi have confirmed they were aware of the investment strategy which involved a CFD 
account. They knew this was a high-risk and speculative investment product and they 
agreed in their submissions that they didnt consider this suitable for Mr L. So Im satisfied 
the real risk of Mr L suffering substantial losses and even the risk of total loss of to his 
pension would or should have been foreseeable to Pi. 
Its possible that HS did excessive trades and Pi might have not foreseen the scale of the 
losses. However, Pi knew of the high risks and significant losses Mr L could suffer by 
investing his pension funds through HS in a CFD account. If Pi had given Mr L suitable 
advice these losses would have been prevented.I cant consider a complaint against HS as they are in default. In the circumstances of this 
case I think its reasonable to award fair compensation against Pi notwithstanding any 
potential break of chain of causation. 
This is because Im putting Mr L as far as possible in the financial position he would be in but 
for Pis unsuitable advice. Mr L wouldnt have lost out at all but for Pis failings to take 
reasonable steps to ensure their advice was suitable and Pi benefitted financially [in their 
role as independent financial advisors] from advising on this unsuitable transaction. So I 
consider it fair that Pi should compensate Mr L. I think apportioning responsibility to Pi for the 
whole of the loss represents fair compensation in this case.
In my view Mr Ls losses flowed from PIs failures in regard to COBS and PRIN as I have 
described. I dont think the losses are too remote or that I am departing from the law. In all 
the circumstances, Im satisfied its fair compensation that Pi compensates Mr L for the 
losses he suffered by transferring his pension into a SIPP and from there into high-risk 
investments. 
putting things right
In awarding fair compensation for Mr Ls losses my aim is to put him as close as possible to 
the position he would probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice by Pi.
In my view, for the reasons given above, Mr L would more likely than not have stayed in his 
existing arrangements if Pi had followed their regulatory duties and not recommended the 
SIPP.
Mr L has confirmed his HS account has been closed and his remaining pension was 
subsequently transferred to a new provider in 2017.
Pi should calculate compensation by comparing the value that Mr Ls previous pensions 
would have been assuming he had remained in them and he hadnt switched (Value A), with 
the value of Mr Ls SIPP (Value B). Both values should be calculated until the day Mr L 
changed providers in 2017. 
In carrying out the above, any additional sum paid into the SIPP should be added to the 
calculations from the point in time when they were paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the SIPP should be deducted from
the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that 
point on. If there are a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill 
accept if they are totalled and all those payments deducted at the end instead of deducting 
periodically.
If Value A is higher than B, then the difference between A and B is the loss. The loss figure 
should be brought up to date to the day of this final decision using the benchmark of the 
FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index.
I consider this benchmark reasonable as Mr L wanted capital growth and was likely willing to 
accept some investment risk. The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index 
(prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up 
of a range of indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. 
It would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher 
return.  Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison given Mr L's circumstances and risk attitude.
The compensation amount should if possible be paid into Mr Ls pension plan. The payment 
should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation 
shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr L as a lump sum after making a notional reduction to allow for 
future income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
If he hasnt yet taken any tax-free cash from his plan, 25% of the loss would be tax-free and 
75% would have been taxed according to their likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 20%. So making a notional reduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this.
In addition, Pi Financial Ltd should pay Mr L £300 for the distress Mr L suffered when he 
realised he had lost the majority of his pension.
Pi Financial Ltd should pay interest at the rate of 8% simple per annum on the compensation 
calculated as at the date of decision if its not paid to Mr L within 28 days of us notifying Pi 
Financial Ltd that Mr L has accepted my final decision. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Pi Financial considers its required by
HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr L how much 
its taken off. It should also give Mr L a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Pi Financial Ltd to pay Mr L compensation as set out 
above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2021. 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman