DRN-3478875
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that investment portfolios recommended by Barclays Bank UK PLC 
were unsuitable for them. 
The complaint is brought on their behalf by a claims management company.
What happened
In 1998, Mr and Mrs R met with Barclays to discuss investing some of their savings. They 
had a medium attitude to risk and £370,000 available in cash to invest. They invested 
£100,000 into Barclays Personal Investment Management (BPIM) which Barclays 
described as a medium risk portfolio. Mr and Mrs R surrendered the portfolio the following 
year in January 1999 and received back around £102,066.
In 2005, Mr and Mrs R met with the bank again to discuss making further investments. 
They had around £627,000 in cash from previous investments and savings and they were 
looking for capital growth for some of this money over the medium to long term. Their risk 
approach was broadly unchanged. They agreed to invest £50,000 into the Barclays 
Investment Management Service (BIMS) and £10,000 into the Norwich Union Portfolio 
Bond Property Fund. A further £27,000 was added to the BIMS in December 2006 (which 
was non-advised) and it was surrendered in March 2008. Mr and Mrs R received back 
around £77,680.
Mr and Mrs R kept the Norwich Union (now Aviva) Portfolio Bond Property Fund and have 
made withdrawals totalling around £8,000. It was valued in August 2021 at £11,618.38. 
In 2007, Mr and Mrs R met with the bank again to discuss further investment using some 
of their £90,000 cash balance. 
Mr and Mrs R had reservations about putting more money into the BIMS at that stage and 
the adviser concluded that a balanced investment like the Aviva bond would be suitable as it 
matched their attitude to risk. Acting on the banks recommendation, Mr and Mrs R invested 
£10,000 in an Aviva Portfolio Bond. They have made withdrawals totalling around £7,500 
during the lifetime of the investment and it was valued in August 2021 at approximately 
£9,255. 
 
Mr and Mrs Rs representative said that Mr R had been in poor health throughout and they 
were advised to invest too much of their money with too much risk. 
Barclays said it hadnt previously been made aware of Mr Rs health problems and it 
considered that the BPIM portfolio, Aviva bonds and BIMS portfolio had all been suitable 
recommendations. It apologised for the delay in responding to Mr and Mrs Rs complaint and 
offered to pay them £250 to compensate them for any distress and inconvenience caused by 
the delay.
Mr and Mrs R didnt feel this went far enough to resolve their complaint so they brought their 
concerns to us. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. Having assessed 
all of the available evidence, his view was that the advice given by Barclays on each 
occasion had been suitable and so he said he wasnt going to ask the bank to do 
anything else.
The CMC told us Mr and Mrs R didnt agree with the investigator. On their behalf, the CMC 
said it still felt that a medium risk portfolio was too high in risk for Mr and Mrs R, given that 
75% of the funds invested were invested into equities. It acknowledged that their cash 
reserve had always been substantial but said that, as first time investors, there would have 
been more suitable portfolios for inexperienced investors. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although the Financial Ombudsman Service doesnt always have power to investigate 
complaints about events that happened more than six years ago, Barclays has said it 
consents to us looking at this complaint. So I've proceeded to consider everything that has 
been said about the merits of this complaint. 
Having done so, Ive independently reached the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill 
explain why I say this. 
I havent seen enough to show that Barclays should have been aware that Mr Rs poor 
health was a factor it needed to take into account when making investment 
recommendations. Barclays said Mr R continued to run his business throughout and 
paperwork it has provided shows he was asked about his health during meetings in 2005 
and 2007 and no concerns were recorded - he said his health was good. So whilst I am 
sorry to learn of Mr Rs ongoing health concerns, this doesnt affect the outcome of this 
complaint. 
I've considered each advised sale in turn.
1998
There is limited information available about what happened in 1998 as much of the point of 
sale paperwork is no longer available  which is unsurprising given the passage of time. 
I must base my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is 
more likely than not in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. I must 
make reasonable assumptions where necessary.
The meeting with the adviser was prompted by Barclays contacting Mr and Mrs R to discuss 
the cash reserves they had built up in their account. They had made their money running a 
successful business and buying and selling property.  
At the time, Mr and Mrs R were in their fifties. It looks like they told the adviser they 
wanted a high level of capital growth  an understandable investment objective for people 
in Mr and Mrs Rs comfortable financial situation with time still to try and build up 
maximum reserves for their eventual retirement. Theres no detailed expenditure information. However, theres nothing to suggest that 
Mr and Mrs Rs living costs and other financial needs and requirements werent covered out 
of income. And their £100,000 investment into the BPIM still left them with around £270,000 
on deposit in bank and building society accounts if they had needed ready access to their 
cash. 
I find that they had sufficient financial resources to be able to absorb some element of loss 
had they needed to and so Mr and Mrs R were able to take some risk when investing. 
I am satisfied that they were in a strong enough financial situation to be able to invest 
£100,000 out of their available capital. 
Mr and Mrs R were taking advice on ways to improve the return they could expect on funds 
kept on deposit. Barclays has provided some limited paperwork which indicates that 
Mr and Mrs R were identified as having a medium attitude to risk.
From what I've seen, its likely the main features of the BPIM were discussed by the 
adviser and set out in the product paperwork that the adviser wouldve supplied to 
Mr and Mrs R when making the recommendation. 
Barclays said the BPIM was medium risk and that rating seems reasonably to reflect the 
overall fund composition. Barclays have advised that the BPIM portfolio was roughly 75% 
equities and 25% fixed interest and cash. Given that their objective was to grow their capital 
through investment, I think Mr and Mrs R needed to invest in a risk-based investment. The 
BPIM recommended broadly matched their risk approach, comprising three quarters more 
volatile equities (potentially offering increased scope for growth) whilst keeping a quarter of 
the funds invested in lower risk asset classes (so offsetting the risk of loss). 
Taking everything into account, I think Mr and Mrs R knew they were signing up to a level of 
risk they were comfortable with for this particular investment in order to obtain the capital 
growth they hoped for and the recommendation was suitable for them. 
2005
The fact find records the following about Mr and Mrs R:
They were both employed as directors in their own business. 
Mr R earned £56,000 per year and Mrs R earned £50,000.
In addition, they had some rental income.
They owned their home, valued at £300,000, free from mortgage.
They also had a holiday home worth £150,000. 
Their joint net monthly income was around £7,584 and, with expenditure of 
£2,500, they had ample net monthly disposable income of more than £5,000.
They had £633,000 in cash savings, £24,000 in Personal Equity Plans (PEPs) and 
£22,799 in investment bonds.
No liabilities were noted.
Looking at what was recorded about Mr and Mrs Rs financial situation at the time, I find that 
they were in a strong enough financial situation to be able to invest £60,000 out of their cash 
savings. 
Mr and Mrs R told the adviser that their priority was investment for growth. By now they 
had built up some investment experience through investing via Barclays as well as by 
making other investment decisions on their own. Looking at the available information, I think Mr and Mrs R had a reasonable 
understanding of the basic principle that risk was commensurate with growth potential 
and, in choosing to invest, they needed to balance their investment objectives against the 
risk they felt comfortable taking with their money. 
During the meeting with Mr and Mrs R, whilst its not clear exactly what discussion took 
place, it was agreed they wanted to reduce the amount of money held on no risk and 
invest in a mix of cautious and balanced funds. They werent interested in any higher 
risk funds.
The BIMS was a portfolio made up of 50% UK and international equities and the 
remainder comprised UK and international bonds and 5% cash. Barclays described it as 
a medium/balanced risk investment which seems a fair description to me. I find the 
BIMS reasonably reflected Mr and Mrs Rs agreed objectives and risk attitude and their 
£50,000 investment was suitable for them having regard to their circumstances. 
Although I havent been provided with many details about the Aviva Bond  Property Fund, 
Barclays said it had the same risk rating as the BIMS. I think it's fair to say that Mr and Mrs R 
were probably comfortable investing in property as they had previously made some of their 
money this way. 
I havent seen enough to be able to say that the Aviva bond wasnt suitable for them, 
especially bearing in mind that they invested just £10,000 of their planned £200,000 
investment spending this way. So, even though property can tend to be higher risk, I am 
satisfied that their investment in the Aviva Bond was suitable as part of their overall planned 
portfolio. And I think that is also borne out by the fact that Mr and Mrs R still held this 
investment when they brought this complaint.  
2007
The fact find shows that Mr and Mrs Rs financial situation and circumstances were still 
much the same as had been recorded two years earlier. Although net disposable income 
was now £1,500 per month this didnt suggest they were stretched financially. They were 
still planning to keep working for a few more years. Mr and Mrs R confirmed they had no 
financial debts. 
They had £90,000 in cash savings, £9,200 each in cash ISAs, £36,000 in stocks and 
shares ISAs, £35,200 in investment bonds, £80,000 at the time still in BIMS and £100,000 
in an investment trust with another portfolio manager.
They wanted to speak to the adviser to voice concerns about the performance of the 
BIMS investment and said they would like to get a bit more growth on some of (our) 
savings. They were anxious to obtain advice and make the investment straightaway the 
same day. Both described their health as good.
They were looking for growth over a 5-year period but didn't want to invest into any more 
unit trusts type investments until an improvement was seen with their BIMS portfolio. It 
looks like a more cautious risk approach was discussed but Mr and Mrs R liked property 
funds and wanted access to a similar fund. They were profiled as balanced risk. The 
adviser recommended putting £10,000 into the Aviva Bond - Property Fund and keeping 
£80,000 in access funds for everyday use and emergencies. 
I think that recommendation was suitable. Mr and Mrs R had by now demonstrated that 
they were quite experienced investors so its fair to expect they wouldve had a reasonable understanding of investment risk generally. And with a track record in property 
investment, I think they would have appreciated that their preference for investing this 
way carried a potentially higher degree of risk. So I think a balanced risk Aviva Bond- 
Property Fund was suitable for them in order to achieve their objective of growth. 
Whilst Ive been mindful not to make an assessment with the benefit of hindsight, overall, 
having considered everything, I am not persuaded that Mr and Mrs R were advised by 
Barclays to invest too much of their money or exposed to more risk than they wanted to 
take. 
When they first invested through Barclays in 1998, their BPIM investment in equities 
amounted to just 20% or so of their total investment pot. I dont consider that investing 
this amount into equities was an unsuitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs R in 1998 or 
that lack of investment experience meant that Barclays later recommendations were 
unsuitable for them.  
 
I appreciate that what I've said here will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs R but 
I hope that setting things out as Ive done helps explain why I've come to this overall 
conclusion.
My final decision
For these reasons, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman