DRN-1126115
The complaint
Ms B complains that MBNA Limited defaulted her two credit card accounts.
What happened
Ms B had two credit cards with MBNA. In May 2018 she contacted MBNA to let it know she 
was in financial difficulty and wasnt going to be able to make her repayments. MBNA 
checked Ms Bs income and expenditure and found she wasnt in a position to make her 
payments or agree a payment plan.
MBNA then suppressed all fees and interest, and the card facilities were withdrawn. It sent 
two letters to Ms B on 8 May 2018, one for each card. MBNAs letters explained the next 
steps and that the accounts may default. 
Ms B didnt want to default so asked MBNA how much she would have to pay to her cards to 
keep this from happening. MBNA confirmed it would accept payments Ms B was able to 
make. Ms B made lower payments to each card in the months that followed.
In December 2018, Ms B called MBNA to check what she needed to pay to keep from 
defaulting. An advisor told Ms B to make payments by 11 and 15 February 2019. 
However, this advice was incorrect and Ms Bs accounts defaulted as the payments were 
required by 31 January 2019. MBNA apologised to Ms B for the incorrect advice but said the 
defaults would remain in place.
Ms B wasnt happy with MBNAs response so brought the complaint to our service. An 
investigator reviewed the complaint and initially agreed that the defaults should be removed 
and that Ms B should be paid £250 compensation. However, after receiving more 
information from MBNA, the investigator changed his mind and said that MBNA only had to 
pay £250.
Ms B didnt agree with that outcome and asked to appeal. As a result, this complaint has 
been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties agree that Ms B was experiencing financial difficulties during this period and 
wasnt able to maintain the normal repayments. 
 
Ive looked at both sets of statements from May 2018 to January 2019 to see what Ms B 
paid. For the card ending 1830 she made a total of three payments in that period. £30 on 27 
August 2018, £30 on 5 October 2018 and £3.59 on 1 January 2019. The payments Ms B 
made werent sufficient to stop arrears building or cover the contractual monthly payment. For the card ending in 0268, Ms B made a total of four payments in nine months. £50 on 27 
August 2018, £50 on 5 October 2018, £106.71 on 27 November 2018 and £225 on 1 
January 2019. None of the payments Ms B made was enough to cover the minimum 
payment and reduce the arrears.
I realise that Ms B hoped to avoid the accounts defaulting. But when MBNA wrote to Ms B 
originally in May 2018 the letter specifically said,
The repayment amount which you can afford to pay will not be sufficient to prevent us 
registering a default with the credit reference agencies, even if you continue to maintain 
payments at this level.
MBNA has said that, regardless of the incorrect information it gave Ms B, there were new 
industry guidelines in place and it had taken the decision to default her credit cards. As 
MBNA had issued default notices in November 2018, it was able to default the credit cards. 
The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) says a default may be applied when an 
account is somewhere between three and six months in arrears. From the evidence 
provided, I think MBNA gave Ms B time to try to bring her accounts in order and that its 
decision to default her credit cards was reasonable based on the level of arrears. 
Lenders have a duty to report factual information to credit reference agencies and I think the 
defaults MBNA has reported do that. 
Having looked at Ms Bs statements, I think MBNA allowed her a reasonable amount of time 
to try to bring her account up to date. Im satisfied MBNA acted positively and 
sympathetically towards Ms B while her credit cards were in arrears.
I understand my decision may feel harsh to Ms B as I agree MBNA did make a mistake. But 
the information I've seen indicates that Ms B's credit cards were reasonably defaulted due to 
the arrears. I haven't found that MBNA's decision to default the credit cards was unfair.
Putting things right
MBNA has agreed to pay Ms B £250 to apologise for the incorrect information it provided. 
Ive considered everything Ms B has told us about how the situation impacted her. Whilst I 
can see how upset Ms B was at MBNAs mistake, Im satisfied £250 fairly reflects the impact 
of its error on her, so Im not telling it to increase its offer or take any further action.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct MBNA Limited to pay Ms B £250. 
 
 
 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman