DRN-3084723
The complaint
Mr J complains about how he was treated by The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) staff 
when he and his mother attended a branch.
What happened
Mr J says he and his mother attended a branch so that she could withdraw money. There is 
a separate complaint dealing with the issues Mr Js mother complains about but during the 
visit Mr J says his career and professional qualifications were questioned by RBS staff. He 
says RBS staff questioned if he was a lawyer due to the way he was dressed. Mr J says he 
would like compensation for what took place and also makes a complaint about a car 
purchase that fell through as a result of what took place.
RBS in its complaint response accepted failings in its customer service and apologised. It 
says it hasnt investigated the issue about the car purchases. RBS has offered £250 
compensation for the main complaint raised by Mr Js mother.
Mr J brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt think there was video footage of 
the incident and that overall RBS had dealt appropriately with it by its apology and 
compensation offer to Mrs J.
Mr J doesnt accept that view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that RBS has dealt fairly with this part of the 
complaint by apologising for its poor customer service and I dont require it to do anything 
further in the circumstances of it. I make clear to Mr J that he and his mother brought 
separate complaints about RBS that required me to issue separate final decisions but of 
course the complaints were about one overall incident. I also make clear to Mr J that I cant 
comment on the complaint about the car purchase as that hasnt been investigated by RBS.
The part of the complaint that involves Mr J is the comment he says was made by RBS staff 
about his professional qualification. There is no video footage of the incident and RBS staff 
do not accept such comments were made. Mr J clearly says the comments were made. In 
those circumstances I cant be sure what took place and what exactly was said. But I can 
see that RBS accepts that it didnt deal appropriately with parts of this complaint and has 
fairly apologised.
Im satisfied that this was not the main part of the complaint in any event and cant fairly 
order RBS pay compensation for it in these circumstances. I have made clear that I consider 
overall that RBS didnt deal appropriately with parts of the main complaint.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman