DRN-3610331
The complaint
Mr G complains about the exchange rate used by Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) when 
receiving foreign currency payments into his account. 
What happened
Between January 2018 and March 2020 Mr G worked for a company which paid him in US 
dollars. So each time he was paid BoS would convert the payment into pounds sterling. 
Mr G says that the exchange rate BoS was using was not what was advertised. He says that 
each payment was reduced by approximately 4 pence in the pound as BoS used a less 
favourable rate. Mr G says he repeatedly asked about this discrepancy but was given no 
information about why there was a difference, so he raised a complaint with BoS.
BoS looked into what had happened and ultimately explained that the system exchange rate 
 which it uses for converting payments like Mr Gs  and the market rate were not the 
same. BoS says it adds a retail margin onto the market rate, but that it made it clear to Mr G 
what rate had been applied to each currency conversion. BoS did though agree that it could 
have explained this to Mr G sooner when he raised his concerns, and so it offered to pay 
him £140 to recognise that the service it provided could have been better.
Mr G wasnt happy with BoS explanation. He says that BoS did not make it clear in the 
terms and conditions of his account or online that this retail margin would apply. So he 
referred his complaint to our service, where one of our Investigators considered what had 
happened. They thought that BoS was entitled to apply the retail margin and had done so 
correctly, and so did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. 
Mr G did not accept that assessment. He maintains that the terms of his account state he will 
be told of any fees that apply to foreign currency transactions and that BoS did not do so, so 
he has asked that an ombudsman review the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BoS has provided account terms and conditions from when Mr Gs account was opened in 
2008. These terms say that for payments into an account in a foreign currency BoS will 
choose the exchange rate that will apply but that it will always choose a reasonable one. 
These terms also say that special arrangements will apply for payments in foreign currencies 
and that customers should ask for details. The terms do not say that BoS will explain how 
any exchange rate is chosen or calculated. Later terms and conditions from around the time 
that the payments started to be made into Mr Gs account also simply stated that any 
incoming foreign currency payment would be converted into sterling and that customers 
should contact the bank to find out the standard exchange rate at any particular time.
Mr G appears to have compared the rate BoS used to the market rate available at the time 
of each payment. The difference between the two rates was over 3%. Mr G says this meant 
he lost out on more than £6,000 over the period in question. However, that does not mean 
that the rate used by BoS was unfair or unreasonable. Applying a margin is recognised 
industry practice and is not uncommon. 
Ill now focus on what Mr G was told about the exchange rate that would apply. Given that 
these payments were incoming, and that exchange rates fluctuate, BoS wouldnt be able to 
pre-emptively tell Mr G what specific exchange rate would apply as it wouldnt be aware of 
when a payment was due to be received. But I can see that each time a payment was 
received in Mr Gs account BoS sent him a receipt which detailed the specific exchange rate 
that applied to that transaction. 
Mr G says that BoS should have told him specifically of any charges and fees that might 
apply to foreign currency payments, but the exchange rate isnt a charge or a fee, and BoS 
did say that it would choose the exchange rate that applies to each payment. If Mr G was 
unhappy with the rates  as he says he was at the time - he could have made alternative 
arrangements.  Its not clear why, despite being dissatisfied with the rates he was getting, he 
continued to use BoS for the payments for a further two years.
With this in mind, Im satisfied that BoS did provide Mr G with appropriate information 
regarding the exchange rates that applied to the payments into his account and that Mr G 
knew enough to consider alternative arrangements, but chose to leave things as they were. 
Mr G has pointed to archived versions of BoS website which say it will tell customers or 
display online the exchange rates that will apply to foreign currency transactions. But the 
wording hes referred to relates to the sending of payments, not receiving them, and is from 
several years before the payments Mr G is complaining about. And in any case, BoS did tell 
Mr G what exchange rate it was applying to each payment, but as Ive noted above it 
couldnt do this until the payment had been received. 
Ive also used the online archive to locate previous versions of BoS website where it sets 
out its approach to receiving payments in foreign currencies. Ive found versions of the 
website from 2017 and 2019. In 2017 the website did not appear to give any specific 
information about the retail margin. But in March 2019 the website did clearly set out the 
retail margin that would apply, and it still does now. So while I cant know exactly what 
information was available in January 2018 when the payments Mr G is complaining about 
began, I can see that all the relevant information about the retail margin appears to have 
been available from at least March 2019. And so Im not persuaded that if the information 
was unclear in 2018 when Mr Gs payments began it would have made a material difference 
in the specific circumstances of this complaint. This is because even when the relevant 
information was available, Mr G continued to use the service until 2020. 
So with all this in mind, Im satisfied that BoS applied the exchange rates fairly, and that it 
provided appropriate information about what exchange rate was being applied in line with 
the terms of Mr Gs account. I acknowledge that BoS could have explained the retail margin 
to Mr G at an earlier stage after he raised his concerns, but Im satisfied that the £140 BoS 
has already offered is appropriate compensation for that poor service, so I wont be asking it 
to do anything more.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. Bank of Scotland plc has already made an offer to pay £140 
to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.So my decision is that Bank of Scotland Plc should pay Mr G £140 if it hasnt already done 
so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman