DRN-3041358
The complaint
Mr W complains about the service provided by Halifax Share Dealing Limited, trading as 
IWeb Share Dealing, referred to as the business.
Hes unhappy that the business didnt provide confirmation that his transfer had been 
successful, despite him asking repeatedly. 
 
What happened
In April 2020, Mr W transferred his ISA  to the value of around £130,000  from a third-
party provider, referred to as the transferor, to the business. 
In summary, Mr W says that he was unable get confirmation of his transfer, over many 
months, so eventually contacted the industry regulator the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) about making a complaint and in due course was directed to our service. 
In a final response letter (FRL) dated 17 December 2020, the business partially upheld the 
complaint. In short it said that it was sorry for the poor service Mr W received and offered 
him £75 compensation. However, it maintained it wasnt wrong to direct Mr W to its phone 
and webchat service for security reasons.
Mr W rejected the businesss offer and referred the complaint to our service. 
I understand that between March 2021 and June 2021, our investigator was unable to get a 
useful response from the business. So, in due course, he considered the complaint in light of 
Mr Ws submissions both orally and in writing and thought it should be upheld. In summary, 
he said:
   
He doesnt think the business behaved reasonably. 
Mr W called the business many times and spent hours on the phone trying to get 
someone to confirm that his ISA had been successfully transferred. He also tried to 
use the online webchat as directed by the business in an email, but it wasnt 
available. He also wrote to the business but had no response. 
Not having the confirmation, despite making a huge effort, was very distressing for 
Mr W. 
In January 2021, the business eventually confirmed the transfer, despite Mr W 
requesting confirmation in April/May 2020. So, in the circumstances, the business 
offer to pay Mr W £75 compensation didnt go far enough. 
An appropriate level of compensation would be £250 to better reflect the time and 
effort put in by Mr W trying to get the information he needed, and the overall poor 
service received from the business. 
The business didnt agree with the investigators view. In summary, it said:
It agrees with its complaint handlers initial decision to uphold this complaint, as 
completion letters werent sent for two of Mr Ws ISA transfers. Having said that, it 
doesnt consider that theres been a breach in the customer agreement. 
Mr Ws account, like all IWeb accounts, is a self-managed online account. All the 
information that he required regarding the transfer was available online, including 
statements of account, as per the agreed terms and conditions of the account. 
Mr W contacted it by email, however he was correctly advised to use the telephone 
service. It has no record of receiving Mr Ws letter. 
In the circumstances it cant agree that it didnt respond to Mr Ws communication, 
and on that basis, it cant uphold the complaint. 
The £75 compensation offered is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
It submitted a chronology of events in terms of its dealing with Mr W.  
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. 
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
going to uphold this complaint. 
As the complaint has already been partially upheld, the key issue for me to consider is 
redress. 
Having done so, in the circumstances I dont think the award of £75 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused is reasonable. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I think the business should pay Mr W £250 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused, as recommended by the 
investigator.  
In my opinion, this complaint isnt just about the business failing to meet Mr Ws expectations 
and not responding to his communication, which seems to be the basis for the £75 
compensation. I dont think theres any dispute that on this occasion the service fell below 
the standard that Mr W could expect. 
I think this complaint is also about the consistent and protracted failure by the business to 
provide Mr W with confirmation of his transfer (regarding a substantial amount of money), 
that it shouldve done automatically, despite being asked to do so repeatedly. And in my 
opinion, failing to adequately address his concerns.   
I appreciate this was an online execution only platform and that information mightve 
been/was available online, but the regardless of this, the business failed to do what it ought 
to have done automatically, and has done in the past  namely, provide written confirmation 
of the transfer in the post. Whether or not the business was in breach of its agreement with 
Mr W, I think it still failed to provide a reasonable service over a period of many months. 
I note that on 13 May 2020, Mr W emailed the business to ask for confirmation of his transfer 
by letter, as he had received previously. The same day, the business replied to say that he should call the number listed (on its reply) and that its unable to provide any account specific 
information via email for security reasons. It also explained the impact of reduced staff due 
to Covid-19. 
But on balance, I dont think the businesss response adequately addressed Mr Ws request 
at that point. Whilst I appreciate the security concerns, I also note that Mr W wasnt asking 
for account specific information via email, just that his ISA transfer confirmation to be sent to 
him in the post. 
On balance, I think the business couldve sent the confirmation in the post, or if not, it 
couldve done more to address Mr Ws request  without having to share any confidential 
details  rather than providing a generic response. Im mindful Mr W had been in fairly 
regular contact with the business leading up to this point. 
I note Mr W, having spent several months trying to contact the business, then emailed it 
again on 28 October 2020, expressing his continued concern about not being able to match 
dates and transfer amounts, and that he still hadnt received a confirmation from the 
business either. 
Im mindful that the business was experiencing a high volume of calls and wasnt operating 
at capacity with staff working from home due to the Covid-19 restrictions. But that 
notwithstanding, I dont think by taking account of Mr Ws individual distress and 
inconvenience, Im suggesting that he should be treated differently to the other customers. 
In the circumstances, I think that Mr W not being able to successfully get through to the 
business on the phone or via webchat, despite being instructed to do so, wouldve added to 
his distress and inconvenience. On balance, Im persuaded that Mr W also wrote to the 
business  using one of its self-addressed envelopes  but it probably didnt receive his 
letter.   
On 30 October 2020, the business replied to Mr W to say that it was happy to provide a 
written breakdown of what was transferred from the transferor, however, it wasnt able to 
apply this instruction on the back of an email. It also said: Should you wish for a written 
breakdown please contact us securely by telephone or webchat. Mr W replied on 2 
November 2020, to again confirm that the webchat wasnt available. 
I note it wasnt until December 2020, and following Mr Ws complaint, that the business 
accepted  in relation to three transfers (ending in reference numbers 971, 972 and 292)  
that it was unable to find any evidence that Mr W was sent completion letters. I note the 
business finally apologised and acknowledged that completion letters shouldve been sent 
as part of the transfer process.  
It wasnt until January 2021, that Mr W eventually received the confirmation that he sought in 
May 2020. Therefore, in the circumstances and for the reasons set out above, I think the 
business should pay Mr W £250 compensation to better reflect the distress and convenience 
experienced by him. 
Putting things right
Halifax Share Dealing Limited trading as IWeb Share Dealing, should pay Mr W £250 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused, less any money already paid. 
 
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
Halifax Share Dealing Limited trading as IWeb Share Dealing, should pay Mr W redress as 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman