DRN-3898900
The complaint
Miss O is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) will not refund the money she lost after 
paying for an item she did not receive.
What happened
Miss O was looking for a wearable activity tracker online when she found the profile of 
someone selling one on a selling page of a social networking site. The profile Miss O 
found was a number of years old and appeared to have genuine posts to friends and 
family.  
Miss O shared some messages with the seller and they agreed a price of £65. The seller 
told Miss O that once they had received the payment, they would send the activity tracker 
and provide tracking details. 
The seller provided their bank account details and Miss O made the transfer from her 
Monzo account on her mobile phone. 
The seller told Miss O that theyd sent the item but didnt send the tracking details as they 
said they would. And when Miss O messaged the seller to tell them the item had not been 
received, the communication with the seller stopped and Miss O was blocked - so she 
contacted Monzo for help. Miss O explained that she thought she had been the victim of a 
scam and explained what had happened. 
Monzo considered whether it should refund Miss O for her loss. But it turned down her 
claim for a refund and said she didnt take enough steps to check who she was paying 
was legitimate or that the item existed. 
Miss O brought her complaint to our service as she wasnt happy with the banks decision.
One of our Investigators looked into the complaint and recommended it be upheld. Monzo 
is not a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (the 
CRM Code) but it has agreed to adhere to it regardless. This means Monzo has made a 
commitment to reimburse customers who are victims of authorised push payment scams 
except in limited circumstances. Our Investigator didnt think any of those circumstances 
applied here.
The investigator said Monzo had not been able to establish that Miss O did not have a 
reasonable basis for believing that the payee was the person he was expecting to pay, the 
payment was for genuine goods and/or that the person he was transacting with was 
legitimate. In reaching that position, they pointed out that the profile in question had been 
established for a number of years and appeared to have genuine posts. They also said the 
price requested was reasonable for a second-hand item like the one in question and it 
wouldnt have been reasonable to expect Miss O to drive around 100 miles to see the item 
in person given its relatively low cost. For these reasons, our investigator thought Monzo 
should have fully reimbursed Miss Os loss.
Monzo did not agree. It maintained the view that Miss O did not have a reasonable basis 
for belief when making this payment. It thought she had sent the payment to an unknown 
individual online without a proper basis for trusting them and reiterated the points it had 
made previously. Monzo maintained that it had no obligation to refund the loss when 
correctly applying the CRM Code.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required 
to take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and 
standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry 
practice at the time.
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether 
Monzo should have reimbursed Miss O in line with the provisions of the CRM Code it has 
agreed to adhere to and whether it ought to have done more to protect Miss O from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Theres no dispute here that Miss O was tricked into making the payment. She thought 
she would receive an activity tracker in exchange for her money and the seller did not 
keep to their side of that bargain. But this isnt enough, in and of itself, for Miss O to 
receive a refund of the money under the CRM Code. The Code also places a level of care 
on Miss O.
The CRM Code
Monzo has agreed to adhere to the provisions of the Lending Standards Board Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code) which requires firms to reimburse customers who 
have been the victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams like this, in all but a 
limited number of circumstances.
It is for Monzo to establish that a customer failed to meet a requisite level of care under 
one or more of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code if it believes its customer 
should not receive a refund of the amount lost. In this case, Monzo has explained its key 
concern is whether Miss O made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing 
that the payee was the person she was expecting to pay; the payment was for genuine 
goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom she transacted was 
legitimate. There are further exceptions within the CRM Code, but they do not apply in this 
case.
Taking into account all of the circumstances of this case, I am not persuaded the concerns 
Monzo has raised about the legitimacy of the transaction Miss O was making are enough to 
support its position that she failed to meet her requisite level of care under the CRM Code. 
It follows that I do not think Monzo has been able to establish that it may choose not to 
reimburse Miss O under the terms of the Code.Having thought about what both sides have said and provided, I consider Miss O had a 
reasonable basis for believing the payment she was making was for genuine goods and 
that the person she was transacting with was legitimate. In reaching that conclusion, I have 
thought carefully about what it is realistic to have expected Miss O to do when she was 
looking to spend a total of £65 online.
Miss O has told us that the sellers profile had been established for a number of years and 
there appeared to be a number of genuine posts. The profile appeared to be that of a 
private individual who posted regularly. 
Having considered this, I dont think there was anything obviously untoward about the 
seller. And I dont agree with Monzo that the amount of time the profile was in place should 
not have been a factor in Miss Os decision-making process. There is an assumption that 
scam profiles will be reported and taken down relatively soon after they have been set-up 
once their victims become aware of the scam. And so I can understand why a profile 
having been available for many years would have lulled Miss O into a false sense of 
security at the time she made the payment. And Im not satisfied that Monzo has placed 
enough weight on the fact that this appeared to be a private sale between two individuals 
and so it is difficult to see what more Miss O couldve done to establish that the seller was 
who they said they were or to verify that the item existed. I dont think it was unreasonable 
for Miss O to have believed the seller was who they said they were and from what Miss O 
recalls that she saw, she had no reason to think the seller would not keep to their side of 
the bargain. She had used the selling site a number of times prior to this and conducted 
successful purchases.
Ive thought about the price Miss O paid thinking she was getting a second-hand activity 
tracker. And I dont think the price the seller requested was low enough that it meant Miss O 
ought to have questioned it more in her own mind. The price of the item was the amount 
you would expect to pay. The item was second-hand, and this was a private sale between 
two private individuals. 
Even though Monzo has said it believes there was more Miss O could have done to assure 
herself that she could trust the seller, I am not persuaded Miss O needed to make such 
extensive enquiries in the particular circumstances of this case. Ive thought carefully about 
the price of the item Miss O wanted to buy and the fact that this was a private sale. Whilst 
the situation is finely balanced, I think Miss Os actions and assessment of the situation 
were appropriate and proportionate to a relatively unremarkable payment of £65. And I 
dont think it would be reasonable to have expected Miss O to make the extensive journey 
to see the item in person.
The site in question is a well-established site used primarily for the purpose of private 
second-hand sales between private individuals  such as the one Miss O entered into. 
Whilst I acknowledge that the best practice guidance on the site itself directs potential 
buyers to purchase via Paypal, it does not preclude the sale of items via bank transfer 
which is often used as a payment method in private sales such as the one now in question 
here.   
Weighing everything up, I dont think it would have been evident to Miss O that there was 
a considerable degree of risk associated with this purchase. The seller appeared to have a 
long established profile and the price wasnt so low that it shouldve appeared unrealistic. I 
am not persuaded it did occur to her that there was a possibility she wouldnt receive the 
item or that it might not be genuine. It is not realistic to expect Miss O to have the same 
awareness of what scams like this can look and feel like as the bank does. As Ive said 
above, Miss O had successfully bought items from sellers on this site before. I think Miss O took enough care with a relatively modest purchase of £65 to say that she had a 
reasonable basis for believing she was buying genuine goods from a legitimate seller. I 
dont believe she took a calculated chance by going ahead with the purchase in the 
circumstances she did.
Overall, I dont think Miss Os actions fell below the level of care expected of her in this 
situation. I think Monzo ought to have fully refunded Miss O at the time she reported the 
loss and so it should fairly and reasonably compensate Miss O by refunding that loss now.
Putting things right
The Code explains that where a customer has met their requisite level of care (which as Ive 
explained, Im satisfied was the case here) they should be refunded all of the money that 
was lost.
So I think its fair that Monzo refunds the £65 Miss O lost, along with 8% simple interest 
from the date Monzo declined her claim until the date the funds are returned.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Monzo Bank Ltd to pay the 
settlement as Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Emly Hanley
Ombudsman