DRN-3452194
The complaint
Mr A complains Tesco Underwriting Limited unfairly declined his motor insurance claim.
What happened
In May 2021 Mr A reported to Tesco that he was involved in a collision with a third-party 
vehicle when driving his car. He claimed for the loss against his Tesco motor insurance 
policy. 
In July 2022 Tesco wrote to Mr A and the third-partys solicitor to explain it wasnt satisfied 
the collision had occurred in the manner it had been described. It told both it wouldnt be 
settling the claims.   
Mr A complained about the decision. He said it was a genuine accident and claim. In 
August 2021 Tesco responded. It didnt change its position. It said its engineer had 
inspected both vehicles. He was of the opinion the damage wasnt consistent with the 
version of events given by Mr A and the third-party driver. Tesco said as a result it wasnt 
satisfied the accident had occurred as described. It said the policy terms allowed it to refuse 
claims involving fraud. 
Mr A wasnt satisfied with Tescos response so came to this service. He complains hes been 
without the use of his car and is still paying its finance. He wants Tesco to pay the claim. 
In March 2022 our investigator said she didnt think it was fair for Tesco to apply the fraud 
term. She felt it had acted unreasonably by failing to follow its engineers recommendation to 
review Mr As cars ECU data. So she said Tesco should reinstate Mr As policy, reconsider 
the claim and remove any voidance and fraud records. Tesco didnt accept that outcome, so 
the complaint was passed to me. 
In April 2022 I issued a provisional decision. Its reasoning forms part of this final decision so 
Ive copied it in below. In it I explained why I didnt intend to require Tesco to reconsider 
Mr As claim or do anything differently. I also asked both parties to provide any further 
information they would like me to consider before I issue a final decision. Tesco didnt have 
anything further to add. Mr A provided some additional comments. Ive summerised his main 
points below. 
what Ive provisionally decided and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As this is an informal service Im not going to address or detail here every piece of 
information or evidence provided by Mr A and Tesco. Instead Ive focused on what I 
consider the most significant and pertinent. But Id like to reassure both that Ive 
considered everything provided.
Mr As policy terms says if he makes a fraudulent claim Tesco will cancel his cover 
and reject the claim. Fraud is a serious accusation that can have a significant impact 
beyond the decline of an insurance claim. So for me to feel its fair for Tesco to rely 
on the fraud term Id need it to have reasonable evidence to support its position. 
Having considered what it has provided, I cant say its decision to rely on the fraud 
term is unfair or unreasonable. 
Tesco believes the collision to have been staged. Mr A reported his speed for the 
incident to have been about 5 mph. He said the third-party was travelling at 20-
30mph. Tescos engineer inspected the damage to both cars. He concluded they had 
come together, but not in the way described by Mr A or the third-party. He felt there 
was clear evidence the third-party vehicle was stationary when impacted  rather 
than travelling at 20-30mph.
Tesco says Both Mr A and the third-party have been given opportunities to clear up 
discrepancies in their account but have failed to take up the offer. The third-party 
has, according to Tesco, failed to pursue the claim after receiving its July 2022 letter. 
Mr A had two passengers, one of whom he claims to be his old friend and/or cousin, 
at the time of the collision. I can see Tesco were unable, despite repeat attempts, to 
get a response from the cousin for his account of events. The second passenger 
hasnt provided a supporting statement despite being a neighbour and friend of 
Mr As cousin. 
Our investigator felt Tesco had made an unreasonable decision because it hadnt 
interrogated the ECU data in Mr As car. I think it would have been better if had done 
that. But Im not persuaded it would likely have made a difference to the outcome. Its 
not disputed that Mr As car was in motion at the time of accident. So Im not sure 
what information of significance the ECU might have revealed. 
The third-party vehicles ECU may have produced relevant evidence. After all its the 
movement of that car thats disputed. But that would depend on the third-party 
providing access to the car. Tesco says it was locked when inspected by its 
engineer, so it couldnt access the data. Im not persuaded, given the circumstances, 
the third-party would most likely have provided access had Tesco requested it at a 
later date. 
I accept its possible the collision did happen as Mr A says. But based on what Ive 
seen so far, including what Ive set out above, I cant say Tescos acted unreasonably 
by relying on the fraud term to refuse the claim. Mr A hasnt so far provided this 
service with much to support his complaint. But I will consider any information or 
evidence he provides in response to this provisional decision. 
So currently I dont intend to require Tesco to reconsider Mr As claim or do anything 
differently. I dont know if it cancelled his policy or if its intending to recover its claim 
costs from him. But I dont intend to interfere with either if Tesco has made those 
decisions. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A provided some further detail about the collision. He says at the time it happened a car 
was blocking his view and the sun was low. So his vision wasnt all that clear. As a result he isnt sure if the other car was moving at the point of impact. But he feels if it was stationary 
his car should have incurred more damage. 
Mr A wasnt aware of Tescos reported attempts to speak to his cousin about the collision - 
including a visit to his home. He said his cousin had in fact spoken to the insurer. Mr A said 
he would get back to me with more detail about this aspect. Unfortunately he hasnt so far. 
Ive considered Mr As latest comments. I still accept its possible the collision did happen as 
he and the third-party described it. But based on what Ive seen so far, including what Ive 
set out above, I still cant say Tescos acted unreasonably by relying on the fraud term to 
refuse the claim. Amongst other evidence the engineers assessment of the damage is 
inconsistent with Mr As and the third-partys initial accounts of the incident. And 
unfortunately there isnt enough, like persuasive witness accounts, to make me think Tescos 
position is unfair or unreasonable.   
So Im not going to require Tesco to reconsider Mr As claim or do anything differently. I dont 
know if it cancelled his policy or if its intending to recover its claim costs from him. If it has 
done either, Im not going to interfere with those decisions. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mr As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman