DRN-3266039
The complaint
Mr K is a sole trader. He complains that National Westminster Bank Plc has unfairly held him 
liable for a number of ATM and cheque transactions and for a Bounce Back Loan (BBL). Mr 
K says the transactions and the BBL loan application were carried out by a fraudster.
What happened
Mr K has a business bank account with NatWest. 
In May 2020, there was a successful application for a £20,000 BBL, based on Mr Ks 
account, and NatWest transferred the funds to the account a few days later. 
BBLs were designed to help businesses get finance more quickly if they were adversely 
affected by the coronavirus outbreak. Under a government-backed scheme, lenders could 
provide a loan with a six-year term for up to 25% of the customers turnover, subject to a 
maximum of £50,000.
In July 2020, Mr K reported that his cheque book was missing. At about the same time Mr 
Ks debit card was cancelled and marked stolen.
In January 2021, Mr K made a report of cheque fraud for cheques totalling over £35,000 
dating back to November 2019. The bank initially refunded the value of the cheques, but 
later reversed that decision in March 2021.
In February 2021, Mr K reported ATM fraud concerning 11 withdrawals dating between 
February and March 2020. 
In March 2021, Mr K reported that the BBL credited to his account was a case of identity 
theft. He said he hadnt made the BBL application.
The bank declined to refund any of the disputed transactions.
Unhappy with NatWests response, Mr K referred his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked at all the evidence provided and concluded that NatWest hadnt 
done anything wrong. In summary, she gave the following reasons:
Bank records show that all the disputed ATM withdrawals required the card and PIN. 
Mr K has confirmed no-one knew his PIN and it wasnt written down anywhere. 
There were other transactions, which Mr K hasnt disputed, in between and after the 
disputed ones. This means the card would have been in Mr Ks possession at the 
time. The records also show that the disputed ATM withdrawals were made from the 
same ATMs/retailers that Mr K had used in the months prior to the disputed 
transactions.
The ATM withdrawals in this complaint were between February and April 2020. Mr K 
reported the card stolen in July 2020, but made no report of fraud at the time. He 
didnt raise a fraud claim about the disputed transactions until February 2021. 
NatWest isnt obliged to refund ATM withdrawals if it has evidence of knowledge of 
the withdrawals or gross negligence in keeping the card and PIN safe. The 
investigator thought the bank hadnt made an error and was entitled to make a 
decision to decline a refund.
NatWest has provided the BBL application and information about the one time 
passcodes (OTPs) used to open the loan documents. All information on the 
documents is consistent with Mr Ks genuine details held on file at NatWest and the 
OTPs were sent to Mr Ks genuine phone number. 
The BBL was credited to Mr Ks account in May 2020 and would have been visible on 
his online banking and app. But Mr K didnt report this as identity theft until March 
2021.
Based on the above evidence, the investigator thought NatWest hadnt done 
anything wrong regarding the BBL.
NatWest provided information to this service about the cheque payments. The 
investigator wasnt able to disclose the information to Mr K, but having seen it, she 
didnt think the bank had made an error in reversing its original decision to refund the 
cheques.
Mr K didnt agree with the investigators findings. His representative said Mr K doesnt have 
the technical understanding to apply online for a BBL and English is not his first language.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr K, but Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator and 
for largely the same reasons.
The evidence from the transaction records indicates that Mr K had the debit card in his 
possession before, during and after the period of the disputed ATM withdrawals, and he has 
said that no one else knew the PIN. In my view, the evidence doesnt support a version of 
events in which a third party carried out the ATM withdrawals without Mr Ks knowledge or 
consent. He reported the card as stolen, but that happened several months after the 
withdrawals, and he didnt dispute the withdrawals until a further six months had passed. 
Given that Mr K continued to use the account for his business after the period of disputed 
withdrawals, there seems to be no explanation why he didnt raise the matter sooner. 
For these reasons, I dont think NatWest acted unfairly or unreasonably when it declined to 
refund the disputed ATM withdrawals
Bank records show that the BBL application process involved OTP identification of Mr K via 
the same mobile phone number that he still uses. I note that Mr K may have lacked the skills 
to apply for the BBL online by himself, but in my view the evidence doesnt support a version 
of events in which a third party made the BBL application without Mr Ks knowledge or 
consent. The funds were paid into Mr Ks account which he continued to use for his business. He first complained about the BBL more than nine months later. Again, there 
seems to be no explanation for this lapse of time. 
For these reasons, I dont think NatWest acted unfairly or unreasonably when it declined to 
cancel the BBL.
Having considered the information provided by NatWest about the cheque payments, Im 
also satisfied that the bank didnt act unfairly or unreasonably when it reversed its decision to 
refund the payments.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
Colin Brown
Ombudsman