DRN-3639586
The complaint
Miss F complains that London and Country Mortgages Ltd took too long with her mortgage 
application. She says it was rude to her. Miss F asks that L&C refunds its fee and pays 
compensation.
What happened
Miss F took mortgage advice from L&C. It made a right to buy mortgage application to a 
lender on her behalf in May 2021. This was declined in July 2021 due to concerns about 
affordability. It applied to another lender on Miss Fs behalf. This lender had severe delays 
with mortgage applications, which Miss F was told about. It initially declined the application 
and L&C appealed on Miss Fs behalf. Miss F received a mortgage offer in January 2022 
and the mortgage completed in March 2022.
Miss F says she had to pay rent during this time. The delay meant the five-year period after 
which she can sell the property without having to repay any part of the right to buy discount 
started later than it should have. Miss F says she had to re-send documents and L&Cs staff 
were rude to her. She says she was dealing with a number of stressful situations and 
problems with the mortgage application added to this.
Our investigator said while the application took longer than usual this wasnt due to errors by 
L&C. She said there was no evidence of it being rude to Miss F.
Miss F didnt agree. She said she was asked for documents repeatedly and sent emails she 
said supported this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss F has told us about the difficulties shes had to deal with, including a bereavement, a 
neighbour dispute and her work during the pandemic, and how this has affected her. Im 
sorry for what Miss F has had to deal with. I can understand that delays and worries about 
her mortgage application added to this.
Miss F took mortgage advice from L&C in April 2021 and received a mortgage offer in early 
2022. Theres no doubt her application took longer than usual. It doesnt necessarily follow 
that L&C caused the delays or treated Miss F unfairly. 
Miss Fs first application was made in May 2021 and declined by the lender in July 2021. I 
dont think L&C could reasonably have known the lender would decline Miss Fs application. 
L&C recommended a mortgage with another lender in July 2021. There were some issues 
with affordability  the lender said it would only consider a smaller loan amount. The 
application to the second lender was made in August 2021 and it issued a mortgage offer in 
early January 2022. 
When L&C recommended the mortgage it sent an email to Miss F saying that the lender was 
experiencing severe delays, taking an average of 60 days. It said it wasnt allowing brokers 
to escalate applications. And if Miss F was concerned about this she should let it know. L&C 
also said the lender would ask for documents which Miss F would need to upload to the 
portal. I think L&C made Miss F aware that shed need to provide further documents as 
requested by the lender, and that there could be delays. Miss F didnt say shed prefer to 
apply to another lender.
L&C says the lender requested further documents, as its entitled to do. It says the lender 
also asked for documents it had already provided. It says it challenged the lender when this 
happened. The lender took a long time to assess Miss Fs application  even allowing for the 
delays L&C warned her about  and I understand shes upset about this. L&C says the main 
reason for this was that Miss Fs income came from several sources (two jobs, child 
benefit/tax credits and maintenance payments). Also, Miss F took time off work during the 
application process due to a bereavement, and there was a delay while her income returned 
to normal and could be evidenced by her payslips. 
The lender asked for updated documents during the application process. This was 
inconvenient for Miss F who says she was providing updated documents each month. But 
the lender was entitled to ask for up to date documents, and it was right for L&C to ask 
Miss F to provide them. Most likely, if it hadnt received the documents, the lender wouldnt 
have offered Miss F a mortgage.
The mortgage offer expired in February 2022 at which point a new product had to be 
chosen. The legal process was more complicated than usual as Miss F was following a right 
to buy process. Miss F had to pay the deposit money to the solicitor prior to completion and 
was worried about this. This must have been a stressful time for Miss F. But L&C wasnt 
responsible for the legal process, which is dealt with by solicitors. I dont think its fair to say 
that L&C was responsible for any delays or difficulties with the legal process or completion.
Ive read the emails Miss F provided and I dont think that L&C staff were rude to her. 
L&C upheld Miss Fs complaint about its portal, which she had difficulty using, and offered 
£100. L&C gave Miss F the option to send documents to the customer care team who could 
load them to the portal on her behalf. Miss F sent documents to the complaints team. They 
replied asking her to send them to the customer care team. Miss F found the emails 
upsetting, but I dont think the emails were intended to be rude or upsetting. I think L&Cs 
offer of £100 for the problems Miss F had using the portal is fair and reasonable.
This was a stressful time for Miss F. Im sorry her mortgage application process took a long 
time. But, based on the available evidence, I dont think I can fairly find that this was due to 
errors by L&C. Overall, I dont think L&C treated Miss F unfairly. It follows that I dont think 
its fair and reasonable to require it to pay further compensation to Miss F.
My final decision
My decision is that London and Country Mortgages Ltd should pay £100 to Miss F, as it 
offered to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman