DRN-3394711
The complaint
Mr K complains that Elevate Portfolio Services Limited, trading as Elevate, failed to fully 
encash his individual savings account (ISA) in good time, and this caused him a financial 
loss and distress.
What happened
In January 2020, Mr K wrote to Elevate and asked them to fully encash his stocks and 
shares ISA. Elevate wrote to Mr K and told him they could not verify the bank account he 
wanted the money sent to. Mr K then called Elevate and told them they had already made a 
payment to the same account a couple of years earlier from an account he and his late wife 
held. He told them to pay the funds.
Over the following months, Elevate wrote to Mr K requesting verification of the bank he had 
asked them to transfer the funds to, but the letters were returned as addressee unknown.
Mr K called Elevate again in September 2020 because hed received a letter from the 
Department of Work and Pensions (DWP) telling him Elevate had told them he no longer 
lived at the address. In the call a security check on the address was completed with Mr K 
and Elevate updated their records. Later the same month Mr K complained that he still 
hadnt received his ISA funds. And, after a further telephone call on 28 September, Elevate 
confirmed they would try and validate the bank details again. 
When Elevate received the bank verification using a letterhead from the bank and signed by 
the branch manager, the payment of the ISA funds was approved. The payment was made 
on 5 October. And on 8 October Elevate provided a final response to Mr K. In their response 
Elevate apologised they had missed several opportunities to call Mr K instead of sending 
him letters. Elevate said that if theyd done this its likely the withdrawal would have 
completed in January 2020. They confirmed the funds they transferred in October 2020 
included £1,085.71 which was the loss in the ISA fund value from January to October. 
Elevate also paid Mr K the sum of 8% simple interest on the amount transferred as Mr K had 
been deprived of the funds during this time. Finally, Elevate recognised the distress and 
inconvenience Mr K had suffered during this time and paid him £350.00.
Mr K wasnt happy with the response from Elevate and he brought his complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our Investigators looked into things for Mr K and 
thought the offer made by Elevate to resolve the complaint was a fair and reasonable one. 
Mr K didnt agree and asked the Investigator to consider his vulnerability and more recent 
correspondence from Elevate highlighting that in 2020/21 they deducted £92.60 for charges 
to his ISA account. Mr K said hed had to borrow money from family and friends to pay bills 
when some of his benefits were stopped, and this had caused him a financial loss. And that 
hed donated £1,500 to a third party whod assisted him with his complaints.
Our Investigator reviewed the evidence again and suggested Elevate should refund the 
charges of £92.60 to Mr K. Elevate accepted this. Our Investigator responded to Mr K and 
told him Elevate would pay him the £92.60 but explained that although Mr K had donated 
funds to a third party to assist him with his complaint, this wasnt something we would ask 
Elevate to pay. Our Investigator asked Mr K for any further evidence hed suffered additional 
financial loss so that she could consider this again. Mr K hasnt provided any further 
evidence of financial loss, so the case was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I explain my final decision in this matter, I would like to apologise for the delay in Mr K 
receiving a decision. Over the last two years weve received many more requests for help 
from consumers than we expected. Weve tried to deal with cases in the order in which they 
were received, and this is the reason why its taken longer than we would have liked to issue 
a final decision in this case. 
I understand that Mr K will be disappointed, but for very much the same reasons given by 
our Investigator, Ive decided that the remedy offered by Elevate, alongside their 
commitment to refund Mr K the charges he incurred in 2020/21, is a reasonable one. I will 
now explain why.
Encashing the ISA
I accept there was an issue with verifying the bank to which the payment was to me made, 
but I dont think Elevate did enough to contact Mr K and help him get the funds released 
more quickly. I appreciate Mr K likely returned the letters Elevate had sent him about the 
verification, but Im mindful Elevate had good reason to believe he was vulnerable, yet they 
continued to write to him even though they had a valid contact number. 
It wasnt until late September 2020 that Elevate took a more proactive approach to support 
Mr K in surrendering his ISA. Unfortunately, by this time the value of Mr Ks investment had 
fallen, and hed been deprived of the funds for about eight months. Elevate sold the units in 
the ISA and realised there had been a fall in value from January, when Mr K asked for the 
encashment. Elevate re-calculated the value of the ISA in January 2020 and used that as 
the surrender value. In addition to this Elevate explained that as Mr K had been deprived of 
the funds for a number of months they added 8% simple interest to the surrender value to 
the date of settlement.
Ive considered the remedy paid by Elevate in this regard and Im satisfied that it is fair and 
reasonable. It put Mr K back to the position he would have been in if the surrender had taken 
place when he expected it to in January 2020. So, I wont be asking Elevate to take any 
further action in this regard.
Financial loss 
Mr K borrowed money from family and friends as his Housing Benefit and his Council Tax 
reduction were affected. There is some confusion about why the benefits were stopped as 
Mr Ks ISA investment was only about £12,000 at its peak, and the capital limit for this time 
was £16,000. I therefore consider it unlikely the matter of ISA was the only issue impacting 
Mr Ks benefits. Regardless of this, Mr K has confirmed these benefits were re-instated and 
that they were backdated. So, Im persuaded Mr K has more likely than not received back 
the funds he says he lost during this time. Although I appreciate the Council Tax was applied 
as a credit to the following years contribution, Im satisfied Mr K has received this benefit 
back.
Mr K says he borrowed money to pay his rent and other items of expenditure. He says hes had to pay this back from his ISA funds and the back dated benefits. Our Investigator asked 
Mr K for details of any losses in respect of these loans, for example any interest he had to 
pay. Mr K hasnt provided any evidence of any interest he paid. So, I consider its more likely 
than not that these loans didnt incur any interest and I wont be asking Elevate to pay Mr K 
anything in relation to these loans.
After hed received his ISA funds from Elevate, Mr K later received a statement from them 
showing hed incurred annual costs on his ISA of £92.60. Our Investigator initially didnt 
recommend that Elevate refund these charges, but after further representations from Mr K 
she asked Elevate to confirm they would. Elevate agreed to do this. Although this was not in 
the initial view our Investigator shared, Im satisfied both parties have had the chance to 
comment on this matter, so I will not issue a provisional decision. Instead, because Mr K has 
been waiting for a long time for this matter to be considered, I think its pragmatic to issue a 
final decision in this regard. And I will be asking Elevate to pay the sum of £92.60 to Mr K in 
my final decision.
Payment to a third party
Mr K has been using a third party to help him with his complaints to Elevate and with the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. Mr K says that he made a voluntary donation to the third 
party and that Elevate should refund what hes paid.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is a free service for complainants. After Elevate looked 
into Mr Ks complaint they explained he could bring it to the Financial Ombudsman. Mr K did 
so but continued to use a third party and donated to this third party. Of course, Mr K can 
donate to a third party if he wishes, but I consider it would be unfair and unreasonable for 
Elevate to pay back to Mr K the donation he chose to make. This is not a financial loss that 
Elevate are responsible for. This is especially so as Mr K was made aware by Elevate that if 
he wasnt happy with the way they had dealt with his surrender request he could bring the 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Therefore, I wont be asking Elevate to re-
imburse any donation hes made to the third-party.
Distress and inconvenience
Im satisfied that Elevate could have been more proactive when Mr K first asked for his funds 
to be transferred. I think that if theyd taken prompt action to help Mr K validate his bank 
details the matter would have been resolved many months earlier. This is supported by the 
speed in which Elevate acted when a member of staff spoke with Mr K in late September 
2020.
Elevate elected to initially communicate with Mr K about the validation of the account by 
letter. This led to Mr K becoming increasingly frustrated and he took to returning the letters 
they were sending him as addressee unknown. Im persuaded the actions of Mr K led to 
some confusion and ultimately this is likely to have resulted in Elevate telling the DWP they 
believed Mr K no longer lived at the address. So, although I think Elevate could have been 
more proactive here, I also have to consider Mr K disengaged with them for a significant 
period.
So, when taking into account Mr Ks vulnerability, I consider Elevates offer of £350.00 for 
the distress and inconvenience their lack of proactivity caused Mr K was a reasonable one in 
the circumstances. As Elevate have already paid this to Mr K, I wont be asking them to pay 
anything else in this regard.Putting things right
Elevate have already settled the surrender value from the time Mr K requested it in January 
2020, paid interest at 8% simple to the settlement date and paid Mr K £350. So, I will now be 
asking Elevate to pay Mr K the sum of £92.60 as a full refund of the charges they applied to 
Mr Ks ISA in 2020/21.
My final decision
Ive decided that Elevate Portfolio Services Limited, trading as Elevate, should refund a 
further £92.60 to Mr K.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman