DRN-1730828
The complaint
Mr H complains that his accounts with J D Williams & Company Limited should have been 
settled when he was made bankrupt, but six months later were still showing as active.
What happened
Mr H had two accounts with J D Williams. In March 2019 he was made bankrupt; the 
bankruptcy order was discharged in September 2019. 
In December 2019 Mr H complained that his accounts were still showing as active, even 
though they should have been noted as settled when he was made bankrupt. J D Williams 
looked into things and noted that Mr H did appear to have an active account. It was, 
however, an account that Mr H had tried to open after the date of his bankruptcy and 
showed a nil balance. J D Williams accepted that this account should not have been 
showing and paid Mr H £50 by way of compensation. 
Mr H said that two other accounts remained on the record and that he wanted compensation 
in recognition of that as well. He referred the matter to this service, but our investigator 
concluded that the accounts about which Mr H was complaining had indeed been marked as 
settled in March 2019, as J D Williams had said. Mr H asked that an ombudsman review the 
case.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, however, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator, and for 
similar reasons.
Mr Hs credit file shows that his accounts as having been settled on the date of his 
bankruptcy. Whilst Mr H has provided partial screenshots from his phone showing money 
owing in August 2019 and an account settled in September 2019, theres nothing on them to 
indicate that theyre linked to an account or accounts connected with J D Williams. Since Mr 
H complained that accounts had not been settled, I might have expected him to be able to 
produce the evidence that led him to think that was the case. 
On balance, I think it more likely than not that J D Williams did indeed mark Mr Hs accounts 
as closed as it says it did.     
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require J D Williams & Company Limited to do anything more 
to resolve Mr Hs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 18 February 2021.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman