DRN-3772466
The complaint
Mr M complains Accelerant Insurance Limited unfairly declined a claim he made on his 
landlord insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M owns two adjoining properties that were insured with Accelerant. In November 2021, a 
section of the render came down from the two properties in high winds, so Mr M made a 
claim.
Accelerant appointed a loss adjuster, who visited the two properties. Accelerant went on to 
decline the claim. Accelerant said there was no evidence of storm damage and the render 
had de-bonded from the front elevation following years of frost and freeze/thaw action. 
Accelerant said it was clear the adverse weather conditions had simply highlighted a 
pre-existing issue with the render. 
Mr M challenged Accelerants claim decision, but Accelerant maintained its position. Mr M
appointed a loss assessor, who made a complaint on his behalf. The loss assessor made 
the following points:
- No evidence has been provided to support Accelerants position the storm conditions 
wouldnt cause the damage claimed, and the damage is due to frost action over a 
pronounced period of time.
- The render coat has been on the properties for 25 years and showed no signs of 
damage. It has a water-proofer mixed in, so frost shouldnt affect it.
- There are no historic cracks in the remaining render, and there was no evidence of 
historic cracks to the render that was pulled away in the storm.
- The damage is consistent with a storm. High winds can press against the elevation of 
a property and create substantial suction  causing render to be distressed and 
break away. The damage occurred during the worst storm in 30 years.
- Mr M knows of another property which suffered similar damage during the same 
storm, and the owners claim has been settled.
Accelerant responded to Mr Ms complaint with the following further points:
- The loss adjuster observed historic cracking to the render. The damage is excluded 
under the storm and accidental damage coverages.
- The life expectancy of well-maintained render is approximately 20+ years, and after 
this time its regarded as beyond its serviceable life. Meaning that inevitable failure 
and deterioration requires the render to be replaced as part of the maintenance 
regime.
- Well-maintained render, not beyond its serviceable life, shouldnt lose its key or bond 
to the wall during the wind conditions encountered (53mph). The design of render is 
such that it provides resistance to driving rain and wind. Given the wind speeds, the 
suction forces wouldnt have been sufficient to have caused the claimed damage if 
the render was well-maintained and within its serviceable life.
- The photos provided by Mr M show pre-existing cracking and previous patch repairs, 
indicating the failure of the render. Accelerant pointed towards the areas it was 
referring to.
Mr M referred his complaint to our service, but one of our investigators didnt think it should 
be upheld. Mr M and his loss assessor disagreed, so Mr Ms complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
The loss assessor made the following further points:
- Accelerant claims the life of a pebbledash render is 20 years, but many properties he 
has worked on have renders that are still in good condition after 40 years.
- Accelerant hasnt provided any evidence that the life expectancy of well-maintained 
render is approximately 20+ years, or that after this time its regarded as beyond its 
serviceable life. He pointed towards several articles to support the design life of 
pebble dash is at least 70 years.
- He didnt think the loss adjuster who attended was a qualified building surveyor.
I issued a provisional decision, explaining I intended to uphold the complaint. In my 
provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Where evidence is inconclusive, incomplete, or contradictory, Ive reached my decision on 
the balance of probabilities. This means Ive determined what I consider is more likely to 
have happened, based on all the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
There are three conditions that need to be met before this service would say a claim for 
storm damage should succeed. Those are: 
was there a storm?
is the damage typical of that caused by a storm?
were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?  
I have re-assessed Mr Ms complaint and all the evidence with these three questions in 
mind.
Its not disputed there were storm force winds. Accelerant says 53mph winds were recorded 
at a weather station 15 miles from the properties. However, the data available to our service 
shows 61mph winds were recorded the day before the incident and 63mph winds on the 
morning of the incident, at a weather station 6 miles away. It follows that I consider the closer weather station to be more reliable for determining the 
weather conditions before the render fell. Such winds can cause considerable structural 
damage, so Im satisfied the first two conditions have been met. 
So, the outcome of this complaint depends on whether Im persuaded the storm conditions 
were the main cause of the damage.
Theres no dispute there was a storm. So, its for Accelerant to show, on balance, the storm 
wasnt the main cause of the damage. I accept its unusual for render to fall from a property 
in high winds. But that in itself doesnt persuade me there was a pre-existing issue, or that 
the storm wasnt the main cause of the damage in this case. 
The loss adjuster didnt take any close-up photos of the properties (or at least, none were 
included in her report), and there isnt anything in her report to support her conclusion the 
damage was caused by years of frost and freeze/thaw action. 
Accelerant has relied on photos provided by Mr M, that were taken after the incident. Those 
arent close-up photos either. As noted by Accelerant in its internal correspondence, Mr Ms 
photos arent particularly clear. But even if I were to accept the photos evidence some pre-
existing damage, that damage isnt in the area where the render fell. Furthermore, the 
photos dont show the properties were in a poor state of repair.
Ive reviewed street view images from a well-known website, taken in 2014. Those images 
appear to show the same pre-existing damage and repairs highlighted by Accelerant. But 
notably, I cant see signs of such damage or repairs in the area where the render fell. 
I accept the street view images and Mr Ms post incident photos appear to show a failure line 
in the render above the left-hand corner of the right-hand propertys front door. However, no 
render fell in that area. In Accelerants internal correspondence it also says the street view 
images show the same failure line above the left-hand corner of the left-hand propertys 
front door, which is where the render fell. However, I cant see a failure line in that area. 
I can simply see pebble dash markings.
Mr M has also provided a photo he took three years before the incident, when he had a new 
front door fitted. This photo is the clearest image Ive seen. Again, I cant see signs of 
damage or repairs in the area where the render fell. 
Ultimately, Accelerant points towards a failure line and patch repairs in Mr Ms post-incident 
photos. But if that failure line or the previously repaired issues had been the main cause of 
the render falling, I would reasonably expect the render to have fallen in those areas too. 
Importantly, in Mr Ms pre-incident photo and the street-view images, I havent seen any 
signs of pre-existing damage in the area where the render did fall.
So, having considered the available information, on balance, Im persuaded the main cause 
of the render falling was the storm force winds. I dont consider Accelerant has shown the 
claim was fairly declined. To put matters right, I intend to decide Accelerant should now 
settle the claim. 
I understand the repairs havent yet been undertaken, and Mr M will likely need to obtain an 
updated quote. If so, Accelerant will need to consider Mr Ms updated quote, and/or offer to 
complete the repairs via one of its own contractors. If theres later a dispute about the 
settlement amount or method, a further complaint can be made.However, if Mr M has already undertaken the repairs, I intend to decide Accelerant should 
settle the claim for the invoice amount, plus add 8% simple interest per annum, from the 
date the invoice was paid to the date of settlement. This is subject to Mr M providing the 
invoice and it being in-line with the quote he previously obtained for £3,680. Mr M would 
need to provide the invoice when responding to my provisional decision.
I also intend to award Mr M £200 compensation for the upset and inconvenience caused by 
Accelerants unfair claim decision. 
Both parties accepted my provisional decision. 
Mr M also explained that whilst the scaffolding has been erected, the repairs can't progress
at this time due to the weather. He noted the final costs for the repairs are expected to be 
around £3,700.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
No further arguments have been presented. Having reconsidered the information previously 
provided, for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision, I remain persuaded the 
storm was the main cause of the damage.
However, the repairs havent been completed yet, and nor has a final cost been confirmed. 
As such, I cant make a monetary award for the repairs. But rather, Accelerant will need to 
consider the invoice once presented, bearing in mind what Ive said here. 
Given the claim was declined, it was reasonable for Mr M to have initiated the repairs based 
on the estimates he received. As noted in my provisional decision, if the invoice is in-line 
with the £3,680 quote, I find that to be reasonable.
Ultimately, if theres a dispute about the settlement amount, Mr M can refer a new complaint 
to our service.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint. 
My final decision is Accelerant Insurance Limited should:
- accept Mr Ms claim, and once presented, consider his invoice for the repairs; and
- pay Mr M £200 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2023.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman