DRN-2335943
The complaint
Mrs S has complained about the way in which Markel International Insurance Company 
Limited handled her claim for a lost necklace, and the amount that it paid to her.
The claim was handled by a loss adjuster and a jewellery specialist on behalf of Markel. This 
complaint is being considered against Markel because as the insurer, it has the ultimate 
responsibility for decisions made about the claim.
What happened
In 2019, Mrs S lost a gold necklace that she owned. The necklace had a great deal of 
sentimental value to Mrs S. It had previously been owned by her mother. When her mother 
died Mrs Ss stepfather, who had purchased it originally and was also terminally ill, asked 
her to take possession of the necklace. Mrs S had intended to pass the item to her daughter 
in due course, and it was this history that played a part in why it was so important to her.
Mrs S searched for the necklace for some weeks. When she realised that she would not be 
able to find it, she contacted Markel to make a claim under her policy for it.
Markel dealt with the claim. It initially valued the lost necklace at £350, and then later valued 
it at £850. It paid Mrs S a cash settlement of £490.75. This amount was less than its 
valuation of £850 because it represented the cost to Markel of replacing the necklace, taking 
into account the discount it is able to obtain via its approved jewellery suppliers. The cash 
settlement also had the policy excess deducted from it.
Mrs S was unhappy with the settlement figure and complained to Markel about it. She also 
expressed her dissatisfaction with the way in which the claim had been handled.
In its response to her complaint, Markel stated that it considered the loss adjuster and 
jewellery specialist that handled the claim on its behalf had acted reasonably. It also stated 
that the payment made to Mrs S was fair, based on the evidence provided about the 
necklace.
Markel explained that the policy did not cover any accidental loss of an item within the home. 
Accidental loss of an item like jewellery was only covered away from the home. Based on 
Mrs Ss comments that the necklace had unfortunately been lost having fallen down the 
toilet, Markel said that as this represented loss within the home, the policy would not cover it. 
Although Markel confirmed that Mrs S could keep the payment made to her, its view was 
that there was not any policy cover for the circumstances of the loss that she had described.
Mrs S remained unhappy with Markels handling of the claim, and brought a complaint to this 
service. She said that she considered Markel and its agents had acted fraudulently. Mrs S 
described that when she first made the claim, she was told that this would not be covered if 
the necklace had been lost outside the home. She has questioned therefore why she has 
now been told the opposite.
Whilst the claim was being progressed, Mrs S says the jewellery specialist confirmed that it 
would be sourcing a replacement necklace for her. Mrs S says she agreed to this, on the 
basis that it was not an unusual piece of jewellery, but she was later told that a replacement 
would not be found for her. She also agreed that the necklace was to be assumed to be 9ct.
Mrs S had told Markel that the necklace was 24 inches in length, and 5mm wide. She says 
that she was told the settlement was to be based on the necklace weighing 16g, but the 
jewellery specialist later told her that this had been reduced to 12g. When Mrs S accepted a 
cash settlement rather than a replacement, she felt she had no other choice. This is because 
it was going to be hard for her to find a jeweller she could physically get to, taking into 
account that she is registered disabled.
Key to Mrs Ss dissatisfaction was that Markel had not given her a written report evidencing 
the valuation it had made. In addition, her view is that the replacement quotes she provided 
from jewellers were not fairly considered by Markel. Mrs S has stated that during the 
valuation process, Markel refused her request to submit better photos of the necklace.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He noted that in her later explanations about 
where the necklace had been lost, Mrs S believed it was likely to have been in the toilet. As 
the policy didnt cover accidental loss at home, the investigators view was that Markel did 
not need to reconsider the value of the necklace.
In terms of how the valuation was calculated, the investigator had not seen evidence that 
this was to be based on a weight of 16g. Noting that its valuation had increased from £350 to 
£850, and with the limited information that was available about the properties of the 
necklace, the investigator considered the valuation which Markel had based the payment on 
was a fair one. He also didnt consider that Markel or its agents had acted fraudulently.
Mrs S disagreed with the investigators findings. She reiterated that the loss adjuster stated it 
would source a replacement necklace based on one photograph that she had submitted of it. 
But subsequently Mrs S says she was told it could not replace the item, and no second offer 
of replacement was ever made to her. 
Mrs S said that after shed been given the initial, lower valuation by Markel, she made the 
offer to submit further photos of the necklace, but this offer was refused. She says she only 
referred to finding a replacement herself because she wanted to obtain one that was near 
identical to the original. Mrs S has explained that it is difficult to recall all the conversations in 
exact detail that took place between her, the loss adjuster and the jewellery specialist, due to 
the time that has now passed. She has also highlighted the serious medical events that have 
happened to her over this period of time. But she is certain that the loss adjuster and 
jewellery specialist did not have further photos of the necklace.
Our investigator responded that from the call recording he had listened to of a conversation 
between Mrs S and the jewellery specialist, it appeared that Mrs S wanted to source the 
necklace because she knew its characteristics so well. This led to a cash settlement being 
paid to Mrs S.
The investigator noted that in the same call, it was confirmed that Mrs S could send in further 
photos of the necklace, and she was provided with an e-mail address to do so. He explained 
that based on the evidence submitted, Markel increased its valuation to £850 based on 
those further photos Mrs S had provided. The investigator also explained that Markels 
jewellery specialist had questioned the accuracy of the quotes for replacement that Mrs S 
had obtained from other jewellers because those jewellers did not have the benefit of seeing 
the photos of the lost necklace. His view remained that Markel had acted fairly when dealing 
with the claim made.Mrs S responded to say that she considers it unfair that Markel is able to provide call 
recordings to evidence its case whilst she is not. Mrs S has emphasised the importance to 
her and her family of replacing the necklace, but she says this is not possible with the 
settlement Markel has paid her.
The investigator sent Mrs S the two written valuation reports from Markels jewellery 
specialists, showing the initial value of £350 and the revised one of £850.
Mrs S gave our investigator further details, explaining she believes the necklace was 
purchased in 2003, was worth around £500 at that time, was solid gold and weighed 30g. 
She also stated that the loss adjuster never asked for details about where she lost the 
necklace when she reported the claim, and her view is that this reflects an approach 
whereby her claim was never going to be taken seriously.
She has recently given further thought to where the necklace may have been lost. Mrs S 
believes it may have fallen off into her bin on the steps to her house, or directly onto the 
steps and then been taken by a passer-by. She says it could also have fallen off into her cat 
litter tray in her understairs cupboard and been placed straight into the bin. In a subsequent 
call to our investigator, Mrs S explained that she is unsure where she lost the necklace.
The case has now been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Much of the correspondence relating to this complaint has concerned the fairness or 
otherwise of the payment that Markel made to Mrs S for her lost necklace. It is clear the level 
of distress that losing the necklace has caused Mrs S, and the importance that the item 
holds for both her and her family. But to assess this complaint fairly, in my view I need to 
consider the policy cover that Mrs S had at the time the necklace was lost.
Mrs Ss policy includes personal belongings cover. This provides cover for loss away from 
the home of items that would be regularly carried, such as jewellery. If Mrs Ss necklace 
were to have been accidentally lost away from the home, it would be covered under this 
section of the policy. Because the lost necklace was not a specified item, it would have been 
covered up to the unspecified personal belongings policy limit of £1,000.
Mrs S also has cover for her contents in the home, and this again includes jewellery. 
However, under this section of the policy, the cover is for loss or damage to contents caused 
by specific events such as storm or flood. Contents are not covered for accidental loss in the 
home.
Taking into account the terms of the policy, the accidental loss of the necklace would only be 
covered if it were to have occurred away from the home.
Mrs S has said that when she initially made the claim, she wasnt asked for details about 
where the necklace was lost. She also says that she was initially told that accidental loss 
away from the home was not covered, whereas accidental loss at home was covered.
It seems to me that Markel may not have sufficiently established the circumstances of the 
loss when it was first reported by Mrs S to determine whether it was covered by the policy. 
However, what I also need to consider is whether this has caused any detriment to Mrs S.In my view, it is entirely understandable why Mrs S may not be able to say with any great 
certainty where the necklace was lost. As she has explained, there are a variety of places 
where the loss could have occurred. Mrs S has suggested that the necklace may have fallen 
down the toilet, or been lost when she was putting out her bins, or when cleaning in the 
understairs area. However, I consider loss in any of these places would not represent an 
accidental loss away from the home, taking into account the definition of home in the policy 
wording. In my view, that would include if the necklace was lost when putting out the bins. 
That is because the bins are on the steps outside Mrs Ss door, and it seems to me that 
would be a loss at the insured address.
During the course of the claim, Mrs S did say that the necklace may have been lost away 
from the home. But she has also explained that, sadly for several years, she has been 
almost entirely housebound. In her correspondence with Markel, she also stated that she 
knew she had not lost the necklace outside the house.
Bearing this in mind, Markel concluded that it was likely the loss of the necklace happened at 
home. Consequently, whilst it confirmed it was not seeking for the payment it had made to 
Mrs S to be returned to it, Markels conclusion was that the loss was not actually covered 
under the policy. Based on the evidence provided by both parties, my view is that Markel has 
acted reasonably when reaching this conclusion.
That being the case, I consider Markel was not liable under the policy to settle Mrs Ss claim 
for her lost necklace. And it follows that I wouldnt expect Markel to revisit its valuation of the 
necklace. Thats because the circumstances of the loss indicate that no payment at all 
should have been made to Mrs S.
I appreciate however the strength of feeling Mrs S has about the method Markel used when 
deciding what payment it should make to her. And I have looked carefully at the way in 
which this payment was determined by Markel.
It is understandable why Mrs S was not able to provide Markel with the sort of detailed 
description of the necklace that a receipt or jewellers valuation might have provided. But that 
meant that Markel had limited information on which to base its valuation. It did have Mrs Ss 
own description of the necklace. In addition, whilst Mrs S has stated that Markel refused her 
offer of further photos, and that when she submitted them she believed that they were 
ignored, based on the evidence provided my view is that these were taken into account. It 
would seem these played a part in the second valuation of £850 being produced by Markel, 
which was significantly higher than the first valuation of £350.
Mrs S states that Markel only offered to provide a replacement necklace to her once. But I 
have listened to a call between Markels jewellery specialist and Mrs S in which the specialist 
said it would check which jewellers local to Mrs S might be able to provide the replacement. 
The jewellery specialist said it would check with Markel to see if it would allow Mrs S to 
replace the item via a jeweller local to her. In the call it also said it would see if its network of 
jewellers could replace the necklace. Overall, my view is that Markel did fairly make the 
option of replacement available to Mrs S.
Mrs S has now been provided with the two written valuations that the jewellery specialist 
produced. I accept that there is not much detail to these valuations. However, I do not 
consider sufficient evidence has been provided that would suggest the higher valuation of 
£850 was unreasonable. It would seem that the jewellers that Mrs S asked for replacement 
quotes from did not have the benefit of seeing the photos of the necklace. As a result, I dont 
consider I can place significant evidential weight on the quotes that those jewellers gave.Overriding all of this, as I have already explained, my view is that the circumstances of the 
loss indicate that this occurred in the home, and that therefore Markel was not liable under 
the policy to make a payment to Mrs S. I consider Markel acted fairly when agreeing that the 
payment made to Mrs S did not need to be returned. And my overall conclusion is that 
Markel has acted reasonably when dealing with the claim.
Mrs S has provided a detailed background to both this claim, and to the history of the 
necklace. I am very sorry to learn about the loss of this item that was clearly of great 
sentimental value to both Mrs S, and to other members of her family. Mrs S herself noted in 
one of her e-mails to Markel that the necklace can never really be replaced. But, taking all of 
the circumstances into account, I cannot reasonably require Markel to make a payment 
under a claim that on balance isnt covered by the policy.
In this case, Markel has nevertheless made a payment to Mrs S. But for the reasons I have 
explained above, I do not consider Markel should be required to make any further payment 
to Mrs S.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2021. 
John Swain
Ombudsman