DRN-2939319
The complaint
Mr C complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) have failed to remove him 
from a joint mortgage with his ex-partner, and that they also processed a product switch 
without his consent.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
 
I appreciate that the product switch was carried out without Mr Cs consent. But 
Nationwide has explained that the product switch ultimately benefited the account as 
it didnt incur any fees and also served to reduce the monthly instalments due under 
the mortgage (payable by his ex-partner in line with their divorce settlement). I also 
note that the mortgage offer had been discussed with Mr C prior to the switch going 
ahead. But given that it would be his ex-partner that would be paying the mortgage, 
Nationwide carried out a more detailed review with her. Nonetheless, while I 
understand the product switch wasnt detrimental to either of the account holders, I 
acknowledge that it would have been concerning for Mr C to discover that such a 
change had been undertaken without his agreement, given that he is named on the 
mortgage and still jointly and severally liable for it. 
Nationwide offered £75 for the distress and inconvenience caused by its handling of 
the matter. Given that the product switch has ultimately served to reduce the monthly 
instalments due on the mortgage, I consider this to be fair compensation for the 
moderate upset it wouldve likely caused Mr C. So, I will not be asking Nationwide to 
make any further award.
I also understand that Mr C is unhappy because Nationwide declined a change of 
borrower application to remove him from the mortgage. I appreciate that he has 
presented Nationwide with a court order from his divorce that requires his ex-partner 
to use her best endeavors to procure the release of Mr C from any liability under the 
mortgage. But Nationwide is not bound by this court order, and neither are they 
under any legal obligation to remove him from the mortgage. Nationwide declined the 
change of borrower application for reasons relating to affordability but has said that 
theyd be willing to consider another application in the future should circumstances 
change. Im satisfied their decision in this regard is a legitimate exercise of their 
commercial judgment, and Im not persuaded theyve acted unreasonably by 
declining to remove Mr C from the mortgage in such circumstances. 
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr C. But I will not be asking Nationwide 
to take any further action as I consider their offer of £75 compensation to be fair for their 
failure to seek his consent before effecting the product switch. I also understand that he has 
said he has since withdrawn his agreement for the change. But given that it hasnt caused 
any detriment to either account holder, I dont consider it would be appropriate to ask 
Nationwide to revert the mortgage to the previous more expensive product. 
My final decision
Nationwide Building Society have made an offer to pay £75.
I conclude that such an offer is fair compensation in the circumstances. My decision is that 
Nationwide should pay Mr C (if they have not done so already) within 28 days of receiving 
his acceptance of this decision.
Mr C should note that if he accepts my decision, it will be legally binding on all parties, and 
he probably then wouldnt be able to take legal action over this matter for additional 
compensation. If, however, he rejects the decision, although his legal rights will remain 
intact, itll purely be a matter between Mr C and Nationwide as to whether the £75 offer still 
remains open for acceptance. Strictly speaking, an offer is not binding on the offeror after 
rejection of it has been communicated. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman