DRN-2105846
The complaint
This complaints about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. Mrs B says 
Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her the PPI. 
What happened
Mrs B applied for a credit card with Lloyds in 1995. At some time between then and 2000, 
PPI was added to her account that was designed to help protect her repayments if she 
couldnt work due to disability or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the PPI had been mis-sold. As Mrs B didnt agree with the 
adjudicator, the complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Bs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold because:
Unsurprisingly, given how long ago the PPI was sold, there are gaps in the information 
available from the time. Mrs B says she was sold the PPI in-branch. Lloyds cant confirm 
how it was sold. From experience of how Lloyds sold PPI between 1995 and 2000 
across all its sales channels, Ive no reason to think it was added without her having 
been told it was optional and agreeing to it.  
If Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mrs B, it had to check that the PPI was right for her. 
And, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example, she was eligible for the policy and I cant see that shed have been affected by 
any of the exclusions to, or limits on, the PPI cover.  
The PPI benefits would have paid out on top of any sick pay or redundancy pay she was 
entitled to, and for up to 12 months per claim. Overall, I think shed have found the 
additional security the PPI provided useful despite her employment benefits. 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But I think it likely she chose to take it out  so it looks like she wanted this 
type of cover. And it appears it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. I 
also cant see that shed have found it unaffordable. So I dont think better information 
would have stopped her taking the PPI.
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B. But Lloyds 
will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mrs B about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mrs B, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think that offers fair in this 
case.
What the business needs to do
Lloyds has to pay back to Mrs B any commission and profit share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt already done so. Lloyds should also pay back to Mrs B 
any extra interest she paid because of that.
Lloyds should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mrs B the difference between 
what Mrs B owes and what she would have owed if the commission and profit share it got 
hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Lloyds should also pay Mrs B 8%* simple 
interest if she paid off her credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs B can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC doesnt have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Mrs B any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2020.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman