DRN-3274226
The complaint
Mr C complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) didnt change his mortgage
payment direct debit and he missed a payment as a result. They then didnt change his
credit file as theyd agreed to.
What happened
Mr C had three mortgage accounts with Nationwide. The total monthly payments were
£524.08. On 24 February 2020, he asked Nationwide to change the date of his payments 
from 27th of the month to the 1st of each month. The payments due on 1 March 2020 
werent made  and the next payments were made on 1 April 2020. So, Mr C went into 
arrears on his mortgage. He agreed to go onto a payment plan to repay the arrears  by 
paying another £20 a month on each mortgage account. His credit file was then marked 
with missed payments for the month of March 2020 and with the payment arrangement.
Mr C complained. He said that Nationwide had admitted their error  as theyd not told him 
that his next direct debit payment wouldnt be made until 1 April 2020 and he therefore 
needed to make a manual payment himself for the March payment. Also, theyd not 
confirmed to him in writing about the new payment dates. Mr C said Nationwide had 
agreed to remove the entries from his credit file. But he said this took too long. In 
November 2020, the late payments were still showing on his credit file. So  things still 
hadnt been sorted out as they should have been. As a result, Mr C said his credit score 
had been affected and hed had trouble in getting credit.
Nationwide said theyd made a mistake when Mr C contacted them in February 2020  as 
they hadnt written him to say his new payment date was 1 April 2020 (not March 2020), 
and neither had they advised him to make manual payments for the March 2020 payments. 
They offered him £50 compensation  which he rejected. After further consideration, in July 
2020 - they agreed to change Mr Cs credit file for the missed payment in March 2020.
Mr C brought his complaint to us. He felt that the compensation offered by Nationwide 
wasnt enough, and the markers were still showing on his credit file. Our investigator 
looked into what had happened. He said he thought Nationwide had acted reasonably. In 
February 2020, theyd told Mr C in a webchat that the next payment would be on 1 April 
2020  and that he needed to make a manual payment for March 2020. So, Nationwide 
hadnt made an error. But in any case  theyd agreed to remove the late payment marker 
from Mr Cs credit file for the month of March 2020 and remove the arrangement to pay 
markers. Theyd agreed to so this in July 2020  and as it usually took up to two months 
for credit files to be updated.
Mr C didnt agree. He said some adverse information was still showing on his credit file. He 
showed us that in November 2020 and December 2020, it was still showing that four 
payments had been missed in the last year. And  arrangement to pay markers were still 
showing. So  Nationwide hadnt done what they said theyd do. This was continuing to be 
a problem  as he couldnt get credit. We put this to Nationwide, who then agreed to delete 
the payment arrangement markers from Mr Cs credit file. They agreed to increase their 
compensation to £150. Mr C again rejected this  he said that hed been badly treated by 
Nationwide over a long period of time. He asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint.
I then reached a provisional decision where I said:
The crux of Mr Cs complaint is that Nationwide made an error when he asked to change 
the payment date on his three mortgage accounts in February 2020. He contacted them 
on 24 February 2020 - because he had a new job, he wanted to change the payments to 
go through on 1st monthly. But  because Nationwide needed ten days to make those 
changes, the next payment would be made on 1 April 2020. So  Mr C would miss the 
payments for March 2020 and would need to make the payment himself. When Mr C first 
complained to Nationwide, they said theyd made an error  they said theyd not written to 
him to say the payment date had been changed, nor had they told him he needed to make 
the March 2020 payment himself. And on that basis, Nationwide agreed to pay Mr C 
compensation of £50 and change his credit file.
But during our investigation, Nationwide found out that in fact they had given Mr C clear 
instructions about his payments at the time. Ive seen the web messages that were sent to 
Mr C when he contacted Nationwide on 24 February 2020. Mr C emailed them to say he 
was changing job and wanted to change the payment dates to the 31st or 1st of each 
month. In response, Nationwide said I won't be able to change it to the 31st of the month, 
as the latest we can have the payments collected is the 28th of each month. Before I go 
ahead with changing your Direct Debit, I won't be able to update your payment so that we'll 
automatically take your monthly payment on the 1st of next month. This is because we're 
unable to change Direct Debits due within the next 10 working days. What I can do for you 
though, is arrange for this to be taken automatically on the 1st of April 2020 and for every 
month going forward. If we do this, we'll need you to make a manual payment to your 
mortgage accounts so that you don't fall behind on your payments.
Mr C replied, Yes that would be great.
Nationwide then replied I have now updated the payment dates for all 3 of the Direct 
Debits to be collected on the 1st April. You will need to make the manual payments for 
each of the Mortgages for the March payments so you do not fall behind. The message 
went on to explain how to make a manual payment to Mr Cs mortgage accounts.
For me, these were clear instructions. Unfortunately, Mr C didnt appear to follow the 
guidance that Nationwide gave to him. And so  he didnt make a manual payment for 
March 2020. And his credit file was marked with a missed payment for March 2020. He 
then agreed to go onto a payment arrangement to pay off the arrears  which was also 
noted on his credit file. I can see that in September 2020, Mr Cs three mortgage accounts 
were in arrears by £118.69, £52.40 and £130.72.
And so  Nationwide didnt make any error in February 2020  but rather, Mr C didnt 
follow the instructions he was given by them. And what happened all resulted from that. 
But I also noted that Nationwide shouldve also sent a letter to Mr C to confirm the 
changes, but didnt.
In response to his complaint, Nationwide agreed to pay compensation of £50. And during 
Mr Cs complaint to them, they agreed to remove missed payment markers from his credit 
file. They agreed to do that in July 2020, and again in October 2020. But - I can see that 
Mr Cs credit file was still showing four payments missed in the last year in December 
2020. Nationwide said to us that in August 2021  the late payment markers had been 
removed. And so - Mr Cs credit file shouldve been updated well before it was.In their response to us in May 2021, Nationwide also agreed to remove the arrangement 
to pay markers. But we saw that they were still showing during our investigation. We 
asked Nationwide why this was. They showed us a letter theyd sent to Mr C in February 
2021 to say that these would be removed, but due to an error, they hadnt been  so they 
then agreed to remove these in August 2021. It was for this error that Nationwide agreed 
to increase their compensation to £150.
We wanted to be sure about what was showing on Mr Cs credit file and in December 
2021, we asked Mr C what was then on his credit file. He showed us there were still 
missed payment markers showing for March 2020 and April 2020. We asked Nationwide 
again why this was so. Again, they apologised and said that the missed payment markers 
had been deleted  and showed us this was the case. But  they said payment 
arrangement markers were still showing on two of the mortgage accounts for the months 
between July 2020 and November 2020. This was contrary to what theyd told us, and Mr 
C. They apologised and told us they would be now removed  but this could take up to six 
weeks from the end of December 2021.
So  we have a situation here where Mr C didnt follow the instructions given to him by 
Nationwide, and as a result, his mortgage fell into arrears and his credit file was affected. 
But equally, Nationwide did agree to change Mr Cs credit file  and were very inefficient in 
doing that, with the consequence that Mr C was refused credit on two occasions - and had 
to chase Nationwide several times to try to sort things out. And  Nationwide told us theyd 
deleted the entries from Mr Cs credit file when they hadnt. So  I must decide, in the 
circumstances of this complaint  whether Nationwide were at fault and how Mr Cs 
complaint should be resolved.
And  on balance, I think that because Mr C didnt follow the instructions he was given by 
Nationwide in February 2020  that he must be largely responsible for what followed.
Because he didnt make manual payments as he was advised to do - he missed the March 
2020 payments and had to go on a payment plan. These were noted on his credit file.
Nationwide agreed to remove the markers - which they didnt have to. I can appreciate 
that this process didnt go well and took far too long, and Nationwide didnt do what they 
said they would do on several occasions  even during our investigation. And so, for this  
I think that an increase in the compensation to £300 for distress and inconvenience is 
reasonable. This is in line with what our service would expect to see where there have 
been repeated errors which needed some effort to sort out  which is what happened 
here.
In responding to this provisional decision, Id ask Mr C to finally confirm that the markers 
have been removed from his credit file; and if not, send to us his up to date credit file. But 
Id ask him to check the file towards the end of January 2022  because of the time it 
takes to change it.
Responses the provisional decision:
Nationwide didnt have any more comments. Mr C said hed checked his credit file and the 
missed payment markers had been removed. He accepted the compensation payment of 
£300.
I now need to make a final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Nationwide nor Mr C had any comments, and Mr C confirmed his credit file had 
been amended, I wont be departing from the provisional decision.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And Nationwide Building Society must:
Pay compensation of £300 to Mr C for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman