DRN-3222534
The complaint
Miss O has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (First Direct) reported adverse information 
about her account on her credit file and failed to support her when she advised it she was 
suffering financial difficulties. 
What happened
Miss O arranged to switch her account from First Direct to another provider in April 2019. At 
the time of the switch Miss O still had an overdraft debt with First Direct. This overdraft debt 
was not transferred to the new account provider as part of the switching process. First Direct 
wrote Miss O about repaying the debt in May and August 2019. In December 2019 Miss O 
paid the debt and the account was closed. First Direct shared the information about the 
management of Miss Os account to the credit reference agencies.
Miss O complained to First Direct about the information reported on her credit file as it was 
having a negative impact on her mortgage application. First Direct say there was no error in 
the information reported and it has a duty to report a true reflection of the operation of a 
customers account.
Miss Os complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that First Direct 
hadnt done anything wrong by reporting how Miss Os account had been operated but 
thought that First Direct couldve done more to support Miss O when she told them about her 
financial situation in December 2017.
First Direct disagreed, so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to look at the problems Miss O has experienced and see if First Direct has done 
anything wrong. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Miss O back in the position she 
wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. 
Miss Os main complaint point is about the adverse information First Direct reported to the 
credit reference agencies about the operation of her account. So the question that I have to 
ask is whether First Direct did anything wrong by reporting information on Miss Os account 
management with it to the credit reference agencies it subscribed to.
Ive reviewed the letters sent to Miss O about her account in April, May and August 2019 and 
can see that they inform her that there is an outstanding balance on her account, that it 
needs to be repaid before the account can be closed and that if its not paid a final demand 
will be issued and that it may report the information on the debt with credit reference 
agencies.  
Following no response from Miss O until December 2019 First Direct reported the 
outstanding debt on to Miss Os account with it to the credit reference agencies. I understand 
that Miss O is concerned about the impact this has had on her credit report, but
First Direct has a duty to make sure the information it reports on its customers affairs to the 
credit reference agencies it subscribes to is factually accurate. First Direct gave Miss O 
notice about what was to happen if she didnt get in touch about the outstanding balance on 
her account, so I cant say First Direct did anything wrong here. 
I am however in agreement with our adjudicator that First Direct couldve done more when 
Miss O got in touch with it about her financial difficulties.
First Direct will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when 
applying overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this 
decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im intending to find that First Direct acted 
unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees on Miss Os 
overdraft following Miss Os contact with it in December 2017. By this point, 
Miss O had already notified First Direct of her financial difficulties and was undergoing a debt 
management plan and had already exceeded her overdraft limit on a number of occasions. 
So I think that Miss Os overdraft usage should have prompted First Direct to have realised 
that Miss O wasnt using her overdraft as intended and shouldnt have continued offering it 
on the same terms. As First Direct didnt react to Miss Os overdraft usage and instead 
continued charging, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably. 
Miss O ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on her overdraft and this 
ended up exacerbating difficulties she already had in trying to clear it. So I think that First 
Direct didnt treat Miss O fairly and she lost out because of what First Direct did wrong. And 
this means that it should put things right.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Os complaint for First Direct to put things right by:
Reworking Miss Os overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from December 2017 onwards are removed.
AND
If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Miss Os credit file, 
First Direct should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the 
process of taking corrective action on the overdraft from December 2017. 
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Miss O along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then First 
Direct should remove any adverse information from Miss Os credit file.  HM Revenue & Customs requires First Direct to take off tax from this interest. First Direct 
must give Miss O a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Os complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman