DRN-3074692
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy with the offer made by Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as 
Barclays Partner Finance (BPF) to settle his claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 (the Act) for some mis-sold solar panels.
What happened
The parties are familiar with the background to this claim, so I dont intend to set it out here 
in detail. In summary, Mr E bought a solar panel system from a supplier that Ill call M. The 
system cost £10,750, which Mr E paid partly in cash and the rest through an £8,600, three-
year, fixed term loan from BPF.
Mr E is represented by a claims management company (CMC). It has told us Mr E was led 
to believe the panels would be self-funding. But Mr E hasnt received the income that he 
expected and so thinks that the benefits of the panels were misrepresented to him.
BPF considered Mr Es claim and accepted that the benefits of the panels were more likely 
than not misrepresented by M. Thats because M has been found to have made 
misrepresentations in sales to many other customers. It has also been found to be in breach 
of the relevant code of conduct by its industry body and has since gone out of business.
BPF said to Mr E that it would compensate him for those misrepresentations if he had 
suffered a loss. That compensation would be to make the panels self-funding over a 10-year 
period, with any overpayments that hed made to be refunded with interest. But BPF 
calculated that Mr E hadnt suffered a loss. It thought that the benefits of the panels to him 
over that 10-year period were over £11,000, being more than hed paid for them. So, as he 
hadnt lost out, it didnt initially make a settlement offer.
Since the complaint has been with us, BPF realised that its figures were wrong and the 
benefit to Mr E over the 10-year period was actually around £7,650. So, he had suffered a 
loss. BPF offered to pay him around £4,300 as compensation. But Mr E didnt accept this. 
The CMC has told us that it thinks the benefits of the panels should be calculated over three 
years (the term of the loan) and not ten.
Our investigator thought the settlement offer, using a 10-year calculation, amounted to fair 
compensation. She said that there was insufficient evidence to show that Mr E had been told 
the panels would pay for themselves over three years. And that using a 10-year period was 
fair and reasonable, as this was a more realistic period for the panels to have been self-
funding. 
The CMC didnt agree and requested an ombudsmans decision. So, the matter has come to 
me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr E but I too think that the compensation offered by BPF is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. Ill explain why.
Both the CMC and BPF are familiar with our approach to dealing with solar panel 
complaints. So, I wont set that out again here. Suffice to say, Ive found that there was more 
likely than not a misrepresentation made by M to Mr E. Under Sections 56 and 75 of the Act, 
BPF must take responsibility for any misrepresentations. And it has agreed to offer 
compensation here.
So, what remains for me to do is to determine what fair compensation is in Mr Es case. I 
appreciate that the CMC considers that the term of the loan is the period over which the self-
funding benefits should be calculated. But I dont agree. When determining compensation, 
we dont look to make a misrepresentation true. But we do look to ensure that the customer 
isnt disadvantaged by any representations made.
In Mr Es case, we havent been provided with any sales documentation setting out the 
benefits that he was told he might receive. We have his statement that he was told in 2014 
that the panels would be self-funding. But thats all there is in terms of evidence.
The CMC thinks that it would be fair for me to require that BPF follow an approach that we 
often adopt, of making the panels self-funding over the term of the loan  here three years. 
But we dont have a one size fits all approach to compensation in complaints like Mr Es. In a 
lot of complaints that we see, the interest and charges on a loan are payable over an 
extended period. We often see loans of 10 to 15 years, where the interest is almost as much 
again as the original amount borrowed. In Mr Es case, unusually, he was not paying any 
interest at all. The rate on his loan was 0%. So, Mr E just needed to repay the amount he 
originally borrowed - £8,600.
We also often see evidence that the customer was told that the panels would provide a 
higher benefit than they in fact go on to produce. But Mr E hasnt provided any supporting 
evidence of what he was told. So, I have had to assess what he was more likely than not told 
by M at the time.
Here, Mr E was getting the panels through an interest free loan. So, the length of that loan 
was in effect secondary to the overall cost of the panels. Mr E was paying no more for the 
loan than he might have paid if hed bought the panels outright in cash. Mr E paid a 
significant lump sum of £2,150 to M when the panels were fitted and then continued to pay 
around £239 a month for the next three years.
Having assessed the limited evidence available, Ive found that Mr E was most probably told 
that the panels would pay for themselves over several years  and that was more likely than 
not nearer to ten than three. Three years would be a very fast payback time for solar panels. 
And I cant see how Ms salesman could ever have justified that on the facts of this case. 
The panels would have had to produce over £3,500 a year for that to have been true. And 
thats just so outrageous that Mr E would never have been likely to believe it.
I expect that Mr E would have been given a sales presentation and no doubt was told that 
the panels provide a long-term investment  with generation often continuing for at least 25 
years. And Feed-in-Tariff (FIT) and Export payments for 20 years. Mr E would appear to 
have had a sufficient income to afford to pay for the panels over a three-year period. And Im 
not surprised that he took the benefit of the loan, as it was of course interest free. Why pay 
now for what you can pay later at no additional cost? BPF has used a 10-year period to calculate the benefits of the panels to Mr E. That includes 
the FIT and export payments of about £500 odd that he gets each year and electricity 
savings of around £200. Over a 10-year period, BPF says that those benefits will be around 
£7650.
Ive looked at BPFs calculations and the assumptions used. And I think these fairly 
represent the benefit that Mr E is likely to receive. I think that 10 years is a reasonable period 
for BPF to have used in Mr Es case. As I said above, solar panels are long-term 
investments and those complaints we see often have pay back periods of about that length 
of time or more. This of course doesnt mean that 10 years is fair in every case. But on the 
limited evidence available in Mr Es complaint. I do think this is the length of time over which 
he was more likely than not told the panels would fund themselves. 
As its now clear that the panels wont pay for themselves over that 10-year term, BPFs offer 
to compensate Mr E by restructuring the loan account so that he pays no more than the 
benefits over that period is, I think, fair. In that way, hes not disadvantaged by the 
misrepresentations.
It would be disproportionate for me to require that BPF remove the panels and pay Mr E 
back all his money. The panels appear to be working well. And last year produced more 
energy than was predicted in the MCS certificate  2888 kWh against a prediction of 2750 
kWh. So, they should continue to produce benefits for Mr E for many years to come. Once 
the compensation has been paid, as Mr E repaid the loan some years back, he will continue 
to profit from what will probably have turned out to be quite a wise investment. Thatll likely 
be even more so in the future, given the ever-increasing cost of energy. So, the 
compensation offered by BPF fairly compensates Mr E for the disadvantage the 
misrepresentations have caused him.
My final decision
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance have made an 
offer to settle this complaint which I consider to be fair and reasonable compensation in all 
the circumstances. I require that it:
Allows Mr E to keep the solar panel system;
Restructures Mr Es loan to make it self-funding over a 10-year period, calculating the 
benefits to him over that time using the bills and FIT statements available and the 
standard assumptions agreed with this service, so that Mr E pays no more than that 
for the system; and
Refund Mr E any overpayments that hes made for the solar panel system and add 
simple interest to those overpayments at the rate of 8%* a year from when he made 
those payments until theyre refunded.
*HM Revenue & Customs may require BPF to deduct income tax from any interest that it 
pays. Should Mr E request it, BPF must provide him with a statement setting out how much 
tax has been taken off so that he may reclaim it if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2022.
 
James Kennard
Ombudsman