DRN-4075357
The complaint
Mr H complains about how his insurer, Aloi Nissay Dowa Insurance UK Limited trading as 
Insure the Box (ITB), valued his vehicle under his motor insurance policy following an 
accident. 
Any reference to ITB in this decision includes their agents. 
What happened
In December 2022 Mr H had an accident in which his vehicle was damaged. He contacted 
ITB to tell them about the theft and lodge a claim. ITB assessed the damage to the vehicle 
and deemed it to be a total loss. 
ITB initially offered a settlement of £11,160 for the vehicle. But Mr H challenged the 
valuation, saying it was too low and providing examples of similar vehicles at higher values 
(£16,250). ITB then increased their offer to £12,030. However, Mr H still thought the offer 
was too low, so he complained to ITB.
ITB didnt uphold the complaint. On the valuation of Mr Hs vehicle, they said theyd offered a 
settlement in line with the terms and conditions of the policy based on the market value of 
the vehicle. This was initially £11,160 based on values taken from recognised industry 
valuation guides. After Mr H challenged the valuation and sent in examples of similar 
vehicles to his own at higher values, ITB said theyd ITB increased their offer to £12,030.  
ITB said they considered this value fair (so wouldnt be increasing it).
Mr H then complained to this service. He disputed the valuation of his vehicle by ITB, saying 
he couldnt purchase an equivalent model to his vehicle for their settlement offer of £12,030. 
being much lower than what he considered to be its value (hed provided an example valued 
at £16,250). Having bought the vehicle on finance, he was also having to continue paying for 
it. He wanted ITB to settle his claim at the value of his vehicle hed provided when he took 
out the policy (£16,700) as he didnt think his vehicle had lost value since that point. Or, to 
repair his vehicle. Hed also carried out work on his vehicle (to meet MoT requirements).
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding ITB had offered a fair valuation of 
Mr Hs vehicle in line with the approach taken by this service in valuation cases (and 
calculated deductions fairly). Having looked at recognised industry valuation guide figures, 
the investigator thought ITBs settlement offer was in line with what hed expect, based on 
market value. Advertised prices for vehicles didnt represent market value as the actual sale 
price would often be less. And work carried out to meet MoT requirements was to meet the 
legal obligation a vehicle was roadworthy, so would be maintenance. ITB deducting the 
policy excess (£1,250) and outstanding premiums (£839.21) was fair as Mr H had received a 
total loss settlement  so it was reasonable for ITB to charge the full annual premium.
Mr H disagreed with the investigators view and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. He said he couldnt but an equivalent vehicle to his own for the settlement offered 
by ITB. Hed spent a lot of money keeping the vehicle in good condition (and the vehicle had 
passed its MoT  not hed had work carried out to meet the MoT requirements). He thought 
he could have sold the vehicle for £17,000. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether ITB has acted fairly towards Mr H.
The main issue in Mr Hs complaint is ITBs valuation of his vehicle as a total loss, which 
they used to determine the settlement figure for the claim. Mr H says the valuation is too low 
and doesnt reflect the condition of his vehicle and the work carried out on the vehicle. He 
thinks the valuation is significantly less than its true value, and he could have sold it for 
£17,000. ITB say theyve based the settlement of recognised industry valuation guides for 
the make, model and specification of the vehicle. 
On the issue of the valuation of Mr Hs vehicle, Ive considered the information and evidence 
available. ITB say their market valuation (which is what the policy provides for when a vehicle 
is treated as a total loss is fair and reasonable, citing industry valuation guide figures to 
support their [revised] valuation of £12,030 (before deduction of the policy excess and the 
outstanding premiums). 
Ive looked the valuation figures from the recognised industry guides available to this service 
(and those used by ITB) and the figures are in a range (based on retail values) from £11,160; 
through £12,073; to £12,095. Discounting the one significantly different (lower) from the other 
two, the average of the two is £12,084. Ive also noted one of the valuations includes a 
significant reduction (£4,540) in the valuation to reflect the actual mileage of Mr Hs vehicle at 
the date of the accident  which is recorded at more than twice the average mileage for a 
vehicle of its age. This may account for some of the difference between the settlement 
offered by ITB and what Mr H believes is the true value of his vehicle.
The average of the two valuations is very similar to the settlement offered by ITB. The values 
are also based retail figures (not the  much lower  trade values). Using recognised 
industry valuation guides is also the approach used by this service, as it reflects market data 
as a whole, which we consider to be more persuasive. I recognise the points made by Mr H 
about what he thinks the vehicle is worth (and what he said he could have sold the vehicle 
for) but I dont think they are more persuasive than data from recognised industry guides. 
While not an explicit element of Mr Hs complaint, Ive also considered ITB deducting the 
policy excess (£1,250) and outstanding premiums (£839.21) from the settlement offer. Both 
are in line with the policy terms and conditions in cases where claims are settled on a total 
loss basis. So, Ive concluded ITB acted reasonably in this respect.
Similarly, some of the work Mr H says hes carried out on the vehicle wouldnt enhance the 
vehicles market valuation, but maintaining it. 
Taking all these points together, Ive concluded ITB have acted fairly and reasonably, so I 
wont be asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 12 September 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman