DRN-3444135
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) declined a claim they made 
under their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B have explained that on 18 June 2020 they booked accomodation for a trip 
abroad. They were due to be taking their trip from 25 January 2021 to 6 March 2021, staying 
in the booked accomodation. At the point of booking Mr and Mrs B paid a deposit of £651, 
which at that point was fully refundable. 
The total cost of the accomodation was £2,162, with Mr and Mrs B needing to have fully paid 
this amount by 6 December 2020. Mr and Mrs B paid this, as based on the circumstances at 
the time of paying the balance they were able to travel as planned.
However, Mr and Mrs B have said that following this, the global coronavirus pandemic 
caused problems with their holiday plans. Theyve explained that as of 1 January 2021, the 
country they were due to visit restricted entry. So they werent able to enter the country and 
use the accomodation. And this remained the case when it came to their trip dates. So, they 
were no longer able to travel as planned.
Mr and Mrs B discussed the situation with their accomodation provider. And, it was agreed 
that Mr and Mrs B would receive a refund for half of the accomodation cost. The 
accomodation provider refused to refund the other half. And so, Mr and Mrs B contacted 
their insurer, UKI, to make a claim under their travel insurance policy for this loss.
UKI declined the claim. It said that Mr and Mrs Bs policy did provide cover for cancellation of 
a trip. But, there were exclusions to the cover. And one such exclusion was for anticipated 
events. UKI said the policy excluded cover for a loss where the policyholder knew, or could 
reasonably have expected to know, that an event could happen. It said Mr and Mrs B could 
have reasonably have expected the need to cancel because of the global coronavirus 
pandemic, and restrictions on travel. So it said it wouldnt be settling the claim.
Mr and Mrs B were unhappy with this, and so raised a complaint with UKI. UKI maintained 
its position. And so, Mr and Mrs B referred their complaint to this service for an independent 
review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. They looked 
at the policy terms and explained that Mr and Mrs Bs policy did provide cover for 
cancellation of a trip due to a natural disaster  such as a medical epidemic or pandemic. 
But said there were exclusions to this cover.
Our investigator said the policy excluded cover for cancellation costs, where the trip was 
cancelled due to a known event at the time of booking. They said Mr and Mrs Bs trip was 
cancelled due to travel restrictions relating to the global coronavirus pandemic. And they 
considered that Mr and Mrs B could have known this was a possibility when they booked 
accomodation abroad. This being because travel restrictions were in place at the time of 
booking, with no clear end. So, the investigator said UKI had acted fairly in declining 
Mr and Mrs Bs claim.
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree. They raised concerns about the term anticipated event, saying 
they disputed this was a legal term.
Because Mr and Mrs B didnt agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ive explained why below.
When considering complaints such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. The relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct Authority, say that 
an insurer must deal with a claim promptly, fairly and not unreasonably decline it. So, Ive 
thought about whether UKI, in declining this claim, acted in line with these requirements. And 
Im satisfied it did.
Ive reviewed Mr and Mrs Bs policy documentation. As is usual with insurance policies of 
this nature, I can see it doesnt cover every eventuality. Rather, for a claim to be successful, 
the loss needs to have happened because of an insured event listed within the policy 
booklet. And there need to be no exclusions that apply in the circumstances. If the loss isnt 
due to one of those listed events, or an exclusion applies, it isnt covered, and the policy 
wont respond.
Mr and Mrs Bs policy does provide cover for cancellation of a trip  in certain circumstances. 
I can see the policy provides cover if the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office 
(FCDO) are advising against all, or all but essential travel, in the 28 days preceding the trip. 
And I can also see that Mr and Mr Bs policy provides cover for cancellation due to a natural 
disaster. A natural disaster includes a medical epidemic, or pandemic. 
The World Health Organisation (WHO) had declared coronavirus a global pandemic on 
11 March 2020. And Mr and Mrs B werent able to travel because of the declared pandemic. 
The country they were due to travel to had restrictions in place, which didnt allow 
Mr and Mrs B to enter the country. So, Im satisfied this element of cover does apply in 
Mr and Mrs Bs case.
However, as is common in an insurance policy, the cancellation section also includes 
exclusions. And one the exclusions listed says that the policy doesnt cover any costs 
incurred as a result of an anticipated event.
Anticipated event is defined in the policy as follows:
Any event that you knew would happen or could reasonably have expected to happen at 
the time you became an insured person, the date when you booked your trip, or when 
buying an upgrade, whichever is later.
Given the above, if UKI has shown the costs incurred were due to an anticipated event, that 
Mr and Mrs B knew about, or could reasonably have expected to happen, when they were 
making the booking, there is no cover under the policy. Ive thought carefully about this. And Im satisfied UKI has shown that Mr and Mrs Bs costs were incurred because of an 
anticipated event at the time of booking.
In June 2020, at the time Mr and Mrs B booked their accomodation, there were FCDO travel 
restrictions advising against all but essential travel, including to their intended destination. A 
global pandemic had been declared, and travel restrictions were clear both here, and 
abroad. At the time of booking, it wasnt clear when there would be an end to this. And so, I 
do consider that when Mr and Mrs B booked their trip they could have reasonably expected 
that travel restrictions due to the pandemic could stop them being able to make the trip. They 
may have still been in place. Or lifted and then subsequently returned. 
Mr and Mrs B have said that when they booked the accomodation in June 2020 they couldnt 
have known about the future restrictions. Theyve said whilst there was travel restrictions at 
the time of making the booking, they couldnt have known there would be restrictions in 
January 2021, and what these were. I understand what Mr and Mrs B are saying here. But, 
Mr and Mrs B dont need to have known about the exact details of any future restrictions. 
Just that it was possible that travel restrictions due to coronavirus could stop them travelling. 
And as above, Im satisfied they could have reasonably expected this. So, I think UKI acted 
fairly when noting their loss was due to an anticipated event. And therefore not covered by 
the policy. 
Mr and Mrs B have raised concerns about the term anticipated event, and its legality. But I 
have no such concerns with the term. Where an insurer is relying on a term to have a 
specific meaning, they should define this in the policy. And UKI did do this. The term isnt an 
unusual one. And, the policy terms form the travel insurance contract Mr and Mrs B agreed 
to, by taking out the cover. So, Mr and Mrs Bs concerns here dont alter the outcome of this 
complaint. UKI fairly and reasonably declined Mr and Mrs B claim, in line with the policy 
terms. 
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require UK 
Insurance Limited to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 September 2022.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman