DRN-2201415
The complaint
Mr S on behalf of Mrs S makes a number of complaints about Nationwide Building Society
handling of a Power of Attorney.
What happened
Mr S complains that Nationwide refused to accept a Power of Attorney (PoA) as it wasn't an
original copy and signed by a solicitor but had previously accepted it in 2014. He also
complains that Nationwide will not open a new account for someone with a PoA and only for
existing customers. In summary Mr S and his wife registered PoA's on each others accounts
in 2014 but says Nationwide want original PoA's and will not accept the electronic copy. He
says he spoke to Nationwide in 2019 and it told him the PoA's would need to be reregistered
and there was no record of them. Mr S says Nationwide paid him £75 and there
are two issues he would like to be sorted out namely why Nationwide refuses to accept his
PoA's and that he would like a new account opened.
Nationwide says it didn't send Mr S its response when it should and didn't deal with the
setting up of the complaint as it should. It's apologised and paid £75 compensation. It also
says Mr S held a joint account that didn't need a PoA and says the previous accounts that
the PoA was registered on had been closed. Nationwide says its process requires a new
PoA in these circumstances and requires a signed PoA to open a new account.
Mr S brought his complaint to us and our investigator didn't think Nationwide had made a
mistake and had explained what needed to be done to open an account and register a PoA.
Mr S didn't accept that view and says Nationwide has given different versions, and he would
like a letter of apology, compensation and for it to agree to use the previously held PoA.
The investigator reconsidered his view and upheld the complaint in part. He thought
Nationwide ought to issue a letter of apology and pay £100 compensation but didn't think
Nationwide should use the PoA that had been registered in the past.
Mr S doesn't accept that view and says the compensation isn't enough and says he was
previously told Nationwide would not accept an electronic copy of PoA.
Nationwide says Mr S can speak to its specialist department and needs to take a signed
copy of the PoA to its branch.
The complaint was referred to me and I asked both sides for further information. I asked Mr
S if he had tried to open a new account and if he had tried to register the PoA. He said he
hadn't as he would like Nationwide to confirm it would accept it before attempting to do so.
Mr S says Nationwide told him in 2014 that it would use the PoA from that time for all current
and future accounts.
Nationwide says previous accounts were closed and that is why it needs a new PoA to be
set up and has said again it will accept an electronic PoA if it is signed.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision and said that I thought Nationwide had dealt fairly with this 
complaint and I didnt think it could do anything further to help Mr S.
I explained to Mr S that we are not the regulator of banks and building societies. So, it's
not our role to tell a business what its policy and procedures should be about the issues Mr
S has raised. For example, I said we couldnt fairly tell Nationwide that it should use a 
previously registered PoA or in what form it asks its customers to submit a PoA.
I was satisfied that Nationwide had fairly explained to Mr S that the reason it couldn't use the
previously submitted PoA's from 2014 was because they were registered on accounts that
had been closed. I had not seen any evidence that Nationwide has removed a PoA from
accounts that were in place in 2014 and still open in 2019.
I was also satisfied that Nationwide has told Mr S on a number of occasions that it will 
accept a PoA in the electronic form as long as it is signed. I appreciated that Mr S said it was 
the same document that was submitted in 2014 but I didnt think that mattered for the 
reasons I explained about Nationwide being entitled to decide what its process should be on 
accounts that have been closed.
 I also appreciated that Mr S would like Nationwide to confirm that and other matters in 
writing before he attempted to register the PoA. But I was satisfied Nationwide told us that 
and what Mr S needed to do. And if there were future problems, those issues would amount 
to a new complaint point. I also made clear to Mr S that our role is not to liaise between the 
parties in a complaint in this way or require a business to make an admission of a mistake as 
Mr S would like.
Overall, I appreciated Mr S would have unanswered questions about why Nationwide 
couldn't tell him that the PoA registered in 2014 was no longer valid when he first called. But 
I thought Nationwide explained that during a later call and had now explained the correct 
position. And had fairly explained why a PoA wasn't needed on a joint account.
I also appreciated that Nationwide didn't deal appropriately with Mr S's complaint as it ought
to have done but had fairly apologised for that and paid what I thought was a fair and
reasonable level of compensation. I could see that Mr S doesn't disagree with that award
amount.
Mr S has replied to my provisional decision and given a detailed response. In summary he 
says the PoA should be accepted in the form it is issued and says the account terms and 
conditions dont make mention of a new PoA being required in these circumstances. Mr S 
disagrees that Nationwide has made clear it will register the PoA and says the point about us 
not being a liaison service suggests he is at fault. And says he has tried recently to register 
the PoA and has been told he needs to bring an original copy signed by a solicitor. Mr S 
doesnt accept that compensation award in total is appropriate and has spent a considerable 
amount of time on this complaint.
Nationwide says it has no further points to make.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to a similar overall view that I reached in my provisional 
decision and for similar reasons.I make clear that Nationwide has told us that it will accept a printed copy of the PoA as long 
as it is confirmed that it is an original copy. Im satisfied that is in line with the guidance about 
an electronic PoA that a copy simply requires a signature to confirm that. If Nationwide 
refuses to accept that and has told Mr S that he needs to bring an original copy of the PoA 
signed by his solicitor, then on the face of it that is not in line with what it has told us. But Im 
sorry to disappoint Mr S that is not something I can deal with in this decision as I think 
Nationwide will need to investigate that. And if Mr S is unhappy with any response then he is 
entitled to bring a new complaint to us.
I appreciate that Mr S says Nationwides terms and conditions do not expressly say a new 
PoA needs to be registered on a new account. But Im satisfied that is Nationwides policy on 
such matters and I dont think it needs to be part of account terms and conditions. I make 
clear to Mr S that Im not suggesting he was at fault for bringing the complaint but was 
explaining the nature of our role and how we deal with a complaint and that its not our role 
to liaise with a business or require it to make an apology as we are not Nationwides 
regulator.
Overall, I accept Mr S will remain unhappy with my decision, but I think this brings an end to 
what we in trying to sort out this dispute informally can do to assist Mr S in respect of this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2020.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman