DRN-3585373
The complaint
Miss M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) wont refund the money she lost 
in a scam and about the service she has been provided with.
What happened
Miss M says she was a student and was due to spend her third year abroad. Before she 
went, Miss M found accommodation through a website and made a card payment of £1,588 
to a landlord who turned out to be a scammer. After Miss M had made the payment and the 
landlord sent some emails about the keys, he stopped communicating with her so Miss M 
contacted Barclays. A few days later Barclays credited Miss Ms account with the amount 
lost. But once Miss M had moved abroad Barclays took the disputed amount out of Miss Ms 
account meaning she was in unauthorised overdraft. Miss M contacted Barclays and was 
asked for evidence, which she provided. Barclays then provided another temporary refund 
while it investigated. Some time later, Barclays told Miss M that it couldnt get the funds back 
from the intermediary she paid and so it removed the funds again. As Miss M then had an 
unarranged overdraft Barclays blocked her account.  
Miss M says that Barclays actions have had a huge impact on her. She was abroad with no 
means of paying to live or to come home. As she couldnt travel to lectures, Miss M had to 
miss them which has affected her education. She thinks Barclays shouldnt have allowed the 
payment to be made and also that it should have done more to help her. Miss M has referred 
to numerous calls with Barclays which were unnecessarily long and unproductive and to 
calls that werent returned She would like Barclays to refund the amount lost in the scam 
together with compensation.  
Barclays say that Miss M called to raise a fraud dispute at the end of August 2021 and a 
temporary refund was provided shortly afterwards. As Miss M failed to return a disclaimer 
form when requested the funds were re-debited from her account on 11 October 2021. On 
the same day Miss M contacted Barclays and raised a dispute. Barclays raised a 
chargeback, but the merchant declined it and provided evidence. As the merchant had 
provided the expected service, Barclays re-debited the temporary refund. Barclays hasnt 
agreed to unblock Miss Ms account until the overdraft has been cleared.  
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered Miss Ms complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld. 
She said that the payment Miss M made wasnt so unusual that Barclays ought reasonably 
to have flagged it as suspicious. The investigator said Barclays had done what it could to 
recover Miss Ms funds, but the chargeback failed because Miss M paid an intermediary who 
provided the expected service. In terms of the service provided to Miss M, the investigator 
said that Barclays made it clear that the refunds were temporary and as recovery was 
unsuccessful Barclays had to remove the funds from Miss Ms account leaving her with an 
unarranged overdraft. And whilst there were some missed calls and Miss M may have 
received calls asking her to make payment, the investigator didnt consider compensation 
was appropriate. 
Barclays accepted the investigators findings, but Miss M did not. In summary, she said:
- She had numerous calls to and from Barclays that amounted to harassment. During 
the calls she would speak to different members of staff who repeated information 
requests so that each call was long and usually ended with a request to call back or a 
promise that Barclays would call (which often didnt happen). This led to increased 
stress. Miss M asked that this service listens to the calls. 
- Barclays didnt propose any options to help her. Miss M explained that she was a 
student and that she had no money to live but Barclays kept just asking her to make 
payment. Miss M suggested that Barclays could, for example, have increased her 
overdraft temporarily so she could have continued her studies or allowed her to pay 
in installments. 
- It was only when Barclays provided a response to her complaint that it mentioned 
she could have contacted the intermediary involved to raise a complaint. This advice 
should have been given sooner. 
- Barclays should have known the scam website was fake and that she was sending 
funds to an account in a country shed never previously sent funds to. 
- Her account with Barclays is still blocked and Barclays hasnt shown any concern.   
The complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
Should Barclays have prevented the payment from being made?
I accept that Ms M has been the victim of a cruel scam, but I can only ask Barclays to 
provide a refund if I consider it has done something wrong and has acted unreasonably. 
There is a voluntary code that applies to APP scams like this one (The Lending Standards 
Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model Code  the CRM Code). But the CRM Code 
doesnt apply to payments made by card, which is the payment method used in this case, so 
I cant apply it. 
Barclays is expected to process payments and withdrawals that its customer authorises, in 
accordance with the Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the 
customers account. But Barclays also has an obligation to be on the lookout for, and to 
protect its customers from, potentially falling victim to fraud or scams. This includes 
monitoring accounts and identifying suspicious activity that appears unusual and out of 
character. In situations when potential fraud is identified, I would expect Barclays to 
intervene and attempt to prevent the loss.
In this case I consider that Barclays acted reasonably in processing Miss Ms debit card 
payment. Whilst Im sympathetic to the circumstances Miss M now finds herself in, I dont 
agree with her that Barclays should have recognised the transaction was unusual or 
potentially fraudulent. The payment was for a relatively small amount and wasnt out of 
keeping with other payments on Miss Ms account. I can see that in April 2021 she made two 
separate £1,000 payments so I dont think a payment of £1,588 should have stood out to 
Barclays. And although Miss M has commented that the payment was international it wasnt. 
The payment from Miss Ms Barclays account was to a known money transfer company and 
so Barclays had no reason to be concerned about it. 
ChargebackChargeback is a process that allows debit and credit card holders to reverse a transaction 
when theres a problem with the goods or services they have purchased. It is organised and 
run through the overarching card scheme (Visa and Mastercard predominantly) but 
customers wishing to use the service must go through their card issuer (Barclays in this 
case). The chargeback scheme is voluntary, and banks are not under any formal obligation 
to submit a chargeback claim. But this services view is that it is good practice for a bank to 
make a chargeback claim where the right exists and there is a reasonable prospect of 
success.
Barclays attempted a chargeback for Miss M but wasnt able to recover her funds. This was 
because Miss Ms card payment wasnt made directly to the scammer (landlord). Miss M 
paid a money transfer service that provided the service it was expected to. In these 
circumstances I think the money transfer service was right to dispute the chargeback and Im 
satisfied there was nothing more Barclays could do. 
I understand that the reversal of the refund has left Miss M in a difficult financial position, but 
Im persuaded that Barclays acted reasonably in reversing the refund of the disputed 
amount. On both occasions Barclays credited Miss Ms account it made it clear the refund 
was temporary while it investigated her claim.
Service
I appreciate the scam has had a huge impact on Miss M and her education. Im really sorry 
to hear about what shes experienced. I need to be mindful though that it is the scammer 
who is responsible for this. 
It is clear Miss M has had a lot of calls with Barclays in respect of the scam and her financial 
position, but Im not persuaded that Barclays has acted unreasonably or should be paying 
Miss M compensation. I can understand Miss Ms frustration that she had to repeat what had 
happened and that advisors took time to read her notes before they could help her. Whilst I 
understand Miss Ms point that it would have been easier to deal with one person who knew 
what was happening, this isnt the service many banks offer for a variety of reasons. It is for 
Barclays to decide how it runs its business and what processes to adopt.
Miss M also thinks Barclays didnt offer appropriate support when she was in financial 
difficulty. She has suggested that Barclays could have temporarily increased her overdraft so 
that Miss M could have continued to live and study abroad. But Barclays also needed to act 
responsibly. Miss M had already increased her overdraft and was over £1,000 overdrawn 
when the disputed transaction was reversed for the second time at the beginning of 
December 2021. Once the temporary refund was removed Miss M was over £2,700 
overdrawn and at the time had no job and no means of repaying any debt. In these 
circumstances, Im not persuaded Barclays would have been treating Miss M fairly if it 
offered her more credit or allowed her to continue to make debit card payments which would 
have added to the amount she owed. 
Im satisfied that Barclays tried to help Miss M by signposting her to other organisations that 
could support her and allowing her time to repay and I note Miss M was able to open another 
account elsewhere. As Miss M owed a debt Barclays needed to engage with her about this 
so I dont consider Barclays was wrong to do so. Barclays told Miss M that her account could 
be used as normal once her unauthorised overdraft was cleared, which was fair.  
Overall, I dont consider Barclays has acted unreasonably in its treatment of Miss M and so I 
am not awarding any compensation.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept or reject my decision before 8 November 2022.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman