DRN-2794495
The complaint
Mr D complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) have unfairly declined a claim he 
made under an indemnity insurance policy.
What happened
The background is well known to all parties so Ive summarised events.
In 2015 Mr D purchased indemnity insurance for his property from Aviva.
In February 2020 the council served Mr D with a notice and an order which prevented 
use of the loft space as living quarters. It said the loft was not safe for use due to 
uneven stairs with no landing area when the door opens.
Mr D sought for Aviva to rectify this issue under his policy. Aviva considered this and 
the councils order, and declined the claim for three reasons. 
1. Aviva said the order related to legislation used by local authorities in relation 
to Houses in Multiple Occupation (HMOs) or properties which have been 
sub-divided into separate flats/apartments or bedsits. It also said the planning 
history indicated the property was a multiple occupancy house, and therefore 
was in in breach of the terms and conditions of Mr Ds policy which was to be 
used for a single family only. 
2. The policy excludes claims related to extensions, alterations or conversion 
works proposed after the policy start date  which Aviva said was the case 
here, as the council inspection appeared to have been initiated following Mr 
Ds planning applications.
3. Cover would only be provided if the council had obtained an order under 
Section 36 notice under the Building Act and/or an order, injunction or 
judgement by a Court. And this hadnt happened in this case.
One of our investigators looked into what happened and didnt uphold the complaint. 
He said the policy clearly excluded proposed extensions, alterations, installation or 
conversion works after the policy date. And in the circumstances, it appeared most 
likely the planning applications Mr D had submitted led to the order. He also said hed 
expect Aviva to reconsider the matter if Mr D provided evidence to show the planning 
application hadnt led to the councils actions. 
Mr D disagreed but didnt provide any further evidence. He said even if the councils 
actions were triggered by his planning application, Aviva should still cover the costs if 
the loft room isnt safe according to building standards. He also said Aviva should 
seek confirmation itself about the property from the council or an independent 
surveyor as opposed to providing this himself.
So the complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr Ds indemnity insurance provides cover in certain scenarios. This says:
The Insurer will subject to the terms and conditions of the Policy and by reason of the 
Defect described in the Schedule indemnify the Insured against:-
i. the cost of altering demolishing or reinstating any part of The Property to comply 
with an Order
ii. a reduction in the Open Market Value of The Property 
iii. any other costs and expenses incurred with the Insurer's written agreement
in the event of successful implementation of an Order requiring The Development to 
comply with building regulations
Order is also defined within the policy as.
a) a Section 36 notice under the Building Act 1984 and/or 
b) an order, injunction or judgement by a Court which establishes that The 
Development is in breach of building regulations
In this case, Aviva has said the order wasnt issued by a court or under Section 36 of the 
Building Act 1984 so didnt meet the terms of cover. And as a result, it wouldnt assist with 
the cost of rectifying the building defects. 
And Mr D has given me nothing to persuade me otherwise. So Im satisfied Aviva has 
declined the claim on this basis.
Aviva has also quoted an exclusion it has relied on. This says the indemnity will not cover 
any claims relating to:
any extension, alteration, installation or conversion works proposed or completed 
after the Policy Date directly affecting and/or requiring improvement or alteration to 
The Development, in order to comply with building regulations
In this case Mr D initially said the councils inspection of his home was related to fly-tipping. 
Aviva questioned these events and how an inspection of the loft would follow and instead 
said it was more likely the council had attended following Mr Ds planning applications. 
Mr D has provided no further evidence from the council to support his claim despite being 
given multiple opportunities to do so. So, it strikes me, based on the available evidence, 
Avivas interpretation of events is fair and its decision to decline the claim under this 
exclusion is reasonable. 
For the reasons Ive given above, Im satisfied the claim has been fairly declined. And I see 
no reason to make any further findings on any remaining reasons Aviva has sought to rely 
on as it would not change the outcome of this claim.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2021.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman