DRN-3300653
The complaint
Mr D complains that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him a packaged bank account.
What happened
Mr D had had a bank account with Lloyds since about 1973. This didnt have a monthly fee. 
Neither Lloyds nor Mr D are sure exactly when, but sometime in or before 2001, the account 
was changed to a Gold Service Added Value Account. This was a packaged bank account 
which had a monthly fee of £8. The fee was waived if the balance of the account was kept 
above £1,000 each month. 
The account came with some benefits. The main one was worldwide travel insurance. The 
monthly overdraft fee (if one was incurred) of about £5 was waived and the first £100 of an 
overdraft was interest free. Other benefits included (at least from July 1997) card protection, 
purchase protection and extended warranties.  
In the years after Mr Ds account changed, other benefits such as mobile phone and car 
breakdown cover were added. 
Mr D says he wasnt given a choice about the account changing to a fee-bearing one. He 
says that Lloyds simply wrote to him saying it was changing the account, and this then 
happened shortly after. He says he wasnt given a choice about it. 
Mr D says that the main benefit, of travel insurance, wouldnt have been worthwhile  he 
could have bought it cheaper for the few times he travelled in a year. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the evidence and said they thought the complaint shouldnt 
be upheld. Mr D didnt agree, and so the matter has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On our website, weve set out our approach to the sale of packaged bank accounts. Ive 
kept that approach in mind when considering this case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
If what Mr D remembers is accurate, about being given no choice, this clearly would have 
been wrong and would amount to mis-selling. 
The problem is that this all happened over 20 years ago, and letters and other records 
from the time havent been kept. And it wouldnt be surprising if someone didnt remember 
the detail of everything that happened so long ago. So it may not be fair for me to rely just 
on what they now remember. 
And it wouldnt be fair, in a situation like this, to make a person or business prove that 
they didnt do something wrong. Instead I would need reasonable supporting evidence to 
say Lloyds acted wrongly in the way Mr D recalls.
As a result of earlier investigations, we do have a library of various archive documents 
sent by Lloyds over the years. This is far from a complete library. The only document of 
relevance I can find is a standard letter sent by Lloyds to some customers with overdrafts, 
in June 1998. This enclosed a leaflet outlining the benefits of the Gold account and said it 
was inviting customers to phone and apply for the account: your acceptance is 
guaranteed. 
I accept there was often sharp practice amongst banks at the time. But this small piece of 
evidence does at least suggest that Lloyds practice was to invite customers to apply. And 
I think it unlikely Lloyds would have gone so far as putting in writing that it was forcing 
someone to move to a fee-bearing account. 
But, more importantly, I cant see that Im going to get evidence to say fairly that Lloyds 
did move Mr D to the new account without giving him a choice or getting his consent. 
Ive thought about whether there are other reasons to say the account was mis-sold. Ive 
done this on the basis that Mr D was given a choice, even though I accept hes certain he 
wasnt.  
Lloyds is saying it would have recommended the account to Mr D. This means it would 
have needed to check the account was a good fit for his circumstances. But I think it 
would have been an appropriate recommendation as, potentially, Mr D could have found 
the account benefits useful, including the travel insurance. It would then have been for 
Mr D to decide how much he would use the benefits, and whether it was good value for 
money.
In conclusion, I dont have strong enough evidence to make a finding that the account was 
mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2022.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman