DRN-2799584
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Capital One (Europe) plc rejected his claim under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
In July 2016 Mr S entered into a transaction with a land bank investment scheme and paid 
sums by way of deposit using his Capital One credit card.
Mr S says that the terms of his investment were that the land would be sold, and he would 
receive a return of his investment plus a share of any profit. Mr S is unhappy because the 
land hasnt been sold, or registered in his name, nor has he received a refund. He says the 
company who he entered into the transaction with has ceased trading.
Mr S made a claim under section 75. Capital One investigated the claim but said it wasnt 
able to establish that a breach of contract had taken place based on the information that Mr 
S had provided.
Mr S wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that the information provided by Mr S 
wasnt enough to establish the full agreement between him and the property company, so it 
wasnt possible to say that there had been a breach of contract.
Mr S didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer a right to claim against the supplier of 
goods or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation. In 
order to uphold Mr Ss complaint, I would need to be satisfied that theres been a breach of 
contract, and that Capital Ones response to the claim under section 75 wasnt fair or 
reasonable. 
Mr S has told this service that the terms of the contract were that the plots of land he 
purchased would be registered in his name, and a forward sale achieved out of which he 
would receive a refund of his investment plus a share of profits. Mr S says it was a term of 
the contract that if the forward sale didnt happen by 10 December 2019, the company would 
purchase the plots back from him at the original price.
Ive looked at the information Mr S has provided. The information isnt very detailed  
certainly not as detailed as Id expect to see for  transaction of this type. Mr S has provided 
sales invoices, which Ive looked at, but all of these appear to relate to the same single plot 
of land, as opposed to three separate plots. The relevance of this to the way in which I have 
to approach this complaint is that one of the  criteria for section 75 is that a  claim can only 
apply to a  single item with a  purchase price of between £100 and £30,000. The invoices 
provided by Mr S suggest that he paid for a single plot of land in three stages, with a  
purchase price in excess of £30,000. Based on the information Ive seen, I have concerns 
that the criteria for section 75 may not have been met here.
Even if Mr S did purchase three separate plots of land, Im still not able to say  based on 
the information provided  that theres been a breach of contract here. The sales invoices 
provided by Mr S arent detailed enough to establish all the terms of the contract.  I cant see 
any reference in the information provided that the land was to be registered in Mr Ss name 
when he entered into the transaction, although I have seen information to suggest that Mr S 
is now in the process of having the land split into three separate title deeds and re-
registering these in his name, with completion due at the end of November.
Taking all of the available information into account, Im unable to safely conclude that there 
has been a breach of contract here. On that basis, I dont think Capital One declined the 
section 75 claim unfairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman