DRN-4212200
The complaint
Mrs L is a sole trader. She has complained that Allianz Business Services Limited (ABSL) 
has asked her to pay for her business protection insurance policy after an error in setting up 
the payment for the policy meant that her direct debits were not taken. 
What happened
Mrs L held business protection insurance through ABSL since 2016. In April 2021, the policy 
lapsed and a new policy was set up. At that point ABSL made an error and did not set up the 
credit agreement. This meant that no money was taken from Mrs Ls account. The policy 
renewed in April 2022 without any payments being taken from Mrs L. 
In January 2023, Mrs L noticed that the payments hadnt been made and alerted ABSL. 
ABSL confirmed it had made an error but said it had spoken with the insurer who confirmed 
that cover had been in place and so Mrs L had not been without insurance. 
Due to its error, ABSL said that it would not charge Mrs L for the first years policy, which 
should have cost £879.75, but asked her to pay for the policy which had renewed in April 
2022. As Mrs L was not in agreement with this, ABSL ultimately said it would remove its 
commission from the second years premium of £1,005.78 to bring the cost down to £628.29. 
It then said it had spoken to the insurer to reduce the premium to £500. ABSL said it would 
work with Mrs L to offer a suitable payment plan and suggested that she spread the 
payments out across the year interest free. 
Mrs L did not think that was reasonable and complained to our service. She said that she did 
not understand how the error had occurred and was worried that it might happen again. She 
thought it would be reasonable for her to pay for the three months which was left to run at 
the time she alerted ABSL to the error, spread across the next year. She was concerned 
about being asked to pay £500, as she thought that had been rounded up. Mrs L told us 
about the impact the error had on her. 
Our Investigator looked into Mrs Ls complaint but did not think that ABSL needed to do 
anything further to put things right. 
Mrs L did not agree. She said being asked to pay for the policy now impacted her businesss 
cashflow she and did not think that the impact of ABSLs error had been properly 
considered. Mrs L asked us to listen to calls between her and ABSL to understand the level 
of distress she had experienced. However, ABSL said that the calls had not been recorded 
so could not be provided.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
ABSL has accepted that it made an error, so what remains is for me to consider whether it 
has done enough to put things right. Having done so, I think ABSLs offer to put things right 
is fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances. I will explain why.
I am satisfied by ABSLs confirmation that the insurer has agreed that cover is in place for 
Mrs L. That means, if she makes a claim on her policy, she will be covered. This is insurance 
that she wanted and needed for her business. I think it is fair and reasonable that she pays 
for the benefit of the cover that she has had. 
The total amount Mrs L should have paid for her insurance was £1,885.53. Due to ABSLs 
error, she is only being asked to pay £500. I do not believe that ABSL has rounded up this 
figure because it has explained how it deducted its commission and then asked the insurer 
to further reduce the premium. 
I think that ABSL has fairly reduced the amount Mrs L is required to pay and in doing that it 
has saved her £1,385.53 that she would have paid if not for ABSLs error. I have not been 
able to listen to calls between ABSL and Mrs L but I do not think that makes a difference to 
the outcome of my decision. This is because I recognise that Mrs L has been extremely 
distressed by what has happened. However, I do not think that this means that it would be 
fair and reasonable for me to require ABSL to reduce the cost of the policy even further. I 
think ABSLs offer is a significant amount of compensation and I believe that in reaching the 
offer it has ABSL has taken into account the impact of the error on Mrs L. 
I recognise that it might be difficult for Mrs L to pay all of the outstanding money immediately, 
as she did not previously realise that the payments had not been taken and so is likely to 
have used the money elsewhere. Therefore, I think it is right that ABSL has offered to work 
with Mrs L to set up a suitable, interest free payment plan. For completeness, I would expect 
ABSL to take account of Mrs Ls financial circumstances when arranging a suitable payment 
plan. 
I appreciate that this has been distressing for Mrs L but, while I uphold her complaint due to 
ABSLs error, I think the offer ABSL has made to put things right is fair and reasonable in all 
of the circumstances. 
Putting things right
ABSLs offer to only require Mrs L to pay £500 and arrange a payment plan is fair and 
reasonable in all of the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Allianz Business Services Limiteds offer to 
only require Mrs L to pay £500 and arrange a payment plan is fair and reasonable in all of 
the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman