DRN-2163774
The complaint
Mrs B complains that the car she acquired through a hire purchase agreement from Startline 
Motor Finance Limited (Startline) was not of satisfactory quality. Mrs B is represented in this 
complaint by her husband Mr B.
What happened
In November 2018 Mrs B acquired a used car from Startline, financed by a hire purchase 
agreement through a dealer, D. Mrs B took out the finance through a credit broker, C, on 5 
November and collected the car on or around 6 November.
Within two weeks after collection Mr B said he contacted D to report a strong smell of 
exhaust fumes and a strange noise coming from the engine area. He said D refused to look 
at the vehicle, claiming there was nothing wrong with it.
Mr B had the car checked by a local garage, G, on 24 January 2019. It carried out checks for 
noise when accelerating and smell of fumes inside the car. The notes on the invoice said: 
Found exhaust flange onto turbo blowing would start with this first. Mr B said he provided 
this invoice to D but D contacted G and became aggressive towards G.
Mr B, on behalf of Mrs B, took a complaint to Startline. On 30 January Startline advised Mr 
and Mrs B that it would require Mrs B to obtain an independent inspection to continue with 
the investigation. In its final response Startline said the engineer had reported a number of 
issues, which Startline listed, but he could not find any evidence the vehicle was not fit for 
purpose at the point of sale. So, it would not uphold Mrs Bs complaint. It said it was unable 
to comment on the poor service from the dealer. 
Mr B brought Mrs Bs complaint to this service. Mr B said the problems persisted with the 
car. On 14 June 2019 Mr B wrote to Startline. He confirmed that carbon monoxide had been 
detected inside the vehicle as had been previously advised at the time of the complaint and 
there was a strong smell of exhaust gases inside the car.
Mr B said on 25 July and again on 15 August he had to call the break down recovery 
service. At this point Mr and Mrs B had driven the car nearly 10,000 miles. In her view on 6 
September the investigator concluded the car had not been of a satisfactory quality at the 
point of sale. She recommended Startline attempt to repair the car. She also recommended 
it reimburse Mrs B for the initial inspection and compensate her with £200 for the distress 
and inconvenience.
Startline disagreed with this assessment and provided a number of comments and further 
evidence. This included submission of the job card following the failed MOT prior to sale. 
The card noted Check smoke from exhaust. The action relating to that is described as: 
Drive car around block make sure smoke cleared smoke from sitting in showroom. Car all 
okay. MOT retested. The investigator did not change her view so Startline asked for a final 
decision from an ombudsman. Following the investigators view Mrs B continued to have 
problems with the car and Mr B submitted reports from breakdown recovery service. Mrs B 
subsequently voluntarily terminated (VT) her hire purchase agreement.
I issued a provisional decision on 6 August 2020. I said in hire purchase agreements the 
finance provider, in this case Startline, becomes the owner of the vehicle, and is subject to 
the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). The law says that goods supplied should be of 
satisfactory quality. I must take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair and 
reasonable. So, I must consider whether or not the vehicle was of satisfactory quality when 
Mrs B acquired it at the point of sale, taking into account the age of the vehicle and its 
mileage. I must also be satisfied that the faults with the car were caused by an inherent 
defect, and not caused by general wear and tear.
When Mrs B acquired it the vehicle was some seven to eight years old and had done an 
average mileage of around 9,000 per year. And given the age and mileage of the car I 
expected some wear and tear and maintenance requirements generally.
It wasnt disputed that there was a fault with the vehicle during the time Mrs B had it. Mr B 
described it as exhaust fumes in the car and a strange noise, reported within the first week 
of having the car. The independent inspection engineers report made a number of 
observations which matched Mr Bs description of the faults. Mr B stated the problems were 
first noticeable from 12 November. But evidence of faults in a vehicle, even at the point of 
purchase, did not in themselves indicate the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
In comments to this service Startline acknowledged that the engineer had noted fumes 
coming from the turbo would require further investigation. But it confirmed the engineer 
concluded the vehicle was fit for purpose and roadworthy at the time of sale. 
I didnt dispute Mr B when he said the faults became apparent within weeks of having the
car. And it was possible that the smoke noted on the MOT job card was as a result of the 
DPF or turbocharger, faults noted in the inspection report. But I didnt have enough 
information to determine that. 
Mr B had concerns about the inspector and his physical ability. He said the inspector didnt 
drive the car and it was only a visual inspection. The report states that a test drive with the 
customer was carried out and the mileage is reported to have increased by two miles. I 
found the inspection report detailed and persuasive, in that the faults discovered were likely 
as a result of general wear and tear, and maintenance issues given the age and mileage of 
the car. So I was persuaded that as the faults were likely not as a result of inherent defects, 
subject to any further information I might receive, I was minded to conclude the vehicle was 
of satisfactory quality at the point of sale.
Mr and Mrs B continued driving the car until September putting on nearly 10,000 miles. They 
stated that they did make general repairs to the car but not related to the issues they 
reported to the dealer. Mr B said the repair in question was never done because when they 
identified the fault it was under the one month warranty promised by D, but D failed to accept 
the repair, became hostile and threatened violence. I havent seen a copy of the warranty. It 
is possible for a warranty not to cover wear and tear repairs but I couldnt say if this is the 
case here.
The engineer made some recommendations in his report. I realise Mr and Mrs B understood 
the fault to be the responsibility of D but it is possible that had they acted on the 
maintenance recommendations following the report in February the symptoms could have 
been alleviated, particularly as they continued to drive the vehicle for a further 6,000 miles. 
Mr B went on to say that further faults were found by the engineer which a reasonable
person would not expect to find on a vehicle so early into ownership or on a vehicle of its
age and mileage. He said the faults identify that the vehicle was kept in a poor conditionprior to Mrs Bs collection. I disagreed with some of the points made by Mr B. The
intention of the independent inspection was to examine the vehicle in detail. Under that
circumstance I would expect to find wear and tear, including possible faults, on a vehicle of
this age and mileage irrespective of when the customer took ownership. And these faults
would not necessarily make the car not of satisfactory quality.
My provisional decision was that the faults were likely not as a result of inherent defects and 
I concluded the vehicle was of satisfactory quality at the point of sale.
Mr B responded to the provisional decision with some comments which I have addressed 
below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I believe my provisional decision still stands and I wont be instructing 
Startline to do anything further. 
In response to my provisional decision Mr B said he made Startline aware that between 11 
July and 26 August 2019, the vehicle was used under exceptional circumstances to assist in 
travel to and from hospital after the birth of their premature child. He said this was a 16 mile 
round trip, two to three times a day which lasted for seven weeks. I asked Startline to 
comment on this. It expressed sympathy for Mr and Mrs B in the traumatic and worrying 
situation they found themselves in. But it said this did not change the fact that there was no 
evidence to support the vehicle was not of satisfactory quality when purchased. I do agree 
with Startline on this point. Startline went on to say it was down to the dealer to evidence as 
per the CRA. Although it makes no difference to the outcome, for the sake of clarity, as I 
mentioned above, Startline, as the finance provider on this hire purchase agreement, is 
subject to the CRA. 
Mr B also stated the independent inspector did not drive the vehicle himself but insisted Mr B 
did due to the inspectors mobility issues. While I do appreciate this might be an unusual 
request it does mean that the car was still road tested as was stated in the inspectors report. 
As stated in my provisional decision I found the inspection report detailed and persuasive, in 
that the faults discovered were likely as a result of general wear and tear, and maintenance 
issues given the age and mileage of the car. And so I remain of the view that the faults were 
likely not as a result of inherent defects and conclude the vehicle was of satisfactory quality 
at the point of sale.
Mr B went on to say that Startline appeared to have accepted Mr and Mrs Bs side of the 
story as it had cleared the account and updated Mrs B's credit file to reflect this. He said the 
credit file had been cleared for some several months and provided a screen shot of the 
credit file summary. Mr B explained that Startline had not sent any further correspondence to 
Mrs B in line with the legal requirement for many months. So, on that evidence he said it was 
clear to assume this matter was closed and all accounts settled.
I asked Startline to comment on the situation with the hire purchase agreement. It 
contradicted Mr Bs version. It said Mrs B did VT the agreement with it and the vehicle was 
collected in December 2019. However, it said, Mrs B had a shortfall of £2,304.62 to make up 
to the 50% paid marker as required when opting to VT an agreement. It went on to say that a further damage appraisal amount of £162.00 was also outstanding. Startline added that 
there has been a default applied to the credit file for the shortfall amount as this is a 
contractual element of the agreement and as such, required to be paid. It confirmed there 
have been no payments made towards the agreement and there remains an outstanding 
balance of £2,476.63. 
Mrs Bs complaint centres around whether the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of 
sale. Im not able to comment on the situation regarding the VT as it didnt form part of this 
complaint. Mrs B should engage with Startline in order to avoid further issues. In his 
communication to this service Mr B mentioned difficult financial circumstances. He has not 
given any further detail to me about this, but I would expect Startline to take note of Mr Bs 
comments in this regard, seek to understand more about Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances and 
respond in a sensitive and flexible manner.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2020.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman