DRN-2826143
The complaint
Ms M complained TSB Bank Plc. acted outside of their instructions when she went to a 
branch to pay a bill. Ms M says the service provided was unsatisfactory.
What happened
Ms Ms complaint
Ms M complained about what happened when she went to a branch of TSB in October 2020. 
Ms M says she intended to make a payment towards the balance of her Tesco credit card by 
using a cheque from her employer that was drawn from a different banking provider (not 
TSB) and made out directly to Tesco credit card for £3,000. She says she also had £830 
with her in cash to also use for the same purpose.
Ms M says she had a number of problems during her visit to the branch, including:
Staff refused to accept the cheque and wouldnt show her a written policy in their 
terms as to why this was.
She wanted to speak to a Branch manager and was told there wasnt one in the 
branch.
When she called a TSB telephone service, branch staff refused to speak on the 
speaker phone.
In her complaint form Ms M told us that after the first cashier refused to accept the cheque to 
pay onto her credit card, she went to a second cashier. She asked them to complete the 
payment to her credit card with the £3,000 cheque and her £830 cash. Ms M says that when 
they refused, she asked for the cheque to be returned to her, and to withdraw £3,000 from 
her TSB account. Ms M says she told the cashier shed post the cheque to the credit card 
company.
Ms M says the cashier went on to withdraw and use £3,000 from Ms Ms personal banking 
account and the £830 cash to pay onto the credit card bill and they returned the cheque to 
her. She says she didnt authorize this, and shed wanted to use the £3,000 shed asked to 
withdraw from her account for other purposes.
Ms M says she told the cashier to cancel this transaction, but they refused. She says she 
instructed branch staff she wanted to withdraw all her money and close her account but was 
told shed have to go to a different branch to do this.
Ms M told us she went on to complain to TSB by phone. She wasnt happy they took some 
time to answer her complaint, and she didnt agree with their answer.
Ms M thinks she is entitled to £3,000. She says TSB ought not to have used her money to 
pay towards her credit card balance and so she suffered a loss. Ms M declined to tell us 
what shed intended to use the £3,000 for. She let us know she hasnt closed the account.
TSBs response
TSB say they didnt do anything wrong. They dont process bill payments from accounts from 
a third-party bank account thats not linked with TSB. They would have only been able to 
accept a cheque drawn on a TSB account. To process such transactions TSB need to either 
be the sending or receiving bank.
TSB didnt accept their staff had wrongly withdrawn or used the £3,000 from Ms Ms own 
account towards the payment on her credit card. They said this activity had been instructed 
and authorised by Ms M.
TSB didnt accept theyd failed in their service to Ms M. In response to her complaint they 
said they understood that once Ms M was told she couldnt complete the transaction using 
the cheque referred to, Ms M started shouting and became abusive to bank staff and other 
customers. 
Ms M asked TSB to review their reply to her complaint as she didnt think theyd addressed 
her complaint, they did, but didnt change their thinking.
TSB dont agree their terms were discussed during this visit to the branch. They say if Ms M 
had asked, she would have been directed to their usual personal banking terms which set 
out the services offered.
TSB says their records show Ms M was shouting down the phone when she called their 
telephone banking on the day she came into the branch. TSB say there is consistent 
information describing Ms Ms behaviour and say her behaviour had upset their staff.
TSB say Ms M chose to accept the solution of using £3,000 from her account, along with her 
cash (£830). TSB accept Ms M did tell the cashier she wasnt happy and claimed this wasnt 
what she wanted. But they dont agree this is consistent with what shed initially said or that 
she asked for the transaction to be undone. It was at this stage they say her behaviour 
escalated so that bank staff warned her to leave or else the police would be called.
TSB dont have information to be able to say whether Ms M asked to close her account, but 
they think it was reasonable in the circumstances, for Ms M to have been told, if this did 
happen, to complete this activity elsewhere.
TSB say Ms M became abusive and raised her voice when she phoned to complain about 
her visit to the branch, and when their adviser began to explain why a third-party cheque 
couldnt be processed by TSB. TSB agree Ms M referred to their terms not containing this 
information.
TSB dont accept they caused Ms M loss and suggest that if she needed £3,000 this could 
have been obtained from the account providing the cheque.
The investigators view
An investigator told Ms M they werent upholding her complaint. The investigator didnt think 
TSB had done anything wrong. On balance, even if it was a mistake by the cashier, the 
investigator thought TSB had been doing what they thought Ms M wanted, when using the 
£3,000 Ms M had withdrawn to pay towards the credit card bill. 
Ms Ms response to the viewMs M doesnt agree. She thinks TSB failed her. Ms M says TSB didnt do what she asked, 
they acted outside of what theyd been authorized to do and their service was unsatisfactory. 
She thinks the investigator failed to fully consider her complaint, and that TSB had used 
money from her own account without her permission. 
The investigator thought they had considered this point. Ms M provided a number of further 
submissions, including in summary:
She says she didnt expect TSB to cash the cheque from her employer but did expect 
TSB to process it.
Shed needed the £3,000 for herself but refused to provide any further information.
She provided a statement from TSB which showed withdrawals of £200 and £3,000 
from her account on the relevant day. Ms M also provided the copy of her credit card 
statement which was marked to show £3,800 had been paid with cash towards the 
balance on the relevant day. There was an outstanding balance shown on the bill 
prior to the payment being made of over £11,000.
Ms M says the bank account statement shows £3,000 cash was withdrawn from her 
own account. Ms M says this didnt happen as she wanted the cash but didnt get it.
She thinks the bank could and ought to have reversed the payment of £3,830 to her 
credit card.
The bank staff told her the reasons why she couldnt complete the transaction 
involving the cheque were in their terms but couldnt provide them. So the 
investigator was wrong to conclude the terms couldnt set out every situation. And 
the investigator was unreasonable to think TSB hadnt acted outside their terms.
Ms M says she has written to TSB to ask why she cant use a company cheque to 
pay a credit card bill at a bank branch when she can use it at a post office.
Ms M doesnt consider it to be her problem if the bank dont have a manager at a 
branch and she thinks they ought not to be able to offer selected services as they 
choose at a branch.
Ms M denies being abusive. Ms M says she told branch staff that until they gave her 
the money back and the money from her account, she would not leave, and she told 
them they could not deal with any other customers at that counter, or until she spoke 
to someone senior. Ms M says she only left once she spoke to TSBs head office.
Ms M says the investigator failed to understand she has lost out. Ms M stresses her 
complaint is that only £830 of her own money was due to be paid towards her credit card. 
Instead an additional £3,000 was used of her own money, so she thinks she lost out on the 
use of that money to live and for other personal plans that she declined to share with us. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think TSB did anything wrong and I dont intend to require them to do 
anything further on this complaint.
Im sorry this will disappoint Ms M. Ive seen she thinks the previous investigation and 
findings were unsatisfactory. Ms M set out her thinking on this in detail and what else she 
thought ought to be done. I hope Ms M will appreciate that although I have not set out her 
response in detail, I have considered it and everything that has been provided with care. Ultimately it's for me to decide if I have enough material to reach my decision and what 
weight I give to whats provided.
Ms M refers to her conversation with the investigator. She thought there was inconsistency 
between what theyd discussed and what the investigator did. I hope it will reassure Ms M to 
understand that I make my decision independently. My role isnt to review the investigation 
conducted by the investigator, but to consider Ms Ms complaint and everything provided, 
including submissions, to reach my own decision. This can involve evaluating evidence, 
assessing relevance, drawing inferences and concluding what was most likely, as 
appropriate.
Did TSB do anything wrong in refusing to allow Ms M to use the cheque towards her credit 
card? 
I dont think they did. This was not a cheque drawn from a TSB account. Ms M wasnt the 
account holder that owned the account the cheque was drawn on. She tells us it was from 
her employer. It was not made out to Ms M, but to the credit card provider, who were not 
TSB.
I dont consider it unusual or unexpected for a bank to refuse in these circumstances. To 
process a transaction the bank will usually need to be either the sender (the account where 
the money is being sent from) or the receiver (the account where the money is to be 
received). TSBs banking relationship is with their customers, around their accounts as 
account holders in general terms. 
The terms relating to the account set out some information about what happens when 
account holders pay bills from their own account. The terms supplied to us by TSB are the 
terms that apply to the account holder using their account. This wasnt what Ms M was trying 
to do. The terms set out the type of activities and what this entails that a customer of TSB 
can complete as an account holder around their banking and account. The terms dont set 
out activities that account holders cant do. I wouldnt expect them to and wouldnt consider 
this to be generally practicable or reasonable. The activity Ms M wanted to do here isnt 
contained in the terms applied to her account. TSB suggest this is because it isnt something 
she could do as an account holder, and I accept this.
TSB said it was against their policy to allow Ms M to use a third-party cheque to pay towards 
her credit card bill for a card held with a third-party provider. I wouldnt expect this to be 
something that would be contained in the terms applying to the account held by Ms M. I 
accept it is a policy of the bank, and as Ive explained I wouldnt consider this to be unusual.
Ive seen Ms M was unhappy TSB staff didnt show the terms relating to her account or 
anything that contains this policy in writing. I dont they didnt anything wrong in this. Based 
on what Ive seen Ive concluded that by the time Ms M started asking for copies of the terms 
the situation had already become heated. In any event the terms would not have contained 
the policy she was unhappy with. 
I dont think it was wrong Ms M wasnt shown anything in writing confirming TSBs policy. I 
accept TSB staff acted in a way they considered appropriate given the circumstances. I dont 
think they treated Ms M unfairly or unreasonably. The policy isnt inconsistent with how many 
similar banks operate, and the considerations around why such policies are needed, are 
matters for a business and the regulator in general terms. This will include concerns in 
relation to protecting customers and fraudulent activity for example.
Were TSB wrong in applying the payment to Ms Ms credit card?I dont accept the TSB cashier did anything wrong when using £3,000 from Ms Ms account 
and the £830 cash she had given to the cashier to pay towards her credit card. 
I think the cashier thought they were doing what Ms M had instructed. I dont think theres 
enough information for me to conclude whether Ms M suggested this herself or accepted the 
suggestion from the cashier and then changed her request; or if the cashier reasonably 
might have misunderstood what Ms M wanted to do.
Based on what Ms M says, she authorized the removal of £3,000 from her account. She will 
have needed to complete the necessary steps for this to proceed. I appreciate Ms M says 
she decided to withdraw £3,000 for her own use, after a second cashier refused to accept 
the third-party cheque for £3,000. I dont consider this a particularly persuasive submission.
However even if this was the case, I dont accept the TSB cashier understood this was what 
Ms M had decided. On balance I think the position was reached where the cashier 
understood Ms M wanted to use £3,000 from her account to pay towards her credit card, as 
she couldnt use the third-party cheque. By this time I have no doubt, the situation was 
heated. 
For completeness Ms M wanted to use the £830 cash she brought to the branch to pay 
towards the credit card bill. This is what happened, and I think this was again an action 
completed in good faith by TSB.
I dont accept TSB did anything wrong. Nor do I accept Ms M was caused loss. Her money, 
the £3,000, was paid towards her outstanding credit card balance. This hasnt caused her a 
loss. 
As Ive said, I dont find the submission Ms M decided to withdraw £3,000 here for her own 
use particularly persuasive. Im not persuaded Ms M needed the money and she has 
declined to tell us anymore about any plans for the money. So theres nothing to suggest she 
lost out on anything as a result of not having those funds in her account.
It might reasonably be expected that as the third-party who generated the cheque are said to 
have been Ms Ms employers, they could issue a new cheque to her directly.
Overall I dont accept TSB acted without Ms Ms permission and authority in withdrawing 
money from her account to pay towards her credit card bill. I think shed chosen this as a 
solution. But even if Im wrong, and she had wanted to withdraw £3,000 for her own use, I 
dont accept the TSB cashier understood this or ought reasonably to have done so. So they 
didnt do anything wrong. For completeness I find it hard to follow any logic as to why TSB 
staff might have acted in this way to intentionally use Ms Ms money to pay the amount onto 
her credit card against her wishes.
Ms M says she told TSB staff to undo the transaction. Given the circumstances here, I dont 
accept this was something TSB were wrong not to have done. I also dont think they were 
wrong to decline any request to withdraw all her money and close her account at that time. 
Whilst in general terms a customer might be expected to have reasonable access to their 
funds, I think theres enough here for me to conclude that by the time Ms M was making 
these demands, her behaviour was such as to have caused branch staff to be concerned 
and to be considering the next steps. I accept they perceived Ms M to be confrontational. 
challenging, aggressive and unpredictable. 
Ms M wanted to speak to a Branch manager and was told there wasnt one in the branch.I dont think TSB did anything wrong here. Allocation of staff to a branch would be something 
Id consider to be a matter for the business. If Ms M has wider concerns about business and 
policy decisions, these would be matters for the regulator. I dont accept the presence of 
someone else would have meant things would have been done differently.
Branch staff refused to speak on the speaker phone when Ms M called TSB
I dont think it was wrong for TSB staff to refuse here. I accept by this stage, the situation 
was heated. I accept TSB branch staff were upset and other customers were present. Ms M 
refers to informing staff she wouldnt leave until certain events occurred, this supports my 
impression there was a degree of confrontation and aggression reasonably perceived by 
TSB staff, whether or not Ms M intended this.
I dont consider it was for Ms M to direct branch staff to speak on the phone, and it was a 
matter for their discretion as to how they handled the situation. I accept the bank staff 
wanted Ms M to leave the branch and for the situation to de-escalate. 
My final decision
So, for the reasons given above, I dont uphold Ms Ms complaint against TSB Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2021.
 
Louise Wilson
Ombudsman