DRN-1778235
The complaint
Mr V says MYJAR Limited irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about eight instalment loans MYJAR provided to Mr V between July and 
November 2019. Mr Vs borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Max 
Repayment
1 23/07/2019 24/07/2019 3 £100.00 £54.66
2 25/07/2019 26/07/2019 3 £250.00 £134.76
3 27/07/2019 28/07/2019 3 £350.00 £186.03
4 28/07/2019 29/07/2019 3 £400.00 £211.11
5 15/11/2019 18/11/2019 6 £700.00 £205.09
6 19/11/2019 20/11/2019 12 £850.00 £128.42
7 24/11/2019 25/11/2019 12 £750.00 £118.43
8 29/11/2019 Outstanding 12 £1,475.00 £229.02
At the time of writing this decision, there is an outstanding balance remaining on loan 8. 
In its final response, MYJAR offered to uphold Mr Vs complaint about loans 4 to 8 but Mr V 
didnt accept the offer and asked this service to look into his complaint. 
Two of our adjudicators have reviewed Mr Vs complaint. The first adjudicator agreed that 
the offer MYJAR had made was broadly in line with this services approach but thought the 
redress should be slightly different to what MYJAR had offered. Mr V asked for the complaint 
to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
Whilst the complaint was waiting for an ombudsmans review, a second adjudicator reviewed 
the complaint and they thought MYJAR shouldnt have agreed to lend Mr V loan 3 either. 
They said this because the amount of the loan repayments would have left Mr V with very 
little disposable income. MYJAR disagreed and said the adjudicator had not explained how 
they had reached this outcome. As the complaint was already waiting for a final decision, it 
was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr V 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that MYJAR should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Mr V could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Vs complaint. Having done so, Im partially upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
Both adjudicators didnt think MYJAR needed to more when it approved loans 1 and 2. Mr V 
hasnt provided any more information for me to consider about these loans so, I wont be 
making further findings on them. This leave loans 3 to 8 for me to consider. 
MYJAR says it carried out checks before it lent loan 3 to Mr V and the results of these 
checks didnt raise any concerns. The checks involved gathering information about Mr Vs 
income and expenditure. For loan 3, Mr Vs declared income was £2,000 and he declared 
his outgoings as £1,772. This would have left him with a disposable income of £228 to cover 
his loan 3 instalment repayment of £186.03, as well as any other expenditures. Given his 
income and outgoings, I think its unlikely that Mr V would have been able to sustain his loan repayments without having to borrow again. This was shown when Mr V took out a fourth 
loan the same day he repaid loan 3 and for a larger amount. I think MYJAR ought to have 
realised this information was available in the details it had gathered from Mr V. And it 
shouldnt have provided Mr V with loan 3 as well as the other loans on this basis. 
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of MYJARs lending history with Mr V, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which MYJAR should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so MYJAR should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the circumstances of Mr Vs case, I agree with the first adjudicator, that this point was 
reached by loan 6. I say this because:
At this point MYJAR ought to have realised Mr V was not managing to repay his 
loans sustainably. Mr V had taken out six loans in just under four months. So MYJAR 
ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr V was having to borrow further 
to cover the hole repaying his previous loan was leaving in his finances and that     
Mr Vs indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mr Vs first loan was for £100 and loan 6 was for £850.  At this point MYJAR ought to 
have known that it was unlikely that Mr V was borrowing to meet a temporary 
shortfall in his income but more to meet an ongoing need. 
From loan 6 onwards Mr V was provided with a new loan within days of repaying his 
previous one. 
Mr V wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed MYJAR. Loan 8 was 
taken out four months after Mr Vs first. And it was for a significantly larger amount. 
Mr V had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to MYJAR over 
an extended period.
I think that Mr V lost out because MYJAR continued to provide borrowing from loan 6 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Vs indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period.
the number of loans and the length of time over which Mr V borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on Mr Vs ability to access mainstream credit and so 
kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
Putting things right
If MYJAR has sold the outstanding debt MYJAR should buy it back if MYJAR is able to do so 
and then take the following steps. If MYJAR cant buy the debt back, then MYJAR should 
liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) MYJAR should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr V towards interest, 
fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything 
MYJAR has already refunded.
B) MYJAR should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Mr V which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr V originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.C) MYJAR should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr V as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Mr V having made 
overpayments then MYJAR should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled. MYJAR should then refund the amounts calculated in A and 
B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus, 
then the surplus should be paid to Mr V. However, if there is still an outstanding balance 
then MYJAR should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr V. MYJAR shouldnt 
pursue outstanding balances made up of principal MYJAR has already written-off.
E) MYJAR should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Vs credit file in relation 
to loans 3 to 5. The overall pattern of Mr Vs borrowing for loans 6 to 8 means any 
information recorded about them is adverse, so MYJAR should remove these loans entirely 
from Mr Vs credit file. MYJAR does not have to remove any outstanding loans from Mr Vs 
credit file until these have been repaid, but MYJAR should still remove any adverse 
information recorded about these loans.
                                                                                                                                 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must give Mr V 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
Im partially upholding Mr Vs complaint. MYJAR Limited should put things right as set out 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2020.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman