DRN-3134620
The complaint
Mrs S complained that American International Group UK Limited (AIG) declined her claim 
following her cancer diagnosis. 
What happened
Mrs S took out a WellWoman policy with AIG on 21 June 2010. The policy provided cover in 
the event of Mrs S being diagnosed with cancer of any of the female organs listed in the 
policy. 
Mrs S was, unfortunately, diagnosed with triple negative breast cancer in 2017. She 
submitted a claim to AIG at that time, and it paid a settlement of just over £50,000. 
Mrs S underwent treatment and the cancer went into remission.  
In July 2021, Mrs S was diagnosed with metastatic lung cancer, with the origin of the lung 
cancer being the earlier breast cancer. So, Mrs S submitted another claim to AIG. 
AIG declined the claim. It said its terms say that cover under the policy will stop from the 
date of the first diagnosis for the covered cancer claimed for. And that cover will continue for 
the other covered cancers. So as Mrs S had previously made a successful claim for breast 
cancer in 2017, she no longer had cover for breast cancer. 
Mrs S was unhappy with the decision to decline the claim and so complained to AIG. It  
responded in August 2021 and reiterated that in order for Mrs Ss claim to be paid, her 
recent diagnosis would need to be the first diagnosis of a covered cancer. And as it was the 
second time she was diagnosed with and made a claim for breast cancer, it fairly turned 
down her claim. 
Mrs S remained unhappy and so referred her complaint to this service. Our investigator 
didnt uphold her complaint.
Mrs S didnt agree with what our investigator said and so this has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding this complaint.
I first of all want to offer my sympathies to Mrs S and her family. I realise this must be an 
incredibly difficult time for them. However, I could only ask AIG to pay Mrs Ss claim if I 
thought it had acted unfairly and not in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. And 
Im satisfied thats not the case, so I wont be asking it to take further action. Ill explain why. 
Mrs Ss policy will only provide cover as outlined in the policy documents. Im satisfied the 
policy terms are clearly worded enough and outline what Mrs S is and isnt covered for. 
When she first took out the policy, Mrs S had cover for breast cancer. And so I can see AIG 
paid her claim when she was diagnosed with breast cancer in 2017. 
But the policy terms indicate that if Mrs S has a successful claim for one of the listed 
cancers, in this case breast cancer, then breast cancer cover will stop. So when Mrs S was, 
unfortunately, diagnosed with cancer in 2021, she no longer had cover for breast cancer at 
that point. 
I know that Mrs S said she believes her claim should be paid as she now has lung cancer, 
albeit that this is related to breast cancer. So Ive looked at whether AIG acted fairly when it 
declined the claim on the basis that Mrs S no longer had cover for breast cancer. 
Ive seen and have relied on the medical information provided to this service. And Im 
satisfied that while Mrs Ss recent diagnosis is one of lung cancer, the consultants she has 
seen are in agreement that the lung cancer is metastatic and has most likely metastasised 
from her earlier breast cancer. The terms of the policy say that in order for a claim to be 
paid, the listed cancer would need to have occurred at a new primary site. And as the lung 
cancer has most likely metastasised from the earlier breast cancer, Im satisfied that there is 
no evidence to suggest theres a new primary site. 
Its important to note that, in any event, lung cancer is not a listed cancer on Mrs Ss policy. 
So even if Mrs Ss consultants thought that the lung cancer hadnt originated from the breast 
cancer (which they dont), Mrs S wouldnt have a claim paid for this, as lung cancer is not a 
listed cancer. Mrs Ss policy is one that very specifically only provides cover for cancer in 
female organs. 
For all of these reasons, I think AIG acted fairly when it declined the claim on the basis 
Mrs Ss most recent cancer diagnosis isnt covered under her policy. 
I know that when Mrs S spoke to AIG, she said that if shed known she no longer had cover 
for breast cancer after making the first claim in 2017, she would have cancelled the policy. 
So Ive considered this. As outlined above, I think the terms and conditions of the policy were 
clear, so I think AIG did enough to notify Mrs S her cover for a specific type of cancer would 
end following a successful claim for that cancer. And I can see that the policy also provided 
cover for cancer originating in other organs. So although Mrs S no longer had cover for 
breast cancer, she still had the benefit of other cover. 
I realise my decision will disappoint Mrs S, but I am not asking AIG to take further action. 
My final decision
Its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2021.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman