DRN-3197324
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold them a fee-paying 
Gold Service packaged bank account in August 2004. They say that when the account was 
sold to them, they were told that theyd not have to pay the monthly account fee providing 
they kept their account balance above £2,000 (known as a fee-waiver). 
However, they recently received a letter from Lloyds telling them that the fee-waiver was 
being removed and that they would have to start paying the monthly fee for their account, 
regardless of the balance.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and she didnt think that Lloyds had acted 
unfairly or unreasonably.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators findings and asked for the matter to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website 
and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having considered everything, I 
dont think Lloyds has acted unfairly or unreasonably in this matter. Ill explain why.
Firstly, in terms of Lloyds decision to remove the fee-waiver, this is something that Lloyds is 
entitled to do. I say this because the fee-waiver was a feature of the account, just as much 
as the individual insurance (and non-insurance) benefits were. And the terms and conditions 
of the Gold Service account from 2004 say:
We may vary the service and facilities offered on the Gold Service current account giving 
notice to you either in a newspaper, branch, on-line or letter if and when this is necessary or 
appropriate to do so.
Therefore, Lloyds was not obliged to provide the exact same benefits for the exact same 
cost for as long as the consumers held the account. On the contrary, Lloyds was reasonably 
entitled to add to, change and remove the benefits that came with the account. And I can 
see that it did change many features of the account whilst Mr and Mrs M held it  so the 
removal of the fee-waiver was essentially no different to all of those other changes that took 
place over the years (although I do understand the removal of the fee-waiver did have a 
bigger impact on Mr and Mrs M specifically). Nevertheless, as the account operated on a 
rolling monthly basis, if Mr and Mrs M were not happy with any of these changes made to 
the account, they have been free to change to another account, or bank, at any time.
So, whilst I understand why Mr and Mrs M are dissatisfied by this, especially as they have 
been able to benefit from not having to pay for their packaged account for such a long period 
of time, I am unable to say that Lloydss decision to remove this feature of the Gold Service 
account is unreasonable. Nor can I say that it was contrary to the account terms and 
conditions that Mr and Mrs M wouldve agreed to when taking out the account. 
Furthermore, even if it was the case that Lloyds had not made it clear (when it sold the 
account) that the account cost and features could be amended in future, had this been made 
clear to Mr and Mrs M during the sale, I think its likely that they wouldve still agreed to the 
account. I say this because, when the account was sold to them, they were able to have the 
account for free as they were able to meet the fee-waiver criteria on the account.
When making such changes to accounts, Lloyds is obliged to give reasonable notice to its 
customers. This is so that account holders can understand what changes will be taking place 
and allow them time to decide what to do i.e. keep the account or change to another one. It 
also allows account holders time to arrange alternative insurance cover, should they not 
wish to continue with the packaged account.
In this case, I can see that Lloyds wrote to Mr and Mrs M in June 2021. This letter explained 
that the fee-waiver was being removed and that Mr and Mrs M would have to start paying 
£14.95 a month for their account from 1 September 2021. So Mr and Mrs M were given over 
two months to consider the changes being made. And In the final response letter sent in July 
2021 i.e. before the changes had come into effect, Lloyds credited Mr and Mrs Ms account 
with £45 to cover the account fees for September, October and November as well.
So overall, I think Lloyds was reasonably entitled to remove the fee-waiver. And Im satisfied 
that it did clearly explain what changes were being made to the account and gave Mr and 
Mrs M a reasonable amount of time in which to decide whether to continue with the Gold 
Service account. 
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman