DRN-4073195
The complaint
Miss C complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax gave her wrong information 
about her being unable to pay into her Help to Buy Individual Savings Account (HTB ISA).
What happened
Miss C says she opened a HTB ISA with Halifax in November 2019 and immediately 
transferred £1,200 into her account. She says that since then, she has been unable to add 
money into her account, despite her making over a dozen attempts to do so. She says she 
was unable to visit a branch to try and resolve this issue due to the pandemic and due to her 
being a key worker, so she made numerous telephone calls to Halifax, only to be told 
different things, which were mainly incorrect. These included that her account was fine and 
operating as it should be, her account was not active and she couldnt use it as she missed 
the cut off date, she had to visit a branch to resolve the issue (but when she spoke with the 
branch they told her that the online/telephone team could resolve the issue, and she says 
she was also told that she needed to set up a standing order and she had to reconfirm the 
details which could only be done via the branch. Miss C says she has only recently been 
able to make her first transfer of £200 into the account. Miss C made a complaint to Halifax. 
Halifax partially upheld Miss Cs complaint. They said that as part of their terms and 
conditions at the time, they advised her that she would have to set up a standing order to 
make payments to her account going forward. They said although she had now done this, 
they were unable to allow her to add payments that she missed out on previously, as they 
gave her the information about how to make payments to her account when it was opened. 
Halifax said she was given incorrect information over the telephone when she called to 
question why her payments were not being credited to her account, which was due to Miss C 
attempting to transfer the payments to her account rather than paying by standing order. 
Although they said there was no audit trail of the calls, Halifax credited her with £75 as an 
apology for the poor customer service. Miss C brought her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold Miss Cs complaint. He said Halifax acknowledged their poor 
service and compensated her (£75) in line with what our service would recommend. He said 
he couldnt find they did anything else wrong, as they had stated in the initial terms and 
conditions that monthly payments could only be made by standing order.
Miss C asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. She made a number of points. In 
summary, she said that she has provided us with call logs and dates where she tried to 
resolve the matter, unlike Halifax who have said they were unable to provide any records of 
any communication. She said shes suffered a loss of interest, hassle, inconvenience and 
loss of potential Government bonus available if the HTB ISA was to be closed at this time. 
She said £75 does not take into account travel costs, time spent travelling to branches, time 
spent on the phone with Halifax and live chat conversations where possible. Miss C said that 
the complaint does not appear to take into account Halifaxs responsibility to ensure that the 
terms and conditions of the HTB ISA is clearly communicated and clarified wherever 
necessary.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss C has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
shes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of her complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here. 
Ive considered what Miss C has said about sending us call logs of her contacting Halifax. 
There were two screenshots of her phone history that she has sent us. One of the 
screenshots shows a telephone number to a different company to Halifax. But the other 
telephone number which she rang does show a number of outgoing calls to Halifax on 2 
October. These dont include the year that she made these calls. There were five outbound 
calls on 2 October from the screenshot Miss C showed us. 
Four of these calls appear to have been 3 minutes 34 seconds or under, so its unlikely that 
Miss C was connected to a call handler on these calls, when call waiting times were typically 
longer during the pandemic, and for her to pass security, ask her question, and have it 
answered in this timeframe. There wouldnt be a need to call back within minutes of her last 
call also, which the call log shows. But there is a call made at 15:33pm which shows that she 
was on the phone for 25 minutes and 57 seconds. I asked Halifax for a copy of this call. The 
call was on 2 October 2021. This was a call where Miss C and someone on her behalf spoke 
to Halifax and asked about making a complaint.
The call handler tries to transfer £200 into the HTB ISA for Miss C, but he got an error 
message. He asks Miss C if she got a copy of the terms and conditions on the account, 
which she confirms she did. The call handler consults the terms and conditions and he says 
so you can only pay in £200 per month, the account including the monthly account is open 
must be made by standing order, only by the standing order only by the 25th of the month. 
He asks if she followed those rules. This is when the person speaking on behalf of Miss C 
says this is the first time they have been told this, but the call handler confirms this was in 
the terms and conditions. The person speaking on behalf of Miss C says they were told an 
hour ago by a different call handler and previous call handlers incorrect information such as 
the account wasnt active etc. The call handler says the account is branch based and Miss C 
will need to go into the branch to reactivate the ISA and set up the standing order.  
Halifax have said they have no audits of any other calls that Miss C made about this issue. I 
asked them about any records of branch visits or other communication. They have said that 
there were no notes left on the system as there were no actions taken, so they were unable 
to confirm if or how often Miss C contacted the branch about this issue. But they have took 
Miss C at her word that she had been told incorrect information if she had contacted them 
previously.
Ive considered what Miss C reasonably ought to have known about how to fund her 
account. I asked Halifax for a copy of the terms and conditions that would have been 
provided to her at account opening. Miss C had confirmed on the call on 2 October 2021 that 
she had been provided these. The terms state Plan to save up to the Government's 
maximum amount each month, by standing order and Make sure we get your standing 
order payment by 25th of the month. Halifax have told us that Miss C would have needed to 
tick a box prior to opening the account to confirm that she had read and agreed to the terms 
and conditions. So Im satisfied that Miss C should have been aware of the requirement to 
fund the HTB ISA by a standing order, and she would have ticked a box to say she had read 
and agreed to the terms. So I cant say that Halifax didnt clearly inform her of what she 
needed to do to fund the account prior to the account being opened.As Miss C says she used the live chat facility, she would have access to the internet to do 
so. Halifaxs website regarding the HTB ISA clearly shows under the How it works section 
that Save up to £200 per month by standing order, to be received by the 25th of the month. 
It doesnt show any other method that she can make this payment. So Im satisfied that 
Halifax had not only made this requirement clear via their terms and conditions, but also on 
their website also that payments needed to be made by standing order.
On the call on 2 October 2021, the person speaking on behalf of Miss C mentioned they had 
been told that it was because the account was not active. Im persuaded that this wasnt 
incorrect in itself. I say this as the account would need to be activated in all likelihood since 
Miss C didnt pay into the account in a tax year, so an ISA declaration confirming she hadnt 
paid into another cash ISA that tax year would likely be needed, but the previous call handler 
didnt mention the standing order in addition to this. 
So even if Miss C was told incorrect information by Halifax staff, she was informed of the 
terms of the account prior to opening the account. Being told incorrect information would not 
replace the terms she agreed to, so it would not be proportionate for me to ask Halifax to pay 
her any lost interest or for her to allow her to add a lump sum into the account as a result of 
funds not crediting the account. In addition, Miss C was told about the standing order 
requirement on 2 October 2021, but she did not start the standing order until seven months 
later (May 2022), so Miss C did not take action when she couldve done here. Our service 
can only look into what has happened and not what might have happened, so as the HTB 
ISA wasnt closed down at that time, then she did not lose out on the bonus applicable to the 
account in certain circumstances. 
Halifax have confirmed that they paid Miss C the £75 compensation purely as a gesture of 
goodwill based on what shes told them as there are no audits supporting what Miss C has 
said about her interactions with them. So they gave her the benefit of the doubt about what 
she said in terms of the service (incorrect information) she received. But as they stated at 
the outset how the account would need to be funded, theyve confirmed they have no ability 
to amend the HTB ISA subscription and feel a loss of bonus calculation would be 
inappropriate in these circumstances. 
Miss C has said that the £75 compensation is not enough. But compensation is a 
discretionary remedy that we sometimes award if we feel that a business has acted 
wrongfully and therefore caused distress and inconvenience to their customer over and 
above that which naturally flows from the event. When we recommend compensation, it is 
often modest and within our established guidelines. £75 compensation would be in line with 
what we would ask Halifax to pay Miss C for the service failings she says shes faced. So it 
follows I dont require Halifax to do anything further. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 July 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman