DRN-4236078
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that ActiveQuote Limited (AQ) mis-sold them a private medical 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D held a private medical insurance policy with an insurer Ill call A. The policy 
was underwritten on medical health disregarded (MHD) terms. In August 2022, AQs adviser 
recommended that Mr and Mrs D should switch their policy with A to a new personal private 
medical insurance policy with an insurer Ill call V.
The adviser spoke to V, which said that cover could be set-up on MHD terms. Accordingly, 
the adviser completed an application form on switch terms for Mr and Mrs D, which was 
accepted by V. The new policy began on 9 August 2022.
In November 2022, Mrs D needed to make a claim on the policy with V. And it was at this 
point that she and Mr D learned that, in fact, their policy hadnt been set-up on MHD terms. 
Instead, it had been set-up on Continued Personal Medical Exclusions (CPME) terms. So Mr 
and Mrs D complained to AQ, as they felt it had mis-sold their policy.
AQ didnt agree that it had mis-sold the policy to Mr and Mrs D. It maintained that its adviser 
had checked with V that it could offer MHD cover ahead of Mr and Mrs D applying for the 
policy.
Mr and Mrs D were unhappy with AQs position and they asked us to look into their 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Ds complaint should be upheld. She considered 
that AQ had taken reasonable steps to confirm with V that it could offer Mr and Mrs D MHD 
cover.
Mr and Mrs D disagreed and so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 20 June 2023 which explained why I intended to partly 
uphold the complaint. I said:
Its common ground that AQ recommended that Mr and Mrs D should switch their existing 
policy with A to a new policy with V. That means that its adviser needed to ensure that the 
policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs D. It also needed to give them enough clear, fair and not 
misleading information so that they could decide if the policy was right for them.
Ive looked carefully at the fact-find the adviser completed. Its clear that Mr and Mrs D held 
cover on MHD terms. And it seems that maintaining this level of cover was very important to 
them. I accept that AQs adviser did contact V ahead of making switch arrangements to 
enquire whether it could offer a policy on MHD terms. So I think the adviser did take some 
steps to check that the policy theyd recommended was suitable for Mr and Mrs D.
However, having listened to the call, it seems to have taken place along very general lines. 
The adviser didnt specifically refer to Mr and Mrs D, nor was their existing cover discussed 
in any particular detail. And Ive also seen a copy of the application form the adviser 
completed on Mr and Mrs Ds behalf. The underwriting type selected was CPME, not MHD. 
Neither can I see any notes on the application from the adviser to clarify that, in fact, this 
policy was to be set-up on MHD terms, or which referenced their previous discussion with V. 
As such, I dont think the adviser did enough to ensure that Vs attention was drawn to the 
type of cover Mr and Mrs D needed and indeed, thought they were taking out.
In my view, had the adviser applied specifically for personal MHD cover, or referred to their 
earlier discussion with V, it wouldve been in a position to let the adviser know that this 
wasnt something it was able to offer for certain types of policy. If that had been the case, I 
think the adviser wouldve been in a position to let Mr and Mrs D know that the switch they 
wanted couldnt be arranged with V and to explore other options with them.
Mr and Mrs D say that had they known that MHD cover couldnt be arranged with V, theyd 
have remained with A on MHD terms. Indeed, they say they were able to take out a new 
policy with A subsequently, again based on MHD underwriting. It seems to me then that had 
Mr and Mrs D known that V couldnt provide MHD underwriting, they likely wouldve 
remained with A. However, Im mindful that Mr and Mrs D were able to successfully make 
claims on their policy with V and it appears that one of the reasons theyd sought to move 
away from A at the outset was because the cost of the policy had gone up. So it seems to 
me that Mr and Mrs D may well have paid less for their cover with V than they did for their 
original policy with A.
As such then, given Mr and Mrs D were able to claim on the policy, it appears to me that it 
was of benefit to them. And it isnt clear to me that theyve paid out more for the policy with V 
than they wouldve done had they remained with A in August 2022. So I dont think I could 
fairly say that AQ should refund the premiums Mr and Mrs D paid, or that Mr and Mrs D have 
suffered an actual financial loss as a result of its error. It is open to Mr and Mrs D to provide 
me with evidence to counter this point though, should they wish to do so.
With that said, I do think that AQ has caused Mr and Mrs D some distress and 
inconvenience and I currently think it should pay them modest compensation to reflect this. 
In my view, £100 compensation is a fair and reasonable award to reflect the impact I think 
AQs mistake is likely to have had on Mr and Mrs D. So Im intending to direct AQ to pay this 
amount to Mr and Mrs D.
I asked both parties to provide me with any additional evidence they wanted me to consider.
AQ had nothing more to add.
Mr and Mrs D disagreed with my provisional findings and Ive summarised their response:
They felt Id made some incorrect assumptions, which had impacted on my rationale 
in terms of the compensation award I intended to make. 
They agreed that if theyd known that V couldnt offer MHD cover, they wouldnt have 
taken out the policy.
But they didnt agree that they wouldve paid more for the policy with A. They said 
theyd paid considerably more for the policy with V and they provided me with a copy 
of a 2021-22 quote for cover with A, which showed the premium was lower than the 
premium theyd been charged for the policy with V;
They felt my reference to them being able to make a successful claim suggested that theyd been fortunate to be able to do so, even though theyd been paying for cover. 
They added that it had been a nightmare to get the claims approved, which had 
caused significant additional stress;
Mr and Mrs D had been caused much upset and stress by Vs claims handling 
process. This had amplified their anger with AQ;
They considered my compensation award was unfair, given the policy had been mis-
sold to them and bearing in mind the suffering theyd been through in order to get V 
to accept their claims;
Mr and Mrs D considered that AQ should pay them compensation equivalent to half 
of their premium for the policy with V. They wouldve been trapped into staying with V 
for 12 months, had it not been for their tenacity in escalating the matter to Vs 
executive team;
AQ is getting off without a scratch as they would only lose £100, despite receiving 
commission from V.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs D, I still find that an award of £100 
compensation is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances and Ill explain why.
Its important I make it clear that this decision will only consider AQs actions in selling this 
policy to Mr and Mrs D. Mr and Mrs D are clearly very unhappy with the way that V handled 
the claims they made on the policy. But AQ isnt responsible for how V handled Mr and Mrs 
Ds claims, or for deciding what evidence V needed in order to decide whether the claims 
were covered. Thats because AQ isnt an insurer and it isnt authorised to handle or settle 
claims. Neither is AQ legally responsible for any of Vs actions. AQ and V are entirely 
separate legal entities which are authorised to carry out different regulated activities. So it 
seems to me that many of the concerns Mr and Mrs D raised in response to my provisional 
decision are about Vs actions, rather than focused on AQs error when it sold the policy.
Mr and Mrs D have provided me with a copy of renewal information relating to the renewal of 
their policy with A in the 2021-22 policy year. I acknowledge that As premium for the 2021-
2022 policy year was cheaper than the premium they were charged by V for the 2022-23 
policy year. I note though that they havent provided me with a renewal quote for the policy 
with A in the 2022-23 year to compare against the premium they were paid with V. And Ive 
listened to a call between Mr D and our investigator. While Mr D said price wasnt a factor in 
the move from A to V, he did say that the policy with V was around £20 per month cheaper 
than As price would be. So it follows that I havent seen enough evidence to persuade me 
that Mr and Mrs D have paid more for the policy with V than they wouldve done had they 
renewed with A in August 2022.
I explained in my provisional decision that I felt the adviser had made errors in the sale of the 
policy and I was satisfied that had Mr and Mrs D known that the policy with V would be on 
CPME terms, they wouldnt have gone ahead with taking it out. But when considering 
appropriate redress, I do need to bear in mind whats fair and reasonable. Mr and Mrs D paid 
for private medical cover and they both were able to make successful claims under their 
policy. I appreciate they may not have had the claims journey theyd expected or wanted, but 
they have been able to benefit from the policy with V. And as Ive said, I havent seen enough to show me that Mr and Mrs D paid more for this policy than they wouldve done had 
they remained with A. So I dont think theyve shown theyve been financially prejudiced by 
AQs failings here either. 
In my view, £100 compensation remains a fair and proportionate award to reflect the impact I 
think AQs actions had on Mr and Mrs D. Given they benefited from the cover prior to exiting 
the policy without penalty, I dont think it would be fair, reasonable or proportionate for me to 
award half of the fees they paid for the contract. I understand Mr and Mrs D dont think this 
award recognises the upset they were caused, but in the round, Im satisfied this is a fair and 
reasonable settlement for AQs errors.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
direct ActiveQuote Limited to pay Mr and Mrs D £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 August 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman