DRN-3964577
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo 
Finance Limited was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
In December 2021, Mr M was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement 
with MotoNovo. The agreement was for £8,195 over 61 months; with monthly payments of 
£184.75. At the time of supply, the car was just over seven years old, and (according to the 
MOT record for 13 December 2021) had done 62,511 miles.
A few weeks after the car was supplied to Mr M, it went into limp mode, and the Diesel 
Particulate Filter (DPF) light was illuminated. He took it back to the supplying dealership, 
and they carried out a DPF regeneration. The oil warning light then came on in February 
2022, and it was found that the car had too much oil.
The DPF light came on again in April 2022, but the supplying dealership refused to carry out 
any more repairs. And they told Mr M it was now his responsibility. Mr M complained to 
MotoNovo, who arranged for an independent engineer to inspect the car. Mr M also needed 
to have the oil tested for possible fuel contamination. However, once these reports had been 
done, MotoNovo didnt think the car was faulty at the point of supply.
Mr M wasnt happy with MotoNovos response, and he brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service for investigation. In September 2022, during the course of our 
investigation, Mr M had the car repaired at a third-party garage.
Our investigator said there was a fault with the car, and this made it not of a satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied. He said that, as the car had now been repaired, that MotoNovo 
should cover the cost of this, as well as refunding Mr M the payments hed made when the 
car was off the road, plus statutory interest, and pay him an additional £100 for the distress 
and inconvenience hed been caused.
MotoNovo didnt agree with the investigator. They said the dealership had resolved the initial 
problem with the DPF, and any fuel in the oil wouldve caused the car to fail rapidly. And 
they thought the fault with the car was due to how Mr M was driving it. So, they believed the 
car was of a satisfactory quality when supplied, and that the repairs to the car in September 
2022 were all needed due to in-service wear and tear.
Mr M provided details from the cars user manual, which confirmed the car would need to be 
driven for about 20 minutes at a speed of at least 40 km/h (25 mph) to burn away the 
excessive soot build up in the DPF. And he said that the car was driven this way at least 
twice a week. He also said that this wouldnt have addressed any issues with fuel 
contaminating the oil which can cause catastrophic engine failure.
Mr M also said that, in November 2022, the oil had again become contaminated with fuel. He 
also raised this, as an ongoing issue, directly with MotoNovo. However, MotoNovo agreed 
that we could consider this as part of Mr Ms complaint.
Mr M provided additional evidence of the ongoing faults with the car, that an ECU update in 
November 2022 had seemingly fixed the issue, and the costs of each repair and inspection 
thatd taken place. He also said that hed been unable to use the car, due to the issues 
between:
31 December 2021 and 11 January 2022;
25 February and 10 March 2022;
26 April and 12 September 2022;
7 and 15 November 2022; and
13 and 15 December 2022.
He also said that, while the car was with the dealership for repair, between 2 and 10 March 
2022, it did significant mileage. And he thought this impacted the engineers view.
A second investigator reviewed the case. He also said there was a fault with the car, which 
was caused by an inherent fault with the DPF, which could be linked back to when the car 
was supplied to Mr M. He also said that, as the supplying dealership had attempted to repair 
the car twice, and the evidence clearly showed the fault continued, Mr M should now be 
given the opportunity to reject the car.
The investigator also provided a schedule of payments and costs he thought MotoNovo 
should refund, as well as increasing the compensation to £250.
MotoNovo disagreed with the second investigators view for the same reasons theyd 
previously given. And they thought the independent engineers report contradicted all the 
other evidence provided. So, theyve asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
While this matter has been waiting for a decision to be made, Mr M has advised us the 
problems with the car still exist, and the oil continues to overflow. He also said that he 
stopped using the car in February 2023, despite further attempts to fix this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr M was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to investigate complaints about it.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, 
MotoNovo are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other 
relevant circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage 
at the time of sale, and the vehicles history and its durability. Durability means that the 
components of the car must last a reasonable amount of time.The CRA also implies that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, 
where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless MotoNovo can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified 
after the first six months, the CRA implies that its for Mr M to show it was present when the 
car was supplied.
So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mr M took possession of it, or that the car wasnt 
sufficiently durable, and this made the car not of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and 
reasonable to ask MotoNovo to put this right.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, its not disputed that there is a fault with the car, or that 
this fault is ongoing. And the issue at hand is whether this fault was present or developing at 
the point the car was supplied to Mr M.
Ive seen MotoNovos case notes. Their note for 25 February 2022 shows that the car was 
returned to the dealership for a DPF issue on 9 January 2022, and that no courtesy car was 
provided. The note also says that the engine started smoking around two weeks ago, and 
that the oil was overfilled, and probably contaminated with fuel. Its also noted that Mr M has 
already changed the oil and that the mileage at the time was 65,226  3,115 miles more than 
when the car was supplied to Mr M.
Based on this note Im satisfied there was a fault with contaminated oil in the car in mid-
February 2022, around two months after the car was supplied to Mr M. While Ive noted Mr 
Ms concerns that the dealership had added miles to the car while it was in for repair, I 
havent seen anything to show me that was the case. And I dont consider around 3,000 
miles in two-months to be excessive use of the car. However, with that level of usage, I 
would reasonably expect the DPF to be regenerating normally, unless a fault with the car 
was stopping this from happening.
Mr M has supplied a report from an independent engineer dated 9 May 2022, which said on 
inspection found oil to be overfilled and dilluted [sic] with diesel  this is due to failed 
regeneration of the dpf  On inspection found DPF temperature sensor to have failed. 
MotoNovo also arranged for the car to be inspected by an independent engineer, and this 
inspection took place on 23 May 2022. The engineer said, the engine oil was checked and 
noted to be severely above maximum, approximately 3-4litres above maximum. The 
engineer said this could be caused by a number of reasons, which included a [DPF] 
regeneration fault.
However, the engineer said the fault with the car wouldnt have been present when the car 
was supplied, there was no evidence of previous unsuccessful repairs, and that the fault 
may have occurred since purchase due to general in service wear and deterioration. [my 
emphasis]. And the engineer asked for a specialist to analyse the oil in the car.
The oil analysis took place on 28 May 2022, and found the oil was contaminated with fuel. 
This report was sent back to the second independent engineer. In their follow-up report 
dated 6 July 2022, the engineer said that the car had covered 5,328 miles in the 137 days it 
was in Mr Ms possession. So, while the fuel dilation exceeded 10% (where more than 1% is 
considered to be significant and requiring attention), the engineer thought the condition has 
developed more recently and not considered a point of sale issue.
While the contents of this report are noted, theres nothing to show me that the engineer was 
aware that (a) Mr M had changed the oil on at least one occasion since the car was supplied 
to him, (b) that the first instance of oil contamination was in February 2022 (the engineer referred to a failure date of 27 April 2022), or (c) that the supplying dealership had attempted 
a repair on the DPF in January 2022. 
I find (c) particularly pertinent as both the independent report of 9 May 2022 and the 
independent report of 28 May 2022 both point to a DPF regeneration issue as the/a potential 
cause of the oil contamination. As such, and while I appreciate that MotoNovo may not 
agree with this point, I dont consider it reasonable to rely solely on the second independent 
engineers report in this instance.
As well as the evidence Ive already referred to, Ive seen that the car was recovered and an 
oil flush took place in August 2022, that the oil was changed and the DPF forcibly 
regenerated in September 2022, and that the oil was changed and the ECU updated in 
December 2022. Mr M has also said the car has continued to suffer with oil contamination 
and overflow issues during 2023.
As Ive also said above, given the mileage Mr M has done on the car, Id expect the DPF to 
be regenerating. But the evidence indicates this isnt the case, and Im satisfied the 
regeneration fault is the cause of the oil issues with the car.
Section 24(5) of the CRA says a consumer who has  the right to reject may only exercise 
[this] and may only do so in one of these situations  (a) after one repair or replacement, the 
goods do not confirm to contract. This is known as the single chance of repair. And Im 
satisfied the dealership had this single chance of repair in January 2022. Because of this, 
and because the car has an ongoing fault, Im satisfied that Mr M should now be given the 
opportunity to reject the car.
Putting things right
Mr M has said the car was off the road and undrivable for a number of periods while its been 
in his possession. Which includes during 2023. During these periods, Mr M wasnt supplied 
with a courtesy car. As such, he was paying for goods he was unable to use. And, for the 
reasons already stated Im satisfied the reason the car was off the road was due to it being 
of an unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied. As MotoNovo failed to keep Mr M mobile; 
Im also satisfied they should refund the payments he made during these periods.
The evidence supports some of these periods, and theres no evidence to support others. 
While Im not doubting Mr Ms testimony, I think its only fair to ask MotoNovo to refund the 
payments for the periods Im able to see the car was undrivable. So, as part of my directions 
below, they should refund:
50% of the January 2022 payment
50% of the March 2022 payment
100% of the June, July, and August 2022 payments
50% of the September 2022 payment
25% of the November 2022 payment.
Mr M has provided evidence of the costs hes incurred in having the car inspected and 
repaired. And Ive seen that MotoNovo have already been provided with copies of these 
invoices. And, given that the car wasnt of a satisfactory quality when supplied, I think its 
only fair that MotoNovo reimburse these costs.:
Independent engineers report, 9 May 2022 - £89.63
Oil analysis report, 28 May 2022 - £59.99
Recovery and engine oil flush costs, 18 August 2022  £236.71Oil change and DPF regeneration costs, 12 September 2022 - £90.00
Oil change and ECU update costs, 15 November 2022 - £99.00
Inspection costs, 15 December 2022 - £45
Finally, its clear that Mr M has been significantly inconvenienced by what has happened. 
So, I think MotoNovo should compensate him for this. The investigator had recommended 
MotoNovo pay him £250, which is in line with what I wouldve directed had no 
recommendation been made. So, I see no compelling reason not to adopt this as part of my 
final decision.
Therefore, MotoNovo should:
end the agreement with nothing more to pay;
collect the car at no cost to Mr M;
remove any adverse entries relating to this agreement from Mr Ms credit file;
refund the payments Mr M made as per my schedule above;
reimburse Mr M his inspection and repair costs, as per my schedule above;
apply 8% simple yearly interest on the refunds/reimbursements, calculated from the 
date Mr M made the payment to the date of the refund; and
pay Mr M an additional £250 to compensate him for the trouble and inconvenience 
caused by being supplied with a car that wasnt of a satisfactory quality.
HM Revenue & Customs requires MotoNovo to take off tax from this interest. MotoNovo 
must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Ms complaint about MotoNovo Finance Limited. And 
they are to follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman