DRN-1827482
 
The complaint
Mr M complains that he was mis-sold a term assurance policy by Canada Life Limited. He 
says the policy was unnecessary, but he was advised it was a condition of taking a new 
mortgage. So, although he didn't want or need it, he reluctantly agreed to it. 
What happened
In 2001 Mr M and his partner (now wife) were remortgaging. As part of this process he was 
recommended the policy in question, which provided life cover of just under £25,000 for a 
monthly premium of £10, over an 18-year term to match the mortgage. Accidental death 
benefit for the same amount was also included for an additional £2.49 per month. 
In 2019, Mr M complained to Canada Life about the sale of the policy saying that at the time 
he'd had excellent employment benefits, existing cover already linked to his mortgage and 
that his children had almost reached independence. As such, he had no need for the policy 
but felt it had been forced upon him on the understanding that it was a requirement of 
remortgaging.
Canada Life didn't uphold the complaint. It felt the policy has been a suitable 
recommendation for Mr M saying that the fact find had recorded a need for family protection 
and that the recommendation letter sent to Mr M had recorded the discussions and the 
reasons for the recommendations. It noted that the policy had replaced an existing policy for 
the same price, but providing more cover, and that there was no evidence that Mr M had 
been told he couldn't take out a mortgage without cover. 
Mr M referred the complaint to this service but our investigator reached the same 
conclusions as Canada Life and for broadly the same reasons. 
Mr M didn't accept this and supplied evidence of the endowment policy that he'd had at the 
time, to show he'd been covered, which he felt the adviser hadn't considered. But the 
investigator wasn't persuaded to change his opinion, so the matter's been referred to me to 
review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
At the time of the advice Mr M had an outstanding mortgage balance of £35,000. He had the 
aforementioned endowment policy in place, providing £30,000 of cover and a standalone life 
policy proving just under £14,000 of cover for £10 per month. 
Although these two policies together provided cover in excess of the mortgage balance, the 
fact find identified a need for additional family cover. Given that Mr M's excess cover was 
only around £8,000 it doesn't seem unreasonable that he might have wanted or needed a bit 
more than this. Although he was single at that point, it seems he was soon to be married, and he did have one dependent child, albeit nearly at the end of her university education.
And it's important to remember that the recommended policy was intended to replace the 
existing standalone life policy. It would provide nearly £25,000 of cover (compared to just 
under £14,000) for the same monthly premium, over the same term. So, this appears to 
have been a very cost-effective way of providing the additional family cover. 
I note that there was the additional £2.49 premium added for accidental death benefit, which 
Mr M says wasn't needed because of his employment benefits. But there was reference to 
this in the recommendation letter, suggesting it was discussed with Mr M and noting that 
he'd said he considered it to be 'good value', which seems entirely plausible. 
So, on balance, I don't think there's anything that to suggest that the adviser acted wrongly 
or unreasonably in making his recommendation to Mr M. And I while I note Mr M 
recollections about being told that taking the policy was a requirement of the mortgage, 
without any other evidence to support this, I don't feel able to conclude, on balance, that
Mr M was misled in this respect.  
I note that Mr M's partner at the time (now wife) was offered similar advice and that Canada 
Life has upheld a complaint about that. But each complaint is judged on its own merits and in 
light of its specific circumstances. While there were clearly similarities between the cases, 
the upholding of that complaint doesn't have any bearing on an independent assessment of 
the separate advice given to Mr M. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I don't uphold the compliant.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2020.
James Harris
Ombudsman