DRN-2722238
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy with the index profit share buy-to-let mortgage they took out with 
Castle Trust Capital PLC (Castle Trust).
What happened
Mr and Mrs H applied for two buy-to-let mortgage loans in August 2014 through their broker 
Kingsway Mortgages Limited, to enable them to expand their property portfolio. They agreed 
to take out an index profit share (IPS) mortgage product with Castle Trust but have 
subsequently complained that they were misled with regards to the nature of the product 
they were taking out.
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy because the product had been sold to them as a mortgage that 
enabled the borrower and lender to share in any index profit over the duration of the loan. 
However, they later became aware that the profit had no relationship to the value of their 
property but was instead linked to the Halifax House Price Index (HHPI), with the amount 
repayable being wholly dependent on the performance of that index over the duration of the 
loan.
Mr and Mrs H say that in reality, they have been sold a contract for differences that was 
only a mortgage in part due to it being a loan secured over property. They said they were 
told it was purely a mortgage product, but do not accept this is accurate and feel that the 
loan theyve taken out has been misrepresented. Mr and Mrs H say that they would not have 
taken out this product if they hadnt been misled as to its true nature. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. 
It is evident that Mr and Mrs H are unhappy with the product theyve been sold, as they feel 
the mortgage theyve taken out has been misrepresented to them. However, Castle Trust 
have explained that it is not responsible for the sale of the mortgage in this instance, as it 
was taken out through a broker trading as Kingsway Mortgages Limited. 
I appreciate they are unhappy with the product they have been sold. But this is not an act or 
omission that Castle Trust is responsible for in these circumstances. Castle Trust is 
responsible for the administration of the loan in this instance, but they did not sell it to Mr and 
Mrs H. So any concerns regarding the product having been misrepresented or mis-sold 
would need to be directed to the broker. It was Kingsway Mortgages that were responsible 
for the advice given in relation to the IPS mortgage, how it worked, and whether it was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs H. 
Mr and Mrs H say that it was Castle Trust that approached Kingsway Mortgages about the 
product and explained how it would work. They say that, in effect, Castle Trust sold the 
product to Kingsway as a straightforward mortgage and that the other features of the loan 
were not explained to the broker. But Im afraid this does not change the fact that it is still the 
brokers responsibility to ensure that the product they are ultimately recommending to their 
clients is suitable for their circumstances and is properly understood. Even if it were the case 
that the product was not explained properly to the broker (which Ive seen no persuasive 
evidence to suggest anyway) then this would be a dispute between Kingsway Mortgages 
and Castle Trust in any event. Mr and Mrs H are not eligible complainants to raise such a 
dispute with this service on the brokers behalf. 
After Mr and Mrs H agreed to take out the product, I can see that Castle Trust subsequently 
sent documentation that set out illustrations of how repayment of the mortgage would work, 
and clearly set out in the loan agreement that it was linked to the HHPI rather than the value 
of Mr and Mrs Hs property. And given that it was a loan secured on the borrowers property, 
I dont think it was inaccurate to call it a mortgage product. So Im not persuaded that the 
documentation that Castle Trust provided after Mr and Mrs H had agreed to take out the 
product was misleading or inaccurate either. 
I understand Castle trust are now taking action to recover the debt as Mr and Mrs Hs 
account is in arrears. I also understand that they now want to complain about the pursuit by 
Castle Trust of an unconscionable bargain. But if Mr and Mrs H wish to complain about 
Castle Trusts administration of the mortgage and enforcement of the debt, they will need to 
raise this as a separate complaint with the lender in the first instance. Given that their 
present complaint concerns the sale of loan, Im not able to comment on any such issues 
within this decision.
If they have not already done so, Mr and Mrs H may now wish to direct their complaint about 
the product being mis-sold/misrepresented to the broker that sold it to them. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman