DRN-3126277
The complaint
Mrs W says Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HL) caused delays with a 
transfer request relating to her late husbands Stocks and Shares Individual Savings Account 
(ISA), which she says has caused her financial loss.
This complaint is being brought in both Mrs Ws and the estate of Mr Ws name. Further, 
Mrs W and the estate of Mr W, are being represented. All references to either party, will 
include information received from the representatives.
What happened
The background to this complaint was set out in detail in my provisional decision issued on 
19 October 2021, so I wont repeat that again here. Both parties have now responded so Im 
issuing my final decision. HL said it had nothing further to add. In summary, Mrs W made the 
following additional points:
The value of the shares on 17 February 2020 were between £110,000 to £120,000.
Mrs W did make HL aware of her intention to sell the shares including in her letter 
dated 13 February 2020.
HL knew she was transferring to a provider that only offered cash ISAs and it (HL) 
has never challenged that she intended to sell the shares.
Mrs W reiterated her reasons for not wanting to sell the shares prior to obtaining a 
Grant of Probate (GOP). This included keeping the cash sum below the Financial 
Services Compensation Schemes (FSCS) £85,000 cash limit. She also didnt know 
it was possible to sell the shares before the GOP was granted because the HL letter 
dated 4 December 2019, clearly says this was needed to release any assets. 
Mrs W avoided selling the shares as soon as the transfer was complete for several 
reasons including to avoid potential Capital Gains Tax liability; containing the 
settlement risk; and to facilitate onward transfer of cash to her new provider within 
daily internet banking limits.
The HL forms didnt provide an option to transfer the shares and then sell them. 
As she sent the transfer instructions to HL as soon as she received the GOP, this 
shows her intention was to sell the shares as swiftly as possible. Beside which she 
needed the cash for essential expenses. And if she intended holding onto the 
investments for any period of time she would have left them within the ISA to retain 
the tax advantages. 
The matter has been passed back to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered everything, Im not going to ask HL to do anything differently because I 
think what it has offered Mrs W for the delay is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Before I set out my reasoning, I think its important for me to note I very much recognise 
Mrs Ws and her representatives strength of feeling about this matter. I want to say again 
that I express my sincere condolences to Mrs W and her family, for the loss of Mr W. 
Further, as I noted in my provisional decision, Mrs W has provided detailed submissions to 
support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope she wont 
take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as 
much detail, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point 
raised. My role is to consider the evidence presented by both parties, and reach what I think 
is an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. Its for me to 
decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have 
happened.
My reasons for reaching the outcome that HL doesnt need to do anything further than pay 
the compensation was set out in my provisional decision. The relevant extract from my 
provisional decision which now forms part of my final decision is as follows:
The starting point for this complaint is that Mrs W was told in HLs letters of 4 December 
2019 and again on 17 February 2020, that the transfer would be completed within thirty 
calendar days. The December letter said:
Once weve received everything we need, instructions will be processed and assets 
distributed typically within 30 days. Well send you confirmation once this is done. 
Similarly, the February letter asked Mrs W to contact HL if she hadnt received confirmation 
of the distribution within that timescale. The transfer was completed within twenty-two 
calendar days. I know HL aims to do these transfers within five working days, but it doesnt 
guarantee this will be the case. I think the expectation it gave to Mrs W was thirty days and 
Im satisfied it met with this expectation.
Turning now to the losses Mrs W says she suffered. I can see the transfer was being made 
in-specie, which meant that she wasnt out of the market whilst the transfer process was 
taking place. It was only after the transfer that she took steps to sell the investments and this 
was done more than two weeks after the transfer had been completed. From what I can see 
the first time Mrs W said she was intending to sell the shares was in her email to HL dated 
3 March 2020, at which point, it (HL) took steps to prioritise the transfer.
But I can see that before the transfer request, Mrs W did have an opportunity to sell the 
shares. The application she would have completed was the Estates Release Form. This 
gave her the choice to do an in-specie transfer to a HL account or to have the transfer 
completed in cash, which could be paid to a bank account of her choosing or by cheque. The 
letter she was sent on 4 December 2019 said: 
Ownership of the assets can be transferred to one or more of the beneficiaries, or sold and 
withdrawn as cash. 
Similarly, the Declaration and Indemnity form, which was enclosed with the Estate 
Application Pack, gave Mrs W the option to sell the shares prior to the GOP being obtained. 
But Mrs W didnt make any enquiries about this as far as Im aware.
So, based on everything Ive seen, Im not persuaded that Mrs Ws intentions to sell the 
shares were clear. This is because she had the option to do so both before and after the 
GOP was obtained. I dont make any criticism of Mrs W for this. I appreciate she was making 
decisions that best suited her situation. I just dont think I can hold HL responsible for the 
losses shes claiming when its not clear these were the result of its delays.Even if I accept that Mrs W was intending to sell the shares all along, which was indicated in 
her email of 3 March 2020, its far less clear when she intended to do this. Under the ISA 
rules she had to make the deposit in the account she held with B within three years of the 
date of her husbands death, or within 180 days of the date the estate was settled, whichever 
was later. She also didnt need to use the funds from the sale of the shares  the cash could 
be from any source as long as it met with her APS limits. And when the shares were 
transferred, it took Mrs W more than two weeks to sell them and by this point, the 
investments had suffered a significant fall in value from £102,562 to £85,681.
Mrs W provides several reasons for not selling the shares sooner including that she was 
waiting for the outcome of HLs complaint. She also says she was concerned about Capital 
Gains Tax and she didnt want to hold cash in Mr Ws account for longer than necessary due 
to the FSCS cash limits. Whilst I understand Mrs Ws concerns, I dont think any of the 
reasons shes provided prevented her from selling the shares once the transfer had been 
completed. I also dont think there was anything preventing her from selling the shares 
immediately after submitting the GOP. At the point she received the GOP she had the option 
to sell the shares and have the money transferred to her in cash. This would have avoided 
the concerns she had about holding the cash any longer than was necessary with HL.
All in all, based on everything Ive seen, I cant fairly say that even if Mrs W did have the 
intention of selling the shares at some point, that this was intended to be immediately after 
the transfer happened. I think Mrs Ws actions  namely her not taking action to encash the 
investments sooner  broke the potential chain of causation between HL and any loss that 
she might have suffered as a direct result of the delays. I know Mrs W could not have 
predicted delays would happen. But she was told in at least two letters from HL that the 
transfer could take up to thirty days. So, she was aware of the potential timescales that 
applied and the transfer did happen within the timeframe that was communicated to her.
Nonetheless, I accept HL could have carried out the transfer more quickly. But overall, given 
the timescales it provided to Mrs W, Im not persuaded the length of time taken to transfer 
the shares was excessively long. For the delays and not responding to Mrs Ws first chaser 
sent on 25 February 2020, I think its offer of £200 is fair compensation.
Whilst I know Mrs W has responded to my provisional decision, most of her submissions 
arent materially different from the ones I had already addressed in my decision. So, I dont 
think I need to address every point she has made as it has been dealt with above. 
Nonetheless, Ill clarify some of the points that I made in my provisional decision.
I know Mrs W says her letter dated 13 February 2020, made it clear she was intending to sell 
the shares but I cant see any reference to this in the letter. I appreciate the new provider 
didnt accept stocks and shares, but as I said above, Mrs W couldve used cash from any 
source to fund her APS. Even if HL was aware of Mrs Ws plans to sell her shares, this 
doesnt mean it should be held responsible for any losses shes suffered. It should be 
remembered that it did act within the timescales it told Mrs W it would  it told her on at least 
two occasions it could take up to thirty days and in this case it took twenty-two days to 
complete the transfer.
Im aware that Mrs W may not have known about the option to sell the shares prior to the 
GOP being granted. But the forms she completed once she received the GOP, made it 
reasonably clear she could sell the shares. And then have cash paid by cheque or to a bank 
account of her choosing.
Ive also taken into account all the reasons Mrs W has provided for not selling the shares 
sooner including all those she has expanded on in response to my provisional decision. I dont doubt all the reasons she had given but I cant say that any of these were the fault of 
anything done by HL.
Mrs W said the value on 17 February 2020 was between £110,000 to £120,000. What I think 
is relevant for the purposes of this decision, is that when the shares were transferred the 
value was £102,562. At this point, Mrs W had the opportunity to sell the shares but chose 
not to do so for more than two weeks. By the time she sold the shares the value had 
decreased significantly to £85,681. I accept all the reasons Mrs W has given for these 
actions.  And I dont doubt she was always intending to sell the shares. But as Ive said 
above, I think Mrs Ws actions  namely her not taking action to encash the investments 
sooner  broke the potential chain of causation between HL and any loss she might have 
suffered as a direct result of the delays
So, having reconsidered everything that Mrs W has said, for all the reasons outlined above, 
my decision is that I dont think HL has to do anything more than to pay her the £200 its 
already offered for the distress and inconvenience it has caused.
My final decision
Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited should pay Mrs W £200 that its already 
offered to her for the distress and inconvenience its caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and the 
estate of Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 29 November 2021.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman