DRN-2937585
The complaint
 Mr L is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with BMW 
Financial Services (GB) Limited was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
 On 31 October 2020, Mr L was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement 
with BMW. He paid a £500 deposit and part-exchanged his existing car for £1,823.82. The 
agreement was for £18,621.18 over 49 months; with 48 monthly repayments of £308.28 and 
a final optional payment of £8,082.98. At the time, the car was almost two and a half years 
old and had done 14,427 miles.
Shortly after taking possession of the car, Mr L noticed bubbles in the headlamps, and 
damage to the chassis. Mr L notified the supplying dealership, who agreed to repair the car. 
But Mr L also completed a HPI check which indicated the mileage on the odometer was 
incorrect, and that the car had been in a previous accident. So he returned the car to the 
supplying dealership on 21 November 2020. And left it there.
Mr L complained to BMW on 11 January 2021. Because the car had been in an accident the 
previous owner didnt declare, BMW agreed that Mr L could reject the car. And they offered 
to refund his deposit and payments. Mr L wasnt happy with BMWs response  he wanted a 
replacement car, compensation for his day to day travelling expenses from 21 November 
2020, compensation for the journeys he made to the dealership on 31 October and 21 
November 2020, £400 reimbursement for the cost of having the wheels resprayed, and 
compensation for the legal documentation hed sent back. So he brought this matter to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator said there was no evidence that the mileage on the odometer was wrong, 
nor had she seen any evidence that the car was dangerous to drive or undriveable. So she 
didnt think it was fair to compensate Mr L for his day to day travelling expenses, in addition 
to the refund of payments, as it was his choice to stop using the car and leave it at the 
dealership.
The investigator also said that, under the agreement hed signed, Mr L had an obligation to 
return the V5C document, MOT certificate, and other documentation to BMW. So she didnt 
think that BMW should compensate Mr L for the costs of doing this. She thought it was 
reasonable BMW allowed Mr L to reject the car but didnt think they needed to source a 
replacement car for him.
But the investigator had seen evidence Mr L had the wheels resprayed when he took 
possession of the car, so she thought BMW should reimburse him these costs. And she 
thought BMW should pay an additional £75 to compensate Mr L for the inconvenience hed 
been caused.
While BMW agreed to pay Mr L the recommended £75 compensation, they said that the 
resprayed wheels didnt form part of the finance agreement. And Mr L didnt raise this issue 
through their complaints process. So they didnt agree to reimburse these costs. The 
investigator considered, and agreed with, BMWs arguments and told Mr L that she no 
longer recommended BMW pay the wheel respray costs.
Mr L also didnt agree with the investigator. He said he was willing to accept the £75, but he 
also wanted the car he part-exchanged to be returned to him, or to be paid the market value 
of that car at the time of trade-in; he wanted the deposit and payments hed made to be 
refunded to him; and he wanted any negative markers removed from his credit profile. Mr L 
provided copies of adverts showing cars similar to the one he part-exchanged and, based on 
the advertised sale prices, he said the car hed part-exchanged was worth around £18,000.
Because Mr L didnt agree, this matter has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr L was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to look into complaints about it. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, BMW 
are responsible.  Whats satisfactory is determined by what a reasonable person would 
consider satisfactory given the price, description and other relevant circumstances. 
The CRA also says that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, where 
a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed that the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless BMW can show otherwise. So, if I thought the car was faulty 
when Mr L took possession of it, and this made the car not of a satisfactory quality, itd be 
fair and reasonable to ask BMW to put this right.
BMW have accepted the car wasnt of a satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr L, 
and theyve allowed him to reject it under the CRA. Given this, my decision will focus on any 
additional compensation I think BMW should pay to Mr L. 
Im aware Mr L originally wanted BMW to supply him with a replacement car, but the CRA 
doesnt require them to do this. So I dont think they did anything wrong by not offering Mr L 
a replacement car. BMW agreed that Mr L could reject the car and agreed to refund his total 
deposit (including the part exchange value) as well as all of the payments hed made. But, as 
things stand, Mr L hasnt accepted this, so the rejection hasnt been processed.
When something has gone wrong, I look to, as far as possible, put the customer back in the 
position they wouldve been if things hadnt gone wrong. And Mr L believes that he should be 
paid the full retail value (at the time) of the car hed part exchanged. Hes supplied copies of 
adverts to support the £18,000 value he believes is correct; but advertised sale prices are 
not what would necessarily be achieved on sale. Also, the retail price and the part exchange 
price offered by a dealer arent the same.In October 2020, Mr L had the option to accept the part exchange price offered by the 
supplying dealership or to sell his car privately and potentially achieve a higher price. While 
hes arguing that hes not a dealership, so he should be paid the retail price, he chose to 
accept the part exchange price. And if I were to say that Mr L should be paid more than the 
part exchange price, then this would put him in a better position than he wouldve been in 
October 2020. So this is something I wont be doing.
The part exchange price Mr L accepted was £15,800. But he had £13,976.18 finance 
outstanding on the part exchange car. So, as part of the part exchange process, this finance 
was cleared and the remaining £1,823.82 was taken off the price of car that was supplied to 
him. Mr L also paid a £500 deposit, taking this amount up to £2,323.82. And BMW have 
offered to refund this amount to Mr L.
If I were to ask BMW to pay anything more than the £2,323.82 towards the value of the part 
exchange car then, to put Mr L back in the position he wouldve been, I would also have to 
reinstate the finance on that car. And this is something that cant be done. So I wont be 
asking BMW to pay anything additional for the value of the part exchange car.
Mr L has taken specialist legal advice when dealing with this matter. And hes incurred costs 
as a result. We dont require complainants to take specialist advice when making a 
complaint to us, and it was Mr Ls choice to do so, and pay for this. If he thought he needed 
assistance with the dispute process, this could also have been obtained through a free 
service such as the Citizens Advice Bureau. Because of this, I wont be asking BMW to pay 
Mr Ls legal advice costs.
Mr L has also raised the issue of his credit file. BMW have confirmed that, as part of their 
rejection process, theyd usually remove information from credit files. But, as Mr L hasnt yet 
accepted the rejection, they havent done this. Given this, Im satisfied that, if Mr L decides to 
accept the option to reject the car, then BMW will amend his credit file accordingly.
And, as part of the rejection offer, BMW have offered to refund Mr Ls total deposit and all of 
the payments hed made. When considering whats fair, because Mr L hasnt had use of this 
money to be able to finance another car, Id also expect BMW to pay statutory interest. 
The investigator didnt recommend this, so Ive contacted both parties to let them know that I 
intended to add interest to the remedy. And I asked them for their comments. Neither BMW 
nor Mr L have objected to the addition of interest, so this will form part of my overall remedy 
in this case.
Finally, Mr L has been put to some inconvenience as a result of whatd happened. The 
investigator recommended that BMW pay Mr L £75 to recognise this and, in their comments 
on the investigators view, both parties accepted this. I consider this to be a fair amount 
given the circumstances, so Ill also adopt this as part of my remedy.
Putting things right
 As part of their response to Mr Ls complaint, BMW have agreed to:
end the agreement with nothing further for Mr L to pay;
refund the £2,323.82 deposit Mr L paid; and
refund all of the payments Mr L paid under the agreement
In addition to this, BMW should also:remove all adverse information relating to the agreement from Mr Ls credit file;
pay 8% simple yearly interest* on the deposit and payment refunds, to be calculated 
from when Mr L made the payments to the date of the refund;
Pay Mr L an additional £75 to compensate him for the inconvenience he was caused.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires BMW to deduct tax from the interest amount. BMW 
should give Mr L a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted if he asks for one. Mr L 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
 For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Ls complaint. BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited 
must follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman