DRN-3464023
The complaint
Miss B, on behalf of the estate of Mrs B (her mother) complains that Scottish Equitable Plc 
unfairly avoided Mrs Bs life assurance and declined a claim, on the basis that shed failed to 
accurately disclose her medical history. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here. 
In 2010 Mrs B took out a life assurance policy with Scottish Equitable. 
In 2019 the late Mrs B was sadly diagnosed with lung cancer. She made a terminal illness 
claim to Scottish Equitable in September 2019, but this was declined, and the premiums 
were refunded. Scottish Equitable said that when applying for the policy Mrs B didnt answer 
the following questions correctly; 
Other than previously stated, in the last five years have you had, been treated for or been 
advised to have follow-up for any of the following: []
Asthma, bronchitis or any other chest or lung disorder?
The second says:
"Do you have any other information to give us about any medical Investigation, test or 
consultation, advice, counselling, operation, medication, or treatment that you've had or 
been advised to have or are currently having, but haven't already told us about?"
Mrs B answered No to both questions. But Scottish Equitable said she shouldve answered 
them differently. 
Sadly, Mrs B died in March 2020. 
Miss B appealed Scottish Equitables decision on her mothers behalf. She said Scottish 
Equitable had made various errors when making its decision, so she didnt trust that it had 
come to the right conclusion when considering the claim. Scottish Equitable still said it 
wouldnt accept the claim. 
So, Miss B brought the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. She said she was unhappy 
that Scottish Equitable had suggested her mother had lied when applying for the policy, had 
incorrectly stated her mother had failed to attend a chest x-ray and that in fact the results of 
the test were recorded as normal. Miss B also provided a letter from Mrs Bs GP to support 
the claim, which in summary says that she wouldnt have been aware of having any 
particular lung condition and most likely believed she simply struggled due to her smoking 
(which she did tell Scottish Equitable about).
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said the second question 
above wasnt answered incorrectly. He said it was too broad without any particular timescale 
and it didnt give a clear idea of what information Scottish Equitable wanted. So, it wasnt fair 
for Scottish Equitable to rely on that question. But he did think the first question shouldve 
been answered differently. He said Mrs Bs medical records showed she had long standing 
breathing difficulties and trouble with chest infections. And the question didnt want to know 
solely about diagnosed conditions, but that it extended to any chest or lung disorder. He 
added that if Scottish Equitable had known about Mrs Bs breathing difficulties, it wouldve 
asked her GP for more details and subsequently wouldnt have offered her cover. So, he 
said Scottish Equitable had fairly declined the claim and refunded Mrs Bs premiums. 
Miss B disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans review. She said her mother didnt have, 
and wasnt aware of, a lung condition at the time she applied for the policy. She added that 
Mrs Bs doctor wasnt aware of the condition at the time of the application. So, she didnt 
think Scottish Equitable had treated her fairly by declining the claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to offer my sincere condolences to Miss B, and her family, for the loss of their 
mother. Its clear that the family has been through an incredibly traumatic time. And I can 
see that pursuing this claim has been particularly difficult and upsetting for them all. 
Having carefully considered everything weve been provided, Im not upholding this 
complaint. I realise this will come as a bitter disappointment to Miss B. Id like to reassure 
her that I havent taken this decision lightly. I appreciate this complaint has arisen from some 
very difficult circumstances, and I dont underestimate the emotional toll this case has taken 
on her and her family. I dont want to add to the distress theyve already experienced. But for 
the reasons Ill explain, I dont think Scottish Equitable was unreasonable to decline the 
claim or avoid the policy, and so I dont think Miss B has been treated unfairly. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I have to make my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely than not to 
have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
As the sale of this policy was in 2010, Ive considered the Association of British Insurers 
(ABI) Code on Non-Disclosure and Treating Customers Fairly (the Code).
Was there a misrepresentation?
The investigator has rightly pointed out that the second question Scottish Equitable asked in 
its application is too broad. I dont consider this a specific enough question that was clearly 
worded in order for a reasonable consumer to understand what information Scottish 
Equitable wanted. So, Ive not considered that question as a part of this complaint. However, I do believe the first question Scottish Equitable has said wasnt answered 
correctly was clearly worded. It wanted to know if Mrs B had been treated or been advised to 
follow up for Asthma, bronchitis or any other chest or lung disorder. 
So, Ive considered Mrs Bs GP records and the statement that her GP provided in support of 
her claim. I understand that Mrs B hadnt been diagnosed with any specific lung conditions at 
the time the application was completed. But that isnt what the question asked. 
In April 2009 Mrs B saw her GP for a persistent cough since shed recently had a chest 
infection and the note added that Mrs B had decided to stop smoking. A chest x-ray was also 
requested in March 2009 as a precaution to look for chronic lung disease. There was also a 
spirometry screening with a referral in September 2008 and an appointment with a specialist 
lung nurse to check her management of her breathing problems. Its also noted that Mrs B 
used inhalers, at first from a friend, before being prescribed these through her GP in 2010 
with a different drug being used which was noted as working better. 
There was also a note from the GP describing Mrs Bs chest infections as bronchitis which is 
a condition the question specifically asks about. I accept its possible that Mrs B considered 
these issues to be related to her smoking habits, which she did disclose to Scottish 
Equitable. And I cant know for certain whether bronchitis was ever mentioned to Mrs B by 
her GP. But even if I thought  on balance  that it wasnt, Im satisfied that Mrs Bs GP 
notes show a history of issues with her lungs which Scottish Equitable can fairly say it 
shouldve been made aware of when Mrs B applied for the policy. 
So, I do think there was a misrepresentation here. 
Was it fair for Scottish Equitable to avoid the policy and return the premiums?
Scottish Equitable believes Mrs B was careless when answering the first question 
incorrectly. Ive considered this carefully. Having done so, I agree that Mrs B was careless 
when completing her application. Guidance issued by the ABI says that to classify a 
misrepresentation as careless, it needs to be shown that Mrs B didnt take reasonable care 
and this can include anything from an understandable oversight, or an inadvertent mistaken, 
to serious negligence. 
So, for the reasons Ive already explained, I think Mrs B was aware that there was an issue 
with her lungs within the five years before she applied for the policy and that it was 
reasonable for her to disclose this to Scottish Equitable. 
What would Scottish Equitable have done differently?
When a question hasnt been answered correctly the Code allows an insurer to decide 
whether it wouldve ever offered a policy to the consumer. And if it wouldnt of, its entitled to 
avoid the policy and return the premiums. 
Scottish Equitable  has provided us with its underwriting guidance and commentary which 
demonstrates that had Mrs B disclosed the problems she was having with her lungs, it 
wouldnt have offered her any cover because of what it already knew about Mrs B e.g. her 
smoking. As such, it avoided the policy, which means it cancelled the policy and treated it as 
if it never existed and returned the premiums towards cover. So, Im satisfied Scottish 
Equitable was correct to take this action under the Code.
The handling of the claimScottish Equitable has accepted that its claims handler made some errors in relation to 
Mrs Bs medical history and has apologised for this. And it has said that the categorisation of 
a careless misrepresentation doesnt mean that Scottish Equitable thinks Mrs B lied to it 
when she completed the application. But even though there were mistakes, this doesnt 
mean that the decision to decline the claim was incorrect  for the reasons Ive outlined. 
I appreciate handling the claim on behalf of the estate and having to read the medical notes 
of their mother wouldve been very distressing for Miss B and her family  especially 
considering the impact the claim has had on them. But because the estate is legally 
separate from its representatives, I cant consider any distress and inconvenience Scottish 
Equitable may have caused to the family personally in the way it handled the claim. 
Overall, while I can understand Miss Bs disappointment that the claim has been declined, 
Im satisfied Scottish Equitable has acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances by 
avoiding the policy and declining the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs B 
to accept or reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman