DRN-3590608
The complaint
Mr M complains that IG Markets Limited unfairly cancelled profits hed made trading 
Contracts for Differences (CFDs). Hed like his profits returned to him. 
What happened
In July 2017, Mr M opened a number of positions on IGs FTSE100 market. He made 
substantial profits, but when he tried to withdraw his cash, he was unable to. IG then voided 
the trades and cancelled his profits, so Mr M complained. 
IG looked into Mr Ms complaint, but didnt think it had done anything wrong. It explained in 
its final response letter that it had noticed a number of spikes in the price of the FTSE 100 on 
4 July 2017. It said these spikes were caused by greater than normal volume of trades being 
placed in the underlying market, and this caused IGs FTSE 100 price to move because it 
derived this price from futures contracts. It said that it had assessed the timing of the trades 
placed on Mr Ms account relative to when the orders were placed in the underlying market, 
and it believed that Mr M had advance knowledge of those orders and how theyd affect IGs 
price. It said that it therefore believed it was likely that Mr M was looking to take advantage 
of the way IG constructed its price for this market. It said this contravened the terms of his 
account. 
Mr M didnt agree and referred his complaint to this service. One of our investigators looked 
into Mr Ms complaint, and concluded that it shouldnt be upheld. In short, he said that IG 
wouldnt be able to void trades without basis, and would need to consider the circumstances 
before taking such action. In Mr Ms case, he said that IG had concerns about Mr Ms trading 
in July 2017 and decided, on balance, that he had contravened the agreement he had with 
IG. As a result, IG was entitled to void Mr Ms trades, and it did so as soon as it could. 
Mr M didnt agree with the investigator. He said that IG didnt have a unilateral right to void 
trades without proper justification. He said that given IGs business model, it had an 
incentive to void profitable trades as it did in his case. He said that the allegation he didnt 
act in good faith was unsubstantiated, and he could make the same allegation against IG. 
He said that the evidence IG was relying on was circumstantial, and he said that out of the 
tens of thousands of clients, there would always be one that happens to make a profit out of 
volatile markets. He said that there were also clearly lots of traders that lost money  but IG 
only targeted the profitable accounts. This was a contravention with their duty under FCA 
regulations to provide fair treatment to clients. 
He said that the basis of trading was to exploit opportunities. He said that he exploited an 
opportunity to take a bet in one direction or another, and had noticed the market was volatile. 
He said he took a risk. He said its clear IG would not have voided his losses if his risk had 
materialised. He said he also had a number of losing trades too, which showed he was not 
trading on any kind of surety. 
Mr M said that IG had provided no basis for their accusation. He also pointed out some other 
areas where IG had fallen short of what was required of it. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr Ms comments very carefully. I should make it clear that my role is not to 
determine whether Mr M actually breached the terms of his agreement with IG. My role is to 
look at what IG has said, and the evidence it had before it, and decide whether what it did 
was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. In doing so, I do have to take into account any 
relevant law, the terms of the account and the testimony from Mr M and IG. 
The terms of Mr Ms account allowed IG to take certain actions. 
S.19(1) said: 
You represent and warrant to us, and agree tht each such representation and warranty is 
deemed repeated each time you open or close a Transaction by reference to the 
circumstances prevailing at such time, that:
(j) you will use the services offered by us pursuant to this Agreement in good faith and, to 
this end, you will not sue any electronic device, software, algorithm or any dealing strategy 
(Device) that aims to manipulate or take unfair advantage of the way in which we construct, 
provide or convey our bid or offer prices. 
In the event that any terms in the Agreement were breached, the Agreement said:
Any breach by you of a warranty given under this Agreement, including but not limited to the 
warranties given in Terms 19(1), 20 and 8(1) renders any Transaction voidable from the 
outset. 
IG concluded that Mr Ms trades were not placed in good faith. In particular, it concluded that 
the evidence it had showed that it was more likely than not that Mr M was placing trades with 
IG with knowledge of other transactions in the underlying market and how they would affect 
IGs price. IG therefore concluded that this meant he was in breach of the terms and 
conditions of the account. 
I acknowledge Mr Ms profound disagreement with IGs position, and the unfairness he feels 
he has experienced via the voiding of his trades. However, Im not persuaded by the 
arguments Mr M has made. The mere presence of some losing trades on Mr Ms account 
during the relevant period is not, in and of itself, conclusive evidence he was not gaining an 
unfair advantage. Its clear that Mr M made a profit from trading at that particular time 
overall, and the presence of losing trades to mask unfair trading is a common strategy. Ive 
therefore taken this into account when looking at the fairness and reasonableness of what IG 
did at the time. 
In addition, IG wasnt required to make a decision with absolute certainty. 
It was required to look at matters fairly and, based on what it considered was most likely to 
have happened, decide whether Mr Ms trading breached the agreement. This means that 
Mr Ms argument that its possible that his success and the timings of his trades were in 
some way coincidental is not persuasive. In addition, its clear to me that IG took into 
account a number of factors when deciding that Mr Ms trades ought to be voided and not 
just the fact that he made a profit. Taking the above into account, IGs testimony and the evidence it has provided, Im satisfied 
it was fair and reasonable for it to have concluded, as it did, that Mr Ms trading breached 
S.19 of the terms and he had gained an unfair advantage when trading on the price that IG 
was offering on the FTSE 100 market. 
The evidence Ive seen also persuades me that IG was entitled to take into account other 
breaches of the agreement, connected to the above, which corroborated what IG had 
concluded Mr M was doing. For all these reasons, both individually and cumulatively, Im 
satisfied that the action it decided to take in voiding Mr Ms trades was fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman