DRN-1541762
 
The complaint
Mr A complains about HSBC UK Bank Plc charges and interest on his credit card account.
What happened
Mr A says HSBC has unfairly applied about £429 in charges and interest to his credit card 
account. He says there was a direct debit in place to make monthly repayments but as he 
was not living in the United Kingdom(UK) at the time, was unaware the direct debit had been 
cancelled. Mr A says the problem was made worse due to a secure key needed for online 
banking not working. He says if that key was working, he could have paid HSBC the amount 
he owed. Mr A would like the charges and interest refunded.
HSBC says it's not made a mistake and says the charges and interest were correctly applied 
in line with account terms and conditions. It says it cancelled the direct debit in 2016 and 
wrote to Mr A to explain it was due to returned direct debits caused by there not being 
enough money in his account. HSBC says it has written to Mr A on numerous occasions 
about his account and has no record of him telling it he was not living in the UK. And it says 
there were alternative methods of making the payment.
Mr A brought his complaint to us but our investigator didn't uphold it. The investigator 
thought the charges and interest were applied in line with the account terms and conditions 
and it was Mr A's responsibility to make sure the payments were made. The investigator 
thought Mr A ought to have realised there was a problem in 2016 with the secure key but 
didn't tell HSBC about that until October 2017. The investigator didn't think HSBC could have 
known that Mr A was no longer in the UK and that it  sent numerous letters to Mr A about the 
issue.
Mr A doesn't accept that view and in summary says he wasn't able to use online banking 
and so couldn't know there was a problem. He says he wasn't aware the direct debit had 
been removed and accepts he received a new secure key in October 2017. He also says he 
didn't know there was a problem with the original secure key until some time later.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the same 
overall view as the investigator and for similar reasons.
I have looked at the account terms and conditions which I think Mr A would have agreed to 
when the account was opened. Those terms and conditions make clear that charges and 
interest will be applied, for example where there is a late or missed payment. I'm satisfied 
that is what took place here, that payments were missed over a long period. So I'm also 
satisfied that HSBC didn't make a mistake or act unfairly by applying the interest and 
charges which I think were applied in line with agreed account terms and conditions.I appreciate that Mr A says he had a direct debit in place to make the repayments. But I can 
see that HSBC wrote to Mr A in August 2016 to tell him the direct debit was being removed 
due to insufficient money in the account. So I don't think HSBC made a mistake by removing 
the direct debit in those circumstances, and I also think it told Mr A it was doing so. I can't 
fairly hold HSBC responsible for Mr A not receiving that letter due to him not living in the UK. 
And I think Mr A ought to have told HSBC where he was living as it's likely that would have 
avoided a number of the problems he experienced.
I can see from HSBC's records that it wrote to Mr A on numerous occasions about his 
account. I have made clear that I think Mr A ought to have updated HSBC with his new 
address or provided a correspondence address. I also think that it was Mr A's responsibility 
to manage his account and make sure the monthly repayments were made.
I can see that Mr A appears to have returned to the UK in 2017 as the new secure key was 
sent to him at his UK address. It's not clear why Mr A didn't make contact with HSBC then 
about his account and ought reasonably to have been aware at that stage that the direct 
debit had been removed. I think Mr A could have made alternative methods of payment or 
could have made contact with HSBC by, for example telephone, to check on the status of his 
accounts.
Overall I find the charges and interest were correctly applied and it was Mr A's responsibility 
to make sure monthly repayments were made. I don't think it matters what Mr A was told or 
not told about the battery life of a secure key and I think he could have checked on the 
status of his accounts whilst he was abroad. I find that these problems may not have taken 
place if Mr A had told HSBC that he would not be living at his UK address for some time. It 
follows that, as I don't think HSBC has made a mistake or acted unfairly, I can't order it to 
refund the money Mr A would like.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman