DRN-3418345
The complaint
Mr M complains that FUND OURSELVES LIMITED (Fund Ourselves) gave him a loan with 
significant repayments despite in his words having a terrible credit profile with other payday 
loans. Mr M also says Fund Ourselves ought to have carried out further checks before 
lending to him, had it done so, it wouldve seen he couldnt afford the repayments.
 
What happened
Mr M took one loan from Fund Ourselves for £800 on 14 May 2021, and he was due to make 
five monthly repayments of around £320 per month. Mr M had some difficulties repaying this 
loan, and Fund Ourselves has said it hasnt received any repayments. 
Following a complaint, Fund Ourselves issued its final response letter. Fund Ourselves 
concluded it hadnt made an error when it approved the loan because it carried out a 
proportionate check which showed it that Mr M could afford the repayments.
Unhappy with this response, Mr M referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.
 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator. He concluded Fund Ourselves made a 
reasonable decision to provide the loan. The adjudicator also said - that though 
Fund Ourselves received information which suggested that in the past Mr M had some 
financial difficulties (such as defaults) this wouldnt be an automatic block to be granting 
further credit. 
Fund Ourselves didnt respond to, or acknowledge, the adjudicators assessment. 
Mr M didnt agree with the outcome and Ive summarised the points he made below. 
Mr M considers the monthly repayments to Fund Ourselves as significant. 
Mr M says that he initially requested only £200. 
His credit file was full of red flags.
Mr M agrees most of the defaults were in 2019 but the one in 2020 shows he had lost 
control of his finances. 
The sheer number of defaults ought to have led Fund Ourselves to carry out further 
checks.  
At the time of the loan Mr M had three outstanding high cost short term loans and this 
further supports that he wasnt in control of his finances. 
Had further checks been carried out, such as asking Mr M for a copy of his bank 
statement than Fund Ourselves wouldnt have granted the loan.
The adjudicator then went back to Mr M and explained that based on the information 
declared at the time the loan repayments appeared affordable. The adjudicator also said that 
one of the loan renewals that Mr M mentioned wouldnt have shown up on the credit report 
as it was taken the day before the Fund Ourselves loan. 
Finally, while there was some adverse information on the credit file, that wouldnt exclude Mr 
M entirely from further credit and as he only borrowed one loan, the adjudicator didnt feel 
further checks were warranted. 
Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators findings and requested the case be considered by an 
ombudsman especially as his point about having three active payday loans wasnt 
considered. 
After the adjudicator referred the complaint to an ombudsman Mr M sent in further 
information including copies of his full credit report from February and March 2021 which he 
says showed, that at the time the loan was approved, he had at least five outstanding loans 
with high cost credit providers.  
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Fund Ourselves had to assess the lending to check if Mr M could afford to pay back the 
amount hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Fund Ourselves checks could have taken into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, 
and Mr Ms income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Fund Ourselves should 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr M. These factors 
include:
Mr M having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr M having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr M coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr M.
Fund Ourselves was required to establish whether Mr M could sustainably repay the loan  
not just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr M was able to repay 
his loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ms complaint.
Before the loan was approved, Fund Ourselves asked Mr M for details of his income and 
expenditure. Fund Ourselves recorded Mr Ms income as being £2,400 per month with 
monthly outgoings of £1,810. Fund Ourselves was therefore aware that he had around £590 
per month in disposable income in order to make the loan repayments of around £320. 
So, it wouldve been reasonable, given the information Mr M provided to Funds Ourselves 
for it to believe that he had a sufficient amount of disposable income to be able to afford the 
repayments he was committed to making. The loan looked affordable.  
Before this loan was approved Fund Ourselves also carried out a credit search and it has 
provided a copy of the results. It is worth saying here that although Fund Ourselves carried 
out a credit search there isnt a regulatory requirement to do one, let alone one to a required 
standard. Therefore, its entirely possible that the information Fund Ourselves received may 
not entirely reflect the information Mr M may be able to view on the credit report that he can 
obtain. There could be for a number of reasons for this, such as Fund Ourselves only asking 
for certain pieces of information such as the number of active credit accounts. But what Fund 
Ourselves cant do is carry out a credit search and then not react to the information it 
received  if necessary.  
I appreciate that Mr M had sent in copies of his own credit report  which do show a number 
of active accounts at the time shortly before this loan was approved as well as providing 
further information about the defaults. But I am not looking at them in the context of the 
credit checks because Im more concerned about what information Fund Ourselves knew 
when it carried out its own credit checks. What Mr M can see in his credit report could differ 
from the information Fund Ourselves was provided. This is why, if a lender carries out a 
credit search the Financial Ombudsman reviews the information that was obtained at the 
time.   
Having reviewed the credit check results there is some adverse information visible. 
Fund Ourselves knew that an account had been marked on Mr Ms credit file within the last 
year as being in default and within the last three years a total of six accounts had been 
marked as in default. 
This isnt an insignificant number, but I think its fair to say, based on the information 
Fund Ourselves had that the majority of the defaults had been recorded more than a year 
and up to three years ago. Given the time that had passed I dont think historic defaults are 
necessary an indicator that Mr M was having current financial difficulties  or may go onto 
have financial difficulties. So, while, these are noted, the default son their own arent in my 
view enough to uphold the complaint. 
It was also aware that there werent any County Court Judgements (CCJs) or other forms of 
insolvency recorded on his credit file. 
From the data it was provided with, Fund Ourselves knew that Mr M had opened two new 
credit accounts within the last six months  which isnt a significant amount and doesnt point 
to a consumer having problems with high cost credit. If a consumer was regularly taking out 
new payday loans, youd expect to see a higher number  usually (although it cant be said 
for all cases) that you tend to see multiple loan accounts opened per month or over say 
three or six month period. This isnt the case here. In terms of other headline information, Fund Ourselves was also aware that Mr M already 
had outstanding debt of just over £12,000. 
Looking at the credit report data it appears that Fund Ourselves was aware of a number of 
active credit accounts include loans and what looks like a credit card. Although, I cant say 
for sure who the lenders were, it does seem likely, given the term and repayments that these 
were either instalment loan providers or possible home credit providers. 
The first recorded was opened in March 2021, and Mr M was due to make seven 
repayments of £65. But no other information is recorded about the payment history of this 
loan so I cant say whether there were any repayment problems from when the loan account 
was opened up to the point the Fund Ourselves loan was granted.  
There is then another account opened in January 2021, where Mr M was making payments 
of at least £151 per month  this account shows that Mr M had made his payments on time 
and there were no arrears being reported. 
Finally, it was also aware of account opened in August 2020, where Mr M was committed to 
paying £20  but this isnt clear whether its a weekly or monthly repayment, albeit I think its 
more likely to be weekly. Mr M still had a balance to be paid but there werent any obvious 
repayment problems on this account. 
So it does seem that Mr M may have had up to three outstanding loan accounts, which may 
or may not have been hight cost credit, but even still, taking into the repayments for these 
loans accounts, of just around £235 per month the Fund Ourselves loan still looked 
affordable. The amount that Mr M was due to repay for these three loans was still smaller 
than the amount he declared to Fund Ourselves as part of his expenditure for credit 
commitments when he declared these costs of £500, so this information wouldnt have 
caused Fund Ourselves to find out further information from Mr M. 
There is also information about historic accounts and what I would say is that there is 
enough to suggest that in the period 2016 to 2018 Mr M was a frequent user of credit 
because there are quite a few new credit accounts opened at this time. But as this was up to 
five years before the loan was granted I dont think Fund Ourselves wouldve been too 
concentred especially as the other information didnt suggest that Mr M carried on using this 
type of credit. 
I know Mr M wants to know what number of outstanding payday loans is acceptable, and at 
what point the number is great enough to conclude that further lending shouldnt have been 
provided. There is of course, a point where we may say it was unreasonable for any new 
lending to be provided. But the number of outstanding loans will vary depending on a 
number of factors of an individual case. Factors such as, but not limited to the amount of 
outstanding loans, the value of any new loan(s) and any other information a lender may be 
aware of.  
There was also nothing else in the information that Ive seen that wouldve led 
Fund Ourselves to believe that it needed to go further with its checks  such as verifying the 
information Mr M had provided.
Given it was early on in the lending relationship, I think it was reasonable for Fund Ourselves 
to have relied on the information Mr M provided along with the income and expenditure 
figures to show he had sufficient disposable income to afford the repayments he was 
committed to making. So, like the adjudicator Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint about the 
loan because I think the checks it did were proportionate. An outstanding balance still remains due and I would remind Fund Ourselves of its 
regulatory obligation to treat Mr M fairly and with forbearance, if necessary. 
Im therefore not upholding Mr Ms complaint. 
 
My final decision
So, for the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman