DRN-3716113
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A trade as a business that Ill refer to as T. Mr and Mrs A have complained that 
Covea Insurance plc mis-sold Ts business interruption insurance (BI) policy. 
For ease of reading, reference to Covea includes its agent. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs A held business interruption insurance for T through Covea. Mr and Mrs A 
claimed on their policy after Ts business was impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments 
response to the pandemic. Covea turned down the claim as it said the policy didnt cover the 
circumstances of Ts loss. 
Mr and Mrs A complained to our service as they thought their policy had been mis-sold. 
They said they had bought the policy in good faith and expected to be covered when their 
business was impacted. Mr and Mrs A said Covea should have made it clear when selling 
the policy that only certain risks were covered. 
Covea said it sold the policy on a non-advised basis. It said Mr and Mrs A first enquired 
about the policy in 2015 but didnt include BI cover at that point. Covea said BI cover had 
been added in 2017 and policy documents were sent out to Mr and Mrs A at the sale and 
each renewal. Covea said Mr and Mrs A had enquired about claiming on their BI policy in 
2019 and at that time Covea had explained that it only covered specified perils and followed 
up the conversation by sending the BI terms in the policy. Covea said it couldnt reasonably 
have known that Mr and Mrs A might require cover for a pandemic or lockdown. 
Our investigator looked into Mr and Mrs As complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as 
she didnt think Covea had mis-sold the policy. 
Mr and Mrs A asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the impact of the pandemic on Mr and Mrs As business. However, 
Im not going to uphold their complaint. Ill explain why.
As this was a non-advised sale, when selling the policy, Covea had a duty to provide 
information that was clear, fair and not misleading to enable Mr and Mrs A to decide if the 
policy was suitable. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs A initially bought their policy in 2015 over the phone and the 
policy renewed each year. Covea said Mr and Mrs A added BI cover at renewal in 2017. The 
call recordings arent available to me, so Ive considered the other information available to 
me.  
Coveas notes from June 2015 indicate that T would need BI cover and it quoted for this. As 
policies dont generally cover every eventuality I find it unlikely that Covea would have told 
Mr and Mrs A that any interruption to their business would be covered and I havent seen 
anything in the notes to indicate this either. I understand that BI cover was added to the 
policy at the renewal in 2017 but there isnt anything to show that there was a discussion 
about what the cover provided. 
Covea has shown that it sent Mr and Mrs A the policy documents at the time of the sale and 
each renewal. I have seen the Policy Information and the Terms and Conditions and think 
that the cover provided by the BI section of the policy is clear. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs A might have believed that BI cover would cover any 
interruption to their business, but Im not persuaded that the policy was mis-sold because it 
didnt provide cover for Mr and Mrs As claim. I havent seen anything to indicate that 
disease cover was particularly relevant for Mr and Mrs A when they bought the policy and I 
dont think I can reasonably expect Covea to have anticipated that T would require cover for 
a national pandemic from an unknown disease. Id expect Covea to highlight anything 
significant within the policy, but I dont think the lack of cover for a pandemic or Government 
lockdown was significant at the time BI cover was added or at the renewal in 2019.
Also, even if I thought Covea should have done more, Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs A 
would have done anything differently if they had known the policy only covered certain perils. 
I say that because most policies Ive seen only cover certain perils and as Ive said above, I 
havent seen anything to indicate that disease cover was particularly relevant to them. Also, 
in 2019 Covea told Mr and Mrs A that the policy only covered certain perils. I appreciate that 
this was after the policy had renewed but I havent seen anything to show that Mr and Mrs A 
indicated that the policy was unsuitable, so I think its unlikely they would have found the 
policy unsuitable if theyd realised this before. 
I understand Mr and Mrs A were frustrated to find that the policy didnt provide cover for the
circumstances of their claim, but I think Covea provided information that was clear, fair and 
not misleading to enable Mr and Mrs A to decide if the policy was suitable. It follows that I 
dont think Covea mis-sold their policy.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman