DRN-4248163
The complaint
Mr N complains that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) withdrew cover for his legal 
expenses insurance claim. 
Where I refer to IPA, this includes its agents and claims handlers acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mr N made a claim on his legal expenses insurance policy. He wanted to take legal action 
for misrepresentation against someone who had sold a property to him.
IPA referred the case to one of its panel firms of solicitors, who confirmed it had reasonable 
prospects of success (as required by the policy) and took the case on. In April 2021 the 
solicitors advised that the case had been passed to counsel for advice. They wrote to Mr N 
in June and July 2021 about counsels advice, which was not supportive. 
The solicitors then wrote to IPA explaining that: 
counsels advice was negative, but Mr N wasnt taking heed of the advice;
he wanted to pursue legal action to obtain evidence from the planning authority but 
this would be very expensive and of little benefit;
counsel had asked some questions of Mr N and if he answered those questions, they 
would consider the matter further.
The solicitors asked IPA to approve a limited amount of funding to deal with this and IPA 
agreed to this.
There was further correspondence between the solicitors and Mr N. The solicitors said Mr N 
wasnt providing the detailed answers they needed, but they obtained a further opinion from 
counsel. Counsel confirmed his opinion that the claim was not likely to be successful. On the 
basis of this, IPA decided to withdraw cover. Mr N was told if he disagreed with counsels 
advice he could obtain his own legal advice.
IPA also said the costs to date were £17,000 and a large proportion of that had been 
incurred after counsels first advice, in a bid to provide answers to his questions and help 
Mr N continue with the case.
Mr N complained about cover being withdrawn but IPA did not change its decision and when 
he referred the complaint to this service, our investigator didnt think it should be upheld. She 
said IPA was entitled to rely on the legal advice and withdraw cover if the advice was that his 
claim didnt have reasonable prospects of success. 
Mr N has requested an ombudsmans decision. He says the legal advice was flawed as 
there was other information that should have been considered but wasnt taken into account. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
IPA says its a requirement under the policy for a claim to have reasonable prospects of 
success and although the initial advice was that there were reasonable prospects, cover was 
later withdrawn when that advice changed.  
Its a requirement of almost all legal expenses insurance that cover will only be provided if a 
claim is likely to be successful. I think thats reasonable  it wouldnt be fair to expect an 
insurer to cover a claim if its unlikely to succeed. Insurers will obtain legal advice about the 
prospects of success and theyre entitled to rely on that advice unless its obviously wrong. 
They are entitled to keep this under review as a case progresses.
Unfortunately we have received limited information in this case and I dont have full copies of 
all the legal advice. But Im satisfied from what I have seen that counsels advice was not 
favourable. IPA could potentially have withdrawn cover as soon as it received an 
unfavourable advice but the solicitors asked for limited funding so they could obtain answers 
from Mr N to some questions about his case. They later said they hadnt received all the 
information they wanted but asked counsel to advise, based on what was available.
When this advice confirmed that the position hadnt changed, IPA withdrew cover. I think that 
was fair  I wouldnt expect it to continue cover when counsels advice is not supportive.
Mr N has referred to some documents that he says support his case. And he says both IPA 
and the solicitors were keen to just close the case without answering his questions. But from 
what Ive seen, they carried on with the claim after counsels first advice and gave him every 
opportunity to provide further information that would support his claim. Although he has 
made a number of points about the legal advice, he hasnt provided contrary legal advice. If 
Mr N wants to challenge the decision, the way to do so is to obtain his own legal advice that 
supports his claim. In the absence of that it wouldnt be reasonable to expect IPA to continue 
funding his case. 
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman