DRN-2252889
The complaint
Mr M complains that an ISA transfer was rejected by Nationwide Building Society. 
What happened
Mr M instructed another business to request a £1,000 ISA transfer from Nationwide to a 
different ISA he holds. The transfer should have gone through on 6 April 2020 but due to an 
error by someone at Nationwide, it was declined. 
Mr M complained and Nationwide responded, agreeing it had made a mistake. Nationwide 
paid Mr M £100 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mr M referred his complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. The 
investigator didnt ask Nationwide to do anything else as he thought the £100 settlement was 
a fair way to deal with Mr Ms complaint. Mr M asked to appeal so his complaint has been 
passed to me to make a decision. 
I recently asked the investigator to check what happened to the £1,000 after the transfer 
failed. Mr M responded to say he couldnt recall but that it may have been paid into another 
account that pays higher interest. Mr M also said that he didnt think it was fair to expect him 
to help resolve a situation that had been caused by Nationwide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that all parties broadly agree about the circumstances of this case. Nationwide has 
confirmed that it was at fault when the ISA transfer failed to go through and has paid Mr M 
£100 to apologise. Mr M has asked for compensation to cover the interest he lost out on as 
well as the interest he would have received in the future if the transfer had gone through. 
I agree that Mr M had a reasonable expectation that Nationwide would follow its instructions 
without making a mistake. But, unfortunately, an error occurred that required action to 
resolve. Mr M has explained that he doesnt feel its fair to expect the customer to fix a 
problem caused by a business which is why he didnt instruct a follow up transfer. 
I understand Mr Ms view and I agree reinstructing the transfer would have caused a degree 
of inconvenience to him. Generally, we would expect all parties involved with a complaint to 
try and minimise losses as far as possible. As the account holder, once the original transfer 
request was declined, its highly likely Mr M would have needed to authorise a new one with 
the other business to proceed. 
In addition, I note that prior to Nationwides final response dated 28 April 2020 Mr M told it he 
didnt want to proceed with the transfer any longer. 
Ive thought about the level of loss Mr M would have incurred if he had proceeded with a 
second transfer. I think its more likely than not that the transfer could have been completed 
within a month of the original transfer date. The interest Mr M would have received in the 
other ISA during that time would have been around £1.25, although I accept that could have 
increased over the years. Whilst I agree there was a potential loss, Im satisfied it was 
reasonably limited in nature and fairly covered within the compensation Nationwide has paid. 
In addition, Mr M has told us that he cant recall whether he reinvested the money elsewhere 
or used it for other purposes. Without fully understanding what Mr M did next, its not 
possible to say with certainty whether Nationwides actions led to a loss. 
Nationwide paid Mr M £100 in recognition of its error and to apologise for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. Whilst I understand Mr M didnt feel it was fair to expect him to take 
action to help resolve the situation, Im satisfied the settlement paid takes the additional 
inconvenience that would have caused into account. Overall, Im satisfied that £100 fairly 
reflects the impact of the failure to complete the ISA transfer on Mr M. As I think Nationwide 
has dealt with Mr Ms complaint fairly, Im not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint because Nationwide Building Society has 
already paid a settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2020.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman