DRN-3829062
The complaint
Miss P complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited didnt sufficiently highlight that 
she wasnt covered under her motor insurance policy to drive her partners car. 
What happened
Miss P took out a policy with Admiral in 2020 and it sent her the online account details. In 
May 2022, Miss P borrowed her partners car and was involved in an accident. Miss P 
thought she was covered by her policy for driving other cars. But Admiral said the policy had 
a specific exclusion for driving her partners car. And it said it had directed Miss P to this 
exclusion in her policy documents. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought the 
policy documents had been made available to Miss P and she hadnt read them all. He 
thought that if she had, then she would have been aware of the limits of the driving other 
cars extension. So he thought Admiral had sufficiently brought this to Miss Ps attention and 
he didnt require it to do anything further. 
Miss P replied that she thought Admiral had hidden the exclusion in the policys terms and 
conditions. She felt unfairly treated. Miss P asked for an Ombudsmans review, so the 
complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss P has explained the impact that Admirals decision to decline cover has had on her 
finances and I can understand that this has been a stressful episode for her. 
Miss P said she was sure that she was entitled to drive her partners car and was provided 
with third party cover by her policy. She said the exclusion for partners cars was hidden in 
the policy detail when it used to be on the Certificate of Insurance. She thought this was 
unfair. 
Admiral agreed that the exclusion used to be stated on its policy certificates. But it took a 
business decision to move this to its terms and conditions. This isnt a decision that we 
would normally interfere with. Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the 
insurers acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
Looking at the Car Insurance Guide, the policy booklet, it states on page 4:
Section 1: Liability to other people
3. Driving other cars
Your Certificate of Motor Insurance will confirm If you have this cover. Please check this 
before attempting to use another vehicle.
The policyholder will be covered to drive another private motor car within the territorial limits. 
The cover Is limited to third party damages only.
This cover will apply when:
the other car is not a hire, rental or courtesy car
the other car is not owned by you or your partner
I think this is a significant exclusion and I would expect it to be set out in the policy wording, 
which it is, and in the summary or Key Facts document. And I can see that Admiral has done 
this. The Certificate of Insurance for Miss Ps policy warns Miss P that there are restrictions 
to driving other cars:
This Certificate is evidence that you have insurance to comply with the law. You must read 
this document in conjunction with Your Car Insurance Guide and your Policy Schedule.
The Policyholder may also drive, with the consent of the owner, a private motor car. Only 
Third Party liabilities are covered when driving another car. Please see Your Car Insurance 
Guide as restrictions will apply.
And this exclusion is also spelled out in the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID):
Are there any restrictions on cover?
Driving other cars:
When driving other cars, your level of cover Is restricted to third party Injury and third party 
property damage. If your Certificate of Motor Insurance states that you have the driving other 
cars extension you can drive other cars not hired or belonging to you or your partner.
So I think Admiral has taken reasonable steps to bring the policy exclusion to Miss Ps 
attention. When Miss P took out her policy she ticked a box to agree that she had read and 
accepted the policys terms and conditions. And when Miss P took out the policy, she was 
provided with online account details where she had full access to her policy documents. 
I can understand that it may seem onerous to read all these documents. But I think its for 
Miss P to read and understand the cover that Admiral is providing to ensure that it suits her 
needs. Admiral has shown us evidence that Miss P did access her policy certificate. And I 
think this should have alerted her to check her other documents to ensure she was covered 
for driving other cars. But I havent seen any evidence that Miss P looked at the IPID or 
policy booklet. 
So I think Admiral sufficiently highlighted the policy exclusion and brought it to Miss Ps 
attention. And so I think Admirals decision to decline her claim was in keeping with the 
policys terms and conditions and fair and reasonable. I dont require Admiral to do anything 
further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman