DRN-3640526
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complaint that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) declined their 
claim on their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H had home insurance with RSA. In February 2022 there was a storm in the 
area and part of a boundary wall at the property collapsed. They made a claim which RSA 
sent a loss adjuster out to assess. However after the visit, RSA declined the claim. It said the 
reason the wall collapsed was due to deterioration of the mortar that bonds the bricks, and 
therefore was due to wear and tear which was excluded under the policy.
Mr and Mrs H werent happy with this and made a complaint. They said RSA had said the 
wall would have still been standing if it hadnt been for the storm. So they thought it should 
be covered under the policys storm damage cover. RSA didnt uphold the complaint, so they 
brought it to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He 
said he was persuaded that the proximate cause of the damage was the underlying 
deterioration of the mortar in the wall and the storm had just highlighted this problem. So he 
thought RSA had acted fairly by declining the claim. 
Mr and Mrs H werent happy with this so they asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When deciding whether an insurer acted fairly by declining a claim for storm damage, we
consider three questions. Firstly, whether there is evidence there were storm conditions at
the time the damage was caused. Next, whether the damage is consistent with storm
damage and lastly whether the storm was the main reason for the damage. If were satisfied
that the answer to all three questions is yes then we would say the insurer wasnt fair to
decline the claim under storm cover. 
Here, the first two questions arent in dispute. RSA is in agreement that there were storm 
conditions around the time Mr and Mrs Hs wall collapsed. And a wall collapsing in the way it 
did, is consistent with damage caused by strong winds in a storm. The question in dispute is 
whether the storm was the main cause of the damage, so Ive considered whether RSA has 
done enough to prove that the storm wasnt the main cause and acted fairly by applying the 
exclusion.
RSA sent a loss adjuster to inspect the wall after the collapse. In their report theyve 
commented on the poor quality of the mortar bonds between the bricks. Theyve also 
provided photos that show significant gaps in the mortar in several areas of the wall. Based 
on this Im persuaded there were issues with the wall before the storm. And as the problems 
identified are with the mortar that bonds the bricks together, it seems this would make the 
wall weaker and more susceptible to damage by external forces. So Im persuaded that the 
proximate cause of the damage is the poor mortar bonds, rather than the storm.
Mr H has said that RSA agreed that the wall would still be standing if the storm hadnt 
happened, so he thinks this shows that the storm was the cause. While I agree this may be 
the case, this doesnt mean the storm is the main cause of the damage. Instead it just 
highlighted an issue with the wall that meant it was more susceptible to damage. The 
question we need to consider here isnt whether the wall would still be standing if there 
hadnt been a storm, but instead whether the storm would have damaged the wall if it hadnt 
been in a poor condition. And here, Im persuaded that if the mortar bonds hadnt been in 
such a poor condition then the storm wouldnt have caused such significant damage to the 
wall.
For these reasons, I think RSA has done enough to show that the main cause of the damage 
was the condition of the wall and not the storm. So I think its acted fairly and reasonably by 
applying the exclusion and declining the claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman