DRN-3730454
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs B complain Tesco Underwriting Limited (Tesco) cancelled Mr Bs car 
insurance policy without his knowledge, something they say they only found out when Mrs B 
(a named driver on the policy) was stopped by the police for driving while uninsured.
What happened
On 8 December 2021, Tesco sent Mr B a renewal quote for his car insurance policy, saying 
his policy would automatically renew on 4 January 2022. When he got the renewal, because 
his premium had gone up, Mr B went onto a comparison site to check for cheaper deals. 
On 10 December, at 16:23, Tesco says it got an online elapse request form from Mr B, 
saying he didnt want his policy to renew. 
On 10 December, at 16:42, Tesco says Mr B called to discuss his renewal quote, because 
hed found cheaper deals with Tesco on the comparison site. Tescos adviser went through 
the cheaper deals and Tescos 8 December renewal offer with Mr B. He was then able to 
offer Mr B a cheaper renewal, starting on 4 January 2022, which Mr B accepted.
Finally on 10 December, Tesco sent Mr B a new set of insurance documents, including a 
certificate of motor insurance showing hed have cover from 4 January 2022 to 4 January 
2023.
On 13 December, Tesco says it actioned Mr Bs online elapse request form. Mr B says 
hed got an email from Tesco on that day saying his car insurance policy had ended. Also on 
that day, Tesco wrote to Mr B saying as requested, we have cancelled your Tesco Car 
insurance. Your cover ended on 4 January 2022. When he got the email, Mr B called Tesco 
because he was worried he was driving without insurance. Tescos adviser reassured Mr B 
his current policy was in place until 4 January 2022.
In March 2022, Mrs B (who was driving with her grandson at the time) was stopped by the 
police for driving without insurance. Mrs B says she was very shocked. She says she called 
Mr B, who guaranteed there was insurance on the car. But she says when Mr B called 
Tesco, he was told his car had been uninsured since 4 January 2022, because his policy 
had been cancelled. Mrs B says Mr B asked Tesco to insure the car on the spot but it 
refused to do this or to give Mr B his no claims discount. To stop the car being impounded, 
Mrs B says Mr B was forced to insure the car with another insurer for £380 (whereas his 
cheaper Tesco renewal had been around £345) .
When Mr B and Mrs B complained to Tesco about what had happened, it didnt uphold their 
complaint. Tesco didnt agree it had cancelled Mr Bs insurance without his knowledge. It 
says it actioned Mr Bs online elapse request form, informed him when he called on 13 
December that his cover would end on 4 January 2022 and sent email confirmation of this 
which was uploaded to his online account.
So Mr B and Mrs B brought their complaint to us. The investigator who looked at it upheld it. 
She said Tesco cancelled the policy after Mr B called to renew it, its cancellation letter 
wasnt clear, as it didnt state the renewal was being cancelled, and the adviser Mr B spoke 
to on 13 December 2021 didnt clarify this either. She recommended Tesco reinstate Mr Bs 
no claims bonus and pay £400 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience it had 
caused. 
Tesco disagrees with our investigators findings. It says it confirmed in writing and over the 
phone the policy would be cancelled on 4 January 2022. It says its unfortunate Mr B 
misunderstood the situation but it was explicitly clear about the upcoming cancellation.
So Mr B and Mrs Bs complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr B and Mrs Bs complaint. I dont think Tesco 
made it clear to Mr B his policy wouldnt renew on 4 January 2022. Ill explain why by looking 
at the sequence of events.
On 10 December, Mr B called Tesco after hed submitted the online elapse request form 
saying he didnt want to renew his policy based on the renewal quote from 8 December. 
Having listened to the call Mr B made to Tesco on that date, theres no doubt Mr B renewed 
his car insurance based on the updated (cheaper) quote Tescos adviser gave him during 
that call. 
On the same date, Tesco sent Mr B his insurance documents for the period from 4 January 
2022 to 4 January 2023. These documents reflected the cheaper premium hed been given 
by the Tesco adviser he spoke to on 10 December. Unlike the renewal invitation Mr B was 
sent on 8 December, the documents Mr B was sent on 10 December included his certificate 
of motor insurance for the period 4 January 2022 to 4 January 2023. 
Following the call, and having got these documents, I think Mr B fairly and reasonably 
thought he had cover with Tesco for that period. I dont think theres anything in the 
sequence of events at this point that wouldve led Mr B to believe his car insurance wouldnt 
be renewed on 4 January. And even if he recalled having submitted the online elapse 
request form, I think he was entitled to assume it wouldve been superseded by the 
conversation he subsequently had with Tescos adviser.
But on 13 December, Mr B called Tesco because hed got an email saying his cover had 
ended. I havent seen the email Mr B says he got but Ive seen a letter Tesco sent Mr B 
about it. Its dated 13 December 2021 but it says Your cover ended on 4 January 2022. So 
it refers to a future date in the past tense and to cover having ended. If the text of the email 
Mr B got was the same as (or similar to) Tescos letter of 13 December, Im not surprised   
Mr B was confused by what it meant. I dont think Tescos letter is at all clear that Mr Bs 
cover will end on 4 January 2022. And I dont think Mr B  having renewed his policy by 
phone on 10 December  wouldve had reason to think the email/letter meant his policy 
renewal would be cancelled, rather than that his current cover had been cancelled.
Confused by the email, and worried he was driving without insurance, Mr B in my view did 
the right thing by calling Tesco for an explanation. Having listened to the call, its clear to me 
from the very beginning that Mr Bs only concern is that, for some reason, his current policy 
(that is, the one due to end on 4 January 2022) has been cancelled with effect from 13 
December. Its equally clear Mr B is in no doubt he has a policy in place from 4 January 
2022. His opening question to the adviser shows this: Am I insured until the 4th of January, when the new one (ie policy) kicks in?. The Tesco adviser Mr B spoke with reassures him 
the current policy runs until 4 January 2022. At no stage does the Tesco adviser tell Mr B he 
has no insurance cover in place after 4 January 2022. 
It seems to me that what has gone wrong here is:
Tesco actioned an online elapse request form to cancel Mr Bs renewal that it 
shouldnt have acted on. Thats because Mr B had renewed his policy by phone in a 
call that started about 15 minutes after hed submitted the form on 10 December 
2021.
Tesco then sent Mr B a cancellation letter that didnt clearly state his policy wouldnt 
renew on 4 January 2022 but instead led him to believe, quite reasonably in my 
view, that his current policy had been cancelled for some reason.
Tesco then didnt tell Mr B, when he called for an explanation about the cancellation 
letter and referred to his new policy kicking in on 4 January 2022, that there was no 
new policy starting on that date.
Mr B and Mrs B have lost out because of what Tesco did wrong. Mrs B says she was very 
shocked to be stopped by the police for driving uninsured  which I think is understandable. 
She says she was driving with her grandson at the time and he thought she was going to be 
taken away from him, which I think will have added to the stress Mrs B experienced. Mrs B 
says shes had problems sleeping because of her anger about the situation, which has had a 
huge impact on her.
I also think it mustve been shocking for Mr B to find the car he believed (quite reasonably) to 
be insured was in fact uninsured  the very thing hed been worried about when he called 
Tesco on 13 December. Mr B had the additional stress of being told by Tesco it wouldnt 
insure his car or give him his no claims discount. And then he had the inconvenience of 
having to find insurance elsewhere as a matter of urgency, to stop the car from being 
impounded, for a price (Mrs B says the new policy cost £380) that was more than Tescos 
cheaper quote (of around £345). Finally, it seems Mr B had to pay his new insurance 
premium up-front when previously, with Tesco, hed paid by monthly instalments under a 
finance agreement  and had agreed with Tesco in his call on 13 December to continue to 
pay in this way for the renewed policy. Mrs B says this left them unable to pay other bills.
In these circumstances, I think its fair and reasonable for Tesco to pay Mr B and Mrs B £400 
in compensation for the distress and inconvenience its cancellation of Mr Bs policy renewal 
has caused them, including having to pay an increased premium to get Mr Bs car insured 
elsewhere. I also think Tesco should reinstate Mr Bs no claims discount and restore it to 
cover the period for which he was uninsured, since this wasnt Mr Bs fault. Tesco should 
also remove all records of the cancellation of Mr Bs policy from any internal or external 
databases.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr B and Mrs Bs complaint and direct Tesco 
Underwriting Limited to:
Pay Mr B £400 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience its cancellation of 
his policy renewal caused him and Mrs B;
Reinstate Mr Bs no claims discount, including for the period when he was driving 
uninsured; and
Remove all records of the cancellation of Mr Bs policy from any internal or external databases.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 January 2023.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman