DRN-3470724
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain Norton Home Loans Limited has treated them unfairly in how its 
handled overpayments theyve made on a secured loan.
What happened
Mr W brings this complaint on behalf of himself and his wife so Ill refer to him throughout.
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so Ive provided a summary 
here. 
Mr W sought advice from a broker (Company A) when he wanted to take out a 
secured loan. The broker provided advice and assisted him in applying for a loan 
from Norton which was agreed and Mr W received the funds.
In January 2020, Mr W contacted Norton to ask about making increased repayments 
on the loan. He received advice  which later turned out to be incorrect - from an 
agent that suggested he could reduce the term of the loan and the interest charged 
by making overpayments. So he increased his repayments.
In May 2021, he contacted Norton again and asked to increase the repayments 
further but was told these wouldnt reduce the term of the loan. He was unhappy with 
this and complained.
Norton apologised for the incorrect information its agent had given him in January 
2020 but said the terms of the loan clearly explained how overpayments would be 
treated. And it hadnt provided him with any advice before he took out the loan as this 
had been provided by Company A, and it had merely agreed to lend to him.
Our Investigator considered the evidence and didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint as she 
said she thought the terms were clear. And as Mr W had said Company A had told 
him hed be able to make overpayments, she thought hed have still made the 
overpayments even if he hadnt been given the wrong information by Nortons agent.
Mr W asked an Ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Mr W sees his complaint as just one transaction. But, in this decision, 
Im only able to consider the actions of one of the firms involved, and in this case 
thats Norton. I wont be commenting on or making findings about the actions of 
Company A. Thats being dealt with under another complaint. 
When a firm makes a mistake, this Services general approach is to tell it to put a 
consumer back in the position they would have been in were it not for the error. Ive 
kept this principle in mind when considering this complaint.
Its important to note Norton didnt provide Mr W with any advice about the suitability 
of the loan he was taking out. In my experience, when consumers use brokers, like 
Company A, they do so to obtain this kind of advice and the broker provides it and 
then places the loan with a lender it considers suitable. And from the evidence Ive 
seen, thats what happened here.
So, I cant hold Norton responsible for any perceived lack of suitability of the loan  
including the borrowing term - Mr W was sold by Company A.
Mr W says he wanted to be able to make overpayments to reduce the term and the 
amount of interest he paid on the mortgage. But Ive seen nothing from Norton which 
shows this was a feature of this loan.
Ive looked at the loan agreement which was shared with and accepted by Mr W. 
These explain how overpayments will be treated and I consider this clear and not 
misleading in its explanation that Your loan will continue unchanged with the 
accrued overpayments deducted from the final settlement figure. 
I know Mr W considers this wording to be ambiguous but I disagree. And in the 
absence of any contradictory information from Norton, Im not persuaded otherwise. 
I acknowledge here, Nortons agent did provide misleading information about how 
overpayments would be treated in his call in January 2020 and Norton has 
apologised for this. But Im not persuaded this incorrect information is sufficient to 
mean the terms of the lending agreement no longer apply. If the error hadnt been 
made, Mr W still wouldnt have been able to achieve what he wanted as it simply 
wasnt a feature of this loan.
In light of Norton's error, Ive thought about what would likely have happened if Mr W 
hadnt been given incorrect advice in January 2020 when he increased his 
repayments to £800. From what I've seen Mr W has continued to pay the higher 
payment since discovering this would not impact the loan as he originally believed 
and was told. And he has done so for some time - around a year at least. This 
suggests to me that Mr W was seemingly content to carry on paying it at this level 
even after he was given correct advice in May 2021 about how overpayments would 
be treated even though he knew it wouldnt achieve what he wanted. Based on these 
facts, Im therefore not persuaded he would have behaved any differently if hed been 
given this advice originally.
I know this will be frustrating for Mr W, but for the reasons Ive explained, I wont be 
upholding this complaint or asking Norton to do anymore.
I note that Norton has offered to reschedule Mr Ws loan subject to affordability 
considerations and it says this will save him more than £20,000 of interest and 
shorten the term of the loan. Mr W may now wish to discuss this offer with Norton 
further or seek advice from his broker.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W to accept or reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman