DRN-1735031
 
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Zurich Assurance Ltd have declined a claim he made under his 
employer's group income protection policy. 
Mr B is represented, but for simplicity I shall just refer to Mr B, rather than his representative.
What happened
Mr B was off work from November 2017 due to his mental health condition. He submitted 
a claim which Zurich met from the end of the deferred period, May 2018 until June 2019. 
In June 2019 Zurich reviewed the claim and felt that Mr B no longer met the policy definition 
of incapacity. It felt that the reason he couldn't return to work was an ongoing grievance 
with his employer. Mr B didn't agree and brought his complaint to this service. Our 
investigator didn't find that Mr B still met the policy definition of incapacity, so he didn't find 
that Zurich had done anything wrong in terminating his claim.
Through his representative Mr B appealed. In summary he said that he was still unable 
to work due to his mental health. He confirmed that his workplace grievance had been 
resolved in March 2019. I issued a provisional decision on 20 February 2020. I said the 
following:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The medical evidence shows that Mr B had improved when Zurich made its decision 
to terminate his claim. Nevertheless the burden is on Zurich to show that he no longer met 
the policy definition and therefore wasn't entitled to benefit. I'm not persuaded it's done that. 
I'll explain why.
Benefit will be paid under the policy if the definition of incapacity is met. The definition 
of incapacity is as follows:
Incapacity or incapacitated means an illness or injury that causes the Member to be unable 
to work and is applicable under this policy. The incapacity definition that applies is in your 
policy schedule. The Member must be under the regular supervision and treatment of a 
Medical Practitioner. We can ask for medical evidence at regular intervals throughout the 
claim.
The incapacity definition is:
The Member cannot perform the Material and Substantial Duties of their employment and 
they are not doing any paid work.
In February 2019 Mr B saw a psychiatrist who compiled a comprehensive report. He 
wrote that that Mr B continued to fulfil the diagnostic criteria for a depressive episode of 
moderate severity. He did feel that his mental health may improve once his work grievance was resolved. However it's clear from the report of his GP that notwithstanding the optimism 
of the psychiatrist, Mr B still had ongoing symptoms in June 2019 when Zurich terminated 
his claim.
Mr B's GP has confirmed that she has been seeing Mr B monthly to review his general 
wellbeing and his anti depressant medication. She wrote that he sees his psychologist 
weekly and also is seeing a psychiatrist for a regular medication review. I haven't seen any 
evidence from the psychologist or psychiatrist that she refers to, but I'm satisfied that Mr B is 
under the regular supervision and treatment of a medical practitioner in accordance with the 
policy definition. His GP is of the opinion that Mr B is unable to work due to his mental 
disability.
Zurich terminated Mr B's claim as it was satisfied that it was the grievance with his 
employer that was preventing him from returning to work rather than an illness. Certainly it 
seems from the evidence that this featured large in clinical discussions about his condition. 
But by the time his claim was terminated I'm informed that the grievance had been resolved.
The medical evidence does show an improvement in his condition which is positive for Mr 
B. But in order to terminate his claim Zurich needed to show that Mr B wasn't suffering from 
a mental illness that prevented him from returning to work. I'm not persuaded on the 
evidence I've seen that they've quite done that. My provisional decision is that Mr B's claim 
should be reinstated from the dated it was terminated.
Mr B's representative has asked for Mr B's reasonable legal and medical costs to be paid.Mr 
B hasn't incurred and medical costs, so I can't make any award in that regard. Likewise this 
is a free service and Mr B didn't need representation to bring his complaint here, so I'm not 
minded to award legal costs either.
Mr B accepted my provisional decision but Zurich didn't. It remained of the opinion that at the 
point it terminated Mr Bs claim the weight of evidence confirmed that illness was no longer 
the reason for his continued absence. It did accept that Mr B has a diagnosis but it did not 
feel that this prevented a return to work. 
Zurich said it was clear that it was unresolved workplace issues that were preventing a 
return to work. Zurich said that the evidence of the psychiatrist in February 2019 and the fact 
that he was no longer on medication supported its position. It also said that there was no 
evidence at all that he was under the care of a psychologist at the time it made its decision 
to cease his benefit. Zurich didnt agree that the evidence of Mr Bs GP from November 2019 
should form any part of my decision as the letter was written sometime after it ended Mr Bs 
claim.
Finally, Zurich didnt accept that Mr Bs grievance with his employer had been resolved. It 
accepted that the grievance had been concluded but noted that it wasnt upheld. It felt that 
this was why Mr B was unable to move on.
I asked for clarification from Mr B. He explained that  the grievance was not upheld, save for 
one part. He said that the relationship with his employer didn't break down. He also gave 
some details of the appointments he was having with his psychiatrist and therapist up to the 
time the decision was made to cease his benefits and beyond.
I shared the detail of his appointments with Zurich. However it maintained that this wasn't 
evidence of an inability to work. Zurich's position remains the same - it is not persuaded that 
Mr B was unable to work at the date of its decision to terminate his claim. 
My findingsI've reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I accept that evidence submitted in November 2019 can't have any bearing on the decision it 
made in June 2019. Nevertheless this evidence was only a repeat of the evidence that 
Zurich had in June. The GP had written then that Mr B had an ongoing treatment plan and 
was seeing a psychologist weekly for counselling. She confirmed then that he was suffering 
from ongoing symptoms, was mentally unwell and unable to work as a result. Zurich pointed 
out that there was no evidence that Mr B was under the care of a psychologist at the time it 
made its decision to terminate benefit. It has now seen that evidence but still felt it had 
reached the right decision.
Taking into account all the medical evidence from the time Mr B's claim was terminated, I am 
not persuaded to change my provisional findings. 
Putting things right
I require Zurich Assurance Ltd to reinstate Mr B's claim from the date it was terminated. 
Interest should be added at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the date each payment 
was due until the date of settlement.
If Zurich considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off
income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should also give Mr 
B a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so that he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if 
appropriate.
I make no award in respect of legal costs.
My final decision
For the reasons given my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Zurich 
Assurance Ltd to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision by 25 June 2020.
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman