DRN-2449790
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out
between 1994 and 2000. Mr G says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him the PPI.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Lloyds had to make Mr G aware that the PPI was optional and gain his consent before
adding the policy to his card. I cant be certain what was said at the time Mr G applied for
his PPI, and there is limited information available from the time. But this isnt surprising 
considering how long ago the sale took place and that businesses arent required to keep 
this type of information indefinitely. From the information that is available Im unable
to say that Lloyds didnt make it clear that the policy was optional, or that Mr G didnt
choose to have it.
There is a greater burden on businesses when they give advice about PPI, and as Lloyds 
has been unable to provide much information about the sale it has considered Mr Gs 
complaint on the basis that it did give advice. If Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr G it 
would have had to check that the PPI was right for him. Mr G has told us that he was entitled 
to sick pay when he applied for the PPI. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to his 
sick pay and for longer. 
Based on what Ive seen of Mr Gs circumstances at the time he wasnt affected by any of
the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover and he seems to have had a need for the cover. 
So, I think it was right for him.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr G about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve
been. But I think he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it
seems like it would have been useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks like it
was affordable. So, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off
taking out the cover.
Ive thought about everything Mr G has said - including what hes said about being pressured
into taking the policy. But pressure can be subjective, so I would need to see sufficient 
evidence of this to uphold Mr Gs complaint for this reason, which I havent seen. So, these
points dont change my decision.
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr G.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2021.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman