DRN-4256397
The complaint
Mr M complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank failed to question 
the number of cash withdrawals he was making using is Tesco credit card. Hes unhappy 
about the fees for withdrawing cash and making balance transfers. Mr M is also unhappy 
that he received a statement through the post several weeks after he closed his account. He 
says he was told that the statement would be sent by email.
What happened
Mr M complained to Tesco because he was unhappy that it hadnt questioned the cash 
withdrawals hed made on his credit card. He was also unhappy that a statement for a 
closed account had been sent to him by post rather than by email.
In its final response, Tesco said that whilst it could see that Mr M had made some cash 
withdrawals and money transfers, this wasnt something it would contact him about because 
he was allowed to use the credit card as he needed to. Tesco said the terms and conditions 
of the account made it clear that there could be charges for these types of transactions. In 
relation to the statement, Tesco said it had to send the final statement by post because 
when an account is closed, the online account is closed also.
Mr M remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that Tesco hadnt made any banking 
errors in relation to Mr Ms account, because credit cards can legitimately be used for all of 
the transactions that Mr M had used his credit card for. The investigator said that the terms 
and conditions of the agreement which Mr M had signed set out what the fees for each type 
of transaction were. In relation to the closing statement, the investigator said that the online 
form for closing the account made it clear to customers that the final statement would be 
posted.
Mr M didnt agree. He said hed received a needless statement through the post, when the 
form hed submitted said the account would be closed within 14 days and that an email 
would be sent to confirm this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed Mr Ms credit card statements for 2021 and 2022. Ive also reviewed the terms 
and conditions of the account.
The statements show that Mr M used the credit card for a range of transactions, including 
cash withdrawals and money transfers. I understand that Mr M doesnt think that he should 
have been allowed to make cash withdrawals to the extent that he did. However, theres 
nothing in the terms and conditions which prevents or limits the number of cash withdrawals 
a customer can make, so I cant say that Tesco has made an error by allowing Mr M to use 
the card for an unauthorised purpose. 
The terms and conditions of the credit agreement set out the fees for different transactions 
including cash withdrawals and money transfers. I understand that Mr M thinks these fees 
are too high. Mr M was made aware of the fees when he entered into the agreement, and 
hes had the choice whether to use the card for a particular type of transaction and incur the 
relevant fee. I havent seen anything to suggest that the fees have been applied incorrectly. 
So Im unable to say that Tesco has made an error here.
Ive reviewed the online form for closing the account. This says that customer will receive a 
final statement by post. I understand that Mr M thought that he would receive his final 
statement by email. I havent seen any evidence to suggest that Mr M was advised that his 
final statement would be sent to him by email. I think its clear from the online form that final 
statements will be sent by post.
For the reasons Ive explained, Im unable to uphold this complaint. I wont be asking Tesco 
to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman