DRN-3732360
The complaint
Mr B complains that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS), trading as Mini
Financial Services, havent explained how they calculated partial early settlement figures.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in September 2022. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont currently agree with the investigators view and Im expecting to uphold this complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive looked at the hire purchase agreement. That states at the top that it is regulated by the
Consumer Credit Act (1974).
The Consumer Credit Act covers several areas of consumer credit including the content and
form of credit agreements and the procedures relating to default, termination, and early
settlement. In relation to early settlement the Consumer Credit Act says that settlement
figures should be calculated using the rules set out in the Consumer Credit (Early
Settlement) Regulations 2004.
BMWFS say they used the calculations set out in those regulations in order to calculate the
three partial settlement quotations they sent to Mr B between the 13 and 15 June 2021.
Theyve explained that the minimal differences in the quotes are due to the quotations being
provided on different days and they dont believe the quotes are inaccurate. 
Mr B says that doesnt explain why the interest rebate in each quote reduces despite the
overpayments he was being asked to pay increasing.
Mr B has explained that despite using the formula set out in the Consumer Credit (Early
Settlement) Regulations 2004 he cant replicate BMWFSs partial settlement quotations. Our
investigator also explained that he couldnt replicate those quotations. However, its clear
that by using the formula set out in the Act, the investigator and Mr B have both been able to
calculate, and concur with, the full settlement quotation subsequently provided by BMWFS.
So, I can understand why Mr B would be concerned. Hes used the correct formula and has
been able to correctly apply it to the full early settlement of the agreement but neither he nor
our investigator have been able to understand how the partial settlement quotations have
been derived.
I dont think Mr B is therefore being unreasonable when asking for an explanation given the
gaps hes identified. Hes not simply disputing the calculation; he agrees with the method of
calculation but cant understand how when using it the various partial settlement figures
have been generated.
Our investigator asked BMWFS to explain the calculations in more detail but when they
responded in June 2022 they didnt elaborate on that calculation and instead provided the
full settlement calculation. Thats not in dispute.
So, Ive not been able to establish if the partial settlement calculations they provided in June
2021 were accurate either.
Im not saying that the calculations are inaccurate; they may well not be, but Im required to
consider whether BMWFS have been fair and reasonable when responding to Mr Bs
complaint. I dont think they have because they havent provided a reasonable explanation
for the variation in the calculations Mr B received.
Ive thought about how to put things right for Mr B. He didnt accept any of the partial
settlement quotations so I dont think it would be fair to suggest he suffered financially as a
result. But I do think the failure of BMWFS to provide a better response has caused Mr B
some distress and inconvenience. He would have been concerned about the variations and
the absence of a more comprehensive, reasonable answer has meant hes needed to
escalate his complaint to this service when I dont think that would have been necessary had
BMWFSs response been more detailed. In those circumstances I think BMWFS should pay
Mr B £150 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes experienced.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im expecting to uphold this complaint and tell BMW
Financial Services (GB) Limited to pay Mr B £150 to compensate him for the distress and
inconvenience hes experienced.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B accepted my provisional decision but BMWFS didnt.
They said they had responded to every email Mr B had sent them about the lump sum 
calculations and that they had provided adequate explanations. And they added that thered 
been no impact on Mr B as hed opted to part exchange the car and therefore didnt use any 
of the quotes provided. They felt that the provisional decision seemed like a punishment for 
not offering an adequate explanation.
Putting things right
I set out in my provisional decision why I didnt think an adequate explanation had been 
provided by BMWFS. They didnt respond directly to Mr Bs concerns about the variations in 
the settlement quotes he received, and I dont think that was fair.
BMWFS say theres been no impact on Mr B, but I disagree. He would have been concerned 
about the variations and the absence of a more comprehensive, reasonable answer has 
meant hes needed to escalate his complaint to this service when I dont think that would 
have been necessary had BMWFSs response been more detailed. Its not my aim to punish 
BMWFS, nor is that something I have power to do, but I do think they should compensate  
Mr B for the distress and inconvenience hes been caused.Ive not been provided with sufficient additional information to change my provisional 
decision and that provisional decision now becomes my final decision on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im expecting to uphold this complaint and tell BMW
Financial Services (GB) Limited to pay Mr B £150 to compensate him for the distress and
inconvenience hes experienced.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman