DRN-4357429
The complaint
Miss M complains that shes been unable to complete a balance transfer to repay her Zopa 
Bank Limited credit card. 
What happened
Miss M has a credit card with Zopa. In November 2022 Miss M opened a new credit card 
with a business Ill refer to as N with a 33 month 0% balance transfer promotion. Miss M has 
explained that when N attempted to complete the balance transfer from Zopa the transaction 
failed. Miss M contacted Zopa to enquire about the issue N was experiencing but didnt 
receive a response. 
In January 2023 Miss M contacted Zopa again after N attempted another balance transfer 
that failed. Miss M raised a complaint and Zopa issued a final response. The final response 
incorrectly advised that the problems N was experiencing completing the balance transfer 
were being caused by the amount it was requesting. Zopa apologised for failing to contact 
Miss M after she raised questions about the balance transfer process. And Zopa advised 
that to complete the balance transfer process N would need to transfer funds using its sort 
code, bank account number and a payment reference, all of which were provided to Miss M. 
Zopa upheld Miss Ms complaint and offered her £25 for the trouble and upset caused and 
refunded £122.52 of interest Miss M had paid since attempting the balance transfer. 
Miss M referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. In its file 
submission Zopa advised that it doesnt process balance transfers in line with other credit 
card providers and requires the process to use its business sort code and account number. 
Zopa recognised there was a known issue for customers wishing to complete balance 
transfers to N. And Zopa offered to waive interest for a total of nine months from the date 
Miss Ms balance transfer to N shouldve gone through in November 2022. Zopa advised 
that whilst it operates differently, thats a matter of commercial discretion. And Zopa said the 
way it processes balance transfers is an industry accepted way to transfer funds. 
Our investigator ultimately upheld Miss Ms complaint. The investigator made the point that 
the credit card providers Miss M had spoken with advised they would process a balance 
transfer, in line with Zopas process, as a money transfer which incurs a 3% fee. The 
investigator said that if the balance transfer was processed as a money transfer Miss M 
wouldnt benefit from the interest free period. The investigator asked Zopa to settle by either 
matching Ns balance transfer promotion of 33 months interest free or paying the 3% money 
transfer fee and refund the interest incurred since November 2022. The investigator also 
recommended £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Zopa asked to appeal but didnt give any further arguments. Miss M confirmed she is willing 
to accept. As Zopa asked to appeal, Miss Ms case has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In its submissions, Zopa has told us that the way it processes balance transfers is different 
to other credit card providers. Zopa says the process is an industry accepted way of 
transferring funds and that its free to operate in line with its commercial discretion. Zopa is 
free to decide how it operates and what processes to follow. But where a consumer is 
unfairly impacted by a business practices it may be appropriate to consider whether the 
process has been fairly applied in their case. Id like to confirm that in this decision, Im only 
looking at Miss Ms credit card with Zopa and whether she has been unfairly impacted by its 
balance transfer process. 
Zopa has explained that to process the balance transfer N (or any other new provider) will 
need to use a sort code, account number and payment reference when transferring the 
funds. But N has confirmed it cant process the balance transfer in that way and would 
consider it as a money transfer instead. The money transfer process is different to the 
balance transfer process for N, so if Miss M proceeds as instructed by Zopa she wont 
qualify for the balance transfer promotion she opened in November 2022. Miss M has 
confirmed that she approached another credit card provider and that it also confirmed it 
wont process a balance transfer in the way Zopa requires. 
I also note that when Zopa responded to Miss Ms complaint it gave the wrong information 
about why her balance transfer attempts to N had failed. Whilst the information Zopa wanted 
Miss M to give to N was provided, no guidance on the process or how it impacted her 
balance transfer attempts was included. 
Zopa offered Miss M nine months 0% interest from the date she first attempted to complete 
a balance transfer to N in November 2022. But Im not persuaded thats a fair way to resolve 
Miss Ms complaint. Miss M has forwarded evidence that she was accepted for a balance 
transfer promotion of 0% for 33 months in November 2022. Im satisfied that Miss M 
wouldve proceeded with the balance transfer if the issues raised hadnt come up. So I think 
the fairest approach is that Zopa matches that offer and provides a 33 month interest free 
period from November 2022. Alternatively, should Miss M wish to complete the balance 
transfer within four weeks of acceptance, Zopa should cover any money transfer fee Miss M 
incurs and refund the interest she has paid since the November 2022 balance transfer 
request to N failed. 
In addition, I agree that Miss M was caused a reasonable level of distress and 
inconvenience by the way her enquires have been handled as well as the delays in being 
able to complete a balance transfer. Im satisfied that an award of £100 fairly reflect the 
impact to Miss M so Im going to proceed on that basis. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Miss Ms complaint and direct Zopa Bank Limited to settle as 
follows: 
- Match Ns promotional balance transfer rate of 0% for 33 months from November 
2022 
- Or  pay Miss Ms money transfer fee and refund all interest applied to her credit 
card from November 2022 if she chooses to transfer funds away within four weeks of 
settlement
- Pay Miss M £100 for the distress and inconvenience causedUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman