DRN-2698507
The complaint
Ms A is unhappy that she couldnt cancel a fixed sum loan agreement she took out with 
Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited to fund an online education course with a supplier that I 
will call E.
What happened
In October 2017 Ms A bought an online educational course for her children from E. She told 
us she was visited by a salesman from E as she needed some support for one of her 
children. During this meeting Ms A signed up to the online course for her three children. She 
entered into a loan agreement with Omni to pay for it. The agreement was interest free and 
was for 48 months, with monthly repayments of £79.86.
 
In August 2018 Ms A spoke to Omni and asked to cancel the course. It told her to speak to 
E. Over the following months, Ms A continued making her repayments. She did then speak 
to E at the end of 2019 to cancel the agreement but was told it was too late to do this. Ms A 
spoke to E again early the following month. She explained her children hadnt used the 
course for over a year. But E repeated that she was outside of the cancellation period.
 
So, Ms A complained to Omni. It told her the cancellation period was within 14 days of when 
she purchased the course and, as shed asked to cancel after this, it wasnt upholding her 
complaint. Ms A wasnt happy with this, so she brought her complaint to our service. She 
said Es salesman told her if she didnt like the course, she could cancel it  she said E didnt 
tell her this was only in the first 14 days.
 
One of our investigators looked into this complaint. She didnt think Es salesman had made 
it clear to Ms A that she was signing up to a loan that she wouldnt be able to then cancel if 
she wanted to. Our investigator said to put things right, Omni should: end Ms As loan 
agreement with nothing further to pay; refund her loan repayments from September 2018 
onwards, together with 8% interest on these refunds; cancel Ms As access to the course 
and collect the laptop she was provided with; and remove any adverse information from her 
credit file.
 
While Ms A accepted our investigators view, Omni didnt. In brief, its position is that it 
believes Ms A knew she was taking out a loan, the agreement sets out the cancellation 
rights and, she asked to cancel outside of the cancellation period.
 
As the matter remains unresolved, its been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold it. Ill explain why. But first, Im very aware that Ive 
summarised this complaint very briefly, in far less detail than has been provided, and in my 
own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think is the 
heart of the matter here: would Ms A have taken out the loan agreement if shed been told 
she could only cancel it within the first 14 days?
 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied 
I dont need to comment on every individual point or argument to be able to reach what I 
think is a fair and reasonable outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
Ms A paid for the course through a fixed sum loan agreement. Section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 sets out that in certain circumstances, as the finance provider, Omni is 
jointly liable for any breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier, E. Im satisfied 
those circumstances apply here.
 
Also, section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 has the effect of making E an agent of 
Omni during the antecedent negotiations leading up to Ms A entering into the loan 
agreement. This means Omni can be held responsible for the things E said or didnt say, and 
what it did or didnt do during the sales process.
 
Ms A is unhappy that she wasnt allowed to cancel the course when her children had 
stopped using it. Ms A says she was told by Es salesman the course could be cancelled, but 
she was never told this was only in the first 14 days.
 
Its not disputed that the terms of the loan agreement state Ms A could cancel it within 14 
days of loan being made, but after that it was a non-cancellable contract. But shes told us 
Es salesman didnt tell her she was taking out a loan  just that E would help guide her 
children through the courses. Ms A also told us she was only given the paperwork 
afterwards, not when the salesman was with her. So, Im satisfied the key issues I have to 
think about is whether the course and agreement were misrepresented to her.
 
Omni told us the loan agreement was emailed to Ms A and she was able to review it within 
the cancellation period. It said once Ms A received its welcome pack she could have got in 
touch if she had any questions or concerns, but she didnt. Omni also said, among other 
things, Ms A hand signed Customer Clarification & Satisfaction Form  and that the 
enrolment form sets out that payment would be by finance agreement via monthly direct 
debit. It maintains that Ms A wasnt entitled to cancel the agreement as she didnt ask to do 
this until over nine months after it started.
 
Ive taken all the documents into account, including those either hand-signed or 
electronically signed by Ms A. Ive also taken into account the salesmans responsibilities to 
provide clear information to enable Ms A to make an informed choice before she agreed to 
sign up to the course. Also, I dont think the loan agreement and related documents are 
necessarily always an accurate description of the conversations that took place before the 
contract started. What was said in these discussions is key to if Ms A was misled about 
entering into the loan agreement.
 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) has set out what it expects a responsible credit 
broker to do when arranging a loan. This is set out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC). As the lender, these regulations and guidance dont apply to Omni directly. But I 
think E was acting as a credit broker by arranging the loan agreement on behalf of Omni. So, 
Ive taken this into account. 
I wont go in to detail here about the provisions of CONC other than to say that it sets out 
that Es salesman had a duty to ensure Ms A had enough information about the loan 
agreement before she agreed to enter into it to buy the course.
 
The Customer Clarification and Satisfaction Form refers to purchasing a Lifetime Licence 
and uses the generic term Finance throughout, rather than loan. I accept the words loan 
and finance are used interchangeably in the lending industry, but I think its understandable 
that a lay person may not have understood they were entering a loan agreement. There is a 
statement referring to loan agreement, but it notes this only applies where finance is the 
chosen option of payment, so I dont think this would necessarily be clear to Ms A from this 
that a loan was the method of payment. In any event, the crux of Ms As complaint is that 
she wasnt told that she couldnt cancel the course and her payments outside of the first 14 
days.
 
Ive thought about Omnis comments that Ms A signed the agreement and if she was 
unhappy with anything, she could have cancelled within the first 14 days. Ms A told us the 
salesman was sitting opposite her and every now and then he would turn his laptop around 
to show her something, but this was more to do with how the course worked rather than how 
it would be paid for.
 
I can see most of the forms were electronically signed by Ms A. Shes told us got copies of 
the documents at a later date, not when the salesman was with her. This is consistent with 
what Omni has told us about emailing Ms A a welcome pack with a copy of the agreement. I 
can see this was sent to her three days after she electronically signed it. Taking all this into 
account, Im not satisfied Ms A was given the documents, or had chance to read them before 
she was asked to sign them.
 
I can also see Ms A told us she asked if it was okay to pay when she had money available 
but was told by the salesman payments had to be made by direct debit. I think this question 
isnt consistent with someone who was aware of the implications of entering into a four-year 
loan agreement.
 
Ms A also told us she asked if she could cancel the course if she didnt like it and was told 
she could. Im satisfied the salesman should have made it clear here that Ms A would be 
entering into a four-year loan agreement that could only be cancelled within the first 14 days.
 
Ive also thought about what Ms A has told us about her circumstances at the time of the 
sale. Her son has special educational needs. At the time, Ms A wasnt happy with the 
schooling that had been provided and had taken him out of his school while she tried to 
arrange a more suitable alternative. But while this was happening, she needed to 
demonstrate to the local authorities that her son was getting sufficient schooling at home. 
This was why she was interested in Es courses. Ms A explained that her son was reluctant 
to do things unless his siblings also took part  so this is why she signed all three of her 
children up for the course.
 
When looking at educational support, a typical option for many parents is private tuition. This 
is usually paid for by the hour, although some tutors may offer discounts for bulk bookings. 
Im also aware of Ms As testimony about using a different supplier to provide face to face 
support  and that this other supplier did allow her to cancel when she asked to do so.
 
Im satisfied Ms As need for educational support for her son was short term. In this situation 
I think it would be very unusual for a parent to commit to an arrangement lasting so long. Im 
satisfied that in these circumstances most parents would want flexibility when looking for additional educational support. Ms As requirements would be very likely to vary quite a lot, 
especially when a suitable school became available for her son.
 
Ms A stated from the outset that she was told she could cancel the course and wasnt told 
this was only for the first fourteen days. Shes been consistent about this to both us and 
Omni, and Im satisfied her testimony is credible. Taking all the above into account, Im 
satisfied she wouldnt have gone ahead with a four-year loan agreement, if shed been told 
she couldnt cancel after the 14-day withdrawal period and that she would still have to make 
the repayments even if the course was no longer needed and wasnt being used.
Putting things right
I can see Ms As children did use the course for some months after the agreement started. 
Her testimony and Omnis notes are consistent with this use lasting until around August 
2018. So, I think its fair that Ms A pays some of the amount shes been charged for the 
course. Im satisfied the monthly payments Ms A paid towards the loan agreement up to 
August 2018 are a reasonable charge for the use of the course.
To put things right Omni should:
End the agreement and remove any adverse information relating to it from Ms As 
credit file;
Refund any payments made by Ms As from September 2019 onwards. It should also 
pay 8% yearly simple interest on these payments from the date they were made to 
the date of the refund;
Waive any outstanding payments due; and
Cancel Ms As access to the course and collect any relevant course equipment and 
materials at no cost to her.
If Omni thinks that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from the 
interest noted above, it should tell Ms A how much its taken off. It should also give her a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited must take the action Ive set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2021. 
John Miles
Ombudsman