DRN-3124820
The complaint
Mr B says Morses Club PLC lent to him irresponsibly. Mr B says that he was in a debt spiral 
and so he couldnt afford the Morses loans. He thinks that Morses shouldve seen this and 
not lent to him. 
  
What happened
This complaint is about four home collected loans Morses provided to Mr B between 
April 2013 and May 2017. Some of the information I have been provided about the lending is 
in the table below. 
loan date taken amount instalments date repaid
1 20/04/2013 £800 50 17/04/2014
2 17/04/2014 £1,300 50 11/09/2015
3 07/07/2016 £600 52 12/05/2017
4 12/05/2017 £1,000 52 05/04/2018
Mr B has borrowed a significant amount of other home credit loans with a business that 
Morses took over in 2014. I dont have details about the amounts, terms and dates of 
these loans, but I understand there were 11 of them. Neither party has any further 
information about the other lending. But I think it is likely Morses would have had some 
indication of the earlier lending from 2014 onwards.
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. He didnt think that Morses had lent 
irresponsibly when it approved loans 1 to 3. But he thought that the pattern of lending itself 
showed that Mr B was likely to be reliant on these loans by loan 4. 
Morses disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. It said that it didnt think that four loans 
over a four year period was excessive and there was a longer break in the lending between 
loans 2 and 3. The checks Morses did showed that this lending was affordable as Mr B had 
a signficant income and sensible outgoings. Loans 3 and 4 were repaid early. 
Mr B didnt add anything to what the adjudicator said.
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr B 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Bs complaint in part and have explained why below.
Mr B didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion about loans 1 to 3. Because of this I dont 
think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. So, I wont be making a decision 
about this lending. But they were part of the borrowing relationship Mr B had with Morses. 
So, they are something I will take into account when considering the other loans he took.
I havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks for loan 4 because I dont 
think that it is necessary to do so. Ive looked at the overall pattern of Morses lending history 
with Mr B, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which Morses should reasonably have 
seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Morses should 
have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Bs case, I think that this point was likely to have 
been reached by loan 4. I say this because:
Mr B had been indebted to Morses for 28 months, which is a reasonably long time in 
itself. But Morses would also have been aware that Mr B had been taking similar 
loans for longer than this. And that the Morses loans were likely to be continuation of 
this earlier lending. So Morses ought to have known that Mr B was not likely borrowing to meet a 
temporary shortfall in his income but to meet an ongoing need. Morses ought to have 
realised it was likely that Mr Bs indebtedness was unsustainable.
Mr B wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Morses. Loan 4 was 
taken out just over four years after Mr Bs first. And he had likely been borrowing in a 
similar way a significant time before this. Mr B had paid large amounts of interest to, 
in effect, service a debt to Morses over an extended period.
Its likely that this lending became unsustainable a significant time before loan 4. But 
I dont have enough information to reasonably say if, or when, this was.
And I do take on board that there was break in the lending between loans 3 and 4. 
But it looks like Mr B had been using this type of loan for a significant period of time. 
So, I think it was unlikely to be reasonable for Morses to think his circumstances had 
improved within this break. And Mr B had been a customer of Morses for around four 
years overall.
And I dont think what Morses recorded about his income and expenditure affects 
this. Mr B was clearly reliant on the lending despite this. 
I think that Mr B lost out because Morses continued to provided loan 4 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Bs indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit over an extended period of time.
the length of time over which Mr B borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on hiss ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
Im upholding the complaint about loan 4 and Morses should put things right.
  
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it not approved loan 4, as Im satisfied it shouldnt have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr B may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between him and this particular lender which he may not have had with others. If this wasnt 
a viable option, he may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming 
that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how he would (or ought 
to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is impossible to 
now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can 
fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would have been 
able to lend to Mr B in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr B would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have given Mr B loan 4.A) Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr B towards interest, 
fees and charges on this loan, including payments made to a third party where applicable, 
but not including anything it has already refunded.
B) Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr B 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr B originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Morses should pay Mr B the total of A plus B.
D) The overall pattern of Mr Bs borrowing for by loan 4 means any information recorded 
about it is adverse, so it should remove this loan entirely from Mr Bs credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should 
give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax Morses has deducted, if he asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Morses Club PLC should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman