DRN-4185989
The complaint
Mr R has complained about an ongoing commission fee paid to Nationwide Building Society, 
which entitled him to advice relating to his Individual Savings Account (ISA). He says that he 
didnt know about the fee or that he could opt-out of it from 2019. 
What happened
Mr R took out a Nationwide Equity ISA through a Nationwide branch in 2001. Between 2008 
and 2019, the management of Nationwide investments such as this, changed firstly to L&G 
and latterly to Aegon. However, Nationwide continued to provide any requested advice for 
these investments, as the two companies that had taken over the management of the 
investments did not provide advice. 
Mr R complained to Nationwide in late 2021. He said that hed received a letter informing 
him hed been paying a trail commission for this investment. He said he thought the amount 
was an administration fee and that it hasnt been explained to him clearly and wasnt a fair 
charge. 
Nationwide initially responded to say that whilst they maintained the fee was fair, they didnt 
think that Mr R had brought his complaint in time. They said that this was because he had 
three years from when he ought reasonably to have known that the charge was being taken 
to bring the complaint to our service (as the ISA had been taken out more than six years 
ago).
Mr R remained unhappy and he brought the complaint to our service. An ombudsman 
considered whether the complaint had been brought in time. They concluded that Mr Rs 
complaint about the charge itself had not been brought in time. However, they also said that 
we were able to consider Mr Rs complaint that he hadnt been told that the charge had 
subsequently become optional. 
An investigator looked into the merits of the issue that we could consider. He said that Mr R 
had been made sufficiently aware of the opt-out option that applied from 2019, when he was 
sent new terms and conditions to accept at that time. 
Mr R remained unhappy and amongst other points, provided evidence including a transcript 
of a call with a Nationwide associate, which he says showed he wasnt aware he could     
opt-out of the charge. He said that Nationwide hadnt even explained when this was valid 
from, until the complaint was brought to this service. He also said that he hadnt previously 
been provided with the relevant terms and conditions from the time. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion as the investigator. Ill explain why. 
As stated, the only issue I am deciding on is whether Nationwide should have done more to 
make Mr R aware that the ongoing commission charge he had been paying, had become 
optional since May 2019. 
It was only after May 2019, when Aegons own platform replaced the Investor Portfolio 
Service (IPS) platform  taken over from L&G  that it became possible to request Aegon to 
halt the charge. Thats when the funds were re-registered away from the IPS platform and on 
to Aegons new platform that started at this time.
Mr R received a letter from Aegon in April 2019 advising on the upgrade from the IPS and 
the new terms and conditions taking effect from 28 May 2019. The letter stated that a 
documentation pack was sent the previous year, highlighting the new terms and conditions 
available online and in paper form.
Mr R also received a letter dated 29 March 2019, which was sent as part of the new 
regulatory information disclosure required about the costs and charges of an investment. It
gave a thorough breakdown of the total service charge, the platform and Nationwide
charge, and it detailed the commission amount of 0.40%.
I have also been provided with a copy of the 2018 and 2020 terms and conditions (T&Cs), 
which make reference to the ability to cancel the commission charges at any time. The 
business has confirmed there were no specific 2019 T&Cs and that the 2018 set apply. 
These state under section 10.4 titled Adviser Charge and Service Charge, that it refers to 
the charges paid to Nationwide. In section 10.4.6, it states that at any time Mr R can ask us 
in writing to alter or stop paying the adviser charge. I think it is important to explain that 
these are Aegons T&Cs, who manage the investment and that there is a responsibility on 
Mr R to read and accept them.
I understand that Nationwide says it had no requirement to encourage customers such as  
Mr R from being a Nationwide customer or cease their right to advice services, and that 
paying the commission meant Mr R had access to a variety of services offered by 
Nationwide, which he obviously wouldnt have had access to if he cancelled the commission 
payment. I dont believe that conclusion is unreasonable. Only after the Aegon platform 
migration could investors choose to switch off the service charge, and this severed the 
relationship with Nationwide, and the right to receive future advice or access to Nationwide 
services mentioned.
It might be useful to explain that trail commission was in due course outlawed by the industry
regulator, the Financial Services Authority (now the Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA)),
as part of its Retail Distribution Review (RDR) for any new investments. The RDR  which 
came into force around January 2013 and ruled out trail commission  only applies to new 
investments sold after this time  so it doesnt apply to Mr Rs investment, and hes not 
entitled to his money back because of it.
I want to reiterate to Mr R that this doesnt mean that I conclude he was aware the charge 
had become optional in May 2019, but that I dont fairly conclude that Nationwide should 
have done more to make him aware. In summary, I appreciate Mr Rs overall concerns with 
the situation and recognise he will be disappointed that Ive reached the same conclusion as 
the investigator. But having given the matter careful consideration, I dont feel able to conclude that this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
My final decision, for the reasons set out above, is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman