DRN-3135974
The complaint
Mr B has complained about advice he received from Mercia Financial Planning Limited 
(Mercia) to transfer his defined benefits (DB) out of the British Steel Pension Scheme 
(BSPS). He believes he has suffered a significant loss as a result of the advice. 
Mr B is being assisted with his complaint by a professional representative. 
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Bs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with 
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved pension benefits, which 
included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF),  the PPF is a 
statutory fund designed to provide compensation to members of defined benefit pension 
schemes when their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was closed to further benefit 
accrual from 31 March 2017. 
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said that, if risk-related qualifying 
conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme sponsored 
by Mr Bs employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
This was, however, intended to receive deferred benefits only. The main defined benefit 
OPS had been replaced by a new defined contribution scheme. The existing scheme was 
due to be closed in the near future, with the options being set out in a subsequent letter in 
October 2017 for deferred members to either transfer their benefits to the successor 
scheme, the BSPS2, the PPF or into a private arrangement, such as a personal pension 
plan. A deadline was set for members to notify the scheme administrators as to their choice 
by 11 December 2017. This was subsequently extended to 22 December 2017.
Mr B was concerned about his BSPS benefits and didnt know what to do so he contacted a 
firm, who Ill refer to as D. Mr B had previously received advice from D in respect of his 
pension arrangements and as a result, hed consolidated some occupational pension 
schemes hed held into as Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). 
Mr B met with D in June 2017 to talk about his options and he provided D with information 
regarding his personal and financial circumstances. D didnt have the relevant permissions 
to advise on defined benefit scheme transfers, such as the BSPS, so Mr B was referred to 
Mercia for advice in this regard. Mr B didnt meet with Mercia, all the paperwork was 
competed with D and then forwarded to Mercia. 
In October 2017, Mercia issued a suitability report to Mr B. This set out the charges for 
advice and explained that it was only providing advice on the pension transfer as D didnt 
have permission to do this. But after the transfer any ongoing advice would be provide by D. 
The suitability report noted the following about Mr B: 
He was aged 50, married with two children, neither of whom were financially 
dependent on him.
He was employed, earning £40,000 per year. He had a preferred retirement age of 
65 but he wouldnt be eligible for the state pension until he was 66.
He wanted a household income in retirement of £28,000, funded initially by his 
pension provision, but his reliance of his pensions would reduce once the state 
pension became payable. 
Mr B had a SIPP valued at £153,299 and another workplace pension worth £2,133, 
which he was still contributing to. And deferred benefits in the BSPS valued at 
£59,000.
The report stated that Mr B wanted to transfer his BSPS pension into a personal pension 
arrangement for the following reasons:
Death benefits - You are relatively young and you are in good health; however, you 
would like to ensure that [Mr Bs wife] and your family benefit from any unused 
pension funds in the event of your death, rather than a rigid taxable income, that 
would be negligible and would have little impact on [Mrs Bs] finances. You do not 
wish for the scheme to re-absorb any of your pension funds at any point in the future.
Flexibility in retirement  You would like to have the flexibility on when and how 
you take your pension funds. You would like to use all your pension funds in tandem 
with your State Pensions and both of your other  alternative  provisions. You do not 
envisage any access to  your pension funds until you retire.
Having full flexibility on how and when you draw an income from your pension funds 
has the following benefits:
Having the flexibility to alter your income can help reduce income tax.
Having the flexibility to reduce withdrawals can also help to preserve your funds for       
your family on death.
Having the flexibility to take ad-hoc lump sums can be appealing as these can be 
used to meet unexpected needs, however these withdrawals may be subject to 
income tax.
Scheme Future  - There is a lot of uncertainty surrounding the British Steel Pension 
Scheme at this moment in time and there is a possibility that your benefits could fall into 
the Pension Protection Fund. This would provide you with a compensation that cannot 
be altered or transferred out once the scheme has been taken over by the PPF.
You do not want a rigid income in retirement and the PPF does not meet your needs in 
terms of flexibility, higher tax-free cash, and death benefits...
Preservation of Fund - The CETV offered by the scheme has increased within the past 
year and you would like to take advantage of the size of your pension fund as you feel 
that this will be ideal for providing a legacy for your family as well as providing the 
security of being financially secure in retirement.
You wish to transfer your funds now so that you can eliminate any risk that the Trustees 
will reduce the CETV in the future and you would prefer control over your funds and grow them as according to your attitude towards risk. I have explained to you that the CETV 
could in fact increase in the future, however this has not deterred your from wanting to 
transfer
In terms of Mr Bs risk profile, this was recorded as 4 on a scale of 110. This was classed 
as lowest medium.
The suitability report explained that Mercia had carried out a full review of the scheme and 
considered the following options:
Leave the existing scheme untouched
Transfer the scheme into your existing employers arrangement
Set up a new pension plan and transfer your existing arrangement into it
Transfer to a section 32 buyout bond
The transfer value analysis (TVAS) indicated the amount of growth required by the 
transferred funds to match those being relinquished in the scheme  the critical yield. It 
concluded that the personal pension would need to grow by 11% per year to match the 
benefits under the scheme at a retirement age of 65, or 9.42% per year if tax-free cash was 
taken.
A projection was also made of the required yield to match the PPF benefits. This showed 
that, for age 65, the fund would need to grow by 8.42% per year to match the full pension 
provided by the PPF. 
The report went on to explain that the critical yields were high and that they wouldnt be met 
between now and the age of 65. It also said it was pertinent to point out that Mercia was not 
looking at moving the BSPS benefits to get an improved income; it was to meet Mr Bs 
objectives. 
The report went on to set out Mercias recommendation that Mr B transfer his BSPS benefits 
to his existing SIPP.  Mr B accepted the recommendation and his benefits were transferred. 
In October 2019, Mr Bs representative complained to Mercia. Mercia reviewed the complaint 
but it didnt think the advice was unsuitable. In summary it said that Mr B had approached D 
with the intention of transferring his BSPS benefits to meet his personal circumstances and 
objectives. The advice Mr B received reflected the risks and benefits of transferring. The 
risks were set out explicitly, and on numerous occasions in the suitability report and other 
documents provided to Mr B. 
Mr B didnt accept Mercias finding so he referred the matter to this service for review. 
Our investigation
One of our investigators reviewed matters and concluded that the advice to Mr B to transfer 
was unsuitable. In summary, the investigator thought that: 
Mr B was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower overall value than the 
BSPS at retirement. And although Mr B had other pensions, the majority of these 
additional benefits were in a SIPP and were already being exposed to investment 
risk. So the investigator wasnt persuaded that giving up a guaranteed income and 
exposing his BSPS benefits to the same risk, was appropriate. Mr Bs main aim was to preserve his funds as much as possible for his retirement 
years. Given that Mr Bs SIPP fund would have potentially been available as a lump 
sum in the event of his death before retirement, the investigator didnt think there was 
a pressing need to sacrifice the inherent guarantees built into the BSPS simply for 
the sake of increasing the death benefit pay-out by another £59,000. And since 
Mercia accepted that the investment returns were unlikely to even match the benefits 
given up on transfer, Mr Bs retirement income was likely to reduce in value every 
year for the forthcoming 14 years to age 65.
Mercia suggested that Mr B was more concerned about maintaining the value of the 
fund on death than maximising his income in retirement. But the investigator was not 
persuaded that exchanging a virtually guaranteed income in retirement for the 
possibility of passing a fund of uncertain value to his dependants constitutes suitable 
advice. The BSPS was intended primarily as a means of providing income in 
retirement, with additional benefits built in for dependants. Theres no evidence that 
Mr B was at higher than average risk of death prior to age 65 that might have 
rendered it beneficial to swap income for lump sum death benefits. If his primary 
need was to increase death benefit provision, Mercia ought to have explored the 
possibility of arranging specific life assurance cover at an acceptable cost.
The BSPS was in financial difficulty but if the scheme passed into PPF, Mr B would 
still be entitled to receive 90% of his benefits. The course of action proposed by 
Mercia offered no guarantees as to future income or even that the pension would 
retain its value as at the date of transfer. The investment selected left the fund 
exposed to market forces and thus to unlimited loss.
Mr B was 14 years away from his expected retirement age so he didnt need to make 
any decisions in 2017 on how he might structure his eventual retirement income 
planning. Once in the PPF, Mr B would have been unable to draw his benefits in a 
more flexible way, however, there was already a significant value in his SIPP that 
could have been used to provide alternative income in retirement. 
Just because the suitability letter and other documents warned Mr B about the 
investment risks he was taking by transferring, doesnt mean the advice is compliant. 
The responsibility placed on Mercia by the relevant legislation at the time of advice 
was to recommend a suitable course of action, not simply to set out Mr Bs options, 
warn about the risks and allow him to make his own decision.
Mercia didnt accept the investigators opinion. It said the transfer met Mr Bs objectives at 
that time. And its satisfied that, if Mr B is honest about this, there would never have been 
any prospect of him expressing a desire or preference to join BSPS2 even if Mercia could 
have recommended this, given his distinct antipathy to Tata Steel and his pronounced 
concerns about its financial stability in general or as a pension scheme employer at the 
material time. Further, any election to join BSPS2 would have carried with it a risk of Mr Bs 
accrued benefits falling into the PPF in the event the qualifying criteria for BSPS2 was not 
met (over which Mr B would have had no control). Mr B was very keen to avoid this and was 
perceived (rightly or wrongly) to be the worst outcome by a significant number of Scheme 
members at the material time. This serves to illustrate the wholly hindsight-driven approach 
to Mr Bs complaint. 
The complaint has been passed to me to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it 
is unsuitable. Mercia should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in Mr Bs best interest (COBS 19.1.6). And having looked at all the 
evidence available, Im not satisfied the transfer was in his best interest. Ill explain why.
Financial viability of the transfer
Mercia seems to accept that Mr B was likely to be worse off as a result of transferring, but for 
completeness, I have still considered this aspect in full. 
As the investigator explained, the advice was given during the period when the Financial 
Ombudsman Service was publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss 
assessments where a complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
I appreciate Mercia may not agree but I consider these rates to provide a useful indication of 
what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when the advice was 
given in this case.
There is no suggestion within the sales paperwork that Mr B had any intention of retiring 
before his normal retirement age of 65. The TVAS shows that at 65 the investment return 
(critical yield) required to match the DB pension at age 65 was 11% per year, or 9.42% per 
year if tax free cash was taken. And the critical yield to match the benefits available if BSPS 
moved to the PPF was 8.42% at age 65. 
The relevant discount rate published by the Financial Ombudsman Service at the time the 
advice was given was 3.5% per year for 14 years to retirement. For further comparison, the 
regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the 
lower projection rate 2% per year.
Even taking the lowest critical yield here (8.42%), which was a comparison to full pension 
provided by the PPF at age 65, its likely Mr B wouldnt have been able to match, let alone 
exceed his DB benefits in the personal pension if he was invested in line with a lowest 
medium risk strategy as suggested. By transferring his pension it was likely Mr B would be 
financially worse off in retirement, so based on the above alone, a transfer wasnt in Mr Bs 
best interest.
But the feasibility of achieving a critical yield alone wouldnt in any case indicate suitability of 
a transfer, as set out in COBS 19.1.7B. And Mercia has also itself commented that the basis 
of the recommendation was the benefit to Mr B in terms of other objectives being met -
including flexibility, along with the different format of death benefits with a personal pension.
Before I assess those in greater detail, I think its firstly fair to say that Mercia did provide 
warnings that the critical yields were unlikely to be met.  But Mercia ought to be aware that 
warnings alone wouldnt render unsuitable advice suitable. Mercia needed to be satisfied, 
before providing its recommendation, that relinquishing the guarantees and taking the 
investment risk was a suitable course of action for Mr B.
So Ive considered whether there were other considerations which meant a transfer was 
suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits.I also think its important to explain that this wasnt a situation where Mr B was simply giving 
Mercia an instruction. He went to Mercia for advice and it had to take reasonable steps to 
ensure that any advice it gave him was suitable. And in providing that advice, it needed to 
make sure that it didnt just facilitate what Mr B thought he might like to do.
Death benefits
The suitability report noted that Mr B would like to ensure that his wife and children benefited 
from any unused pension in the event of his death, rather than receiving a negligible and 
rigid income that would have little impact of on Mrs Bs finances. 
I have concerns about this as a reason for transferring Mr Bs benefits. Firstly, Mr B didnt 
have any particular health issues which would mean that death benefits were of concern at 
that point. Nor was there any indication that he would not benefit from a pension income 
derived from the scheme membership upon retirement for a reasonable amount of time.
Accrued pension provision is intended to provide for an individuals retirement rather than a 
desire to leave a lump sum to beneficiaries. While I acknowledge that the financial wellbeing 
of Mr Bs wife would have been a priority for Mr B, the recommendation needed to be given 
in the context of Mr B s best interests in terms of his retirement needs. Mr B already had a 
significant proportion of his retirement benefits in a SIPP, which Mr Bs nominated 
beneficiaries would benefit from in the event of his death. But there was no information about 
why an additional lump sum was so important that it justified a transfer of Mr Bs guaranteed 
benefits.
Its understandable that Mr B would like to leave a lump sum to his beneficiaries, but Ive not 
seen anything that suggested it was essential, and certainly not of sufficient importance, 
given the other death benefits which would be available, to justify Mr B compromising the 
security of his own retirement. 
A lump sum may have been appealing, and there may be some circumstances where a lump 
sum is more advantageous when compared to an income stream through a spouses or 
dependants pension. But I dont think Mercia demonstrated that the benefit of doing so in 
Mr Bs case outweighed the benefit of Mr Bs retaining his BSPS benefits. The objective to 
leave a lump sum needed to be properly weighed up against the guaranteed benefits Mr B 
was giving up. Mercia should have advised Mr B that his own financial security in retirement 
took priority, particularly as the majority of his retirement provision wasnt guaranteed and 
was exposed to investment risk. 
Flexibility in retirement
The suitability report suggests that Mr B wanted to have flexibility on when and how he took 
his pension funds so he could reduce his income tax, preserve his fund for death benefits 
and take ad hoc lump sums as and when needed. But its unclear as to why Mr B would 
have needed such flexibility, especially given the investment risk associated with it, his 
attitude to risk, and a lack of other guaranteed income in retirement other than his state 
pension. 
It was for Mercia to establish the need for this flexibility, especially when valuable benefit 
guarantees were being given up. Ive already explained above why I dont think the need to 
leave a lump sum death benefit was so great that it warranted giving up the scheme 
benefits. Mr B wasnt looking to retire early and there doesnt appear to have been a need 
for him to access his tax-free cash before he retired. So, unless there was a realistic 
prospect of the transferred funds exceeding the scheme benefits at age 65, and Mr B was 
prepared to take the risk required to achieve that, the only advantage here would be Mr Bs apparent desire to take flexible income to reduce his income tax liability. 
Mr B and his wife had a desired annual income in retirement of £28,000 and it was 
envisaged that after his state pension  which was payable at age 66  and Mrs Bs final 
salary pension, there would be a shortfall of around £13,000 per year. So the BSPS benefits 
would have gone some way to bridging this shortfall. Ive not seen anything to suggest that 
this income need would reduce significantly during Mr Bs retirement. So it appears the 
shortfall would likely always need to be topped up and so would be taxed as an annual 
income. And I cant see that, even combining all pension income sources, Mr B is likely to 
have fallen into a higher rate tax bracket in retirement, which might under some 
circumstances have contributed towards a rationale for taking income flexibly or deferring 
income. And even if the income need did reduce slightly, Mr B already had his existing SIPP 
where the majority of his pension provision was held. And so he already had the option to 
access the majority of his funds flexibly, if that was actually required. 
As Ive mentioned above, a considerable proportion of Mr Bs pension provision was already 
exposed to investment risk. And so I dont think it was necessary or in Mr Bs best interest 
for him to expose his BSPS benefits to the same risk. 
The transfer needed to be demonstrated to be clearly in Mr Bs best interests. But it was 
unlikely that the SIPP income would be higher than that produced by the scheme. And 
theres really no sound or detailed basis for the flexibility argument, given the guarantees 
which Mr B would be relinquishing. 
Mr B was still over 14 years away from retirement at 65 at the point of advice. So Im of the 
view that he didnt need to make any decisions about transferring out his DB scheme at that 
point. His plans, including retirement, may in any case have changed significantly in the 
intervening years between then and Mr B reaching age 65. 
Scheme future
Mr B approached D (and subsequently Mercia) because he was concerned about his BSPS 
pension. He was worried about what was happening with his employer and the rumours 
around the PPF and BSPS2 and wanted advice on the matter. I appreciate that there will be 
instances where a client seeks financial advice with concerns about the financial health of an 
employer or pension scheme, but as the professional party, the IFA is tasked with rationally 
addressing those concerns and providing an appropriately balanced view of the available 
options. 
The suitability reports says that Mr B was concerned because if the scheme transferred into 
the PPF, he would be provided with compensation that couldnt be altered or transferred out 
once the scheme had been taken over. And according to the suitability letter Mr B didnt 
want a rigid income in retirement.  But the whole point of the BSPS consultation, which had 
resulted in the agreement being announced in August 2017, had been to avoid the necessity 
of the BSPS pension funds entering the PPF, and by the point of the advice the BSPS2 
seemed more likely than not to be a viable alternative. But I note that, contrary to these 
indications, the suitability report said that Mr B did not wish to be subject to the 
compensation that the PPF will provide as this will come with unattractive death benefits and 
inflexibilities. There is also a cap of 90% of your income applicable and therefore this is an 
unattractive option for you. A transfer of your pension funds before this potentially falls into 
the PPF Compensation Scheme is critical to you.
However, when the advice was given, Mr B had a choice between moving his fund to the 
PPF or joining BSPS2. Either of these wouldnt have been a bad outcome for Mr B as he 
would still have been better off than transferring out.  And so my view here is that Mr B simply didnt need to make any decisions about transferring his defined benefits at that point. 
And even if his fund moved to the PPF, this would still have provided him with valuable 
benefit guarantees which were likely to be in excess of what he would  receive by 
transferring. 
I accept that Mr B may have said he didnt want a rigid income and so he was leaning 
towards the decision to transfer. However, it was Mercias obligation to give Mr B an 
objective picture and recommend what was in his best interest. 
Preservation of Fund
Mercia said that the CETV had increased in the past year and so Mr B wanted to take 
advantage of this as it would not only mean that he could leave a legacy for his family but 
would also ensure that he was financially secure in retirement. And I accept that it was 
unknow what would happen in the future. Mercia correctly stated that the CETV could 
reduce or increase. But Ive already explained above why I dont feel the death benefits 
mean that the transfer was in Mr Bs best interest. And in terms of providing security in his 
retirement, I think the transfer did exactly the opposite. It meant that Mr B lost any form of 
guaranteed income in his retirement and that all his pension provision was now exposed to 
investment risk. 
It may well have been the case that the CETV reduced in the future but this was only really 
relevant if Mr B concluded that he wanted to transfer out at a later date. On the basis of what 
was known and recorded about him at the time of the advice, its difficult to reasonably 
envisage what might have prompted him to do so. But if there were later flexibility 
requirements which for whatever reason meant that a transfer out of the scheme was in Mr 
Bs best interests, these could have been addressed nearer to, or at, the point of Mr Bs 
retirement. Any concerns over potential falls in future CETVs wouldnt in my view mean that 
Mr B should reasonably transfer 14 years from his intended retirement age, especially when 
Ive concluded that the reasons for transferring werent in Mr Bs best interest. 
Summary
For the reasons given, Im not satisfied the recommendation to transfer was suitable for 
Mr B, nor was it in his best interests. Mercia was aware that, taking account of Mr Bs 
attitude to risk with regard to his pension funds and matching that with the likely 
corresponding investment returns, it was unlikely that the benefits available from the BSPS, 
or a successor scheme, could be bettered through the transfer. As the other reasons for 
transferring were insufficiently compelling, when considered against the valuable benefits 
being relinquished, it would - or should - then have drawn, and conveyed, the conclusion that 
transferring wasnt in Mr Bs best interests.
Mr B had concerns relating to the BSPS at the time of the advice - and I fully acknowledge 
this. But Mercia was required to give a balanced assessment of the options available and to 
provide suitable advice. Ive thought about whether Mercia provided Mr B  with a balanced 
appraisal of the options available to him, coupled with a robust and candid discussion about 
his own concerns relating to the BSPS. Looking at Mr Bs objectives - death benefits and 
flexibility - I dont think the perceived advantage of these outweighed the guaranteed benefits 
in the scheme. If properly discussed, Mr Bs concerns about the existing scheme could have 
been successfully allayed, such that he appreciated the important guaranteed benefits, even 
under the PPF, which he would be relinquishing for the sake of death benefits and income 
flexibility which he didnt need. 
The critical yield is usually a telling indicator of the value of the benefits being relinquished. 
And theres agreement here that the critical yield was unlikely to be achievable to even simply match the scheme benefits. The justification for nevertheless transferring, despite the 
likelihood that the scheme benefits couldnt be matched (and almost certainly not with the 
type of investment risk appropriate for Mr B) was that it was nevertheless suitable in view of 
Mr Bs stated objectives and the concerns about the BSPS. Whilst I accept that the critical 
yield isnt the only factor to consider when weighing the suitability of a transfer, Im 
unconvinced by what Mercia considers to have been the overriding justifications for 
proceeding with the transfer, for the reasons given above.
My view is that Mr B wasnt placed in a properly informed, or suitably advised, position to be 
able to take that kind of personal responsibility. Mr Ms decision to proceed may well have 
been borne of wider concerns relating to the financial viability of the BSPS. But taking 
account of his circumstances, including his attitude to risk, his objectives and the guarantees 
which the BSPS offered and would have persisted with either the BSPS2 or the PPF, my 
view is that Mercia should have advised against the transfer. And I think that, had this 
happened, Mr B would have followed that advice and not transferred his benefits to the 
personal pension.
If Mr B had stayed in BSPS, he would have shortly after had the choice to move to the PPF 
or transfer to BSPS2. I have carefully considered what Mr B would likely have done and on 
balance I think he would have opted to move to the BSPS2. I say this because Mr B wanted 
to retire at the scheme retirement age of 65. As a result, the benefits available to Mr B under 
the BSPS2 would likely be higher than through the PPF. Also, Mr B was married, and his 
wifes pension would be set at 50% of his pension at the date of death, and this would be 
calculated as if no lump sum was taken at retirement (if Mr B chose to do so). The annual 
indexation of his pension when in payment was also more advantageous under the BSPS2.
Putting things right
My aim is to put Mr B, as closely as possible, into the position hed be but for Mercias 
unsuitable advice. Reinstatement of Mr Bs deferred benefits isnt possible. Therefore, 
Mercia, should undertake a redress calculation in line with the pension review guidance as 
updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for 
firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
As Ive said above, I think its the benefits offered by the BSPS2 which should be used for
comparison purposes. As such, the calculation on the basis of choosing to enter the BSPS2 
should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions at the date of the actual 
calculation. 
Mercia may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Bs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P).These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Bs SERPS/S2P
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation in respect of any future loss
should if possible be paid into Mr Bs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect
of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension
plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it
should be paid directly to Mr B as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for
future income tax that would otherwise have been paid.Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax free cash and 75% would have been
taxed according to Mr Bs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So
making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the future loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr B within 90 days of the date
Mercia receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision.
Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year
simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of
that 90 day period, that it takes Mercia to pay Mr B.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
Determination and money award: I require Mercia to pay Mr B the compensation amount 
as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000. Where the compensation 
amount does not exceed £160,000, I additionally require  Mercia to pay Mr B any interest on 
that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I only Mercia to pay Mr B any 
interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000. 
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Mercia pays Mr B the balance. I additionally recommend any interest calculated as set out 
above on this balance to be paid to Mr B.
If Mr B accepts my decision, the money award is binding on Mercia. My recommendation is 
not binding on Mercia. Further, its unlikely that Mr B can accept my decision and go to court 
to ask for the balance. Mr B may want to consider getting independent legal advice before 
deciding whether to accept this decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold the complaint. Mercia Financial Planning Limited should 
undertake the above calculation and pay any resulting redress as directed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Lorna Goulding
Ombudsman