DRN-4191882
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T have complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund the money they lost 
after falling victim to a scam.
What happened
Both sides are most familiar with the case, so Ill summarise things in brief.
In late 2017, Mr and Mrs T were contacted by a property company. They provided 
documents setting out a corporate bond, backed by a security trustee and a compliance 
company that was registered with the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). Mr and Mrs T were 
persuaded to pay £25,000 to invest, paid by cheque from their HSBC current account, 
funded from other investments of theirs.
Mr and Mrs T received returns at first, but eventually these stopped. The property company 
went into liquidation. Mr and Mrs T believe theyve been scammed.
In 2022, Mr and Mrs T complained to HSBC. HSBC explained that the rules for recovering 
scam payments didnt apply to cheques, and it had been too many years for HSBC to be 
able to get their money back.  
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. They 
found that at the time Mr and Mrs T invested, HSBC could not have reasonably foreseen that 
this was a scam. Mr and Mrs Ts representatives didnt agree, so the complaints been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From what I can see, the property company is currently being investigated and its not been 
determined whether this really was a scam  as opposed to, for instance, a poorly-run firm 
which fell into liquidation and couldnt pay its investors anymore. However, I accept its likely 
and plausible that this was a scam, so in the interests of addressing the complaint fairly I will 
treat it as such in this case. I also appreciate that Mr and Mrs T lost of good deal of money 
here  for which they have my sympathy. I understand this cant have been easy to deal 
with, and I understand why they feel their money should be returned. I need to bear in mind 
that its the property company who is primarily responsible for what happened, and who 
really owes Mr and Mrs T their money back. But I can only consider what HSBC did. Having 
carefully considered everything that both sides have said and provided, I cant fairly hold 
HSBC liable for Mr and Mrs Ts loss here. Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute that Mr and Mrs T authorised the payment involved. So although they 
didnt intend the money to go to a scam or a failing investment, they are liable for the loss in 
the first instance. And broadly speaking, HSBC had an obligation to follow their instructions  
the starting position in law is that banks are expected to process payments that a customer 
authorises them to make.
HSBC should have been on the lookout for payments which could be the result of fraud or 
scams, to help prevent them. But I also accept that a balance must be struck between 
identifying and responding to potentially fraudulent payments, and ensuring theres minimal 
disruption to legitimate payments. Ive thought carefully about whether HSBC should have 
done more in Mr and Mrs Ts case.
As this payment was made by cheque, its not covered by the same rules that other 
payments  such as bank transfers  are. It meant HSBC were more limited in what they 
could do. Further, Mr and Mrs T had made many cheque payments before and had sent and 
received very large payments before  including for investments  so this payment was not 
that out of character for them. The payment was funded from their investments, and its not 
unusual for customers to occasionally transfer investments or make very large payments 
using long-term savings. And this was a singular payment, rather than multiple rapid ones, 
sent to a UK registered business, authorised by the genuine customer. So its arguable that 
HSBC didnt need to intervene in this case.
On the other hand, I accept that this was a notably large payment, made to a new payee. So 
Ive considered whether things were likely to have gone differently had HSBC intervened.
However, even if HSBC had flagged the cheque and given Mr and Mrs T scam warnings or 
asked further questions about their reasons for paying, I find its not likely or plausible that 
HSBC would have uncovered a scam here, and its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs T 
would have still gone forward with the investment.
I say this because Mr and Mrs T were paying an established UK company which had been 
trading for over two years, for an investment backed by an FCA-registered business. The 
returns on offer were not unrealistic, and they were given professional documentation setting 
out a costed plan and the risks involved, and setting out that the bond was safeguarded by 
an independent security trustee.
At the time, there were no warnings or investigations against the companies involved. It 
would be unreasonable to expect HSBC to have investigated the individual who advised 
Mr and Mrs T, or to have assessed the investment advice or given investment advice itself. 
That would go beyond what Id expect here. And I cant see that it had grounds to do so  
the matter wouldve looked genuine at the time. I do not think HSBC could have reasonably 
foreseen that Mr and Mrs T would be scammed, and HSBC was not reasonably on notice 
that the payment would facilitate fraud. Indeed, the authorities only began looking into this 
matter some years after Mr and Mrs Ts payment and are still investigating. Realistically, its 
only with the benefit of hindsight and time that we might reasonably know this was a scam.
So even if HSBC had questioned Mr and Mrs T, I would not expect it to have blocked the 
payment. And even if it had given them general warnings about cold callers and the 
possibility of a scam, I do not see that it was likely to have made a difference in this case. At 
the time, there was ultimately not yet a reasonable basis on which to conclude this was a 
scam, whereas Mr and Mrs T had been given good reason to feel reassured that this was in 
fact a legitimate investment.Next, Ive considered whether HSBC should have done more to try to recover Mr and 
Mrs Ts money after it was made aware this could be a scam. Unfortunately, HSBC was only 
told about this many years after the payment, and the property company had gone into 
liquidation. Given the time thats passed, the tendency for scammers to move money on as 
quickly as possible, and what the administrators have said about the likelihood of money 
being available, I dont think HSBC could have reasonably recovered Mr and Mrs Ts funds 
by the time it was told about the scam allegation.
So while I am very sorry to hear about what happened to Mr and Mrs T, I dont think HSBC 
should be held responsible for their loss. And so I cannot fairly tell HSBC to refund Mr and 
Mrs Ts money. I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs T, though it is not 
my intention to disappoint them. But Im unable to reasonably come to another conclusion. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 October 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman