DRN-1593929
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Nationwide Building Society didnt do enough to help them when 
they were the victims of a scam. 
What happened
In March 2019 Mr and Mrs D contacted a tradesperson and agreed for certain works to be 
done. On 26 March 2019 Mr and Mrs D paid the tradesperson £1,632 as a deposit. This 
money was sent as a faster payment from Mr and Mrs Ds account with Nationwide and was 
done through their internet banking. Following this, the tradesperson cancelled the booking 
several times giving different reasons. Ultimately the work wasnt completed and Mr and Mrs 
D found out online that the tradesperson was a known scammer. 
In May 2019 Mr and Mrs D reported that theyd been scammed to Nationwide. Nationwide 
raised a fraud claim and contacted the scammers bank. But unfortunately no funds 
remained, so they couldnt recover the money. Mr and Mrs D complained as they wanted 
Nationwide to refund them. They were also unhappy that Nationwide had provided them with 
conflicting information and disappointed with the level of service they received. 
Nationwide declined to offer Mr and Mrs D a refund. They explained that the payment was 
correctly authenticated and that theyd taken the appropriate steps to try to recover their 
money from the scammers bank. But they accepted the service theyd provided hadnt been 
up to their usual standard.  So, they apologised and paid £100 to compensate for the impact 
of any service failings.
Being unhappy with the response Mr and Mrs D brought their complaint to our service. They 
felt Nationwide should refund them under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM). This 
is a voluntary code where banks commit to reimburse victims of Authorised Push Payment 
(APP) fraud in certain circumstances. Nationwide have signed up to the CRM. 
Our investigator said the payment wasnt unusual or suspicious in nature taking into 
consideration Mr and Mrs Ds normal account activity and he was satisfied that Nationwide 
did what they could to recover the funds, but no funds remained. He said that he didnt feel 
the CRM applied as it wasnt in force on the date the payment was made. He felt the offer of 
£100 was fair with regard to the service issues. 
Mr and Mrs D didnt accept this and feel the CRM should apply as they were expecting to 
receive the services they were paying for after the CRM came into force. So its been passed 
to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator and I wont be upholding this complaint. I know 
Mr and Mrs D will still be disappointed, so let me explain why.Firstly, it isnt in dispute that Mr and Mrs D sent the payment of £1,632 to the scammer and 
that this was done online  without any interaction with Nationwides staff. So even though 
this was as a result of the scam, the starting point here is that Nationwide should follow that 
instruction, unless they had reasons to be concerned that Mr and Mrs D might have been at 
risk of financial harm. 
Given Mr and Mrs Ds account history and the amount of the transfer, I dont think it can 
fairly be said that Nationwide ought to have intervened in this transaction. I dont think there 
were signs that this was so unusual or out of character in relation to their account for that to 
have been a reasonable expectation. And even if they had flagged this transaction, at the 
time Mr and Mrs D werent aware the tradesman was a scammer. So, I dont think, this 
would have resulted in the transaction not being sent in these circumstances. Overall, I dont 
think Nationwide missed an opportunity to stop the payment being sent in the first place. 
Ive next looked at what Nationwide did when they were alerted to the problem with the 
payment by Mr and Mrs D in May 2019. I can see that Nationwide contacted the scammers 
bank immediately upon becoming aware of the problem. And that shortly afterwards the 
scammers bank reported that no funds remained. Sadly, with the type of the scam that Mr 
and Mrs D were victims of, it can take some time to realise there is a problem. And 
scammers commonly withdraw or move the funds very quickly. This is what appears to have 
happened here. But I dont think Nationwide did anything that negatively impacted Mr and 
Mrs Ds ability to recover their funds. 
Mr and Mrs D have asked that they be refunded under the CRM which is designed to 
compensate victims of authorised push payment fraud. This came into force on 28 May 2019 
and Nationwide have signed up to it. But the CRM sets out that it doesnt apply to any 
payments completed before the code came in to force. I accept that the goods and services 
Mr and Mrs D expected to receive were due to be provided after the code came in to force. 
But unfortunately this doesnt change the fact that the provisions of the CRM do not apply in 
this case as the payment itself was made before the code came into force. And it is the date 
of payment which is the determining factor. 
Mr and Mrs D felt there was a lack of communication from Nationwide regarding their claim. 
Nationwide have apologised and offered £100 for the trouble and upset caused as a result of 
their poor communication and for the conflicting information they had given Mr and Mrs D. I 
acknowledge this must have been a particularly stressful time for Mr and Mrs D. But the 
primary cause of this was the scammer, so it wouldnt be fair for me to expect Nationwide to 
compensate Mr and Mrs D for all the distress theyve experienced. But Im satisfied £100 is 
fair in the circumstances for the impact of the service that Nationwide themselves have 
agreed wasnt up to standard on this occasion. Nationwides response to Mr and Mrs Ds 
complaint said that this money has already been credited to their account. If this isnt the 
case, Mr and Mrs D should contact Nationwide.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 May 2020.
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman