DRN-3235463
The complaint
Miss H and Mr T complain that National House-Building Council (NHBC) has under-
estimated for work needed to their home. And its staff damaged a table worth £400 during 
an inspection and only offered £100. I have referred to Miss H throughout.
What happened
Miss H and Mr T bought a new home in 2018 and shortly afterwards raised a number of 
issues with the constructor. When the response proved to be inadequate, Miss H made a 
claim to NHBC and it sent a surveyor to inspect her home. This was within two years of their 
purchase of their home and NHBC considered the claim under the first part of their building 
guarantee policy that deals with issues identified within the first two years.
An inspection involving NHBC was held at Miss Hs home in May 2021 and a cash offer 
followed. A new case was subsequently set up for defects not previously included in Miss 
Hs claim and the builders were given until July 2021 to do the work. NHBC took over the 
claim by August 2021 and had made a cash offer by September 2021.
Miss H didnt think NHBC had identified all the defects in her home and said its schedule of 
works and costings were too low for her to get the work done. NHBC said it included all 
relevant items within its reports and acted within the terms of the warranty. Miss H said the 
contractors and NHBC took far too long to deal with her claim and this had added greatly to 
her stress. Miss H wasnt happy to be offered £100 compensation for her damaged table 
which she said was worth £400. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said contractors used by 
insurers provide trade discounts unavailable to consumers. He said Miss H decided on a 
cash settlement for the work, but this was due to delays addressed on her previous 
complaint. He said NHBC had acted fairly by offering to consider quotes from Miss H. 
 
The investigator said Miss H was paid £500 compensation for the delay up to October 2020. 
After this, due to illness Miss H waited until March 2021 to contact NHBC and it wasnt 
responsible for this delay. The investigator found was no unreasonable delays by NHBC. He 
said NHBC increased its offer to £200 for Miss Hs table which he thought was reasonable. 
Miss H disagreed with the investigator and requested an ombudsman review her complaint. 
She said NHBC had caused delays by giving the contractors more time to complete the 
work.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss H has also complained that faults she identified at her home werent included in 
NHBCs reports, and that it had claimed inaccurately in its reports that items were 
completed, or not defective. She also complained about the time NHBC gave to the builders 
to put things right. I have sent a separate decision about these parts of Miss Hs complaint to 
say that they arent regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and so they arent things 
that we can consider.  
In the present complaint I have considered the other aspects of Miss Hs complaint such as 
the work NHBC said is required to Miss Hs home and cash settlement, delays caused by 
NHBC and her damaged table.  
The policy held by Miss H is a standard new homes warranty policy provided by NHBC. The 
policy states; You are protected by the NHBC guarantee for what we (in a resolution report) 
or a court decides the builder should have done to meet their responsibilities under the 
builder warranty. If the builder does not meet these responsibilities, we will do so on their 
behalf. Or, if we choose to, we will pay you what it would cost us to have the work done.
I have looked at the reports provided by NHBC and they consider at some length the issues 
concerning Miss H about her home. In common with other insurers, NHBC may be able to 
obtain work from contractors at better rates than a policyholder. This may mean that Miss H 
wouldnt be able to get the work done at the costings provided by NHBC. NHBCs offer at 
these rates is in accordance with the terms of its warranty.
Im pleased that NHBC has offered to consider any quotes that Miss H may obtain from 
contractors for the work to her home. If these show that its going to cost her more to repair 
the items on the resolution report, I think it would be fair for NHBC to make a further 
contribution. As NHBC has already made this offer, I think it has acted fairly towards Miss H 
in this respect.
Much of the delays that Miss H complains about concern the contractors and I have said 
why I cant consider this. I have looked at the timeline of events to see if NHBC itself has 
caused avoidable delays. I think its fair to say that meetings with Miss H could have 
happened more quickly, but overall, I havent found that there were significant delays caused 
by NHBC.  
NHBC has increased its offer for Miss Hs damaged table to £200. She thinks it should pay 
£400. Unfortunately, theres no evidence that NHBC or contractors caused the damage to 
the table, and so I agree with the investigator that NHBCs increased offer of half its value is 
fair. 
In conclusion, I can well understand Miss Hs frustration about the time it has taken for the 
remedial work to her home to be carried out. However, since its previous response to her 
complaint and award of £500 compensation, I havent found cause to say that NHBC was 
responsible for further delays or difficulties in dealing with Miss Hs claim. And I think 
NHBCs offer to reconsider the costs of the work is fair to Miss H. In order to check the costs 
Miss H should obtain estimates from contractors for the tasks set out within the claim report 
and send these to NHBC.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman