DRN-3678561
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as N, complains Zurich Insurance PLC has unfairly declined a 
claim it made for fire damage under its commercial property insurance policy.
Mr P, a director of N, brings the complaint on its behalf.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
My provisional findings
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint on 15 March 2022. I said I did not intend to 
uphold the complaint for the following reasons:
I want to assure Mr P Ive considered and thought carefully about all of the points he has 
made. However, my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not all 
the points raised. This isnt meant as a discourtesy. But the purpose of my decision isnt to 
address every single point the parties have raised or to answer every question asked. My 
role is to consider the evidence presented by N and Zurich to reach what I think is a fair and 
reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
Having done so, Im not minded to uphold this complaint for the following reasons:
It is not my role to reach a finding on whether the claim has been presented 
fraudulently, that would be a determination for a court to make. Similarly, it is not the 
function of this service to cross examine witnesses or require evidence under oath. 
My role is to decide whether Zurich has applied the terms and conditions of the policy 
fairly in order to decline Ns claim.
Zurich has raised concerns about the information that has been obtained during the 
course of the claim. It has commented on the inconsistencies in that information and, 
based on that information, it has explained it has concerns about the way in which 
the claim has been presented. Especially in light of the fact the fire report confirmed it 
was more likely than not the fire was deliberately set, albeit there was a caveat that 
electrical fault couldnt be ruled out.
Zurich has fairly put those concerns to Mr P, as I would have expected it to do, and 
therefore he is fully aware of what those concerns are. I realise Mr P has given 
reasons for some of the inconsistencies in the statement he made, however aside 
from that, there are other matters of concern for Zurich.
Having reviewed the information available to me, Im satisfied Zurich has reasonable 
concerns about the information that has been presented and therefore I think it has 
applied the policy terms fairly and reasonably in this case. So, I dont intend to 
interfere in its decision to decline Ns claim.
Responses to my provisional findings
Zurich did not provide any further comments for me to consider. 
Mr P, via a solicitor, provided further information for me to consider, which he expressed he 
did not want to be disclosed to any other party. Therefore, while I have read this information 
and considered it. I wont be referring to it in detail here.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered all of the available evidence and the information Mr P has subsequently 
provided, Im not minded to depart from my original findings. 
As I have previously pointed out, it is not my role to make a finding of fraud or is it the role of 
this service to cross examine witnesses or require evidence under oath. The decision I have 
to make is whether I think Zurich have acted fairly and reasonably in applying the policy 
terms. 
I appreciate this matter has had an impact on Mr P and that it has been explained he has 
since suffered difficulties with his health. It has been suggested that Mr Ps health may have 
influenced some of the information he provided Zurich and therefore it should not be relied 
upon as a reason to decline the claim. 
Having listened to the recording of the meeting between the parties, I cant say this was 
obviously the case. Mr P seemed to understand what he was being asked and was able to 
provide answers to those questions. And on occasion he volunteered additional information. 
Im not therefore persuaded that I should disregard the entirety of the information provided 
within that interview, or Zurichs reliance on it, as has been suggested that I do so. The fact 
the answers that he gave are being interpreted in different ways by the parties concerned is 
only natural in the circumstances of a case such as this. 
Overall, I remain satisfied that Zurich has reasonable concerns about the circumstances of 
the claim and the information that it has been presented with. I think it has applied the policy 
terms in a fair and reasonable way and I dont intend to interfere in its decision to decline the 
claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I reject Ns complaint against Zurich Insurance PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2022.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman