DRN-1635064
The complaint
Mr J complains that BUPA Insurance Limited acted unfairly and unreasonably when setting 
the insurance premium for his private health insurance policy. He wants some of the price 
increase refunded.
What happened
Mr J had a private health insurance policy with BUPA from 2015 onwards taken out through 
a broker (having previously been covered by a group policy), and renewed it until 2019. Mr J 
felt that the premium had increased too much and the cover offered reduced over time, and 
said that this was unfair and unreasonable. Mr J was unhappy that his pre-existing medical 
condition of Parkinsons wasnt fully covered by the policy.
Mr J complained to BUPA. It said when setting premium prices, it considered healthcare 
costs (which generally rose over a period of time), the policyholders age (as older people 
tended to claim more and need more complex and expensive treatment), where the 
policyholder lived (as treatment was more expensive in some parts of the UK), and claims 
made in the last year (BUPA felt those who hadnt claimed should pay less). 
BUPA pointed out tax had to be added as well (which had increased) and explained that in 
Mr Js case, his premium had increased due to an increase of healthcare costs, his age and 
previous claims made. It also explained in detail how its no claims discount worked and how 
Mr Js premiums had been calculated, and said that the premium for 2019 had been reduced 
as a gesture of goodwill. BUPA said chronic conditions werent covered by the policy, which 
was why it had refused to authorise a consultation with a consultation about Mr Js 
Parkinsons  the policy would cover acute flare ups of the condition only. It felt that it 
couldve explained better why some consultations would be covered and not others, and 
paid £150 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by this failure.
Mr J complained to us. The investigators view was that the complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
She said that this services role wasnt to tell a business what risks to accept or how to 
calculate risk; we simply look at whether the business acted fairly and she thought BUPA 
had done so in Mr Js case. The investigator had looked at the detailed calculations (which 
were commercially sensitive) and thought that the calculations had been done fairly and in 
line with BUPAs approach. The offer to reduce the 2019 premium was a goodwill gesture, 
not due to a mistake. 
The investigator confirmed the policy did exclude chronic conditions so BUPA didnt have to 
pay for check-up appointments, but it did cover acute flare ups and BUPA paid for this. She 
thought the £150 compensation for the failure to fully explain what the policy covered when 
Mr J made a claim was fair and reasonable; the investigator also pointed out that it was the 
brokers role to ensure the policy was suitable for Mr Js needs.
Mr J disagreed. He said that he wouldnt have taken out the policy if hed known it didnt 
cover his Parkinsons condition in full. Mr J sent evidence that the condition had been 
declared from the start of the personal policy in 2015 and complained that no-one had 
explained to him how the no-claims discount worked. Mr Js broker also wrote and confirmed 
that Mr Js options were very limited due to his diagnosis and insurers only covered acute 
flare ups (not chronic conditions); it said that it had fully explained the policy to him. The 
investigator repeated that any concerns about the sale of the policy and its suitability was a 
matter for the broker, not BUPA.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im going to focus on the core of this complaint, which is about the premiums claimed by 
BUPA and whether it acted fairly and reasonably in relation to Mr Js claims relating to 
Parkinsons. The sale of the policy was done through a broker and the investigator has 
already correctly explained why BUPA isnt responsible for this.
Premium
Financial businesses can use their commercial judgment about what risks theyll cover and 
how to price that risk; all I can do is look to see if BUPA has acted fairly and reasonably in 
applying its calculations and treated its policyholders equally. Ive seen the commercially 
sensitive information about how Mr Js premiums were calculated; Im satisfied that Mr J was 
treated in the same way as others and theres no evidence of a mistake; the premiums 
increased for the reasons BUPA set out. The offer to reduce the 2019 premium was a 
gesture of goodwill, possibly motivated by the realisation Mr J had paid more in premiums 
than hed claimed, but it wasnt because a mistake had been made.
While I cant disclose the commercially sensitive information to set Mr Js mind at rest, I can 
explain that his premiums went up due to several factors, as explained to him by BUPA in its 
final response. Another reason that his premiums were set at the level that they were from 
2015 onwards was because transfers from a group scheme to a personal scheme with 
continuity of cover have an uplift applied to the premium as theres no exclusion of pre-
existing medical conditions; theyre covered from day 1, subject to the other terms and 
conditions of the policy. This is applied to all policyholders in Mr Js position, so I cant say 
he personally was unfairly or unreasonably treated.
Claim
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that BUPA has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
I note Mr J had a broker advising him, and the broker shouldve ensured that the policy was 
suitable. The terms and conditions of the policy sets out clearly that chronic conditions arent 
covered. Disclosing such conditions in the application doesnt mean BUPA agreed to give 
full cover for that condition  the terms and conditions of the policy are the legal agreement 
setting out the level of cover and the broker should ensure that this is explained to the 
policyholder. And the policy specifically says that making a payment for a claim in relation to 
a chronic condition doesnt mean it is fully covered. The policy does cover acute issues 
arising from chronic conditions, so the pre-existing medical condition isnt fully excluded. It 
means though that Mr Js cover hasnt been reduced over time, but it seems Mr J only 
realised the limits some time after taking out the policy.
As I and the investigator have explained, BUPA set out the cover offered and its the role of 
the broker to explain it and ensure it meets Mr Js needs. But this isnt the end of the story as 
BUPA had a number of opportunities to explain what was and wasnt covered in relation to 
Parkinsons when Mr J made a claim. It seems that it inadvertently paid for check-ups, which it wasnt liable to pay for, and BUPA itself accepts it was at fault for not gathering enough 
information and explaining the issue to Mr J. Mr J benefitted from this error as he received 
payments for claims not covered (check-ups), but it doesnt mean that the cover was 
reduced later.
Im not persuaded that Mr J suffered a financial loss; he was covered for acute flare ups and 
had the benefit of the policy. As the broker explained in its letter, Mr J had limited options 
and other insurers are likely to have excluded the Parkinsons in full. But he suffered trouble 
and upset due to the failure to explain the situation when he claimed. Money never truly 
compensates for trouble and upset, and I can only award compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused by failings of BUPA. Much of Mr Js upset is about the premiums and I havent 
found BUPA to be at fault for this. Taking into account all the circumstances, £150 
compensation is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or reject my decision before 
14 October 2020.
 
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman