DRN-3173135
The complaint
Mr M says J D Williams & Company Limited (J D Williams) irresponsibly lent to him. He 
has requested that the interest and late payment charges he paid on his account be 
refunded. 
What happened
Your text here This complaint is about a catalogue shopping account provided by 
J D Williams to Mr M. The account was in November 2017 with Mr M being given an initial 
credit limit of £175. This limit was increased 7 times until it reached £1500 in December 
2018. 
Mr M says hes unhappy that J D Williams continued to increase his credit limit on each 
account and didnt make proper checks to find out if he was in financial difficulties.
J D Williams says it carried out enough checks when it agreed to give Mr M his account 
and also each time it increased his credit limit. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Ms complaint and thought that J D Williams ought to 
have realised that Mr M wasnt in a position to sustainably repay any further credit on his 
account by the time it offered Mr M the increased credit limit in December 2018.  
J D Williams has said it will accept our adjudicators view but Mr M remains unhappy 
with their finding.
The complaint has therefore been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website.
J D Williams needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M 
could afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the 
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that J D Williams should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the frequency of borrowing, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been indebted (reflecting the risk that prolonged 
indebtedness may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Our adjudicator thought that the first increase to Mr M credit limit on the account, in 
December 2017, didnt show or suggest irresponsible lending by J D Williams. She also 
thought that for the second to sixth increases, which took place between January and July 
2018, there wasnt enough to show that J D Williams shouldnt have increased his credit 
limit on each of those occasions. However, our adjudicator noticed that in January 2018 
Mr M had a default recorded against another account he had, after the first credit limit 
increase. And as J D Williams gave Mr M further credit limit increases, he began to use up 
more of his available credit limit. Overall, however, our adjudicator thought that there 
wasnt enough to show that Mr M was having financial difficulty to the extent that J D 
Williams shouldnt have increased is credit limits over this period. Having reviewed the 
complaint in detail, Ive reached the same outcome as our adjudicator did and for the 
same reasons. 
Our adjudicator also set out in some detail why she thought J D Williams shouldnt have 
provided Mr M with any additional credit from December 2018 onwards, when Mr Ms 
credit limit was increased to £1500. She noted that in June, October and November 2018 
Mr M had started to pay less than the minimum payment required and considered this 
ought to have put J D Williams on notice that he might be getting into difficulty with 
making payments, including those to other lenders. Even though from what Ive seen the 
checks carried out by J D Williams didnt show any new defaults elsewhere, I think the 
missed payments alone were likely enough to raise a concern with J D Williams so that it 
shouldnt have given Mr M another credit limit increase. 
J D Williams said the credit limits it set were affordable for Mr M and there were no 
periods of consecutive or sustained missed payments. It also said that the fact Mr M 
encountered financial difficulties was not due irresponsible lending by J D Williams and 
that his credit history with it and other creditors showed he was able to manage his 
account. It also says that Mr Ms credit score remained positive. 
In making my decision Ive looked at these points as well as the overall pattern of 
J D Williams lending history with Mr M, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which 
J D Williams should reasonably have seen that further lending was likely unsustainable, or 
otherwise harmful. If so, that would mean J D Williams should have realised that it 
shouldnt have further increased Mr Ms credit limits. Given the particular circumstances of Mr Ms case, based on the information Mr M and 
J D Williams have given, I agree with our adjudicator that a point was reached by 
December 2018 when J D Williams increased Mr Ms total credit limit to £1500, which 
ought to have prompted J D Williams to realise further credit as likely to be unaffordable 
or otherwise harmful to Mr M.  As noted by our adjudicator, Mr M had already started to 
miss meeting the minimum payments required for his account. Ive also seen that as 
Mr Ms account balance went over £1000, in February 2019, he began making payments 
below the minimum. So I dont think it was reasonable for J D Williams to increase Mr Ms 
credit limit in December 2018. By then it can be seen that Mr M was experiencing 
increasing difficulty in managing his money. I think this demonstrates that its likely this 
further credit limit was unaffordable. And its also likely he would be unable to reduce the 
increasing debt on his account whilst at the same time having to meet his daily living 
expenses and other credit commitments. I therefore think J D Williams ought to have 
realised that there was a significant risk that increasing Mr Ms credit limit in these 
circumstances would lead to his indebtedness increasing unsustainably.
It follows that I think that Mr M lost out because J D Williams provided him with further 
credit from December 2018 onwards. In my view, J D Williams should have realised by then 
that Mr M was in getting into financial difficulty and was likely to experience problems in 
paying back even a modest amount of credit. 
Mr M says that J D Williams should have got a better understanding of his expenditure as 
well as his income and if it had done this at an earlier stage, he says it would have shown 
that the earlier credit limit increases werent affordable to him. The adjudicator agreed that 
J D Williams ought to have completed more thorough affordability checks from the second 
increase onwards, and I agree. However, from everything Mr M has provided, Im not 
persuaded that further checks ought reasonably to have led J D Williams to any different 
lending decision until December 2018. 
Ive also seen that Mr M feels that J D Williams didnt do enough to help him with his debt 
difficulties with the account. Ive seen that at Mr Ms request in May 2019, J D Williams put 
in place an interest-free temporary payment arrangement that lasted until March 2020. And 
in June 2020 J D Williams agreed to put Mr Ms account on hold for 28 days when he was 
having difficulty making his payments. Mr M told J D Williams he was unhappy about the 
way he was treated in relation to the payment plan. This led to J D Williams making a 
compensation offer which I see Mr M accepted. But having made the above finding in 
Mr Ms favour, and noting the actions taken by J D Williams to accommodate the payment 
difficulties he was experiencing, I dont think it needs to do anything more.
It follows that I agree J D Williams should put things right.
Putting things right  what J D Williams needs to do
Rework Mr Ms account to ensure that from December 2018 onwards interest 
is only charged on balances up to the total credit limit of £1000, including any 
buy now pay later interest, (being the credit limit in place before that date) to 
reflect the fact that no further credit limit increases should have been provided. 
All late payment and over limit fees should also be removed; and
If an outstanding balance remains on the account once these adjustments 
have been made J D Williams should contact Mr M to arrange an affordable 
repayment plan for this account. Once Mr M has repaid the outstanding balance, it should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit 
file from December 2018 onwards.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as 
overpayments and returned to Mr M, along with 8% simple interest per year on 
the overpayments from the date they were made (if they were) until the date of 
settlement. J D Williams should also remove any adverse information from 
Mr Ms credit file from December 2018 onwards.
HM Revenue & Customs requires J D Williams to take off tax from this interest. 
J D Williams must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks 
for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out, Im partially upholding Mr Ms complaint. J D Williams & Company 
Limited should put things right in the way set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman