DRN-4138904
The complaint
Miss D complains National Westminster Bank Plc has not helped her in a dispute over 
money she paid using her debit card for a course of dental alignment. Miss D considers she 
has been the victim of a scam.
What happened
A considerable amount of evidence has been submitted in relation to this complaint. The 
following summary of events does not go into the finer details but my decision is not 
intended to be a forensic account. 
Miss D paid a company Ill call S an amount of £49 on her Visa debit card, on 15 April 
2019. This was for a dental impression kit, which Miss D was to use to take impressions of 
her teeth. These impressions would then be used by S to assess her suitability for a course 
of dental alignment.
Subsequently, Miss D paid S another £799, also on her NatWest Visa debit card, on 9 May 
2019. This was for the course of alignment itself. The treatment involved S posting Miss D 
sets of clear plastic aligners which were meant to progressively straighten her teeth.
Miss D was concerned that the aligners did not fit her teeth properly. There was some 
dialogue with S over this. After ten months of treatment Miss Ds teeth were not straight and 
she provided photos to S to demonstrate this. S said it would provide Miss D with another 
impression kit followed by more aligners, describing this as a free refinement of the 
treatment. Miss D says this resulted in her receiving new aligners in June 2020 for her upper 
teeth and then in September 2020 for the bottom teeth. 
There was further dialogue between S and Miss D, who remained very dissatisfied with the 
service she was receiving. In October 2020 she left a negative review of S on a well-known 
review website. She was offered a financial incentive to remove the review, and a senior 
person (J) at S got in touch with Miss D, promising to sort things out. There was further 
back and forth during which Miss D says she felt pressured to agree to attend an in-person 
scan a long way from her home, once she had finished with the second course of aligners in 
or around May 2021. It was anticipated that this scan would result in another refinement of 
the treatment plan.
May 2021 came, and Miss D was unhappy with the results of the second course of aligners. 
She contacted J in July 2021 to arrange the in-person scan for August when it would be 
more convenient for her to visit Ss clinic. J failed to confirm a date however, and at this point 
Miss Ds patience ran out. From this point onwards she insisted on receiving a full refund 
from S for its failure to deliver. She wrote to S several times to this end but received no reply. 
In September 2021 she issued a claim against S in the County Court. This resulted in 
judgment being made against S on 21 October 2022 for £1,320.23, but Miss D has been 
unable to enforce the judgment as S seems to have then disappeared, and Miss D considers 
she has been scammed.
It appears NatWest first became involved in late August 2021. At this time Miss D had 
contacted the bank to try to reclaim the payments she made on her debit card. NatWest said 
it couldnt help get the money back because it was too late to do so via the chargeback 
scheme. Miss D returned to NatWest in September 2022 with a complaint, saying that it 
should have treated the scenario as a scam rather than a dispute. She also asked that 
NatWest provide the details of the bank she had made her debit card payments to (i.e. Ss 
bank). 
NatWest stated that it believed the matter was essentially a civil dispute rather than a scam, 
so it wouldnt treat the matter as one. It also said Miss D needed to get a court order 
requested by a law enforcement agency before it would release the details of Ss bank. 
NatWest did acknowledge there had been some communication failings on its part and paid 
Miss D £200 compensation in respect of this.
Miss D then brought the matter to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent 
assessment. One of our investigators looked into it, and came to the following conclusions:
By the time Miss D had contacted NatWest for assistance with the payments to S, it 
was already too late for the bank to help via the chargeback process. The last dates 
chargebacks could have been attempted for the two payments to S were 6 October 
2020 and 30 October 2020 respectively, regardless of what Miss Ds wider 
circumstances were. The bank had not been responsible for Miss D incurring costs in 
going to court. It had given Miss D information about other ways she could resolve 
her issues with S, but ultimately any decision to go to court had been hers.
Although Miss D felt the issues with S should have been dealt with as a scam, the 
most appropriate way of dealing with things had been to explore whether it was 
possible to get the money back via the chargeback scheme. This was because Miss 
D had received the aligners but was unhappy about their quality. 
NatWest was not required to support Miss D with enforcing the CCJ she had 
obtained against S. It had, however, provided her with incorrect information about 
how she could obtain the details of Ss bank. 
It had now come to light that NatWest no longer had access to information about Ss 
bank because it was held on systems where the relevant data was erased 540 days 
after the date of the payment in question. So the bank hadnt even had the 
information by the time Miss D contacted it for help the first time. It had therefore 
been wrong of it to tell her it would only provide the information if a law enforcement 
agency obtained a court order. Miss D had not acted on this incorrect information so 
the impact was limited.
On a phone call with the bank on 12 September 2022 it hadnt been disputed that 
Miss D was provided with further incorrect information which had unfairly got Miss 
Ds hopes up and led her to believe she had been given incorrect information by the 
bank about it not being able to help previously. 
Our investigator considered the £200 already offered by NatWest was sufficient 
compensation to cover its service failings.
Miss D didnt agree with our investigator. I could summarise her key points as follows:
She did not see how what had happened could not be classed as a scam. S had 
been acting illegally due to her treatment not being overseen by a dentist. She had 
discovered through research that this had been the case, and S didnt have any 
dentists working for it and had even falsified the registration details of the dentists on its website. NatWest had also sent her a list of indicators which indicate that a 
scenario should be treated as a scam, and her scenario had met all the criteria. So 
why hadnt the bank treated it as one?
She was not convinced she had been given correct information about the chargeback 
timeframes.
The name of Ss bank was one simple detail which NatWest should give her, and it 
would have access to this information. The bank had originally advised her to take 
court action against S, but now it was refusing to supply the name of Ss bank so she 
could enforce the court order she had obtained at her own expense.
The bank had repeatedly given incorrect information which had either left her out of 
pocket, or would have done had she acted on it. It had also contributed to a decline 
in her health. She had been left with a hole in her finances by the inability to reclaim 
the money paid to S, plus the court costs that shed needed to pay. This, in turn, had 
meant she was unable to pay a court order of £1,245 in December 2022. In the end 
shed had to borrow money from family to pay it.
As no agreement could be reached, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When someone makes a purchase of goods or services using a debit card, and something 
then goes wrong with that purchase, theres no general obligation on their card issuer 
(NatWest in this case) to provide a refund or other assistance. The main exception to this is 
where the issuer can help by making use of the dispute resolution system administered by 
the card scheme whose logo appears on the card. This mechanism for claiming a refund, is 
usually referred to as chargeback.
Chargebacks are subject to complex sets of rules which are set by the card scheme (in this 
case, Visa). The rules cover, among other things, the types of dispute which can be dealt 
with via a chargeback, the evidence required, and the window of time in which a chargeback 
must be attempted. 
A consumer cannot insist that their card issuer attempts a chargeback. It isnt a consumer 
right. However, I would expect a card issuer, when approached by a consumer looking for 
help with a debit card transaction for a purchase of goods or services, to consider whether it 
is able to help by attempting a chargeback, and doing so where this would be compliant with 
the card scheme rules and would have a reasonable prospect of succeeding.
A typical scenario which can be dealt with via the chargeback process would be where 
someone has paid for goods or services and these are not as described or are defective. I 
think this is the scenario under the card scheme rules which best fits Miss Ds situation. 
However, as our investigator noted, Visa imposes a maximum time limit of 540 days from the 
date of the transaction(s) for a chargeback to be attempted for this reason, and theres no 
dispute that Miss D contacted the bank outside of this window.
Miss D has pointed out that the circumstances of her dispute with S meant there was good 
reason why she didnt approach NatWest until after the 540 days had expired. I understand 
this point. Ultimately though, it isnt the bank which makes the rules, and Visa clarified in 
guidance issued to banks in April 2020 that it would not make exceptions to its time limits, even in scenarios where delays had been caused by things out of peoples control, such as 
the COVID-19 pandemic.
Having considered the circumstances in which Miss D first approached NatWest for 
assistance with getting her money back from S, I think it was too late for the bank to attempt 
chargebacks against the payments and it therefore did not act unfairly or unreasonably in 
refusing to do so. It also appears to have given the correct information about this at the first 
time of asking (though it later gave confusing or conflicting information). Like our 
investigator, I think Miss D made her own decision to take the matter to court. I cannot see 
that the bank forced Miss D to take that course of action.
This brings me to the question of whether the scenario with S was a scam which NatWest 
should have protected Miss D from. 
Miss D notes that NatWest provided her with a list of 13 of its own scam indicators and she 
considers her scenario fits the majority of these. I do not think it is necessary to go through 
these point by point, but I acknowledge an argument could be made that some of the 
indicators appeared to apply to the scenario. But they are not definitive of a scenario being a 
scam and, having considered the evidence, including the account of events Miss D prepared 
for the court, I do not think the scenario bears the hallmarks of being a scam. It is mainly the 
following aspects of it which have led me to this conclusion:
Miss D did receive products shed ordered from S.
When Miss D expressed her dissatisfaction with the aligners and the results of the 
treatment, S provided replacement products, and communication in an effort to find a 
solution was ongoing up until mid-2021, which was more than two years after Miss D 
had paid S.
My own research indicates the dentists named on Ss website are both registered as 
dentists with the relevant authorities in the UK. One of these individuals, who Miss D 
believed was not a dentist, appears to be associated with other companies which 
share directors with S. While theres no way for me to confirm that she worked for or 
with S, the evidence points in that direction.
These are not the sort of things which Id have expected to see in a typical scam. My view is 
that there may be some merit to Miss Ds concerns about the level of care and skill S 
showed in its dealings with her, and the quality of its products. But that doesnt mean S was 
perpetrating a scam. I think its more likely that the problems Miss D experienced with S 
were down to a lack of skill or competence.
What has happened is essentially a civil dispute which a bank would not be expected to 
intervene in (except via the chargeback process, which was not an available avenue for the 
reasons already explained). In short, NatWest did not act unfairly or unreasonably in failing 
to treat the scenario with S as a scam. 
Miss D asks why the bank wont provide her with information about where the payment to S 
went to. I understand Miss D is looking to enforce the court judgment against S and is 
seeking the name of Ss bank so she can obtain a third party debt order. 
Our investigator made further enquiries of NatWest, which says it no longer has this 
information as it is deleted 540 days after the transaction. By the time Miss D had contacted 
it about the problems, it was already too late for this information to be retrieved. 
Having investigated this point further I think its possible the bank could have obtained this information up to two years from the date of the transactions. This is because Visas rules 
allow a type of dispute known as compliance to be raised in relation to a transaction up to 
two years after it was made. For such a dispute to be raised against the receiving bank, I 
think the details of the receiving bank must still be available up until that time. But I note 
Miss D didnt contact NatWest until August 2021, more than two years after her final 
payment to S. So, whether the information was held for 540 days or two years, it would have 
been deleted by the time Miss D first contacted the bank.
This means I find NatWest did not treat Miss D unfairly or unreasonably in not disclosing the 
details of where the payment to S went to  it did not have the information in its possession 
to be able to do so. I realise this leaves Miss D in a difficult situation as she has a court order 
which she has been unable to enforce  if she has not already done so she may wish to 
seek legal advice on whether there are any other enforcement avenues available.
NatWest accepts that it provided incorrect and inconsistent information at times during the 
course of its communications with Miss D over her dispute with S. Its not clear why the bank 
told Miss D some things, for example that she needed to provide a copy of a court order 
obtained by a law enforcement agency for it to provide information it didnt in fact hold. I 
agree communication has been poor. But as our investigator noted, the impact of this has 
been limited. I think the £200 compensation paid in respect of communication failings is fair.
Miss D has referred to her health suffering and the hole in her finances caused by being 
unable to enforce the court order. I was sorry to hear these things and I dont lack in 
sympathy for Miss Ds situation. Ultimately though, Im required to decide a complaint about 
NatWest and, for the reasons outlined above, I do not think the bank had a responsibility to 
refund the money, nor could it have provided the information Miss D wanted to help her 
enforce the court order. And while the banks communication was lacking, I think the amount 
the amount of compensation it has already paid is sufficient compensation to reflect the 
impact of this. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Miss Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 August 2023.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman