DRN-4108253
The complaint
Miss H (formerly Ms R) complains that Morses Club PLC lent to her irresponsibly.
Miss H also complains about Morses complaint handling.  
What happened
Morses has supplied nothing about the loans. It has said it has no records for Miss H. 
Miss H has sent to us copies of her credit report in which five loans are recorded. Using that 
information, I have created a loan table but it has limited information.
Loan Start date 
on the 
credit fileAmount on 
the credit 
file which 
include the 
interest  
total to payRepaid 
over 
unknown 
months on 
the credit 
fileArrears records 
from credit fileEnd dates
1 23 May 
2013£1,750 12 months Arrears record 1 in 
6 months until end.24 April 2014
2 25 Oct 
2013£1,020 9 months 1 in months 4 to 6 
inclusive19 June 2014
3 24 April 
2014£1,750 16 months 1 in months 4,6,9 & 
10, 2 in months 11 
& 12  then 1 for 
the remainder.6 July 2015
4 19 June 
2014£1,020 8 months 1 in month 7 15 January 
2015
5 15 January 
2015£990 13 months 4 in months 7 and 8 
and arrears either 
side30 December 
2015
Often the Morses contracts are 34 weeks or 52 weeks long and it seems that the loans 
Miss H took were a combination of those. 
The credit file from Miss H (not the information Morses may have had in 2013/2014/2015) 
shows that Mrs H had arrears and I have included that information on the loan table.  
Miss H has said shes unhappy with the delay and the lack of response in relation to 
handling of her complaint and so I have looked at that element as well  see later in the 
provisional decision. 
Miss H first complained to Morses in March 2022 and records sent to us by Morses shows it 
received the complaint on 29 March 2022. It issued Miss H with an acknowledgement letter 
on 5 April 2022 and after that, very little. On 12 April 2022 Miss H sent to Morses copies of 
her credit file  the same ones she has sent to us  showing the five loans from 2013. 
The subsequent letters sent to Miss H were not formal final response letters and contained 
no referral rights to the Financial Ombudsman Service. A recent one in October 2022 said 
that as six years had passed since the loans were approved it had no records and it did not 
need to investigate what had happened. And it considered that the three year rule applied 
to this complaint  meaning it believed Miss H would have been aware whilst the loans were 
running that the lending was unaffordable and that Miss H would have had ample time to 
review the documentation should she have disagreed with any point of the sales process. So 
Morses says she should have complained earlier.
And it also said in a follow-up email 
 I appreciate you have provided us with evidence of the loans on your credit file but 
unless you can provide us with the full documentation of application and agreement 
this doesn't provide us with enough information to be able to fully investigate your 
concerns. 
Miss H did refer the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service in October 2022 and 
sent to us her January 2020 credit file report which did show the Morses loans. Miss H has 
explained that she has had a change in status, and in February 2018 she changed her name 
to Miss H. She has sent to us the Deed to show this. Miss H has explained that in March 
2022 when she first commenced the complaint she had sent the same documentation to 
show all this to Morses. Miss H said she would try to obtain copies of emails and her bank 
account statements but so far these have not been received from her. 
We started the investigation with Morses. It had searched its records in March 2022 on 
Miss H. Our adjudicator asked it to search on Miss H and Ms R and her old address 
postcode. It did and said still it had no records.  
Our adjudicator did create a loan table from the information Miss H had sent to us and did 
issue a view. First, she did a brief view on the jurisdiction surrounding the timing of the 
bringing of the complaint. And she felt that we could look at the loan complaint. 
Morses did not respond on that part and the Financial Ombudsman assumed Morses was 
content for us to investigate the merits of the complaint. 
Our adjudicator also considered that she needed additional information surrounding the loan 
terms, the repayments and the interest applied to be able to assess properly the 
irresponsible lending complaint. So, her view was that she was unable to determine it. And 
she felt that it would be unfair to conclude that Morses Club shouldnt have given Miss H the 
loans. But our adjudicator did not address the point made by Ms H that she was complaining 
about the Morses complaint handling. 
Miss H disagreed and made further submissions surrounding the repayments being a 
significant proportion of her income. Our adjudicator issued a second view in which she said 
that she could not fairly say that the repayment represented a significant proportion of 
Miss Hs income. 
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision on 
16 June 2023 giving reasons why I was planning not to uphold the complaints. It had a reply 
deadline of 30 June 2023. 
Neither party has responded. Our adjudicator has tried to call Miss H and has emailed her to 
explain that the deadline had passed. We have had no response. 
Considering the nature of the circumstances of this complaint  that there are hardly any 
records  and considering the lack of response it seems fair and reasonable to proceed to 
conclude the complaint by issuing a final determination. 
So, what follows are the reasoning and findings I set out in my provisional decision, in the 
same terms, which are my final decision findings. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Miss H could afford to pay back the amounts 
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Morses checks couldve taken into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Miss Hs 
income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss H. These factors include:
Miss H having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Miss H having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period 
of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing 
had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss H coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss H. 
Morses was required to establish whether Miss H could sustainably repay the loans  not 
just whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Miss H was able to 
repay her loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Miss Hs complaint.
The concern here is that we have no records at all from Morses. 
Miss H has sent to us her personal credit file dated January 2020 and copies of her payslips 
and Ive compiled the information into a table here for ease of reading.
Date of payslip Net pay (rounded) Relevant to loan
31 May 2013 £1,092 131 October 2013 £1,097 2 possibly 3
30 April 2014 £1,112 3 and 4
31 October 2014 £1,090
30 November 2014 £1,090
31 December 2014 £1,122 5
31 January 2015 £1,108
Miss H has augmented her complaint by saying to us that the salary information she has 
provided likely was what she would have declared to Morses at the time she applied for the 
loans. And she said that these represented a significant proportion of my income and so 
there was a significant risk she would not have been able to meet her existing commitments 
without having to borrow again. So, I think its unlikely I wouldve been able to sustainably 
meet all my monthly repayments for these loans and other commitments.
Ive thought about this. I have no accurate figures about what Miss H may have been paying 
for these loans weekly. And even if  for instance  the larger loan 1 for £1,750 included the 
interest element as well, over 12 months (52 weeks) that translates to about £33 a week. 
Her salary at £1,092 calculated as weekly salary was £252. And so, I do not consider that 
£33 a week would have been a large proportion of her salary. It would have been about 
13%. 
I note that there was some overlap of the loans. I note that some loans were taken out on 
the same day that others were paid off, which is not an unusual pattern in home credit 
lending relationships. 
According to Miss Hs credit file, she had a mortgage until December 2018 which was 
£1,162 each month which started in 2006. It seems that Miss H had a financial association 
with a third party and so its feasible that Miss H split that cost. Or it may be that the other 
party paid a proportion of it. Ive no information on this and Im not wanting to guess. Since 
explaining this in my provisional decision Miss H has not sent us anything to clarify this. 
Using Miss Hs credit file dated 2020 then the records show that Miss H had other 
outstanding loans. And although I have no real details and its difficult to piece them all 
together, I have been able to see that she had these in the following list. Anything after 15 
January 2015  the Morses loan 5  I have not included (or if here on the list will be ignored) 
as they would have been taken by Miss H after that last loan was approved by Morses and 
so irrelevant for the purposes of this complaint. The list I have managed to create is:  
an instalment loan  Miss H took £750 on 2 December 2014 (repaid 13 February 
2015), 
Miss H also had five instalment loans from December 2014 to November 2016 
ranging from £93 to £450.
Miss H had three payday loans taken 31 December 2013, 31 January 2014, and 
28 February 2014. The third one closed in July 2014. Each were about £260. Miss H 
had another loan of this kind in February 2014 settled 2 weeks later.
Miss H had a consolidated debt account with a bank which ran from February 2008 
to settlement in July 2016. 
Miss H had several other home credit loans with a different provider from 
5 December 2014 to June 2016. These were about £75 each month. 
Miss H had four other high-cost instalment loans taken October 2013 and May 2014, 
October 2014, and December 2014 the last one being settled December 2015. Miss 
Hs credit file shows persistent arrears on the two later of these 
Miss H had two credit cards settled August 2016 and both had credit limits of £200 
which Id consider modest limits.   So overall Id consider that any credit search that Morses may have carried out may have 
shown some, or all, of these loans. But I need to stress to Miss H that there was no 
regulatory requirement to obtain a credit search in the period she took the loans from Morses 
or since then. And not all of them would have shown up on any Morses search it may have 
done as each credit reference agency picks up different credit accounts. 
Plus, a lender such as Morses is not likely to decline loan applications solely due to adverse 
credit entries as its a lender used to dealing with customers who may have some adverse 
entries on their credit files. Miss Hs credit file from 2020  which would have covered the 
period to 2014 at least - shows no signs of insolvency or any County Court Judgments. 
Some do have arrears entered against the accounts, but that is not always likely to lead a 
lender to decline loans. 
Having considered it all, and in fairness to Morses who has nothing with which to defend the 
complaint, apart from the credit file Ive nothing to show me what Miss Hs financial situation 
was in December 2014 and January 2015. Miss H has sent nothing further to us. 
So, I do not uphold the complaint. And I have factored into this complaint assessment that 
Morses is at a disadvantage.  
Complaint handling
Miss H has said shes unhappy with the delay and the lack of response in relation to 
handling of her complaint and so I have looked at that element as well. I outlined some of the 
detail in the what happened part of this provisional decision. 
Miss H did refer it to the Financial Ombudsman Service in October 2022.
My view is that Morses complaint handling for Miss H has been poor. The records I have 
appear to show that after May 2022 it ceased looking into his complaint. Yet it had 
acknowledged that it would investigate fully in April 2022. Miss H has had to try to follow up 
on it and she says it has been a concern of hers that her complaint had been met with 
silence.
I note that Miss H had sent, right at the beginning, to Morses her credit file and her change 
of name by Deed plus details of the addresses likely relevant to Morses. And so, she had 
anticipated that as it was almost a decade ago since shed taken the first loan then Morses 
would need as much information as she could send to it to assist with its investigation. Still, 
that did not appear to assist.
Whilst I can see that not retaining records for all these years may not be unreasonable, for 
the purposes of the complaint I think that after eight weeks Morses could have, and I think 
should have, issued a formal eight week letter giving referral rights to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. We can look at complaints after the regulated lender has had it for 
eight weeks. Miss H could have come to us early June 2022  instead it was October 2022. 
The unnecessary delay was poor.
But I have considered the difficulties that Morses has had in not being able to find any 
information in its own records about Miss Hs loans. And so, on balance, I do not consider 
that I can justifiably say that Morses did anything wrong other than fail to send the post-eight 
week letter. 
And Ive no indication from Miss H that there were any other consequences to the delay 
other than coming to us later than she possibly could have done. And even if a formal eight 
week letter had been issued, referral rights would have given Miss H six months to refer it to 
us. And so, the October 2022 referral date may have ended up being the same whether or 
not she got the eight week letter from Morses. 
So, I do not think that compensation is due but I do accept Miss Hs point about this part. My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 August 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman