DRN-2272892
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy that during a trip to London in late 2019 he visited Alpha Bank London 
Limited (Alpha Bank) and was prevented from using the till service. He says he was told he 
could use his credit card instead and as a result he had to cancel his planned activities. 
He wants Alpha Bank to pay him compensation for his distress and inconvenience. 
What happened
Mr K lives in Europe and occasionally visits the UK. 
Mr K held an account with Alpha Bank and had his balance in US Dollars. When he visited 
the UK, he attended the branch of Alpha Bank and withdrew money in person. 
In November 2019, Mr K visited London and attended the branch of Alpha Bank. 
He says he was told at that meeting that he was unable to use the till service because this 
had closed. He says the staff of Alpha Bank told him to use his credit card instead and 
because he was not able to withdraw cash as he wanted, he had to cancel planned events. 
Later, in March 2020, Alpha Bank wrote to Mr K indicating that it intended to stop its till 
service and that it had made arrangements for customers to use a nearby branch of a 
different bank for a desk service. 
Alpha Bank then stopped its till service in June 2020. 
Mr K complained to Alpha Bank. He said that he was caused inconvenience and the 
alternative offered (in using another bank) did not allow him to use his money in US dollars 
as he wished, and instead made him convert his money into sterling first. 
Alpha Bank indicated that someone would call him in response to his complaint but did not 
make this call. 
Mr K contacted us. 
One of our investigators has looked into this matter and set out her view to the parties.  She 
felt that there was no objective evidence of what happened at the meeting in November 
2019 and no evidence that Mr K was prevented from accessing his money. 
She did, however, feel that Alpha Bank had provided a poor service in not returning Mr Ks 
call and she thought that Alpha bank should pay £30 compensation for his experience. 
Mr K did not accept this view and asked for an ombudsman decision.
Mr K thinks that Alpha Bank withdrew its till service early and then later gave notice to do so 
properly. He wants £4000 compensation for his inconvenience. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Ks upset that the facility has changed, and that the alternative offered does 
not suit his needs. This must be frustrating and inconvenient. 
My colleague explained that this service is not the regulator of financial businesses and is 
not able to dictate what procedures a business follows or what services it offers. Business 
are able to make changes to their services, so long as they give notice in line with their 
terms. Alpha Bank appears to have given adequate notice of its intention to withdraw the 
counter service in June 2020 and I do not criticise this. 
Our role is to consider whether there is evidence that a business has treated its customer 
unfairly, and where it has done we can require that businesses take particular action to put 
that unfairness right. 
Mr K says that he was prevented from using the till service in November 2019. The business 
has said that this is not the case, but that Mr K was informed during his attendance that 
Alpha Bank intended to close its till service in the future. 
No independent evidence exists of the meeting and I am therefore unable to determine what 
happened in November 2019. It is clear, however, that Mr K understood that he was not able 
to use the till service and I think on the balance of probabilities that Alpha Bank failed to 
communicate effectively with Mr K during that meeting.
My colleague also noted during her investigation that Mr K did not receive a call back in 
response to his complaint and she felt that this was poor service. I agree with her view on 
this. 
I am unable to uphold the main point of Mr Ks complaint, but I consider that there are 
failings in the service provided by Alpha Bank, and so I think Alpha Bank ought to pay Mr K 
some compensation to reflect those failings. 
Mr K has indicated that he believes he should be paid at least £1000 compensation. I do not 
agree. Whilst I accept that he has suffered some distress and inconvenience I have not seen 
evidence that this was severe and he has not given details of particular consequences to 
him. 
Putting things right
In my view, Alpha Bank should pay Mr K £50 to reflect shortcomings in communication at the 
November 2019 meeting, and for its failure to return Mr Ks call. I realise that Mr K will not 
think this sufficient, but I am satisfied that this sum is in line with other awards we would 
make in similar circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I partially uphold Mr Ks complaint and direct Alpha Bank 
London Limited to pay to Mr K £50 compensation for his distress and inconvenience.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2020.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman