DRN-2984326
The complaint
 Mr P complains about Wirecard Card Solutions Limited when reviewing his Pockit account 
and without his money.
The Pockit account is a pre-paid payment card administered by Wirecard Card Solutions 
Limited.
What happened
 Around March 2020, Wirecard blocked Mr Ps Pockit card while they carried out a review. 
As part of the review, Wirecard asked Mr P to provide documentation such as proof of his 
address, proof of his identification and source of funds for recent payments made into the 
account.
Mr P provided Wirecard with the relevant documentation and provided payslips to account 
for the recent transactions. 
In July 2020, Mr Ps account remain blocked and Wirecard told him they wouldnt be able to 
specify a timeframe for the review. Meanwhile, Mr P was left without access to his account 
and had to borrow money from others to pay his bills and feed his family. 
Our investigator upheld Mr Ps account. He said Wirecard hadnt provided sufficient 
evidence to show why the account was still blocked. He thought Wirecard should pay Mr P 
the money which remained in his account, including 8% simple interest and £100 
compensation.
Wirecard didnt respond to our investigators view. Mr P did and he agreed with it.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators view that the complaint should be upheld. Ive 
explained my reasons below.
Anti-money laundering regulations and UK legislation place extensive obligations on 
financial businesses to verify a customers identity. The terms and conditions of Mr Ps 
account also permit Wirecard to block an account while carrying out a review.
While Wirecard are entitled to carry out a review, wed expect them to do so in a timely 
manner and without undue delay. Wirecard initially blocked Mr Ps account in March 2020. 
Mr P provided them with the information theyd asked for, however his account remained 
blocked with no further contact.
I havent seen any information or evidence to satisfy me that Wirecards actions are 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case. While I recognise they are entitled to carry out 
a review, I dont consider the account to be blocked for a period of almost 18 months without 
any further contact to be acceptable. 
While Wirecard isnt obliged to give their reasons for reviewing the account to Mr P, I would 
expect them to satisfy our service of their actions. They havent done that, despite our 
investigator requesting the information.
Mr P has sent our service the documentation he sent to Wirecard. Im satisfied, based on 
what Mr P has sent us, that what Mr P provided fully answers the initial questions Wirecard 
asked him. Hes been able to supply his identification, proof of his address and payslips 
which explain his entitlement to the money in his account. If Wirecard needed additional 
information from Mr P, Id have expected them to be more proactive and be in touch with 
Mr P with the details of the further information which is outstanding. If Wirecard were 
satisfied with the information, Id have expected Wirecard to release Mr Ps account and 
allow him access to the money in it.
Putting things right
I dont doubt being without his money for nearly 18 months would have had a significant 
impact on Mr P. And as I havent seen any additional evidence to satisfy me of the actions 
Wirecard are currently taking in relation to the review, I think Wirecard should give Mr P 
access to the money left in his account and pay 8% simple interest on this amount. Wirecard 
should pay the interest from the date they could have reasonably released the money  
which I find to be the date Mr P supplied the evidence to them  up to the date they refund it 
to him. 
Ive also thought about the distress and inconvenience this while situation has caused Mr P. 
I consider a compensation amount of £100 to fairly reflect the trouble Mr P has encountered.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Wirecard Card Solutions Limited should do 
the following:
Calculate interest at 8% simple per year on the amount they withheld from Mr P. 
They should calculate this from the date Mr P supplied the information they initially 
asked for, up to the date they refund it.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Wirecard Card Solutions Limited to withhold 
income tax from the above-mentioned interest. Wirecard should give Mr P a 
certificate showing how much is taken off if Mr P asks for one.
Pay Mr P £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2021.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman