DRN-2474074
The complaint
Mr H complains that Metro Bank Plc have debited his account for a £200 cash machine 
(ATM) withdrawal when he says no money was dispensed. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some key events here. In July 2020 Mr H says he tried to use an ATM to 
withdraw £200 from his account with Metro Bank. The ATM was owned by another bank Ill 
refer to as N. 
Mr H describes how he initially got an error message to say his PIN had been incorrectly 
entered. But after entering it a second time, he says his card was returned but no cash came 
out. He says he waited a few minutes before realising there must be a fault with the ATM. He 
contacted Metro Bank as he noticed online that his account had been debited with the 
withdrawal. 
Metro Bank investigated and ultimately held Mr H liable for the withdrawal. They said that N 
had provided evidence which showed the cash had been correctly dispensed. As he 
disagreed, Mr H brought the matter to our service.
One of our investigators didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In summary, she 
agreed with Metro Bank that it was more likely than not that the cash had been dispensed. 
Mr H still disagrees and has asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator and for essentially the same reasons. I know 
this will be disappointing, so Ill explain why. 
It isnt in dispute that Mr H put his card into Ns ATM and requested a withdrawal. The 
technical evidence also supports what Mr H said about there being an initial error relating to 
the correct PIN number. But it then goes on to show that the £200 withdrawal was 
successfully processed. The evidence from N also shows that when the ATM was next 
checked it balanced. This means the money in the machine matched what was expected 
given the withdrawals that had taken place. If there had been an error with the machine 
(where cash hadnt been dispensed), its likely that there would have been more money in 
the machine than was expected. But that wasnt the case here. 
In cases like this, I have to make my decision on the balance of probability as to what I think 
is most likely to have happened. Mr H says he didnt receive any cash. The technical 
evidence shows the money was dispensed and the machine balanced when next checked. I 
find the technical evidence to be more persuasive than Mr Hs testimony. 
Mr H points out that Metro Bank didnt obtain CCTV. As the machine wasnt owned by them, 
this isnt something Id necessarily expect them to do. Its also useful to note that everyone 
agrees Mr H was stood at the ATM at the material time, and CCTV doesnt always provide 
sufficient detail to see how much (if any) money was dispensed. 
Mr H also says he believes some of the evidence from N to be false. This is primarily as one 
of the numbers on the report relates to his new replacement card, when the withdrawal 
attempt was made with his old card. Metro Bank have confirmed that the number Mr H is 
referring to isnt something that changes with the issue of a new card. Ive not seen anything 
that persuades me that the evidence from N is false or unreliable. 
Mr H also points out that he had a previous ATM dispute that was found in his favour. 
Anything that might have happened on a previous dispute, whilst potentially useful to provide 
some context, isnt material to the outcome of this dispute. In this case I think Metro Bank 
have acted fairly and I make no comment on the previous dispute which isnt a part of this 
complaint. 
Overall, I think its more likely than not that the ATM correctly dispensed Mr Hs withdrawal 
request. Because of this Im not going to tell Metro Bank they need to do anything further to 
resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman