DRN-3183180
The complaint
Mr H complains that Prudential Assurance Company Limited has incorrectly deducted 
Waiver of Premium benefit (WOP) from his pension policy. He feels the compensation 
offered is inadequate.
Mr H is represented in this complaint by his wife Mrs H, but to keep things simple Ill just 
refer to Mr H. 
What happened
Mr H started a personal pension plan through a Prudential representative making gross 
monthly contributions of £30 from January 1991. In 1992 Mr H met the representative to 
arrange to add £25,000 life cover to his plan paying a monthly premium of £6.50 from 
February 1993. And in 1993 Mr H increased his gross monthly pension contributions by £20. 
In December 1997 Mr H applied to make a monthly top-up contribution to his pension plan of 
£39, bringing his gross monthly contribution to £89. Mr Hs occupation is recorded on the 
application form as a farm worker.
The application form had an option of a WOP supplement, whereby if Mr H was unable to 
work for a period of six months or more, his contributions to the pension would be waived 
and made by Prudential on his behalf. Prudential dont offer WOP to farm workers, but 
although the WOP box was initially ticked and the health questionnaire completed, those 
elements of the form had been crossed through. 
Due to an error, although the file was noted to say Mr H wasnt entitled to WOP benefit, a 
small element of his monthly premium was put towards WOP instead of the full amount 
being credited to the pension plan. The WOP deduction was shown on Mr Hs annual 
pension statements, but he didnt query what it was. 
WOP benefit ceases at age 60 so in June and July 2019 Prudential wrote to Mr H to explain 
that from 2020 his WOP would cease, and from then the full value of the contributions would 
be credited to his policy. This prompted Mr H to contact Prudential and the error came to 
light. Prudential confirmed that although Mr H wasnt entitled to WOP due to his occupation, 
since January 1998 £2.59 of his gross monthly contribution had been put towards WOP so 
only £86.41 had been invested in Mr Hs pension plan instead of the full £89. To put things 
right it had recalculated the plan as if the whole of Mr Hs premiums had been added to the 
policy so there was no financial loss. It also refunded £47.97 by cheque being the payment 
protection on the life cover element, plus interest. 
Mr H complained as he didnt feel this was adequate. He was shocked Prudential had 
illegally taken money without his knowledge or consent and wanted the funds returned to 
him by cheque not added to his pension policy. Prudential upheld Mr Hs complaint but didnt 
agree to refund the premiums which were to provide retirement benefits. It said Mr H was 
now in the position he should have been. But it offered £300 for the trouble and upset 
caused. 
Mr H referred his complaint to this service as he thought the compensation was insufficient 
for an error which had gone on for so long. One of our investigators looked into what had 
happened and was satisfied Prudential had put things right correctly. He felt the £300 offered 
by Prudential was fair and confirmed it was still open to Mr H if he wished to accept it. 
Mr H thought the compensation should be much higher, similar to Payment Protection 
Insurance redress. 
So its been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it, in the sense that the redress already offered by 
Prudential is fair. Let me explain why.
I understand Mr H was shocked to discover that for over 20 years hed been paying for WOP 
benefit which he hadnt asked for and wasnt entitled to due to his occupation. Due to the 
passage of time I cant say how the error occurred. But Ive seen a copy of the application 
form completed by Mr H in December 1997. The WOP box is ticked and as WOP is an 
underwritten benefit, meaning the cost depends on how likely it is to be needed, Mr H was 
asked to answer some questions about his general health and lifestyle including his height 
and weight. When Prudential came to process the application they realised that due to Mr 
Hs occupation he wasnt eligible for WOP even if he wanted it. So Prudential returned the 
form to the representative with the instruction Please have client delete WOP box and 
health questions .The form was returned to Prudential with the health questionnaire and the 
WOP box crossed through with the amendment confirmed by Mr Hs signature. The 
advisors note to Prudential read Please reinstate this contract and arrange to request a 
double debit 1/2/98. The debit for February should be for existing contribution i.e. £56.50 
gross plus top-up of £39.00 pm totalling £95.50 gross. The proposal has been amended and 
signed by Mr [H] removing the WOP benefit as you requested. 
So it looks as though Mr H was told at the outset he wasnt eligible for WOP and amended 
the form accordingly, but I dont find it surprising if he doesnt recall the discussion more than 
20 years later. Despite the form being amended it seems the policy was reinstated without 
deleting the WOP. Mr H wasnt disadvantaged by this as he knew he didnt have the benefit 
and so wouldnt have attempted to bring a claim. The error only came to light as Mr H 
approached his 60th birthday when WOP wouldve ceased, triggering the advisory letters. 
When a busines makes an error causing a financial loss we expect them as far as possible 
to put the consumer into the position theyd be in had the error not happened. For Mr H that 
means crediting the whole of his £89 monthly contributions to his pension plan rather than 
the reduced amount of £86.41, including any investment growth. The WOP benefit of £2.59 
a month (or £31.08 per year) amounts to around £621 over 20 years. Prudential has shown 
that as at 29 October 2019 Mr Hs policy was valued at £61,197.43 before the adjustment 
and £62,487.46 after it was corrected, a difference of £1,290.03. 
As Mr H intended the whole of his monthly contributions to be invested for his retirement Im 
satisfied Prudential acted fairly by recalculating the policy in this way rather than retuning the 
money to Mr H as he requested. Separately Prudential realised Mr H had been charged 
£39.17 in additional premiums for protection on his life cover which they returned to him by 
cheque plus interest of £8.80. I think this is fair. Mr H has suggested he should receive compensation along the lines of a mis-sold PPI policy 
as WOP is also a form of payment protection. Id like to reassure him that they are not the 
same. The large refunds for PPI came about as the total premiums were added to the 
consumers loan as a lump sum, meaning interest was charged on the premiums, so the 
consumer paid back far more than the cost of the PPI policy. In Mr Hs case, the amount he 
paid each month was correct, it was the internal apportioning which was wrong. So 
Prudential simply needed to rework the policy as if each month £89 had been credited 
instead of £86.41 which Im satisfied is what Mr H agreed to when taking out the policy. 
Once the business has calculated redress which puts the mistake right, its often appropriate 
to offer a further sum to recognise the distress and inconvenience the error caused. In these 
circumstances we focus on the impact the error had on the particular consumer.  In Mr Hs 
case, until he received Prudentials letters in 2019 he was unaware hed been charged WOP 
over the years, as his monthly contributions were the correct amount. Although WOP was 
shown on his pension statements Mr H says he didnt really know what it meant, so I cant 
say this caused him any particular concern. I take his point that the error having occurred at 
all has shaken his trust in Prudential. But Ive seen no evidence this was anything more than 
human error which will inevitably sometimes happen. 
Mr H can see from our website that an award of up to £300 is what we consider fair where 
theres been repeated small errors, or a larger single mistake, requiring a reasonable effort 
to sort out. These typically result in an impact that lasts a few days, or even weeks, and 
causes either some distress, inconvenience, disappointment, or loss of expectation. 
Anything higher than this would be for errors causing a far higher level of distress, 
inconvenience or disruption to someones life. So taking everything into consideration I think 
the £300 already offered by Prudential is reasonable compensation for the impact its error 
had had on Mr H. I understand this offer is still open to Mr H if he now wishes to accept it.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint in the sense the offer already made by The Prudential 
Assurance Company Limited is fair.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Sarah Milne
Ombudsman