DRN-4216765
The complaint
Mrs S complains that she didnt get a cashback offer from Curve UK Limited (Curve).
What happened
Curve is a card aggregator which allows customers to spend from any of their cards, if 
they've been added and verified in the Curve app. To use Curve, customers add a payment 
card to the app. Customers can select the account that they would like to pay with by 
opening the Curve app and tapping a bank card that account will instantly become "active", 
ready for them to spend with.
Curve offer customers various cashback schemes. On one such card, a cashback on 
purchases was offered until 31 December 2022.
Mrs S made a purchase for £791.68 on 15 February 2023 and expected to get a 5% 
cashback - £39.58. But the cashback wasnt paid.
Mrs S complained. She said she accepted it was her responsibility to read the terms and 
conditions. But  shed raised another similar complaint about the non-receipt of the 
cashback offer, and Curve had then made a refund manually in January 2023. So  Mrs S 
argued that Curve should do the same for the cashback about which she was complaining.
Curve said the terms and conditions stated that the offer ended on 31 December 2022. So  
Mrs S wasnt entitled to the cashback. It was Mrs S responsibility to read the terms and 
conditions of the offer. There had been another purchase on the same card for £134 on 18 
January 2022  and cashback of £13.40 (which was 10% - in error) had been given to Mrs 
S. But  that didnt mean to say that she was entitled to the cashback she was now 
complaining about. Curve didnt uphold Mrs S complaint.
Mrs S brought her complaint to us. Our investigator didnt uphold it. He said he was satisfied 
the terms and conditions were clear  the offer ended on 31 December 2022. Another 
purchase had attracted the cashback offer  and that was an error by Curve. But that didnt 
mean to say Mrs S should also get the other cashback of £39.58.
Mrs S asked that an ombudsman look at her complaint, and so it has come to me to make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I looked at the terms and conditions that were in operation at the time. These clearly state 
XXXPay+ cardholder will get 5% cashback on XXX.com purchases until 31 December 
2022. So  Im satisfied that was clear.
Mrs S has said in her complaint that she understands its her responsibility to read the terms 
and conditions  so thats not in dispute. But she goes on to argue that she made another 
purchase with the same retailer in January 2023  and Curve then gave her the cashback 
offer (even though the offer had expired). And because of that  Curve should also give her 
the cashback of £39.58. 
Ive considered her argument. But I dont think its reasonable to say that because Curve 
made an error and gave her a cashback of £13.40 (which she wasnt entitled to) means that 
Curve should do the same for the further purchase. I dont think that would be fair to Curve in 
all the circumstances of this case.
So, I dont uphold this complaint and Im not asking Curve to do anything here. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman