DRN-3390393
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy with how he has been treated by HSBC UK Bank Plc in relation to his
business bank account.
He believes that HSBC ought to have handled things differently after he notified it that he 
was experiencing financial difficulties in 2012. Mr N is also unhappy with how he was 
treated in relation to the Safeguarding review of the account in 2019.
What happened
In 2012, Mr N notified HSBC that his business was experiencing financial difficulties. The 
account remained open and was subject to the standard terms and conditions, including 
associated fees and charges. HSBC agreed to a number of temporary arrangements, which 
included some fees and charges being waived.
In December 2017, Mr N complained to HSBC that, some five years after hed first notified 
it of financial difficulties, no repayment plan had been agreed in relation to the account. He 
felt that HSBC hadnt helped him in the way that he had hoped and as it should.
HSBC didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had done its best to assist Mr N, working with 
his level of affordability. Mr N referred the complaint to this Service.
An Ombudsman here issued a final decision in April 2018. He said, in summary, that:
- Hed looked carefully at the notes of Mr Ns contact with HSBC over the previous six 
years and his bank statements. He could see that HSBC had collected information 
about his income and expenditure and there had never been a point where Mr N had 
shown a clear surplus. This was the reason why HSBC had said it hadnt agreed any 
long term plan as it had no evidence that one would be sustainable.
- He noted that Mr N had said that HSBC should have issued a default several years 
prior. He could see from case notes that Mr L had told HSBC at a number of different 
points between 2012 and 2017 that, for different reasons, he expected his business 
prospects to improve. 
- He considered that HSBC had provided long periods of breathing space for Mr N and 
refunded a significant amount of interest and charges. He thought it likely HSBC had 
done this because it was what Mr N had wanted. He doubted Mr N had really wanted a 
default to be recorded, even if with hindsight he was now saying that may have been a 
better option. 
- He wouldnt be able to tell HSBC to freeze interest and charges permanently. Hed 
expect HSBC to work with Mr N to try to agree a plan. But, he suspected the only way 
Mr N would be able to resolve things, would be if the account was passed to recoveries.
- Taking everything into account, he wasnt persuaded that HSBC had acted unfairly.
Shortly after, Mr N complained about HSBC passing the account to recoveries. An 
investigator here said they didnt think HSBC had acted unfairly.
In March 2019, Mr N complained again to HSBC. He continued to be unhappy with how 
HSBC had treated him since 2012 and that it was still continuing to levy charges and 
interest.
HSBC issued a final response letter not upholding the complaint. It said that the fees and 
charges applied were in line with the terms and conditions of the account. However, it 
refunded some interest as a gesture of goodwill. It suggested that Mr N contact the financial 
hardship team to discuss his situation and any ways in which it might be able to assist.
In June 2019, Mr N complained that HSBC was refusing to arrange a repayment plan, 
without first issuing a default. In July 2019, Mr N complained that HSBC hadnt offered a 
suitable repayment plan when he notified it of his financial difficulties back in 2012. He said 
that HSBC had basically blackmailed him into keeping the account active, as if the 
business was still trading, which it wasnt.
Mr N said the correct procedure would have been to close the account at the time and 
agree a repayment plan. He acknowledged that this would have had an effect on his credit 
file, but said that by this point in time, his credit file would have been restored and the 
outstanding balance cleared. He said that the actions of the financial guidance team to only 
offer short term solutions over the years, hadnt been fair or reasonable.
HSBC issued another final response letter. It said that its records showed Mr N had 
previously complained about the issue and taken it to this Service in 2018. And that as the 
Ombudsman had already reviewed the matter, HSBC wouldnt review it again. As a 
gesture of goodwill it refunded another £105 of fees.
Mr N remained unhappy. He cited a telephone conversation in which he said that a 
representative of HSBC had admitted that an income and expenditure form was requested 
and had been provided by himself to the bank in 2012 and that nothing was actioned. And 
that HSBC had been aware in 2012 that his business had stopped trading.
Mr N said that not only was this the first time HSBC had confirmed these things, but it also 
showed that it was aware of his financial difficulties in 2012 and did nothing to help at the 
time or since. He also said that the Ombudsman wouldnt have been aware of this when 
making his decision in 2018.
HSBC issued another final response letter. It said that it had considered Mr Ns income and 
expenditure in 2012 and had call notes to show when a conversation had taken place and 
what had been discussed. HSBC re-iterated that as this Service had already looked into 
the matter, HSBC wouldnt be revisiting it.
Mr N also raised concerns about how he was being treated by HSBC in relation to its 
Safeguarding review. He said hed been promised contact from someone about this but 
this hadnt happened. He also said that HSBC saying in a letter that it was going to close 
his account following the review, wasnt fair in the context of his broader concerns about 
what had happened.In December 2019, HSBC wrote to Mr N to advise him that his access to the account and 
related services, had been withdrawn.
HSBC issued another final response letter. It upheld Mr Ns complaint in respect of 
someone not contacting him about the Safeguarding review, when he had been expecting 
someone to get in touch. As an apology, it offered him £75. However, it maintained its 
decision to close the account.
Mr N remained unhappy and asked us to consider his complaint.
An investigator looked into things and reached a view in October 2021. He said, in 
summary, that:
- Mr Ns concerns about how HSBC had treated him after his business experienced 
financial difficulties in 2012, had already been considered by this Service. As an 
Ombudsman had already issued a final decision on the complaint, it would be unfair to 
HSBC for these things to be considered again. 
- In respect of the Safeguarding review, he didnt think HSBC was acting maliciously or 
that it had done anything wrong by carrying out the review. He thought it was 
reasonable to expect financial institutions such as HSBC to have security measures and 
systems in place to protect customers and itself from fraud.
- HSBC was entitled, following the review, to decide to close the account.
Mr N didnt agree with the investigators findings. He said that when he first contacted this 
Service in early 2020, someone had checked with a manager and told him that we would be 
able to look at the issue of how he had been treated since 2012. After the investigators view 
remained unchanged, Mr N raised concerns about how he had been treated by this Service. 
His concerns were investigated and responded to by another Manager. The complaint about
our Service is entirely separate from this decision.
Before the case was passed to me, Mr N provided some further comments. Much of what 
he wrote was a reiteration of things hed previously said. However, he also said, in 
summary, that:
- As he had been unable to maintain the account after his business experienced financial 
difficulties, he had broken the terms of the contract. The account shouldve closed and a 
long term payment plan or final settlement should legally have been offered to him, but 
wasnt. As such, HSBC broke several rules set out in the FCA Handbook.
- When bringing the complaint to this Service in 2018, the investigator didnt try to speak 
to him, preventing him from fully explaining his side, which led to a very fast and 
opiniated response. The complaint was not fairly reviewed, correctly or lawfully in parts. 
- The investigator in 2018 claimed that HSBC had carried our regular income and 
expenditure reviews, however this was not the case and was speculative and not based 
on evidence. The investigators opinion that a payment plan was never offered because 
he couldnt afford one was an outrageous statement.
- No evidence was provided to him, despite being requested several times.- The final response letter which covered the issue of an HSBC representative having 
said they couldnt find the evidence of an income and expenditure assessment on file, 
gave him the rights to refer the complaint to this Service.
- Based on the agreement to proceed given by members of this Services staff in 2020, 
he asks that he be given the right for the matter to be fully investigated in line with the 
points he raised at the time.
After looking at the file, I asked HSBC for some further information. I asked for:
- A copy of the relevant terms and conditions it had referred to in the context of its 
decision to close the account, with the relevant notice period.
- Clarification on how and why the account was selected for a Safeguarding review when 
it was. And why it wasnt selected earlier  given that HSBC was aware for some time 
that Mr N hadnt been trading. And something to show or explain how Mr N and his 
account had been treated the same way as any other in a similar position.
- Clarification of the status of the account.
HSBC provided a copy of the relevant terms and conditions. It also said that the 
Safeguarding reviews were system generated. And that the account was still open, due to 
the outstanding debt on the account.
I issued a provisional decision in February 2022 where I said that we shouldnt consider the 
part of the complaint about how Mr N had been treated by HSBC since 2012, because 
another Ombudsman had already issued a final decision on the matter, in 2018. And that in 
terms of how Mr N had been treated by HSBC in relation to the Safeguarding review, I 
thought HSBC had already done enough to put things right. Below is an extract from my 
provisional decision.
Much of Mr Ns complaint revolves around how he has been treated by HSBC since he
notified it of his business financial difficulties in 2012. So, Ive first thought about whether it
is appropriate for me to consider these concerns.
Mr N argues that I should consider the issues hed raised, on the following grounds:
-The investigation carried out in 2018 was flawed
-New information has come to light about HSBC not doing what it should in relation to 
income and expenditure information that he provided in 2012
-HSBC issued a final response letter giving him the right to bring a new complaint about 
the issue.
-He was told by members of staff at this Service (who had checked with a manager), that 
we would be able to look at things again.
The rules under which the Financial Ombudsman Service operates, are contained in the
Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook. These rules set out the scenarios in which the
Ombudsman may dismiss a complaint without considering its merits. The relevant one, 
DISP 3.3.4A R, says:
The Ombudsman may dismiss a complaint referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service onor after 9 July 2015 without considering its merits if the Ombudsman considers that:
(5) Dealing with such a type of complaint would otherwise seriously impair the  
effective operation of the Financial Ombudsman Service.
and DISP 3.3.4B G goes on to say:
Examples of a type of complaint that would otherwise seriously impair the effective operation
of the Financial Ombudsman Service may include:
(3) Where the subject matter of the complaint has previously been considered or
excluded under the Financial Ombudsman Service (unless material new evidence
which the Ombudsman considers likely to affect the outcome has subsequently
become available to the complainant).
So, Ive thought about these considerations in turn.
Have the issues Mr N is raising, been previously considered under the Financial
Ombudsman Service?
Ive considered the final decision issued by the Ombudsman in April 2018 alongside the
issues raised by Mr N in this complaint. And I have come to the conclusion that apart from
the concerns relating to the Safeguarding review (which I will comment on later in this
decision), the complaint being brought by Mr N now, is fundamentally the same as the
complaint that was brought in 2018.
I say this because the Ombudsmans decision in 2018 focuses on how Mr N was treated by
HSBC from the point he notified it of his business financial difficulties in 2012, up to the point
that Mr N raised his complaint in 2018. The Ombudsman makes a finding on the 
reasonableness of the actions taken by HSBC. The same actions that Mr N is now
complaining about.
Has any material new evidence subsequently become available to Mr N?
Mr N says that HSBC has, since the final decision was issued in 2018, admitted that it didnt
do anything with an income and expenditure assessment he provided in 2012. And that this
shows it didnt treat him fairly at the time.
However, HSBC says this isnt the case and that its records show that income and
expenditure information was received in 2012 and that there was a telephone conversation
with Mr N about the information, at the time.
I can see that the Ombudsmans decision in 2018 specifically refers to notes showing that
HSBC had collected information about Mr Ns income and expenditure. And that when it
supplied its file in 2018, this included a file attachment titled IEX notes 17-09-2012.pdf.
Based on this, Im satisfied there isnt any material new evidence that has become available
to Mr N since he brought the complaint in 2018.
It follows that Mr Ns concerns about how HSBC has treated him since his business
experienced financial difficulties in 2012, is not something I should consider. And re-visiting
issues which have already been considered by this Service would seriously impair the
effective operation of the Financial Ombudsman Service.
I have noted and thought about the reasons why Mr N says I should re-visit his concerns.
However, Im not persuaded by any of them.I appreciate that Mr N considers the 2018 investigation to have been flawed. However, this is
not a reason for me to re-visit complaint issues that have already been determined by
another Ombudsman.
Regulated businesses like HSBC are obliged to include referral rights to the Financial
Ombudsman Service when they issue a final response letter. So the fact that referral rights
have been included in the final response letters issued by HSBC on the same subject matter
since the Ombudsmans final decision in 2018, doesnt mean that I should re-visit the
concerns. Its worth noting that HSBC has consistently said that it would not be re-visiting the
subject matter, because it had already been considered by an Ombudsman.
Finally, I appreciate that Mr N was given the impression by staff here that his concerns
would be able to be looked into. I dont doubt that subsequently being told that isnt the case,
will have been frustrating. I noted earlier that Mr Ns concerns in this regard have been
responded to by another manager here (who was looking into his concerns about the
customer service he received from us). While I appreciate Mr Ns concerns, it is not a reason
for me to re-visit issues that have already been subject to another Ombudsmans final
decision.
As set out earlier in this decision, Mr Ns concerns about how he has been treated with
regards to the Safeguarding review havent previously been considered. So, Ive thought
about this.
Mr Ns treatment by HSBC relating to the Safeguarding review
Ive first thought about the issue of Mr N not receiving contact from someone in relation to
the Safeguarding review, after hed been told to expect this. HSBC has admitted that
something went wrong and that Mr N was meant to receive contact but didnt. It also said
that whilst it regrets someone not contacting Mr N as should have happened, it not doing so
didnt prejudice him, because even if contact had been made before the review deadline, it
wouldnt have made a difference to the outcome, because Mr Ns business wasnt trading.
So, the only thing I need to decide is whether the £75 HSBC offered Mr N represents fair
compensation for the disappointment and frustration he experienced as a result of not
receiving the contact he was expecting.
Mr N has clearly experienced a lot of frustration in his dealings with HSBC, but I dont think
very much of that stems from the failure of someone to make contact with him, when this
should have happened.
Bearing that in mind, I think the £75 probably does represent fair compensation and is in line
with awards we make in similar circumstances.
In terms of Mr Ns concerns with the fairness of the outcome of the review  in the context of
his broader concerns about how hes been treated.
As the investigator said in his view, HSBC is required to have systems and processes in
place to protect itself and its customers. Ive seen no evidence that in carrying out the review
on Mr Ns account (in the context of the broader Safeguarding exercise), HSBC was acting
maliciously or singling Mr N out in any way.
It follows there are no grounds upon which I can reasonably say that the outcome of the
review is unfair on Mr N. While he considers it unfair in the context of his interactions with
HSBC since 2012, Im not considering that, for the reasons given earlier in this decision.I understand the account currently remains open. However, under the terms and conditions
of the account, HSBC was entitled to give Mr N notice of closure when it did. So, I cant say
that it did anything wrong in this regard.
HSBC didnt provide a response.
Mr N disagreed with my findings. He said, in summary, that:
-My decision represents a continued lack of legal knowledge and assumptions that are 
not formed by factual evidence rather than of an individuals opinion.
-He specifically asked the investigator for the opportunity to speak with the Ombudsman 
prior to any review, however this was clearly ignored.
- I appear to have consulted neither the FCA Handbook nor the terms and conditions of 
the HSBC account. I should provide a detailed response in relation to both of these.
- He has never received a letter from HSBC in relation to the issue of whether he could 
afford a long term repayment plan. He questioned why he was never asked if he had 
alternative means.
- The investigator referred to a letter from HSBC. Mr N asked to see a copy of this letter 
but one has never been provided.
- A representative of HSBC had told him that she had found income and expenditure 
information that hed provided at outset, but that there was no evidence that anything 
had ever been done with the information. 
- HSBCs internal notes are not factual forms of evidence. Such evidence would need to 
be displayed by a secure dated document.
- I clearly show weakness in applying fact and truth and take the easy option of agreeing 
with my own people.
- New evidence was gained after the date of the 2018 investigation and a completely new 
investigation was confirmed by phone and e-mail, which I completely omitted from my 
findings. 
- I failed to look into the issue of Mr N waiting 18 months thinking that his concerns were 
going to be looked at. He wants a full explanation and all internal notes between the 
investigator he spoke to in 2020 and their manager, regarding the matter.
- The Financial Ombudsman Service has failed to be professional, acted illegally, added 
to his stress, fuelled HSBC and knowingly attempted to pervert the course of justice.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I reach the same outcome as set out in my provisional decision, that is:- I shouldnt look at Mr Ns complaint about how he has been treated by HSBC since 
2012, because another Ombudsman has already issued a final decision on the matter in 
2018. And no material new evidence has subsequently become available to Mr N.
- In terms of how Mr N has been treated by HSBC in relation to the Safeguarding review, 
HSBC has already done enough to put things right.
Ill explain why.
Mr Ns treatment by HSBC relating to the Safeguarding review
Neither party has provided any additional comment or arguments in relation to this. As such, 
I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings that HSBC doesnt need to do any 
more in this regard.
Mr Ns concerns about how has been treated by HSBC since 2012
I set out the rules that are relevant to this in my provisional findings, which can be found 
earlier in and form part of this final decision. So, I wont repeat them word for word here. 
But, the essence of the rules that apply are that I may decide not to consider a complaint 
that has previously been considered by this Service, unless any material new evidence has 
come to light that wasnt available when the issue was previously considered. This is 
because re-visiting issues which have already been considered by this Service (and where, 
in essence, nothing significant has changed) would seriously impair the effective operation of 
the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Mr N hasnt, in his response, contested that the fundamental issue at hand has been 
previously considered by this Service. However, he has voiced more strong concerns about 
the investigation and outcome reached in 2018. Mr N has also re-iterated his position that 
new evidence has come to light, that he thinks should be considered. And that he was told 
by a member of staff in 2020 that we could look into his concerns  and this hasnt been 
addressed.
I appreciate that Mr N disagrees strongly with the outcome reached in 2018 and that he 
thinks the investigation was flawed. However, as set out in my provisional findings, this is not 
a reason for me to re-visit an issue that has already been considered by another 
Ombudsman. 
I still dont think that any material new evidence has come to light that wasnt available to 
Mr N in 2018. He has repeated the argument that a representative of HSBC admitted to him 
after the investigation in 2018, that HSBC had received income and expenditure information 
in 2012 and didnt do anything with it. However, as set out in my provisional findings, HSBC 
subsequently confirmed that there was a telephone conversation with Mr N about the 
information, at the time. I also set out in my provisional findings, that the Ombudsmans 
decision in 2018 specifically refers to notes showing that HSBC had collected information 
about Mr Ns income and expenditure. And that when HSBC supplied its file in 2018, this 
included a file attachment titled IEX notes 17-09-2012.pdf.
Based on this, I remain satisfied there isnt any material new evidence that has become 
available to Mr N since he brought the complaint in 2018.
In relation to Mr Ns concern that he was told in 2020 that his concerns would be looked into, 
I did address this in my provisional decision. As before, this has been investigated and 
addressed outside of this decision by another manager. I can fully appreciate Mr Ns frustration in relation to this, but this is also not a reason for me to re-visit an issue that has 
already been considered by another Ombudsman. 
As already communicated to Mr N (in the letter accompanying the provisional decision), his 
request to speak to the Ombudsman prior to any review wasnt ignored. Rather, I didnt think 
it necessary or appropriate to do this before deciding this case.  
Finally, Mr N has made a number of direct criticisms of me and my provisional findings. Im 
sorry that Mr N feels this way. I can assure him that Ive thought carefully about everything 
hes said, applied the relevant rules and been impartial in my assessment of his case. 
My final decision
My final decision is that its not appropriate for me to consider the issues raised by
Mr N about his treatment by HSBC UK Bank Plc since 2012, because this was already 
considered by another Ombudsman in 2018 and no material new evidence has come to 
light.
Also, that the £75 HSBC UK Bank Plc offered for someone not contacting Mr N when he was 
expecting to hear from someone in relation to the Safeguarding review, is fair. And that 
HSBC UK Bank Plc doesnt need to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Ben Brewer
Ombudsman