DRN-4449714
The complaint
Mr C complains about a cancellation fee Co-op Funeral Plans Limited has charged him. He 
says he cancelled his plan because the full costs werent made clear to him at the time of 
sale. And he says he wouldnt have taken out the plan, had he understood the cost of paying 
by instalments. 
What happened
In brief summary, in 2018, Mr C took out a Co-op funeral plan costing £3899. He chose to 
pay by instalments. The monthly cost was approximately £46 and Mr C was due to pay over 
nine years, meaning hed pay a total of just over £5007.   
In 2023, Mr C received a statement from Co-op. This statement caused him to question the 
amount he was paying for his funeral plan  in particular, the additional cost of paying in 
instalments.  
Mr C told Co-op he wanted to cancel his plan. Co-op explained its standard cancellation fee 
of £250 would be deducted from the refund. Mr C complained about this, but Co-op 
maintained its stance.
Mr C remained unhappy, so he asked the Financial Ombudsman Service to look into things. 
Our investigator upheld his complaint. She was satisfied Mr C wasnt told what the 
instalment costs would be and that Mr C wouldnt have bought the plan if those costs had 
been made clear. 
Co-op didnt accept our investigators view and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain my reasons.
This plan was sold before Co-op became subject to compulsory regulation by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) in July 2022. The FCA now requires funeral plan providers to send 
statements to their customers every three years. For plans taken out before July 2022, the 
FCA set a deadline of 31 August 2023, by which funeral plan providers must have provided 
the first statement. It was the receipt of this statement that prompted Mr Cs complaint.
Prior to FCA regulation, Co-op was a member of the predecessor voluntary regulation 
scheme, overseen by the Funeral Planning Authority (FPA). So Ive looked at the FPAs 
2017 Code of Practice, to see how funeral plan providers were expected to operate at the 
time of sale.
Section 2.2 of the code states that plan providers must: 
provide their employees, agents and representatives with training and written guidance 
on sales practices which ensures that potential customers are given sufficient information 
to make informed decisions about buying a funeral plan.
And section 3 says: 
plan providers must provide potential customers with written details of any funeral plan 
being offered, which clearly sets out:
the type and cost of funerals and other services which can be provided under the 
funeral plan
any administration charges which the customer will need to pay.
So overall, Im satisfied the code placed a responsibility on Co-op to provide clear 
information about costs to its customers to enable them to make informed choices. 
Mr C says the plan was bought online. Hes been clear he wouldnt have purchased if hed 
understood the true cost of his plan. Ive not seen any information from Co-op about the 
sales process, specifically, what Mr C wouldve seen when he was buying the plan and what 
costs information was available to him before he made his decision. 
Ive looked at Co-op terms and conditions. Under a section called How do I pay for my 
plan?, it says:
You can pay for your plan in one of three ways: 
1. In full 
2. In instalments over 6 or 12 months 
3. In instalments over 2  25 years 
If paying by instalments over 2-25 years, youll pay instalment charges. Youll be told the 
total amount youll pay when you buy the plan.
This information is on page 4 of a 16 page document. On page 5 theres additional 
information about paying by instalments over 2 - 25 years. It says:
Youll pay towards your chosen plan over a period of 2 to 25 years. The costs of your 
plan will be split over the number of years you choose. Youll pay the instalments 
(including instalment charges) monthly by direct debit. Youll find examples of instalments 
(including charges) in the Paying for your funeral plan document. The cost of these will 
depend on your individual circumstances. You can get a personalised quote online, from 
one of our funeral homes or by phone. Your quote will tell you what your instalments will 
be and the total amount payable over the term. You can work out your instalment charges 
by taking the price of the plan from the total amount youll pay. Well confirm the 
instalments in writing when you buy your plan.
To provide clear information to enable a customer to make an informed choice, wed usually 
expect important information  such as that relating to charges  to be prominently displayed and highlighted to the customer. And we generally wouldnt expect a customer to have to do 
calculations to work out the detail of what they were paying. However, Im mindful the above 
term suggests Mr C likely received a personalised quotation before he purchased online. But 
it seems Mr C would, at best, have been told the overall cost of the plan, but not the 
additional cost of paying by instalments. 
Ive also seen a welcome letter from Co-op, sent to Mr C after hed bought his plan. This 
letter does show the payment term and monthly cost. But again, it doesnt give the overall 
cost to Mr C or the separate cost of instalment charges. So having looked at all the 
evidence, on balance, I think Co-op didnt do enough to provide Mr C with clear information 
about all the costs associated with his funeral plan to enable him to make an informed 
choice.
Mr Cs specific complaint is that he shouldnt be charged a cancellation fee, because hed 
never have bought the plan had he been made aware hed be charged over £1100 for 
paying by instalments. I accept this as the only evidence of what Mr C mightve done with 
clearer information. So Im going to direct Co-op to put Mr C back in the position he wouldve 
been in, had the sales information been clear on costs. I think this is a fair outcome in the 
circumstances of this specific complaint.
Putting things right
Mr Cs plan has already been cancelled and a refund made, less the £250 cancellation fee. 
So to put things right, Co-op should:
Refund Mr C the £250 it has retained as a cancellation fee on his plan. This will 
mean that the total payments made have been refunded to Mr C.  
In addition, in line with our usual approach, set out on our website, Co-op should 
refund Mr C 8% per annum simple interest on each payment he made towards his 
plan, from the date each payment was made until the date of settlement.
If Co-op considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr C how much its taken off. It should also give him a 
tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so that he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold this complaint and require Co-op Funeral Plans Limited to 
put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Jo ChilversOmbudsman