DRN-3357070
The complaint
Mrs D is unhappy with the charges shes been asked to pay when she returned a car after 
her hire purchase agreement with Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) 
ended.
Mrs Ds is represented by Mr D. For ease, Ive referred to Mrs D throughout.
What happened
Mrs D took out a hire purchase agreement with MBFS in August 2017 for a new car. Around 
three years later, she decided to return the car rather than pay the optional lump sum 
payment to purchase it. But almost immediately after the car was collected, Mrs D was 
emailed a damage report which showed eight charges totalling over £1350.
 
When Mrs D queried this with MBFS, two of the charges were removed. She then 
complained and MBFS removed a further charge. But it said the remaining five charges 
needed to be paid. These totalled £640.11.
 
Mrs D wasnt happy with this and brought her complaint to us.  One of our investigators 
looked into this matter. His initial thoughts were that it was fair and reasonable for MBFS to 
charge for four out of the five items. But he didnt think there was enough evidence to show 
Mrs D should be charged for a dent to the left-hand rear quarter panel. MBFS then sent us a 
better quality photo of this damage. After reviewing it, our investigator now thought it was fair 
for MBFS to also ask Mrs D to pay for this.
 
Mrs D didnt accept this, so the file was passed to me for a final decision. To try and resolve 
matters informally, our investigator passed on my initial thoughts to Mrs D. These set out 
why I was satisfied it was fair and reasonable for MBFS to charge her for the five items of 
damage. Mrs D wasnt happy that my thoughts were so similar to those of our investigator. 
She was also unhappy that Id reached my position so quickly. As the matter remains 
unresolved, Ive moved to issue a formal decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. First, I'm very aware that I've 
summarised this complaint very briefly, in far less detail than has been provided, and in my 
own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead Ive focused on what I think is the 
heart of the matter here: is it fair and reasonable for MBFS to ask Mrs D to pay the 
outstanding damage charges? 
If there's something I've not mentioned, I havent ignored it. Ive not commented on every 
individual point or argument, only those that Im satisfied are central to me reaching what I 
think is a fair outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. This reflects the informal nature of our 
service as a free alternative to the courts.
 
I can see that Mrs D is unhappy with the process MBFS used when collecting her car. I 
would point out that how MBFS chooses to carry this out is an internal matter for it to decide. 
It's not within the remit of the Financial Ombudsman Service to tell MBFS how it should 
structure its internal processes. But what I can look at is if this process meant Mrs D was 
treated unfairly or unreasonably.
 
As above, I'm satisfied that the crux of this matter is if the charges Mrs D is being asked to 
pay are fair and reasonable. Ive started by looking at whether MBFSs hire purchase 
agreement with Mrs D allows it to charge for damages. Page six of this agreement sets out 
that when the car is returned it must meet MBFSs vehicle return standards. Full details of 
these standards are set out over pages six to eight of the agreement. Page eight also sets 
out that Mrs D would have to pay the repair costs if she returned the car with damage that 
exceeded that allowed for in the vehicle return standards.
 
Mrs D Agreed to these terms and conditions when she signed the hire purchase agreement 
in August 2017. So, Im satisfied MBFS was allowed to charge Mrs D for any damage that 
fell outside of its vehicle return standards. Im also satisfied Mrs D should reasonably have 
been aware of what these standards were  and I can see MBFS sent her a copy of these 
standards around six months before the car was returned.
 
Ive also looked at whether its fair and reasonable for MBFS to charge Mrs D for any 
damage outside of the vehicle return standards, even though its clear the hire purchase 
agreement allows it to do so. When thinking about this, Ive thought about what good 
industry practice was at the time the car was returned.
 
In this case, Im satisfied the Fair Wear & Tear Guide produced by the British Vehicle Rental 
& Leasing Association clearly sets out what good practice looks like. Ive compared these 
guidelines to MBFSs vehicle return standards. Having done so, I can see they are broadly 
similar. Taking this into account, Im satisfied its fair and reasonable for MBFS to charge 
Mrs D for any damage outside of these. 
Ive gone on to look at whether the damage being charged for does actually exceed that 
allowed for by the vehicle return standards. The damage charges in dispute are:
damage to the left-hand front alloy wheel
damage to the right-hand front alloy wheel
damage to the right-hand rear alloy wheel
an unevenly worn tyre
a dent to the left-hand rear quarter panel
As above, the total of these charges is £640.11. Ive looked at the inspection report and the 
photos that were taken at the time Mrs Ds car was returned. Having done so, I can see the 
scuffs to both front alloy wheels are greater than 50mm. This exceeds the allowable damage 
set out in the vehicle return standards. So, Im satisfied its fair and reasonable for MBFS to 
charge for these.
 
I can also see damage to the alloy spoke on the right-hand rear alloy wheel. This also 
exceeds the allowable damage set out in the vehicle return standards. Again, Im satisfied 
its fair and reasonable for MBFS to charge for this.
 
Ive looked at photos of the tyres. Im satisfied one of them hasnt worn evenly. Again, as this 
isnt allowable under the vehicle return standards, Im satisfied its fair and reasonable for 
MBFS to charge for this.
 Theres been some confusion over which tyre this charge relates to. After looking at the 
photos, and by reference to some debris on the ground behind the tyre, Im satisfied its the 
left-hand front tyre thats worn, not the left-hand rear tyre listed by MBFS. Either way, its 
clear that one of the tyres has worn unevenly and MBFS has only charged for one tyre.
 
Lastly, Ive looked at the left-hand rear quarter panel. Theres a dent on the swage line. The 
vehicle return standards doesnt allow any dents on a swage line. So, I think its fair and 
reasonable for MBFS to charge for this.
 
As can be seen, Im satisfied that its fair and reasonable for MBFS to charge for all five 
items of damage its asking Mrs D to pay  and the actual charges themselves dont seem 
unreasonable.
Ill now turn to Mrs Ds point that my informal thoughts were a reiteration of our investigators 
findings. I agree that my thoughts are indeed similar. Thats because Im satisfied our 
investigator reached the right outcome  and Ive explained above how Ive reached my final 
decision. My reasons are broadly similar to the investigators.
 
Ill also address Mrs Ds point that I reached my initial findings in a very short period of time. I 
can confirm that Ive fully considered all the submissions and arguments made by both 
Mrs D and MBFS to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint. Having done so, for the reasons given above, Im satisfied the available evidence 
shows Mrs Ds car was returned to MBFS with damage that exceeded that allowed by the 
vehicle return standards. So, I think its fair and reasonable for MBFS to ask her to pay for 
the damage. It follows that theres no basis for me to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
This final decision marks the end of the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this 
complaint. This means we are unable to consider the merits of it any further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2022. 
John Miles
Ombudsman