DRN-2760489
The complaint
Mr M complains that St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP) failed to act on his 
instruction to alter the investment approach applied to his pension savings in January 2020.
What happened
Mr M held pension savings with SJP. His wife also held similar pension savings with the firm. 
The communication that Mr M had with SJP involved both his and his wifes pension 
savings. I am dealing with a similar complaint from Mrs M separately. But, since the matters 
being considered are essentially the same, I am sure Mr and Mrs M will understand why the 
decisions I have reached are similar. In this decision I will only comment on matters 
concerning Mr M.
Towards the end of January 2020 Mr M made contact with his advisor at SJP. He was 
concerned over the volatility that might occur in the financial markets and sought to move his 
pension savings into safer investments. Mr M explained that if he could he would like to put 
his pension savings under a virtual bed.
SJP corresponded with Mr M during that day and the following day. It explained that Mr M 
could make use of a Defensive Portfolio, or that he could utilise the Money Market Fund 
which was essentially cash. SJP said its advice would be to make no changes to the pension 
investments. But given Mr Ms stated objectives it asked for Mr Ms agreement to move his 
pension savings into the Defensive portfolio.
That email was followed by a telephone call between SJP and Mr M. Unfortunately no 
recording of that call was made. Mr M says that, during the call, it was agreed that his 
pension savings would be moved to the Money Market fund. But SJP says the notes it 
recorded immediately following the call indicated that Mr M had agreed with its advice to not 
make any changes to his investments.
SJP sent a further email to Mr M on 6 February. That followed on from his earlier emails 
about his pension investments, so had the subject title of Pension. The email simply read;
all submitted now. You should receive confirmation soon, Ill let you know when 
I have heard also.
Mr M says that, given the subject heading of the email, he took that email as confirmation 
that the changes to his pension investments had been completed. But SJP says that the 
email had been sent in connection with a later discussion in the email trail regarding some 
life insurance cover.
Mr Ms complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He acknowledged that 
there had clearly been a misunderstanding between Mr M and SJP about the actions agreed 
on the telephone call. But he was unable to determine that misunderstanding was the fault of 
SJP. So he didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr M didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr M and SJP. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, 
I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words I have looked 
at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what 
I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
This is not an easy complaint to decide. It is clear that towards the end of January Mr M, 
concerned about the future investment prospects for his pension savings, asked SJP to 
advise him on taking a less risky investment approach. And I can see that SJP did provide 
Mr M with a couple of different approaches he could take, although it advised him to make 
no change. But, SJP was clear that it would need Mr Ms agreement before any changes 
were implemented.
Both Mr M and SJP agree that the proposals were discussed by telephone on 31 January. 
As I said earlier, no recording of that call was made. But I am aware from dealing with other 
complaints against SJP that calls to its advisors arent generally recorded. So the lack of a 
recording of the call doesnt lead me to any adverse conclusions.
It is clear, from Mr Ms complaint, that his understanding following the call was that SJP had 
been instructed to move his pension investments into the Money Market fund. But it is 
equally clear, from SJPs notes at the time, that it thought it had been agreed that no 
changes would be made to Mr Ms pension investments.
I have no way of determining which course of action was agreed on that call. Although I have 
no doubts about the honesty of Mr Ms recollections, it could be argued that his complaint 
was made with the benefit of hindsight  after the large falls that had been seen in the value 
of his investments in February and March 2020. But I am persuaded of the genuine nature of 
his recollections by his desire from the outset to be provided with a recording of the 
telephone conversation.
But SJP would have nothing to gain, at the time, from ignoring Mr Ms instruction to move his 
pension savings into the Money Market fund. Had it done so it would have supported what 
appears to be a relatively long-standing relationship. And I am persuaded that the notes SJP 
has recorded from the meeting were made contemporaneously and not added at a later 
date. So I think SJPs record of what it thinks was agreed is just as likely as what Mr M says 
happened.As I explained earlier, I need to decide matters such as these on the balance of probability  
that is what I think is more likely to have happened. And based on the evidence I have seen 
it wouldnt be reasonable for me to conclude that Mr Ms recollections of the telephone call 
are more likely than the notes SJP recorded. In saying that I am not making a finding that 
SJPs notes are more likely than Mr Ms recollections either. I simply do not have enough 
evidence to make a fair and reasonable assessment either way.
Generally, when no changes are being made to a consumers investments, I wouldnt expect 
that course of action to be confirmed by an advisor in writing (either by email or letter). And if 
changes were being made I would expect a confirmation to be issued. So it could be argued 
that Mr M had some responsibility to get back in touch with SJP if he didnt receive details of 
the changes that had been made to his pension investments.
But Mr M has said that he considers the email he received on 6 February (that I reproduced 
earlier in this decision) did give him the confirmation his instruction had been completed. 
I can accept that given the email subject, a brief reading might lead one to conclude that it 
related to the changes being made to the pension investments. But when considering the 
whole chain of the correspondence and that Mr and Mrs M had submitted, just the day 
before, signed declarations for the life insurance to proceed, I am persuaded that the 
confirmation email shouldnt have been understood to relate to the pensions investment 
changes.
On balance I havent seen enough to persuade me that it is more likely than not that Mr M 
instructed SJP to make changes to his pension investments during the phone call on 
6 February 2020. So it wouldnt be reasonable for me to conclude this complaint should 
succeed or that I should ask SJP to pay any compensation to Mr M.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman