DRN-3608699
The complaint
Mrs K complains, through a claims management company (CMC), that Lloyds Bank PLC 
(when it was trading as Lloyds TSB) provided unsuitable investment advice. 
She believes that her attitude to risk was not fully assessed, the amount invested and placed 
at risk was inappropriate, the level of risk within the Balanced Solutions Fund she invested in 
was inappropriate for her circumstances and her future needs and objectives were not 
considered.
To put things right she wants compensation based on a comparison with 50% 12-17 month 
fixed rate bonds and 50% WMA Total Return Income Index.
What happened
In February 2007, acting on the advice given to her by a Lloyds adviser, Mrs K invested a 
total of £75,000 as follows - £7,000 in an Individual Savings Account (ISA) and £68,000 in 
the Flexible Options Bond (FOB). 
She made two withdrawals from the FOB - £25,000 in May 2012 and a further £20,000 in 
February 2014 and (when she made this complaint) Lloyds said she still held this bond.
Mrs K kept her ISA in place for nine years or so until August 2016 when she transferred it to 
a Cash ISA with another ISA provider at a value of £9,237.77. 
The advice Mrs K received in 2007 saw around 53% of her available deposit based savings 
placed into the Balanced Solution Fund. She had received the bulk of that money as part of 
an inheritance. Her previous investment experience was limited to a couple of ISAs and a 
Guaranteed Equity Bond with another provider. She had also acquired some shares as a 
result of a de-mutualisation. Mrs K believes that Lloyds should have considered her as an 
investor with rather limited experience, making the Balanced Solutions Fund, which had a 
portion of its asset allocation invested in potentially volatile UK equities, unsuitable for her. 
Mrs K feels she was given incorrect advice and that she should have been recommended a 
genuinely low risk investment product instead. 
In response, Lloyds said its recommendation to invest at the balanced level of risk was 
based on discussions with Mrs K during meetings and the answers she gave to questions 
used to assess her appetite for taking a risk with the money she was investing. It said the 
answers she gave indicated a willingness to take some risk with her money and it had 
explained to her that investing at this level of risk meant there were no guarantees and the 
value would fluctuate. Lloyds said that although some elements of the fund were at a higher 
level of risk, this was balanced by other lower risk elements, ensuring the overall risk level of 
the fund was appropriate.
Lloyds said that after investing the £75,000, Mrs K still had £50,668 remaining in cash 
based savings and a monthly income surplus meant she was able to build up her savings 
further. And it pointed to the fact that she would be able to take a regular fixed income from 
the FOB if she needed it when she stopped working and no longer had income from 
employment. Lloyds didnt uphold her complaint.
Mrs K wasnt happy with this response so she brought her complaint to us. 
After considering the complaint, based on all the information he had seen, the investigator 
didnt feel this was a complaint he could recommend upholding. He mainly thought that 
Lloyds assessment of Mrs Ks attitude to risk as balanced overall was fair according to 
the information Mrs K had provided and looking at the way Lloyds defined balanced 
investment. Although Mrs K was in her late sixties in 2007, our investigator didnt think it 
automatically followed the investment wasnt suitable, particularly bearing in mind that she 
was mainly investing inherited money and so the pension income and savings she had 
built up were not impacted. He felt that the fund was more balanced than Mrs K had 
suggested and in coming to his view, relied on the fact that Mrs K had kept her investment 
in place for more than five years before making any withdrawals and it had performed 
better than her money would have done had she left it in a deposit account. 
Mrs K didnt agree with the investigator. On her behalf, the CMC said in view of the 
objectives of the fund and the holdings, it does not believe that this was suitable for Mrs K 
and requested that this case is considered by an Ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds has consented to us looking into Mrs Ks complaint about what happened in 2007 
when it gave Mrs K investment advice, so I am satisfied that I can consider the complaint.
Weve set out our approach to dealing with complaints on our website and Ive kept this in 
mind while deciding this complaint. 
Ive looked at the complaint afresh and Ive independently reached the same conclusions as 
our investigator. Ill explain my reasons.
When thinking about whether Lloyds gave Mrs K suitable investment advice, given that all 
investment carries some degree of financial risk, Ive kept in mind the following key 
questions:
after meeting day to day expenses and usual monthly outgoings, allowing for any 
planned big items of expenditure and keeping aside some cash for emergency 
spending or unforeseen expenses, was Mrs K in a strong enough financial 
position to be able to invest? 
Did the investment fit Mrs Ks attitude to risk?
Did Lloydss recommendation match Mrs Ks investment objectives and suit her 
identified needs?
With this approach in mind, Ive thought about Mrs Ks financial situation when Lloyds 
provided investment advice and made its recommendations to Mrs K. The CMC initially said that one of the reasons Lloyds advice was unsuitable was that Mrs K 
had retired from paid employment by 2007. But the paperwork completed by the adviser at 
the time suggests she was receiving an income from part-time paid work. 
Where the information is incomplete or facts arent agreed by the parties involved, I must 
base my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely in the light of available evidence and the wider circumstances. I must make reasonable 
assumptions where necessary. 
I think its reasonable for me to rely substantially on the point of sale documentation that 
Lloyds has provided to give me an insight into Mrs Ks circumstances and financial situation 
at the time and an understanding of her wishes and intentions. 
Information recorded in the Fact Find and suitability paperwork shows that Mrs K was still 
working on a part time basis, despite having taken her pension benefits. This is borne out by 
further checks Lloyds carried out which verified that Mrs K was receiving regular monthly pay 
into her bank account. So I dont find that Mrs Ks employment status is a reason for me to 
uphold this complaint and I am proceeding on the basis that it is reasonable to think she was 
in work at the time she took this advice.
The Financial Review completed by Lloydss financial adviser at the time shows that all of 
Mrs Ks living costs and other financial needs and requirements were amply covered out of 
her net monthly income of £1,395 and she still had an ample cash surplus available of 
around £695 each month. She had no debts. Mrs K had around £502,000 tied up in illiquid 
assets - mainly property in which she had a joint interest, along with £2,000 worth of shares 
and an investment portfolio worth around £20,000 (held with another financial business). 
Mrs K also held approximately £142,000 cash in deposit based accounts. She wanted to 
keep around £62,000 in readily available cash, as an emergency fund and to pay for some 
planned home improvements. 
This left Mrs K with a lump sum budget of around £80,226 available to invest.
Mrs K told the adviser that she did not foresee any major change to her lifestyle or 
circumstances in the immediate future  she had no plans to stop work for at least another 
five years or so. From what I know about her job, notwithstanding her age, I dont think the 
adviser would have had any reason to think it wasnt realistic for Mrs K to expect to stay in 
her job as long as she expected to.
She had sufficient disposable income and other means to be able to absorb some loss if 
necessary. Overall, I am satisfied that Mrs K was in a strong enough financial situation 
safely to be able to invest around £80,000.
Having decided that the amount she was recommended to invest was suitable, Ive gone 
on to think about whether balanced investments were right for Mrs Ks needs.
Mrs K wanted to use around £5,000 to top up her pension.
Out of the remaining £75,000, she wanted to use £7,000 to take advantage of her annual 
ISA allowance (when she was able to do so) to achieve growth potential in a more tax 
efficient way than leaving her money in a standard bank or building society account. She 
wanted a better chance of staying ahead of inflation and having additional funds to enjoy 
later in life whilst having the option of penalty free access to her money if needed.With the remaining £68,000, Lloyds documentation records that Mrs K wanted to earn a 
greater return than she would get if her money was in a deposit account. She wanted the 
option to take future fixed withdrawals as and when financial circumstances dictated, in a tax 
efficient manner. She was prepared to invest for the medium term and for at least five years. 
Lloyds doesnt have a record of any detailed discussion about the risk Mrs K was 
prepared to take with her investment but Im satisfied this would have been discussed. 
I cant be sure of exactly what Mrs K understood about risk. But, looking at the answers 
recorded overall to questions asked alongside the fact find document, I think she had a 
good understanding of the basic principle that risk was commensurate with growth 
potential and, in choosing to invest, she needed to balance her investment objectives 
against the risk she felt comfortable taking with her money.
I can see that some of her answers were suggestive of different attitudes to risk. But it 
seems clear that the overriding consideration for Mrs K was maximising the return on her 
investment. 
Given the options of selecting Strongly Agree, Agree, Disagree and Strongly Disagree, 
Mrs K agreed with the statement I am not concerned by short term stockmarket 
movements and disagreed with Maintaining the money I have is more important to me than 
making it grow. 
Other questions about inflation and potential long term returns also suggest she was willing 
to take some investment risk.
I think Mrs K would have understood what she was being asked to decide when 
answering these questions. 
So its reasonable to think the responses she chose summed up Mrs Ks position. 
And I think it was fair for Lloyds to recommend a risk-based investment to Mrs K. 
Lloyds definition of a balanced investment was These investments carry a risk of loss to 
capital value but have the potential for capital growth and/or income over the medium to long 
term. Typically, they do not have any guarantees and will fluctuate in capital value.
The balanced fund meant Mrs K wasnt exposed to higher fluctuations in value associated 
with more adventurous investments primarily in equities (which Mrs K had indicated she did 
not want) whilst still giving her the opportunity to benefit from additional returns over cash in 
the bank  which was what she wanted.
I find overall that Mrs K was prepared to take a balanced risk (as defined by Lloyds) to 
achieve her objective of capital growth to enhance her retirement income.
I've taken into account that the CMC felt the asset make-up of the portfolio was not balanced 
and too risky for Mrs K as it was weighted towards equity based investment and property. 
The best available information I have about the fund is the Balanced Solution Fund Fact 
Sheet from January 2007, which is the closest one to the date of the sale to Mrs K that 
Lloyds can provide. I think its reasonable to rely on this as a good indicator of the fund 
make-up when Mrs  K invested in it a couple of months later. It shows that more than a third of the funds assets were held in five bond and gilt funds, 
there were four equity funds making up around half the total assets and the remainder 
comprised a property fund. 
These asset classes reflect a range of risk and the spread of investments gave Mrs K 
protection against volatility in the riskier market sectors which offered potentially higher 
gains, offset by the funds in bonds and gilts which were likely to be less risky but offered 
more limited opportunity for big gains in value. 
This looks reasonably balanced to me and I dont find the Balanced Solution Fund was too 
risky for Mrs K overall. 
Mrs K was worried that it wasnt suitable for her to invest in property given the lack of 
liquidity and potential restrictions on withdrawals. Lloyds said she was always able to 
withdraw her money from the fund, with no delays other than usual processing times. 
I havent seen any evidence to suggest otherwise. 
To sum up, I find Mrs K was prepared to take a balanced risk and that investments in the 
Balanced Solution Fund reasonably reflected her agreed objectives and risk attitude.
Overall, and based on Mrs Ks circumstances as recorded at the time, Im not persuaded 
Lloyds investment advice was unsuitable.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman