DRN-3879148
The complaint
Miss S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC declined her claim for a refund of a £33 
cancellation fee.
What happened
In June 2022 Miss S bought some flights online for £108. She paid by bank transfer. Two 
days later, she cancelled her booking, and was refunded £75. She asked Barclays to pay 
her the difference, as she said that the booking confirmation email had said there would be 
no cancellation fee.
Barclays thought Miss S was asking it to refund a debit card payment of £33. It wrote to 
Miss S at her home address to ask her from which account and on which date she had made 
that payment. This letter told her that if she did not respond within one week, Barclays would 
close her claim for lack of information. After receiving no reply, it sent her a final response 
letter saying it had closed her claim.
Miss S brought this complaint to our service. She wanted Barclays to pay her £33. She also 
complained that she had not heard anything from Barclays since she had first contacted it.
Our investigator said that as Miss S had made her payment by bank transfer, there was 
nothing Barclays could do. So he did not uphold her complaint. Miss S asked for an 
ombudsman to review her case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. Barclays is not responsible for what the airline did. 
Although a bank can sometimes be required to refund a debit card or credit card payment, 
this is not the case for a bank transfer which has been authorised by its customer.
Even if the bank was responsible, which it isnt, the evidence about the airlines cancellation 
policy is not convincing. Although the booking confirmation email says No Cancellation 
Fee, the same email contains a link to the airlines terms and conditions, which say that 
there is a cancellation fee. Also, the airline sent Miss S an email which read:
As discussed the cancellation charges will be GBP 33 and you will get the refund of 
GBP 75/-. Kindly confirm if you want to cancel the same and also email us your bank 
details.
Miss S must have agreed to that, so Im not persuaded that she was supposed to get a full 
refund.
Im satisfied that Barclays wrote to her at the correct address, so its not the banks fault if 
she didnt receive its letters.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 May 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman