DRN-2965686
The complaint
Mr R complains about Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) regarding him receiving 
misdirected calls from customers of Nationwide. He wants Nationwide to confirm that his 
data was not shared and to be compensated for his distress and inconvenience. 
What happened
Mr R is a customer of Nationwide. 
In March 2021, Mr R called Nationwide to discuss his account. 
Shortly after his call ended, Mr R received a call from a different Nationwide customer, who 
had been rerouted to his phone number. Mr R describes that the caller became aggressive 
and abusive. 
Mr R then reported receiving further calls that day.
Mr R complained to Nationwide. He was concerned that his data had been wrongly shared. 
Nationwide responded to his complaint and apologised. Nationwide explained that it had 
identified one call which was wrongly re-routed to Mr R due to human error. It offered him 
£75 compensation to reflect his inconvenience. 
Mr R was not happy with this and contacted us.
Our investigator did not uphold his complaint. They noted that there was no doubt that Mr R 
had wrongly received calls on that day, and that Nationwide had apologised. The 
investigator considered that Nationwides offer of compensation was reasonable and in line 
with our awards. They therefore did not recommend that Nationwide do anything more. 
Mr R did not accept that view, so the complaint was passed for an ombudsman decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate why Mr R was concerned when he received these calls, and why he might fear 
that his data had been compromised. 
Nationwide has, however, given a reasonable explanation of how the error occurred and has 
apologised. Nationwide has offered assurance that the error would not reoccur, and it seems 
that this was in isolated incident. Mr R has not reported any further issues since the one date 
in March 2021. 
I agree with the investigator that this was clearly an error, but it was isolated, and an 
appropriate response has been made. Nationwide has offered the assurance Mr R wanted, 
and I agree that its offer is in line with awards we would make in similar circumstances. Mr R 
has indicated that he wants £250 compensation, but I consider that such amount would be 
beyond the awards we would usually make. 
Consequently, I agree with the investigator and do not uphold Mr Rs complaint. I appreciate 
that this will be disappointing, but I hope it explains why I have reached it.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint and do not ask Nationwide 
Building Society to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman