DRN-3081320
The complaint
Mr C complains on behalf his mothers, Mrs Cs estate, about the service received from The 
Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential).  
As a trustee, hes unhappy that Prudential wont reimburse the financial adviser set-up fees 
on a new bond. 
What happened
Previously, Prudential gave Mr C some advice regarding the options open to him about 
reinvesting an expiring bond. Initially, it told him that he could transfer the bond to new 
holders, but upon review found that he couldnt. 
A separate complaint against Prudential relating to this incorrect advice has been resolved. I 
understand that Prudential paid Mr C £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused, and a refund of £828 in legal fees incurred, which he has accepted. 
In any case, Prudential said Mr C needed to obtain financial advice if he wanted to reinvest 
in a new Prudential bond product, otherwise, it was a matter for him whether he wanted the 
funds back or re-invest as he saw fit. 
I understand that Mr C indicated he wished to remain loyal to Prudential due to past family 
links. However, due to the time taken, inconvenience suffered, and costs incurred in relation 
to the incorrect advice, Mr C feels that Prudential should cover any cost of advice to reinvest 
the bond. 
Prudential explained to Mr C, through various correspondence and telephone calls, that 
because the old bond has ended, hed have to obtain (and pay for) fresh advice in order to 
reinvest with it. 
In a Final Response Letter (FRL) dated 19 September 2019 the business didnt uphold the 
complaint. It maintained its position. It said that although it had initially given Mr C incorrect 
advice, it was never an option to reinvest free of charge. As Mr C had decided to start a new 
bond, it couldnt agree to refund the setup fees.
Unhappy with the business response Mr C referred to the complaint to our service. He felt 
that he was given an assurance that he wouldnt have to pay this fee, and therefore he had 
an expectation that the reinvestment would be free of any charge to him. 
Prudential hasnt been able to find any evidence that it provided Mr C with any kind of 
assurance that itd cover the fees. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
Having carefully reviewed the file documentation and calls, he cant find any 
evidence that Prudential at any stage gave Mr C an undertaking or commitment that 
it would pay any future financial adviser fees. 
Theres nothing to even suggest that Prudential had made a mistake and given Mr C 
an undertaking in error. 
Mr C had made clear what he wanted and expected Prudential to do, but that placed 
no obligation on Prudential. His expectation arose out of his own wish for the 
business to do what he thought it should do.  
Ultimately, its a matter for Prudential, but it did make clear that this was a fee that 
would need to be incurred as part of the investment process. Unlike the industry 
regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA), we cant ask Prudential to 
change its process. 
The bond had ended and couldnt continue. Mr C didnt need to reinvest and couldve 
chosen to just take the fees at no cost to him and/or reinvest with another business.   
Whilst he can see that Mr C is unhappy, theres nothing more that Prudential needs 
to do.    
Mr C disagreed with the investigators view. In short, he said that whilst he can see the 
investigator considered the complaint carefully, he feels like the investigator wholly sided 
with the business and hasnt addressed his point about being given the impression that 
Prudential will cover cost, in full or at least in part. 
Mr C understands that the business couldnt outright agree to pay the fees, but it was within 
its gift to do so. Having undertaken to consider the issue, the business refusal is 
disingenuous. 
The investigator having considered the additional points, wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. In summary, he said:
He cant agree that Mr C was told, or given the impression, that Prudential would 
compensate him for the financial adviser fees. 
Whilst it was within Prudentials gift, it wasnt obliged to waive/pay the fees that it 
made clear Mr C would be responsible for.  
Notwithstanding the background to this complaint, it was Mr Cs decision to proceed 
with Prudential under its fee terms, or go elsewhere, and pay fees.
Ultimately, it was for Prudential to decide whether (or not) it would pay those fees 
and for Mr C to accept or reject those findings. 
Mr C disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, he said:
In the phone call prior to him proceeding to purchase the new bond, and incurring 
fees, the business said that it would consider the fees upon him submitting the 
evidence. 
Previously, the business said that it would consider the legal fees, which it refunded 
in due course. 
He also emailed Prudential to say that he was expecting it to pay the fees. The 
business didnt respond negatively.    
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr C says, Im unable to safely 
say that Prudential has done anything wrong by refusing to pay/reimburse the cost of the 
financial advice to re-invest the proceeds from the expired bond plan.   
Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much 
recognise Mr Cs strength of feeling about this matter. 
Mr Cs provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully. However, I hope he wont take the fact my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mr C, and Prudential, and reach what I think is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. In deciding whats fair and 
reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best industry practice. But its 
for me to decide, based on the available information Ive been given, whats more likely than 
not to have happened. 
Notwithstanding the broader case history, the business refusal to pay/reimburse Mr C fees 
in respect of advice  about what to do with an expired/matured bond  isnt unreasonable. 
In my opinion, the issues raised in this complaint and the earlier complaint (thats already 
been dealt with), are mutually exclusive. 
Unless Mr C decided to receive the proceeds in which case it would be the end of the 
matter, I think its likely that he would have to pay fees to reinvest the proceeds of the bond. I 
agree with the business that although it had initially given Mr C incorrect information, it was 
never an option to reinvest free of charge.
In other words, although Prudential had initially offered incorrect information  in respect of 
which it has paid redress  it was never the agreement that hed be offered the opportunity 
to reinvest free of charge. 
On the face of the evidence, Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr C was given any 
assurance or undertaking that he wouldnt have to pay for any financial advice. In the 
circumstances, I dont think its unreasonable that Mr C would need to obtain (and pay for) 
financial advice to make sure the new bond was suitable. 
Despite Mr C making clear what he wants and expects the business to do in the 
circumstances, Im satisfied that the business has also consistently made clear its position.   
Despite what Mr C says about the conversation with the business, Im not persuaded that he 
was given an undertaking that itd pay for the advice and set up of a new bond. I appreciate 
what he says about term consideration, and what he understands by the businesses use of 
it, based on a previous occasion when it considered legal fees and agreed to pay it. But I 
dont agree with his conclusion. 
Just because the business considered the legal fee and decided to pay it, doesnt mean that 
its bound to follow the same course of action with anything else that it considers. In my 
opinion the circumstances are also different, in the former case it gave Mr C incorrect 
information. In this instance, undertaking to consider an issue  whether it be legal fees or financial 
advice fees  simply meant that the business would look at the issue and then decide 
whether (or not) to pay it. The business not confirming its position in response to Mr Cs 
email, having done so previously, is not the same as a commitment to pay fees. 
In the circumstances, I think the term must be read in light of its ordinary meaning. Im 
satisfied that at no occasion did Prudential guarantee that it would pay the fees/cost, or else 
I think it wouldve made this point abundantly clear. 
I note in a call dated 25 January 2019, the Prudential agent told Mr C I cant guarantee we 
will reimburse the costs of the new product. In a call dated 19 September 2019, it confirmed 
that the fees would have to be paid. So, on balance I think Mr C ought reasonably to have 
known, that Prudent might not pay for the advice, despite him expecting or wanting it to do 
so. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr C says, Im not persuaded 
that Prudential was wrong to refuse to pay/reimburse the cost of financial advice needed to 
reinvest, even if it was within its gift. Im not persuaded that it ever undertook to do so. 
I appreciate Mr C will be thoroughly unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. Whilst I appreciate his frustration, Im not going to ask the business to do 
anything. 
On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint 
and give him what he wants.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs C 
to accept or reject my decision before 26 November 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman