DRN-2822222
The complaint
 Miss H (by the way of a representative) has complained that S.D. Taylor Limited (trading as
Loans at Home (LAH)) lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Our adjudicator partly upheld Miss Hs complaint. LAH did not respond to the adjudicators 
opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was upholding Miss Hs 
complaint in part. A copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings 
follow this and form part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Miss H took eight loans from LAH between April 2013 and December 2013. A summary of
her borrowing, based on the information provided to us from the lender, can be found below:
Loan Date Taken Date RepaidAmount 
BorrowedMax Combined 
Weekly Repayment
1 18/04/2013 01/08/2013 £150.00 £10.00
2 06/06/2013 05/12/2013 £250.00 £20.00
3 01/08/2013 05/12/2013 £150.00 £20.00
4 01/08/2013 outstanding £200.00 £30.00
5 08/08/2013 outstanding £89.00 £33.00
6 17/10/2013 outstanding £200.00 £43.00
7 05/12/2013 outstanding £200.00 £33.00
8 05/12/2013 outstanding £375.00 £48.00
The most recent correspondence from LAH shows there is an outstanding balance on loans
4-8. LAHs information suggests that these loans were written off. However, later on, it told
us that there was a County Court Judgement (CCJ) applied for these loans. It isnt clear
whether the attachment of earnings that LAH says was put in place led to these loans being
repaid. It also isnt clear whether the CCJ and attachments of earnings was something
started by LAH or a third party that the loans were sold to.
One of our adjudicators looked at Miss Hs complaint. She didnt think LAH were wrong to
approve Miss Hs first four loans. But the adjudicator thought LAH were wrong to approve
loan 5 because Miss H already had three outstanding loans with it at this point. Our
adjudicator then thought LAH ought to have realised Miss H was having problems managing
her money when she applied for this loan.
By loan 6, the adjudicator thought that the lender ought to have realised that Miss Hs
pattern of lending was showing signs that these loans had become unsustainable for her.
So, overall the adjudicator upheld loans 5-8.
It appears that Miss H agreed with our adjudicators opinion.
LAH did not respond, so I do not know it thinks about the adjudicators assessment.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final
decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the facility was provided.
LAH needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss H could
repay these loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number
of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts, and the
consumers income and expenditure.
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks
might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that LAH
should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable
for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Miss Hs complaint.
Loans 1-4
The adjudicator didnt think it was wrong of LAH to have provided Miss Hs first four loans.
Miss H appears to have accepted our adjudicators findings about these loans.
LAH has been unable to provide documentation showing what information it gathered at the
time of these loans due to the time thats passed since Miss Hs loan applications. Miss H
hasnt provided any detail about her circumstances at this time which would make me
conclude that the lending wasnt sustainable.
So, I wont comment further on these loans, or the level of individual checks LAH did before
approving these loans. But as they were part of the borrowing relationship Miss H had withLAH, they are something I have taken into account when considering the other loans she
took.
Loan 5
LAH says it carried out checks before it approved loan 5 for Miss H and the results of these
checks didnt raise any concerns. As I have explained, LAH has been unable to provide any
documentation showing what information Miss H declared to it at the time. But as this was
Miss Hs fifth loan in just under four months, I think LAH should have been looking to build a
clearer picture about Miss Hs finances before lending to her again.
When Miss H applied for loan 5, I think there was sufficient enough information from her
borrowing history alone to suggest she was having problems managing her money. She had
taken three loans within one week. Loans 2, 3, and 4 were still running at this point so Miss
H was applying for her fourth loan to run concurrently. This meant Miss Hs monthly
repayments and overall indebtedness increased by more than 50% in eight days.
Im aware that LAHs product allows its customers the flexibility of taking more than one loan
at a time, subject to its affordability and creditworthiness checks. But I think it can equally be
the case that taking four loans at the same time could be an indication a customer was
having problems managing their money.
LAH went on to approve additional loans which meant Miss H had up to five loans running
concurrently. The fact that Miss H had a significant number of loans running alongside each
other suggests to me that she was unable to repay her loans without borrowing again. And
so, that she was unable to sustainably repay them.
Loans 6-8
I havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks for loans 6-8 because I
didnt consider it necessary to do so. Indeed, Id be inclined to think that from loan 6, LAHs
checks really needed to go further than just relying on the information Miss H told it.
At this point in the lending relationship, I think LAH ought to have been trying to verify Miss
Hs income and overall expenditure in order to have an accurate understanding of her full
financial position.
So, in addition to assessing the circumstances behind each individual loan provided to
Miss H, LAH needed to consider the overall pattern of lending and what unfolded during the
course of its lending relationship with Miss H. I do think LAH was wrong to have provided
loans 6-8 because Miss H wasnt in a position to sustainably repay them for the following
reasons:
By loan 6, LAH ought to have realised Miss H was not managing to repay her
loans sustainably. This was Miss Hs sixth loan in around six months, and she had
been indebted to LAH for this whole period. Miss H already had four outstanding
loans and was applying for her fifth loan to run concurrently. This pattern in my view
isnt of someone who is able to manage their money, given how quickly they are
returning for borrowing.
As soon as Miss H repaid loan 1, she requested an additional two loans on the same
date which were equal to more than double the amount she originally borrowed. The
fact that Miss H had taken a number of loans within a relatively short period of time,
coupled with the fact that the loan amounts (and therefore the monthly commitments)
were increasing her overall indebtedness, supports my view that Miss Hsindebtedness had become unsustainable. There were also clear indicators that she
may have been needing to borrow in order to make her repayments.
Miss Hs first loan was for £150 and loan 6 was for a larger loan of £200. This shows
that Miss H wasnt reducing her indebtedness to LAH. She may have been repaying
her loans in line with the credit agreements, but she wasnt actually making any
headway into reducing her overall capital balance.
I think that Miss H lost out because LAH continued to provide borrowing from loan 6 onwards
because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Hs indebtedness by allowing
her to take credit over an extended period of time.
the length of time coupled with the number of loans which Miss H borrowed was
likely to have had negative implications on Miss Hs ability to access mainstream
credit and so kept her in the market for these loans.
So overall, I think LAH were wrong to approve loans 5-8.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both LAH and Miss H did not provide any additional comments after receiving my provisional 
decision. So, there is no new information for me to consider. 
So, Ive reached the same conclusions for the same reasons that I did in the provisional 
decision. And I still think LAH was wrong to have provided Miss H with loans 5  8. 
  
Putting things right
In deciding what redress LAH should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what
might have happened had it stopped lending to Miss H from loan 5, as Im satisfied it ought
to have. Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that
question.
For example, having been declined this lending Miss H may have simply left matters there,
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed
between her and this particular lender which she may not have had with others. If this wasnt
a viable option, she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative 
assuming that was even possible.
Or, Miss H may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that,
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Miss H in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Miss H would more likely than not have taken up any one ofthese options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce LAHs liability in this case for what
Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
I think LAH were wrong to approve loans 5-8.
If the debt has been sold to a third party, LAH should, if it wishes, buy the debt back and 
then carry out the redress below. If it isnt able to, or doesnt wish to buy the debt back, then 
it needs to work with the third party to achieve the same results.
Remove all unpaid interest, fees and charges from the outstanding loan balance on
loans 5-8.
LAH should rework the account so that Miss H only has to repay the principal
borrowed for loans 5-8 (this will include any costs incurred by Miss H for the reporting
of the CCJ). It should treat any repayments made by Miss H (and the third party and
or via the attachment of earnings) as if it went towards the principal balance.
If and when Miss H has repaid enough to repay the principal, then any overpayment
should be refunded to her. To this overpayment, 8% simple a year interest should
be added from the date of the overpayment came due to the date of settlement*;
However, if after doing the above, an outstanding principal balance remains, LAH
should try and come to an affordable arrangement with Miss H to repay the balance.
But Id remind LAH of its obligation to treat her fairly.
All of these loans ought to have dropped off Miss Hs credit file given how long ago 
the loans were taken and likley defaulted. LAH should remove any adverse 
information recorded about loan 5. For loans 6-8,LAH should remove these loans 
entirely from Miss Hs credit file.
LAH has told us the CCJ for the last loans was recorded around December 2014. Therefore, 
given we are now more than six years after the event, the CCJ should now have dropped off 
Miss Hs credit file. If it hasnt been removed then LAH will need to work with the party who 
had the CCJ recorded to get this removed.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest. LAH should give Miss
H a certificate showing how much tax is deducted, if she asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im upholding Miss Hs 
complaint in part.
S.D. Taylor Limited trading as Loans at Home should put things right for Miss H as Ive 
outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 June 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman