DRN-2551779
The complaint
Mr H complains that TSB Bank plc recorded an entry against him with CIFAS, a fraud 
prevention agency, following an application he made for a mortgage.
What happened
In late 2014, Mr H applied for a mortgage with TSB. TSB declined the application and 
recorded an entry against Mr H with CIFAS, saying he had failed to declare an address at 
which a county court judgment (CCJ) was registered.
Mr H says he couldnt get finance for either himself or his limited company, and he didnt find 
out about the entry until late 2018. He complained to TSB. TSB initially said it hadnt done 
anything wrong and wouldnt remove the entry. In late 2019, it reviewed the matter again and 
found the CCJ was no longer showing with credit reference agencies, so it removed the 
CIFAS entry. But it said it had been right to make the entry in the first place.  
Our investigator found TSB had been able to provide only limited evidence about Mr Hs 
application in 2014 and what led to it recording the entry. She thought it had acted 
reasonably in removing the entry after Mr H complained, and she ultimately didnt 
recommend it do any more. 
Mr H didnt accept that conclusion. In summary, he said TSBs actions had resulted in 
substantial losses for him and his business, so he wanted compensation. He also said he 
hadnt lied when he applied for the mortgage, and he wanted to see evidence of the CCJ  
which he didnt know about given the range of business interests and company directorships 
he has.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
One of the difficulties in this case is the time that has passed since TSB made the entry with 
CIFAS. This means the evidence available is more limited than it might otherwise have 
been. That, of course, isnt Mr Hs fault. It is, however, the reason why TSB removed the 
entry in 2019: the evidence its records said it had relied on (a CCJ against a company of 
which Mr H was a director) in making the entry some five years earlier was no longer there. 
In these circumstances, I think removing the entry was a reasonable step for TSB to have 
taken. But I dont consider I can fairly require TSB to compensate Mr H for the impact he 
claims the entry had in the intervening years.
Firstly, Im not  on balance  persuaded that TSB failed to meet the standard CIFAS 
requires of its members in recording an entry of this type, or that it was wrong to have made 
the entry in the first place. CIFAS itself told Mr H when he complained to it that it was 
satisfied with the evidence TSB had provided, so it wouldnt remove the entry. 
I cant be certain what TSB asked Mr H about his or the companies finances in 2014, and 
Mr H has said there is a difference between being self-employed and a company director, 
which may have affected his answers. I understand his argument, and this brings me to my 
second point, which is that I think it would be difficult to conclude that the significant losses 
Mr H is claiming flow from the CIFAS entry. 
Mr H has said he struggled to get finance because of the entry. I note he had had an 
account taken out fraudulently in his name which adversely affected his credit file, but also 
that he was able to increase his borrowing on some card accounts and open new accounts 
while the CIFAS entry was still in place. And, importantly, CIFAS is clear with its members 
that they cant automatically reject an application or close an account just because an entry 
has been made against someones name. They must make their own enquiries.  
Besides that, Mr H and each of the limited companies of which he is director is a separate 
legal entity so, as the investigator explained, any business losses are those of the 
companies, not Mr H. I have no power to make an award for his limited companies losses.
For these reasons, I dont require TSB to pay Mr H compensation or to take any other action 
to settle this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman