DRN-4049807
The complaint
Ms C complains about how Aviva Insurance Limited dealt with a claim against her private 
medical insurance. Ms Cs solicitor, Mr S, is assisting her in bringing the complaint.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, for many years, Ms C has had private medical insurance 
underwritten by Aviva. The policy is on a medical history disregard basis and renews in 
April each year. In 2015 Ms C was diagnosed with undifferentiated pleomorphic 
sarcoma/myxofibrosarcoma. She had various surgeries and treatments. In March 2022, 
Ms C was invited to join a trial of treatment with pembrolizumab at an overseas hospital 
and made a claim against her policy in relation to continuation of that treatment in the 
UK. 
In April 2022, Aviva declined Ms Cs claim. It said that pembrolizumab was experimental. 
Aviva said that it would review its position following evidence about how Ms C responds 
to treatment. 
In August 2022, Ms Cs specialist wrote to Aviva in support of her claim and said, 
amongst other things, that doxorubicin is the only established treatment for Ms Cs 
condition. In September 2022, Aviva said that it would pay up to the cost of the 
established treatment. 
Aviva said that it had maintained its position that pembrolizumab is experimental but 
understood that Ms C had proceeded with treatment on the basis that it would consider 
evidence of a positive clinical outcome. It paid Ms C compensation of £500 in order to 
reassure her that it had listened to her concerns. 
Ms C says that Aviva hasnt considered the evidence shes provided about the 
effectiveness of her treatment. She says that Aviva made a number of statements which 
gave her the impression that if she could show that her treatment was effective, it would 
accept her claim. After she provided the information about efficacy, Aviva reversed its 
position. Ms C says that Aviva hasnt dealt effectively with her specialist. 
Ms C wants Aviva to accept her claim for UK treatment with pembrolizumab and to 
reimburse her for cost shes paid to date. She also wants an apology and substantial 
compensation for distress. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that Aviva had 
misled Ms C in relation to whether it would fund the treatment. The investigator didnt 
think that Ms C had provided evidence that her treatment is supported by best quality 
evidence, as required by the policy. She said that, initially, the evidence was that there 
was no other standard treatment available to Ms C, so she didnt think that Aviva was at 
fault in declining the claim. When additional information was provided in relation to the 
established treatment for Ms Cs condition, Aviva agreed to cover the cost of the 
established treatment. The investigator thought that was fair.
Ms C didnt agree with the investigator and responded in some detail, which I wont set 
out here in full. She said, in summary:
The investigator hadnt reviewed in sufficient detail the documents provided 
about the clinical effectiveness of pembrolizumab for the treatment of her 
condition. 
Her diagnosed condition is very rare, so large scale trials arent feasible, and 
analysis of the clinical evidence needs to be considered in that context. 
The evidence provided to Aviva meets the policy definition of best quality 
evidence.
Theres no requirement in the policy that she prove that experimental treatment is 
effective in order for it to be covered, so Aviva asked for that evidence to support 
its decision about whether to accept the claim. The reasonable interpretation of 
Avivas requests was that it would cover effective treatment and it was unfair and 
unreasonable of Aviva not to do so after the evidence was presented. 
Avivas decision in relation to her claim and its complaints handling has caused 
distress and inconvenience.
Aviva should reimburse the costs of her pembrolizumab treatment and her legal 
costs in pursuing the complaint and pay compensation for distress and 
inconvenience.  
Ms C asked that an ombudsman consider the matter, so it was passed to me to decide.
In this decision Im considering Ms Cs complaint about how Aviva handled her claim, 
which it dealt with in its final responses of 12 July 2022 and 12 September 2022.  Im 
aware that theres been further correspondence between Ms C and Aviva in relation to 
the amount it has agreed to pay towards Ms Cs treatment. The investigator has 
explained that Aviva hasnt issued a final response in relation to that matter, so its not 
dealt with here. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear and quite understandable that Ms C has very strong feelings about this matter. She 
has provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which I have read and 
considered. Im conscious that Ive condensed what I dont doubt is a very worrying time into 
a short narrative. That reflects our service that, wherever possible, aims to be informal. Im 
satisfied that Ive captured the essence of what happened. I trust that Ms C wont take as a 
discourtesy the fact that I focus on what I consider to be the central issue, that is whether 
Aviva acted fairly and reasonably in its handling of her claim. 
Ms C has also raised concerns about Avivas handling of her complaint. Complaint handling 
isnt a regulated activity. So, where a complaint is solely about complaint handling, we arent 
able to consider it. But I can consider how Aviva handled Ms Cs claim. 
the relevant terms and conditions The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which say  
as follows: 
Exclusions
[]
Experimental treatment
We do not cover experimental treatment, unless it meets the criteria set out below.
We only pay for treatment that is:
approved by European Medicines Agency (EMA) and Medicines & Healthcare 
products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) and is used within the terms of its licence,
or
part of a nationally approved clinical guideline (The National Institute for Health and 
Care Excellence or Scottish Intercollegiate Guidelines Network),
or
supported by best quality evidence (prospective randomised controlled trials that 
have been published in peer reviewed journals, independent of conflicts of interest 
and applicable to the members clinical condition) and offered by a specialist with 
documented evidence of positive clinical and patient reported outcomes within a 
hospital that is equipped with staff, equipment and processes to provide it.
If your treatment meets these requirements, we will not exclude treatment on the basis that 
it is experimental. Before we can decide if your proposed treatment is eligible, we must 
receive all the clinical details we need from your specialist, including a completed 
Treatment Request Form. We must confirm your cover in writing before any treatment 
begins.
BUT:
Even if we consider your treatment to be experimental because it does not satisfy the 
requirements listed above, we will still pay for the lowest cost of either:
the experimental treatment or
the equivalent established treatment usually provided for your condition, if this is 
available.
Please note: No payment will be made if there is no established treatment available for your 
condition (for which the experimental treatment is being proposed). If you undergo 
experimental treatment that is not successful, we will not pay towards further treatment of 
your condition or for any other condition that you develop as a result of undergoing 
experimental treatment.
Has the claim been handled unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Aviva has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Im not upholding Ms Cs 
complaint because I dont think that Aviva treated her unfairly or unreasonably. I say that 
because:   
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An 
insurer will decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the terms and 
conditions of the policy document. The onus is on the consumer to show that the 
claim falls under one of the agreed areas of cover within the policy. If the event is 
covered in principle but is declined on the basis of an exclusion set out in the policy 
the onus shifts to the insurer to show how that exclusion applies.The central question for me to decide is whether Aviva acted fairly and reasonably 
in relying on the exclusion Ive set out above. Its common ground that 
pembrolizumab for Ms Cs condition isnt approved by EMA and MHRA or part of 
nationally approved clinical guidelines. So, I think the key issue for me to consider 
is whether Aviva acted fairly and reasonably in concluding that use of 
pembrolizumab for Ms Cs condition isnt supported by best quality evidence, as 
defined by the policy.
In order to amount to best quality evidence, as defined by the policy, the evidence 
must be prospective randomised controlled trials that have been published in 
peer reviewed journals, independent of conflicts of interest and applicable to the 
members clinical condition. Given the circumstances of this case, and the rarity 
of Ms Cs condition I can understand why this may seem difficult for Ms C to 
evidence. But Aviva is entitled to decide what sort of treatment its prepared to 
cover. I dont think that the term itself is unusual or onerous, even for rare 
conditions. Lots of private medical insurance policies contain similar exclusions, 
reflecting the insurers willingness to cover treatments which may be considered 
experimental.     
Aviva referred the material provided by Ms C to its clinical team, which is what wed 
expect it to do. Ive looked carefully at the material provided by Ms C. Based on 
what Ive seen, I dont think that Aviva was at fault in declining the claim in the first 
instance. The case report published in October 2021 is a report on two cases; it 
isnt a randomised, controlled trial. The phase II trial was a single-arm trial, which 
means that participants are given the experimental therapy, then followed to 
observe their response; it didnt involve randomization. I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Aviva to conclude that the supporting letters from Ms Cs 
specialists and articles dont amount to best evidence, as defined by the policy. 
Ms C has referred to the fact that pembrolizumab has been approved for use for 
patients with other conditions. That doesnt change the outcome here as it remains 
the case that theres no nationally approved clinical guideline for the use of 
pembrolizumab for Ms Cs condition. 
Ms Cs specialist said initially that theres no established treatment for Ms Cs 
condition. In August 2022, he told Aviva that doxorubicin is the established 
treatment, although Ms Cs condition doesnt respond well to it. Aviva said that it 
would reimburse the cost of the established treatment in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy. I think that was fair. 
Ive thought about whether there are any grounds on which I can fairly direct Aviva 
to accept Ms Cs claim for treatment with pembrolizumab. I appreciate the 
importance of this matter to Ms C and the fact that shes described some of the 
circumstances which make her vulnerable. But I think that Aviva is entitled to rely 
on the terms and conditions of the policy and didnt act unfairly or unreasonably in 
doing so. 
Ms C says that Aviva made a number of statements which gave her the impression 
that if she could show that her treatment was effective, it would accept her claim. 
Ive looked at the correspondence carefully. I can see why Ms C was hopeful that 
Aviva may change its position, but I dont think that Aviva misled Ms C in the way 
she suggests. Taken as a whole, the correspondence shows that Aviva was willing 
to consider further information and I think that it was right to do so. But there was no promise that it would accept Ms Cs claim on production of evidence that the 
treatment was effective for her. 
Even if I reached a different conclusion about the statements Aviva made, it 
wouldnt necessarily lead me to direct Aviva to accept Ms Cs claim. Theres no 
evidence  to suggest that Ms C changed her position in reliance on anything Aviva 
said. In all the circumstances, I think that Avivas payment of compensation of £500 
in recognition of Ms Cs concerns about this is fair and reasonable. 
Ms C also says that Aviva hasnt dealt effectively with her specialist. I dont agree. I 
think that Aviva responded to a complex claim in a timely way. For example, I can 
see that Avivas nurse referred in e-mail correspondence to having spoken to the 
consultant that day. And there are various letters between the consultant and 
Aviva. I dont think that Aviva was required to do any more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman