DRN-3328376
The complaint
Mrs H complains about problems sending international money transfers from her account 
with TSB Bank plc.
What happened
In mid 2018 Mrs H used her TSB internet banking to make three international money 
transfers from her account. These payments, minus a transaction fee, were returned by the 
recipient bank.
Mrs H complained to TSB about this saying that previous transfers had been correctly 
processed using the same details. TSB said that the payments were sent in accordance with 
Mrs Hs instructions, but they were returned by the recipient bank due to a mismatch 
between the beneficiary name and the account number.
Remaining unhappy Mrs H brought her complaint to our service asking for the fees to be 
returned and compensation for what happened. One of our investigators looked into things 
and thought TSB shouldnt be held liable for the actions of the beneficiary bank who returned 
the funds. 
Mrs H provided some extra information showing that the problem seems to have occurred 
because of a change in the beneficiary name between previous transactions and those 
which were returned. Our Investigator considered this information but didnt think TSB were 
responsible for any errors. Mrs H disagreed saying something must have changed with TSB, 
so the complaint has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs H has provided a lot of information about the complaint and its clear to me how strongly 
she feels about what happened, and that there has been a knock-on effect to her because of 
the returned payments. I want to assure Mrs H that Ive read and considered everything 
thats been provided even if I dont mention it in detail. Ive summarised some of what 
happened which reflects the informal nature of our service.
Where the information about what happened is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as 
some of it is here, I have to come to a decision based on the balance of probabilities about 
what I think is most likely to have happened.
The transfers were made by Mrs H using her internet banking. And looking at the information 
from TSB I think the beneficiary information was entered correctly as Mrs H wanted. 
Mrs H says shes been told by the recipient bank that when the payment arrived the 
beneficiary name was different to what had been input, and this is why the funds were 
returned.  
The information from TSB shows that when the transfers were sent the beneficiary details 
were correct. Somewhere during the transaction once the funds had left TSB the details 
appear to have changed. I cant say where or how this might have happened, but Im 
satisfied the transfers were sent with the details Mrs H entered so I cant hold TSB 
responsible.
Mrs H said the problem may have happened when the transfers were routed through an 
intermediary bank. This is possible however I havent seen any persuasive evidence to show 
that, on balance, this is what happened. Also I think TSB took the actions Id expect them to 
take when they became aware of the problem in order to try and help Mrs H.
Im sorry that I cant give Mrs H a definitive answer about what caused the problem. This 
complaint is about the actions of TSB and thats what Ive considered. Its not for me to 
investigate what might have happened at the recipient bank. 
Having carefully considered everything that happened Im satisfied TSB acted fairly and 
reasonably when processing Mrs Hs transfers and arent responsible for any errors. Its 
unfortunate that I cant say with any certainty where the errors happened, but I dont think, 
on the balance of probabilities, that this was the fault of TSB.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2022. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman