DRN-2952499
The complaint
Mr M Complained that Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Virgin Money) blocked his credit card 
after he told them about two unrecognised transactions. He was also unhappy with delays in 
receiving a replacement card.
What happened
On 14 October 2019, Mr M contacted Virgin by telephone. He said he didnt recognise two 
entries on his credit card statement. Virgin told Mr M that they would need to block his card 
and send out a new one together with a new PIN. But Mr M wasnt happy that he would be 
without a card. He said that it was his only method of spending money.
On 16 October 2019, Mr M had a retail card transaction declined. So, he contacted Virgin 
again. They told him that his card had been blocked and agreed to send a new card out to 
him. They agreed to issue this as a fast card. But the card didnt arrive as promised.
Mr M contacted Virgin again on 18 October 2019 to tell them his new card hadnt arrived. 
Virgin noticed that mail had previously been returned from the address they held. So, Mr M 
confirmed the correct address and Virgin amended their records. They also requested 
another new card to be sent to him.
Mr M was unhappy with how Virgin had treated him, so he raised a formal complaint with 
them. Not having a card meant that hed been unable to make various transactions. This had 
caused Mr M inconvenience and concern.
Mr M called Virgin again on 20 October 2019. He hadnt received his new card as promised 
and this continued to cause him problems. Virgin said that his card had been ordered but its 
despatch had been delayed due to the weekend. Mr M wasnt happy and insisted on 
speaking to someone else at Virgin. Virgin had continued to provide estimates for his new 
cards arrival. But, each time, the card didnt arrive. 
Mr M finally received and activated his new card on 23 October 2019.
Virgin continued to investigate Mr Ms complaint and wrote to him on 24 October, 8 
November and 7 December 2019. They apologised that his complaint was taking longer than 
they had anticipated to investigate.
Virgin wrote to Mr M again on 20 December 2019. They agreed that their service hadnt 
been good enough. They said that they hadnt confirmed that his card had been blocked 
when he spoke to them on 14 October 2019. They agreed that they should have clarified the 
delivery address with him before issuing a replacement card. They apologised for their 
failings and offered Mr M a goodwill payment of £175.
Mr M wasnt happy with the compensation amount offered. He believed that this should be 
significantly more to reflect his time spent pursuing matters, numerous telephone calls and 
the inconvenience. So, he decided to refer his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ms complaint. He agreed with Mr M that the 
compensation offered by Virgin wasnt enough to cover the time spent and inconvenience 
caused. He thought that Virgin should increase their offer to £450.
Virgin didnt agree with our investigators assessment of the compensation amount to be 
paid. So, they asked that Mr Ms complaint be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
I reached a different outcome to that of our investigator. Because of that, I issued a 
provisional decision on 1 July 2021  giving both Mr M and Virgin the opportunity to respond 
to my findings below, before I reached a final decision.
In my provisional decision, I said:
Virgin havent disputed that they believe their service fell short of what Mr M 
shouldve received. So, I dont need to make a finding on this part. What I do need to 
consider is whether the proposed redress and compensation is appropriate to the 
circumstances.
Virgin have provided a recording of Mr Ms call to them on 14 October 2019. This 
was when Mr M first reported the two transactions that he didnt recognise. Although 
Virgin told Mr M that his card would be blocked and a replacement sent to him, it 
appears to me that Mr M left the call believing that his card wouldnt be blocked and 
replaced at this stage. Hed told them that this would cause him problems.
Ive looked at Virgins Credit Card Agreement. The following clauses are relevant:
6.10  We can replace cards at any time and you must return a card to us if 
we ask for it.
13.3  You must tell us straightaway by calling usif a card is lost or stolen 
or you think it may be misused.
13.6  Once you have told us of the loss or possible misuse, we will cancel 
your cardIf you have your card, please destroy it by cutting through the 
magnetic strip and chip.
15.1  In some circumstances, we may prevent or limit the use of your 
carddecline a transactionwhere we suspect unauthorised or illegal use..
I agree, Virgin hadnt initially made it clear to him that Mr Ms card had been blocked, 
regardless of what he wanted. It wouldve been helpful if they had. Mr M said that he 
didnt agree to his card being blocked. Regardless, I believe this requirement is clear 
within their terms and conditions above. So, I dont think Mr M had a choice here. 
So, while the service Mr M received from Virgin may not have been the best, I dont 
believe Virgins requirement to block the card was ultimately unfair. But they couldve 
explained this clearly to him at the time and before the call was ended.
Virgin have confirmed that theyd had post returned from the address they held for Mr 
M before he reported the unrecognised transactions on his account. They had 
marked this on their systems. But they didnt raise this with him until his call of 18 
October 2019. So, its clear that this did delay Mr Ms receipt of a replacement card.
Mr M has explained how this impacted on him. He told Virgin, and this service, that 
his Virgin card was his only means of making payments. This suggested that Mr M 
didnt have access to any bank account or other credit card. But I understand that 
when speaking to a manager at Virgin on 25 October 2019, Mr M had said that hed 
had to go to the bank and make cash withdrawals to pay for day to day items and 
had to use partners money to pay for day to day things.  
Virgins terms and conditions are clear on this point. Clause 6.9 says, We do not 
guarantee you will always be able to use your cardWe will not be liable for any loss 
youmay suffer as a result. 
It isnt the role of this service to question Virgins policies and procedures. But it is our 
role to ensure that they have been applied in a fair and reasonable way in relation to 
Mr Ms circumstances. I dont believe it would be fair to hold Virgin solely responsible 
if Mr M didnt have access to any other payment means. They wouldnt have known or had control over this, particularly when Mr M did appear to have a bank account 
elsewhere.
Mr M received a new card within seven working days of first contacting Virgin. Virgin 
have confirmed that replacement cards normally arrive within seven to ten days. So, 
ordinarily, I wouldnt see this as unreasonable. Virgin had offered to issue a fast 
card to speed up the replacement process  they werent obliged to do this. But 
having done so, I agree that Virgins failings were responsible for Mr M not receiving 
a replacement card sooner.
Virgin offered Mr M a goodwill gesture of £175. I believe that any compensation 
should reflect the extent of Virgins failings here and any impact that this had on Mr M 
relative to what shouldve happened. Compensation is a subjective issue, and an 
offer which is considered fair and reasonable by one party may not be considered as 
such by another. 
I understand that Mr M doesnt feel that Virgins offer, in this instance, sufficiently 
recognises the impact on him. Mr M had identified transactions that he didnt 
recognise. He reported this, so his card had to be cancelled and replaced. This was 
inconvenient but I cant hold Virgin responsible for that. Their actions did delay the 
card replacement process albeit not beyond their normal card replacement 
timescales.
Unlike our investigator, I think Virgins offer feels fair and reasonable to me in the 
circumstances here. Where a card needs replacing, for whatever reason, its 
reasonable to assume that this may result in a period of inconvenience for the card 
user. I realise that Mr M will be disappointed, but while I will uphold his complaint, I 
dont intend to ask Virgin to pay any more than the £175 theyve already offered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision, I asked both parties to respond with any new information or 
comments they wanted me to consider. 
Mr M has responded and said that his main issue was he didnt believe that Virgin had given 
a reasonable level of service. While he accepts that Virgins terms and conditions make it 
clear that his card needed to be blocked, he believes that this shouldve been made clear to 
him when he first reported the suspicious transactions. In my provisional decision, I agreed it 
wouldve been helpful if Virgin had made this clear at the time. 
Mr M also emphasised that he had made a number of calls to Virgin to chase the 
whereabouts of his replacement card. He said, on each occasion, Virgin told him his card 
would arrive the next day. So, he took time off from work, each time, to wait at home for his 
card. This was Mr Ms choice. While I agree that Virgins failure to fulfil their promises here 
did cause Mr M inconvenience, ultimately, he received a replacement card within their 
normal published timescales. While Virgin agreed to fast track a new card to him, they 
werent obliged to do so. 
I think its also relevant that part of the waiting period was over a weekend. Virgin amended 
Mr Ms address following his call to them on 18 October 2019. Once their records were 
updated, the replacement card was ordered again. Realistically, this wouldnt have been 
despatched before Monday 21 October 2019. Virgin wouldve used a third party to deliver 
the card to Mr M. So, while I believe it was their intention to get a card to Mr M as quickly as 
possible, Virgin wouldnt have had full control over the delivery timescales. Mr M finally 
received his replacement card on Wednesday 23 October 2019. I dont think this is an 
unreasonable timescale in these circumstances.I completely understand and appreciate Mr Ms strength of feeling in this case. But I remain 
of the opinion that Virgins offer of £175 is reasonable in these circumstances and reflects 
their service shortcomings fairly. 
Virgin responded seeking clarification of my decision relative to their existing offer. While I 
will be upholding Mr Ms complaint here, I shant be asking them to pay any more than 
theyve already offered. So, my decision serves to formalise that offer, should Mr M choose 
to accept it.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ms complaint.
I require Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Virgin Money) to pay compensation to Mr M of 
£175 to reflect any inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2021.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman