DRN-2097015
The complaint
Miss L is unhappy with the service received from Studio Retail Limited after making a 
purchase from them.
What happened
Miss L has a credit account with Studio. She paid money onto the account using her debit 
card so that shed have enough credit to complete the purchase of a watch.
Miss L purchased the watch and says she was told several different things about when it 
would be delivered. Miss L eventually decided to cancel the purchase and the payment 
amount was refunded to her Studio account.
Miss L felt this was unfair and said it ought to be refunded to her debit card.
Studio looked into this matter and explained that Miss L had paid off the balance of her 
account with them, in order to allow enough credit to make the purchase. As the payment 
was made to the Studio account, it couldnt then be refunded back to Miss L in a separate 
transaction. They did, however, explain that the refund for the watch had taken her into a 
credit balance of £38.99, so they refunded that to Miss L.
Miss L felt this was unfair. She said she was told the money would go back to her bank 
account, and that she needed the money for her sons birthday.
An investigator here reviewed the case and explained that the debit card payment made had 
first cleared the outstanding balance on the Studio account. The purchase was then made 
using the credit available. When the purchase was cancelled, the money was returned to the 
Studio account. It was right that the credit balance was then refunded to Miss L, but the rest 
had gone towards clearing her Studio account balance.
Miss L maintained this was unfair and asked for her case to be decided by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Miss L but Im not upholding her complaint. Thats not to say I dont 
appreciate how frustrating it can be to be given expectations that something will arrive when 
expected, only to later be told of delays. But the crux of this matter is whats happened on 
her Studio account.
Miss Ls May 2020 statement shows she owed £182.93 to Studio, with a credit limit of £375. 
So, at that point Miss L didnt have enough credit available to purchase the watch using her 
Studio account. Miss L made a payment to her Studio account on 11 May 2020. This meant 
she then had enough to buy the watch, so Miss L bought it using her Studio account.
Miss L then cancelled the order, so the refund went back to the Studio account. That is what 
Id expect to happen. I wouldnt expect a further refund to the bank account to put the Studio 
account back in the place it was before the debt had been cleared.
Miss L feels that she paid money toward the watch from her debit card and expected it to be 
refunded to her bank account when the purchase was cancelled. 
But the money paid on the debit card effectively paid off the outstanding balance on the 
Studio account. So, when the watch purchase was cancelled the refund was returned to 
there, the money refunded was more than the credit limit, by £38.99. This meant Miss L no 
longer owed Studio any money, in fact it meant they owed her money.
Studio then refunded the £38.99 to Miss L.
The reason the money paid toward the Studio account, on the debit card, wasnt refunded in 
full to Miss Ls bank account is because at that point she owed money to Studio, so it would 
first go towards paying that off, and any left-over would be returned  which is what 
happened. So while I appreciate the way the transactions worked wasnt as Miss L expected 
I dont think it was wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons explained about, it is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman