DRN-4453100
The complaint
Mr M complains about the quality of a car financed by BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited  
trading as ALPHERA Financial Services (AFS).
What happened
The parties are familiar with the background facts of this case so I will only summarise 
these briefly and focus on giving reasons for my decision.
Mr M got a car from AFS but says he is unhappy with its quality  specifically that it started 
to lose power and was subsequently identified to need a replacement turbo to remedy this.
AFS refused to cover the cost of the replacement turbo. In summary, it said that Mr M had 
not shown the issue was present at the point of sale  and that it could be due to lack of 
servicing.
Our investigator upheld the complaint and said that AFS should pay for the cost of the 
replacement turbo along with a refund of some rentals and other compensation 
AFS said it couldnt accept the outcome without further information.
Mr M has explained that he has had the car repaired now which fixed the issue but that he 
is experiencing other problems with it now.
The matter has come to me to make a final decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this matter which said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to resolve disputes informally  so I wont be commenting on everything put 
forward by the parties  I will focus on the matters I consider central to this complaint.
The agreement in this case is a regulated consumer credit agreement. As such, this service 
is able to consider complaints relating to it. AFS is also the supplier of the goods under this 
type of agreement, and responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is of particular relevance to this complaint. It says that 
under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is 
satisfactory.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 says the quality of goods are satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. So it seems 
likely that in a case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into 
account might include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles 
history.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 says the quality of the goods includes their general state 
and condition and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom 
from minor defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of goods.
AFS supplied Mr M with a second-hand car. Here I note the car had travelled around 29,300 
miles and was around three years old at the point of supply. So it is fair to say that the 
reasonable person would accept that it is likely to require more repairs and maintenance 
than a newer, less road worn car. The price agreed was £27,950 which would be less than 
the new price but is a significant amount of money for a car in any event.
The issue that Mr M complained to AFS about appears to be related to loss of power. It 
seems the initial problems started around 8 months after the car was supplied. Eventually it 
was identified that this was because the turbocharger needed replacing. At this point Mr M 
had travelled around 5,000 miles in the car.
I acknowledge that Mr M had not purchased a brand new car  however, it wasnt very old 
or high mileage when it was supplied. Furthermore, this was not an inexpensive purchase 
with a cash price of £27,950. And when the turbocharger failed he had not done significant 
mileage in it or had it for even a year. I note a turbocharger is a fairly expensive part to 
replace  and is generally expected to be quite durable. So prima facie it appears that in the 
particular circumstances it failing at the point it did would indicate the car was not of 
satisfactory quality when supplied.
I do note that an expert report was carried out which concludes that the turbocharger fault 
would not have been developing at the point of sale and points to the mileage Mr M 
travelled. However, it does not really address the issue of durability  and whether this 
would be reasonably expected wear and tear in a car of this age, mileage and price.
Furthermore, the report points to a lack of servicing which might have contributed to the 
issue however this seems somewhat speculative here. There is not persuasive evidence 
that Mr M failed to service the car when it needed to be serviced (the record of last service 
indicates that it wasnt due another service when it started losing power in August 2022)  
or that Mr M bought the car in the knowledge that it was improperly serviced. So I dont 
think it is reasonable to rely on these comments from the expert as a reason to say the car 
as supplied was of satisfactory quality.
All things considered, I think it fair and reasonable that AFS cover the cost of the 
turbocharger replacement and also the related diagnostics/troubleshooting to do with lack of 
power which Mr M paid for leading up to the identification of the turbo issue.
I appreciate there are a few diagnostic reports. However, some of these appear to relate to 
general servicing or issues not directly related to the loss of power/turbocharger fault. So all 
in all I think that it is fair that Mr M get back the following:
the cost of work detailed on invoice dated 20/9/22 relating to lagging 
acceleration and replacement of solenoid costing £340.57
the cost of diagnostic work on invoice dated 7/11/22 which identified the 
turbocharger needed replacement costing £312Mr M has explained that his partner paid for these reports. However, he has since provided 
sufficient evidence for me to be satisfied that he is out of pocket for these costs so I am 
satisfied I can award these to him.
Mr M has explained he had the turbocharger fixed at the end of June 2023 and has 
submitted invoices for £1,558.99 and £221.86 total. I am satisfied from the information we 
have got that the invoices relate to the turbocharger repair and that it is fair and reasonable 
for AFS to cover these.
Mr M appears to have stopped driving the car due to the turbocharger issue from when the 
diagnostic was carried out on 7 November 2022 up to when it was fixed on 23 June 2023. 
So I think Mr M should be reimbursed his rentals for this period.
Mr M has been caused inconvenience by the issues he has experienced including taking 
the car in for diagnostics and repairs. Our investigator recommended £150 to reflect this. I 
have considered the information on our website to inform an appropriate award here and 
what Mr M has said along with the actions of AFS. I acknowledge here that AFS could have 
been more pro-active  but it did commission a report in order to get to the bottom of things. 
Overall, and in considering my wider award and Mr Ms submissions to date I think £150 is 
fair here.
Mr M has confirmed that the turbocharger replacement resolved the issue with the loss of 
power and the car has since travelled an additional 5,000 miles. 
Mr M has unfortunately said that more recently (and since our investigator issued a view on 
the case) he has had some other issues with the car relating to the DPF  several fault 
codes have been identified. He says that he has been told the DPF is cracked and needs 
replacing. 
I do note that Mr M was having fault codes related to the DPF at the time the turbocharger 
issue was identified around November 2022. One of the diagnostic tests also said that the 
DPF needed replacing. 
Mr M didnt raise the DPF issue with AFS as part of his original complaint which was about 
the need for a turbocharger replacement to remedy the lack of power issues he was having. 
While part of the quality of the car the current issue appears to be unrelated to this and I am 
conscious has not been fully investigated. I note any further investigation at this stage might 
delay a resolution to the issue over the turbocharger replacement as well. I am conscious 
my decision relates to a significant amount of money which Mr M says he is now owed. As 
a result I am limiting my findings to the power loss issues connected to the turbocharger 
which Mr M originally complained to AFS about. Mr M is then able to liaise with AFS about 
the apparently unconnected DPF issue and allow an opportunity for a fuller investigation. 
And if he is unhappy with the resolution he may wish to take that matter further. To be clear 
my findings here do not relate to the issue with the DPF which Mr M is now raising.
My provisional decision
I uphold this complaint and direct BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited  trading as 
ALPHERA Financial Services to:
reimburse Mr M for the repairs associated with the turbo costing £1,780.85;
pay Mr M for the cost of the diagnostic reports mentioned above totalling 
£652.57;refund Mr M for the rentals under the agreement covering the period from 7 
November 2022 to 23 June 2023;
pay yearly interest at 8% simple on all refunds from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement; and
pay Mr M £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
If AFS considers it appropriate to deduct tax from the interest award it should provide Mr M 
with a certificate of tax deduction so he may claim a refund if appropriate.
Mr M said he had nothing further to add. AFS did not respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has given me cause to depart from my provisional findings above. So I am 
deciding this case on the same basis.
Putting things right
AFS should put things right in accordance with my direction below.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited  trading as 
ALPHERA Financial Services to:
 reimburse Mr M for the repairs associated with the turbo costing £1,780.85;
 pay Mr M for the cost of the diagnostic reports mentioned above totalling 
£652.57;
 refund Mr M for the rentals under the agreement covering the period from 7 
November 2022 to 23 June 2023;
 pay yearly interest at 8% simple on all refunds from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement; and
 pay Mr M £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
If AFS considers it appropriate to deduct tax from the interest award it should provide Mr M 
with a certificate of tax deduction so he may claim a refund if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2023.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman