DRN-1232885
complaint
Mrs Ms complaint is about an instalment loan she took with MYJAR Limited. Mrs M says this 
loan was unaffordable.
background
Mrs M took out one loan with MYJAR in August 2017 as detailed below.
 
Loan 
Date Taken 
Date Repaid 
Instalments 
AmountHighest 
Repayment 
Amount
1 21/08/2017 Outstanding 6 £175.00 £55.47
 
Our adjudicator thought MYJAR hadnt done anything wrong when providing Mrs M with her 
loan. He explained that MYJAR gathered adequate information and there wasnt anything 
within that information that was cause for concern. Mrs M disagreed and explained that she 
had multiple other short-term loans and her outgoings exceeded her income. Mrs M says 
that had MYJAR carried out proportionate checks it wouldve seen this. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached the case was passed to me  an ombudsman  for a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive also considered the law, any relevant 
regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time the loan was offered.
Having carefully thought about all of this, I dont think MYJAR has treated Mrs M unfairly or 
that it should pay her compensation. I know this will come as a disappointment to Mrs M and 
Id like to explain why I think this is the case.
Mrs M was provided with a high-interest loan, intended for short-term use. So MYJAR 
needed to make sure that it didnt provide it irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is that 
MYJAR needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether any 
lending was sustainable for Mrs M before providing it.
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and whether it verifies that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, or the 
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So, wed expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
In her complaint Mrs M says that MYJAR didnt lend to her responsibly because she already 
had a number of short-term loans and her commitments already exceeded her income. She 
says had MYJAR carried out proper checks, such as requesting bank statements, it wouldve 
seen she couldnt afford the loan. Mrs M also says MYJAR didnt verify her income and 
expenditure. Overall, Mrs M says the lending had a negative impact on her financial 
situation.
MYJAR says that it carried out adequate checks  by gathering details of Mrs Ms income 
and expenditure. And based on this MYJAR says it didnt see anything to alert it to any 
sustainability or affordability issues for the loan it gave Mrs M.
Its important to note that when Mrs M took out this loan with MYJAR it doesnt seem that 
she had an existing relationship with them. The loan was to be repaid over 6 instalments of 
around £55.47. Mrs M had told MYJAR that her monthly income was around £900 and she 
had a reported expenditure of £751. I cant see anything to suggest that MYJAR had reason 
to question the information it had about Mrs M or verify it. Looking at the monthly 
repayments in light of Mrs Ms declared disposable income its difficult for me to conclude 
that MYJAR was wrong to decide that the repayments would be affordable sustainably 
for Mrs M.
I understand Mrs M says she had other short-term borrowing. I can see her expenditure 
included some existing creditor repayments. And it seems this was taken into account by 
MYJAR when it provided the loan. Even with this commitment it seems the loan was still 
affordable for Mrs M. And at this stage I wouldn't expect MYJAR to factor in the potential for 
other undisclosed credit commitments. So I think MYJAR acted reasonably by relying on the 
information Mrs M provided and I cant see that there is enough to alert it to any financial 
issues for Mrs M.
Mrs Ms loan is still outstanding with MYJAR, and I appreciate her comments about the 
impact this loan had on her. But I havent seen anything to make me think MYJAR acted 
irresponsibly in the circumstances of her case.
my final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold this complaint against MYJAR Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 May 2020.
Chandni Green
Ombudsman