DRN-3483363
The complaint and what happened
Mr K complains HSBC UK Bank Plc wont reimburse funds he lost as a result of a scam. 
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, Ill recap the key points and focus on giving reasons for my decision:
Mr K was persuaded to invest with a trading business. He made payments totalling 
£4,000 between July and September 2020. The payments were made via a crypto-
exchange ask4bit. He realised something wasnt right when the trader kept trying to 
persuade him to invest more; he did some research and realised it was a scam and 
so asked for his money back, to no avail. 
He asked HSBC to chargeback the payments. HSBC did make chargeback attempts 
but they were defended by ask4bit, which was able to demonstrate Mr Ks deposits 
were exchanged for cryptocurrency and forwarded onto a wallet. HSBC agreed when 
sending its file that there had been delays in the chargeback process and poor 
communication, so it offered Mr K £75 compensation.
Our investigator found the offer fair for the delays and poor communication. But she 
didnt think HSBC had done anything wrong when processing the payments or 
attempting recovery; she didnt find the transactions so unusual or suspicious that 
they ought to have triggered its security systems. And she was satisfied HSBC had 
fairly attempted a chargeback and that Mr K didnt have rights under S75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 to hold HSBC equally liable for the transactions. 
Mr K didnt agree with the outcome reached. He says he never set up an account 
with ask4bit  whose website cant be accessed  and he never asked for money to 
be exchanged into cryptocurrency or be sent to a wallet. He has provided evidence to 
show his deposits were made through the trading business and that it had charged 
back the transactions to ask4bit. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to reassure the parties that although I have only set out the key points, I have 
read and considered whats been provided. Having done so, I agree with the outcome 
reached by the investigator for the following reasons:
A chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by card providers, such as Visa and 
Mastercard. That process is subject to the rules of the scheme and we wouldnt 
expect a bank to pursue matters to final arbitration if there was no prospect of 
success. HSBC did attempt a chargeback for Mr Ks lost funds, and when that wasnt 
successful it tried again. The evidence provided by ask4bit showed Mr Ks funds 
were exchanged for cryptocurrency and sent to a wallet; therefore the service would 
be considered provided and there was little prospect of success. I dont find HSBC 
was being unfair or unreasonable when not pursuing that further. I accept Mr K has 
provided screenshots suggesting the trader has returned funds to ask4bit. But given 
the trader is reported to be a scam, its highly unlikely the screenshots are a true 
reflection of the trading account; rather they are probably a fabrication. Overall, Im 
not persuaded HSBC ought to have done more. 
In order to have a valid claim against HSBC under s75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974, there needs to be a valid debtor-creditor-supplier relationship. Mr K was 
trading with Finantik.  But his funds didnt go directly there  rather they went via 
ask4bit and were exchanged into cryptocurrency before being forwarded on. I accept 
Mr K may not have set up a wallet with ask4bit himself, nor provide a personal 
instruction for funds to be changed into cryptocurrency. Nevertheless, that is what 
happened when Mr K made a deposit through the platform. Im afraid that means 
there is an additional party in that chain which in turn means there isnt a valid 
debtor-creditor-supplier relationship and so s75 doesnt apply.   
Under regulations and in accordance with general bank terms and conditions, banks 
should execute authorised payment instructions without undue delay. The starting 
position is that liability for authorised payments rest with the payer, even where they 
are tricked into making those payments. There is no dispute that Mr K made and 
authorised the payments. 
However, in accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank 
has a duty to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams, so far as is 
reasonably possible. If in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which 
ought reasonably to alert a prudent banker to potential fraud or financial crime, it 
might be liable for losses incurred by its customer as a result. 
Mr K made a total of three transactions; £1,000 in July, £1,000 in August and £2,000 
in September 2020. The transactions were spaced apart with a number of weeks in 
between each. I accept they are fairly large sums but spending large sums on a 
credit card isnt that unusual. I have also considered the funds were sent to a 
cryptocurrency exchange. And it is true that scams involving cryptocurrency are quite 
prevalent. However, buying cryptocurrency was and is a legitimate exercise. I dont 
find the pattern of payments were so unusual or uncharacteristic such that they 
would have looked suspicious or therefore, that HSBCs fraud alert systems ought to 
have triggered. 
I appreciate Mr K has lost money to a scam. Despite my natural sympathy for the 
situation in which he finds himself, I dont find HSBC did anything wrong in following 
his payments instructions. I do, however, agree with the investigator that £75 is a fair 
reflection of the impact on Mr K of not being able to contact HSBC and for the delays 
in the chargeback process.
  
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc has made a fair offer to 
resolve this complaint. I require it to pay Mr K £75 if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2022.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman