DRN-3026899
The complaint
  Miss W complains about two loans provided to her by Creative Finance Corp Ltd trading as 
Motorkitty, which she says were unaffordable.
What happened
Motorkitty provided Miss W with two loans. The details of which are given in this table:
Number Taken Amount Total to repay Instalments
1 January 2019 £2200 £4840.08 24
2 February 2019 £300 £660.00 24
Miss W says that she feels Motorkitty failed to carry out effective affordability assessments 
and that if it had done what it was supposed to, it wouldnt have lent to her. She feels that 
Motorkitty have irresponsibly lent the money to her on each occasion.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in August 2021. Both parties have received 
a copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from the 
decision below. I said;
Did Motorkitty carry out proportionate checks for loans 1 and 2?
I can see that for loan 1, Motorkitty asked Miss W about her income and expenditure. It 
verified the information provided by Miss W by checking bank statements provided by her.
Ive carefully considered what Motorkitty has said about how it calculated Miss Ws 
disposable income for loan 1 and in doing so, I dont think its checks were proportionate. I 
say this because on one of the bank statements that it had in front of it, there is a payment 
that was made by Miss W to a Hanover Insolvency Ltd. I agree with our adjudicator and 
think it ought to have carried out further checks about this payment. It should have taken 
steps to understand further what this payment was for especially as the loan was to be 
repaid over 24 months. 
In addition, I can see on the bank statements that Miss W had become overdrawn on four 
occasions and had direct debits that were returned by her bank. She didnt have an agreed 
overdraft and so I think this ought to have given Motorkitty further concerns that it needed to 
find out a bit more about the Hanover payment to understand the true extent of Miss Ws 
finances.
Motorkitty says it called Hanover and asked for further information about Miss W and the 
payment she made to it. It says Hanover didnt provide any further information and cited data 
protection as to the reason why it wouldnt do this.  Motorkitty also say it went back to Miss 
W and asked her about this, but that Miss W didnt say what the payment was for. But 
Motorkitty havent been able to provide any supporting evidence of its enquiries and has not 
provided any further information about what Miss W said to it or the reasons she gave as to 
why she made the payment.  I cant see that it has provided enough to demonstrate why it 
felt the checks it carried out here were proportionate.
I dont think Motorkitty went far enough with its checks to ensure that Miss W could 
sustainably repay the first loan over 24 monthly repayments. It should have either sought 
further information about the payment to an insolvency practitioner to ensure the loan 
repayments were sustainable or decided not to lend. 
I also recently asked Motorkitty to provide further information to our service to show what 
checks it carried out for loan 2, but it has not responded to my request. So, I have not been 
able to see what checks it carried out for loan 2. So, I cant see whether it carried out 
proportionate checks here or not. So, with both loans, for the reasons I have given, I dont 
think Motorkitty carried out reasonable and proportionate checks. 
What would Motorkitty have seen if it had carried out proportionate checks for loans 1 and 
2?
Ive concluded the checks Motorkitty carried out werent proportionate and that they needed 
to do more. So, I have needed to look into what it would have seen if it had carried out 
proportionate checks for loans 1 and 2. 
Miss W was in an IVA and her insolvency practitioner was Hanover Insolvency Ltd. She had 
been in an IVA since 2017 and was due to make monthly payments on this. Our adjudicator 
had found out that Miss W had missed payments leading up to asking for a loan with 
Motorkitty. I think if Motorkitty had carried out proportionate checks it would have uncovered 
that Miss W was in an IVA and that she had missed payments on this for November and 
December 2018. When I consider these missed payments in addition to the adverse 
information already presented on the bank statements that Motorkitty would have seen, I 
think it would have shown it that Miss W was having problems managing her finances. The 
repayments for the loan were more likely than not, not sustainable. 
Miss W asked for loan 2 only a month after the first loan, so it stands to reason that her 
circumstances wouldnt have changed.  
So, I currently think Motorkitty needs to put things right regarding both loans for the reasons I 
have given.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response 
to my provisional decision. Miss W responded and said she had no further points to add. 
Motorkitty did not respond.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  Miss W has not made any new points for me to respond to and Motorkitty has not 
responded. So, as neither party has anything further to add that I feel I need to comment 
on or that will change the outcome of this complaint, I dont see any reason to depart from 
my findings within my provisional decision. With that being the case, I uphold Miss Ws 
complaint.  Putting things right
In line with this Services approach, Miss W shouldnt repay more than the capital amount 
she borrowed for each loan. With this in mind, Motorkitty should:
add up the total amount of money Miss W received as a result of being given loans 1-
2. The payments Miss W made should be deducted from this amount. Any payments 
made after the total repaid exceeds the amount Miss W was given should be treated 
as overpayments and refunded to her;
add interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments from the date they were 
paid by Miss W to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information placed on Miss Ws credit file because of loans 1-2;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Motorkitty to take off tax from this interest. Motorkitty 
must give Miss W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
  
My final decision
  My final decision is that I uphold Miss Ws complaint and direct Creative Finance Corp Ltd 
trading as Motorkitty to put things right as I have set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 October 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman