DRN-3235635
The complaint
Mr B complains that Allianz Global Assistance (Allianz) have declined his claim to either 
repair or pay a contribution to the replacement of his central heating boiler under his home 
emergency policy. He wants the claim paid.
What happened
Mr B inherited a property and arranged a building and contents policy, including home 
emergency cover with Allianz. This provided for emergency repairs to the central heating 
system. It also provided for a payment of £500 towards the cost of replacing the boiler, if it 
agreed it was beyond economic repair (BER). The policy required that there be proof that the 
boiler had been serviced within the previous 24 months if a claim was made.
Mr B says the boiler was working well but then developed problems. He says Allianz sent an 
engineer. Mr B advised the engineer he didnt have any service records for the boiler. He 
says the engineer said the boiler would be covered if it was serviced within the next six 
months. Mr B says there were further problems with the boiler and several attempts were 
made to repair it without success. He says the boiler failed completely within the six-month 
period, so he decided to replace it.
Mr B made a claim for the boiler as BER and sent Allianz an invoice for the installation of his 
new boiler as proof. Allianz declined the claim. It said it hadnt authorised the replacement of 
the boiler, which was a requirement of the policy. And, it said that the policy also required 
evidence that the boiler had been serviced within the previous 24 months. 
Mr B complained saying Allianz had waived the service requirements for six- months and the 
boiler had failed completely within this timeframe. He said he had notified Allianz the boiler 
was BER in various phone calls. Allianz said it was sorry Mr B was unhappy, but the claim 
had been declined fairly.  
Mr B referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into it, but he didnt 
uphold it.
He said the terms and conditions (T&Cs) of the policy were clear that the boiler wouldnt be 
covered without a service history and any replacement did need to be pre-approved. He said 
he hadnt been able to obtain any records from Allianz that showed the servicing 
requirement had been waived or replacement approved. So, Allianz wasnt treating Mr B 
unfairly in declining to pay the £500 contribution towards a new boiler.
Mr B said the lack of service records only became a problem once the boiler was found to be 
BER and Allianz was trying to find a way not to pay the claim.  
As Mr B doesnt agree it has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding the complaint. 
I understand that this was frustrating for Mr B, particularly as he says he had the option to 
obtain a Government grant towards a replacement boiler but thought the policy route would 
be quicker. However, I dont think Allianz has treated him unfairly. 
Mr Bs policy doesnt cover every eventuality. What is and isnt covered is set out in the 
terms and conditions (T&Cs) of the policy. These say that written evidence of a boiler 
service within the previous 24 months will be required in the event of a claim. 
A General Exclusion in the T&Cs says the policy will not cover:
Costs we have not authorised. Always phone us first.
This means if the boiler was BER, replacement needed to be pre-agreed by Allianz. This is a 
very common requirement in policies of this type, and I dont think it is an unreasonable. 
Most of Mr Bs calls about the boiler appear to have been made directly to a plumbing firm 
rather than to Allianz itself. There arent any recordings of these calls. Allianzs notes show 
that he asked for contact details in order to make a BER claim and was provided with an 
email address. Mr B then emailed the invoice for the new boiler after it had been installed. 
Nothing suggests that Allianz agreed the boiler was BER before he did this or that it would 
make the £500 contribution towards replacement. As the policy specifically excludes costs 
that havent been authorised it wouldnt be fair for me to tell Allianz to pay Mr Bs claim.
Mr B says the 24-month service requirement was waived and that if the boiler failed within 
six months it would be covered. There isnt any evidence that Allianz agreed to waive this or 
effectively provide a six-month warranty on the boiler. Perhaps, some confusion was caused 
by the engineer in completing some work without servicing records being available. And then 
suggesting that Mr B should get the boiler serviced within the next few months. 
I dont think Allianz would have waived the servicing requirement in any situation, it would 
have no reason to do so. And, even if it had, this wouldnt change the further requirement 
that BER claims also needed to be authorised first. 
I know Mr B will be disappointed, but I dont think Allianz has treated him unfairly and it 
neednt do anything more than it has.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman