DRN-4484680
The complaint
Mr B complains about esure Insurance Limiteds (esure) delay in cancelling his claim, and 
it being recorded as a fault claim. 
What happened
Mr B reported an incident to esure but later asked them to cancel it. Mr B says, despite this 
and without carrying out any investigation, they didnt cancel the claim and they recorded the 
incident as a fault claim against him. So Mr B complained about esures actions.  
Esure responded and explained Mr B reported an incident and, although he then decided not 
to claim, they have to provide the third-party insurer a minimum of three months to present 
their claim. They said the three months had now been reached and no claim had been 
presented. They said theyd now closed the claim as notification only. They said this will still 
show on the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) database as they have a 
responsibility to report all accidents and incidents to this database. They confirmed theyd 
never recorded this incident as a fault claim against Mr B. They explained, as they hadnt 
been able to determine a liability stance, they had this noted as partial responsibility while 
they investigated further and were awaiting additional information. They said they could see 
that on a number of occasions they requested additional information from Mr B, but they 
werent able to obtain this. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr B. She thought esure hadnt made any error in not 
cancelling the claim sooner or in their recording of the claim. Mr B disagreed so the matter 
has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr B will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
My role requires me to say how a complaint should be settled quickly and with minimal 
formality and so Ill focus on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint and the main 
areas of dispute. I understand Mr Bs main complaint relates to esure not cancelling the 
claim when he asked them to and how theyve recorded the claim. So, Ive looked to see 
whether esure have acted reasonably here. 
Esure have provided their claim notes, and this shows when Mr B reported the incident, they 
noted the circumstances as Mr B and a third party collided while Mr B was approaching a 
bend in the road. The note says Mr B was unable to avoid the collision due to the speed the 
third-party was travelling. They also note Mr B doesnt believe hes at fault. I can see Mr B 
then emails esure to ask them to close his claim. The claim notes show esure then 
reassigned the claim as third-party damage only. The claim notes show esure then 
contacted Mr B to ask for further information. The notes show they wanted to discuss the 
incident and liability with Mr B and also asked about witness details, but they werent able to 
obtain this. I acknowledge Mr B says he provided esure with all relevant details when he first 
notified them of the incident, but often insurers will ask for clarity or further details. And in 
this case, I can see they did have further queries relating to liability so I cant say it was 
unreasonable for them to seek further information. 
Ive listened to call recordings where Mr B asks esure to close his claim. During these calls 
the call handlers explain they cant close the claim as theres a third-party involved so they 
must keep the claim open to allow them an opportunity to submit a claim. During one call,  
Mr B asks for his claim to be closed down with immediate effect. The call handler explains 
theyre looking at partial responsibility here based on the incident circumstances, and 
because theyve been made aware from Mr Bs report that theres a third-party involved, they 
have to keep the claim open. The call handler explains the claim will need to remain open for 
three months in case the third-party claims, and if they dont, then the claim will be closed as 
notification only. Mr B clarifies no third party had claimed yet and no costs had been paid out 
so theres no reason the claim cant be closed. The call handler again explains the claim 
must remain open for three months.  
 
I understand the claim has now been closed by esure and treated as a notification only 
incident, but I acknowledge Mr Bs frustration this wasnt done sooner  and at the point he 
initially requested this. The information shows Mr B did notify esure of an incident, so I cant 
say theyve acted unreasonably in recording this. Its clear Mr B no longer wished to claim 
and informed esure of this very soon after notifying them of the incident. I can see esure 
then updated their system and reassigned the claim as a third-party damage only claim but 
didnt close it down at that point. In such circumstances, its usual industry practice for 
insurers to keep such claims open to allow any potential third-party to submit a claim. We 
generally dont expect insurers to keep these types of claims open for longer than 3-6 
months if no third-party claim has been received. So, I cant say esure have treated Mr B 
unfairly in keeping the claim open. Its clear Mr B didnt wish to claim, but there remained the 
possibility a third party might and this was explained to Mr B, so its not unreasonable for 
esure to have kept the claim open for three months. 
I acknowledge Mr Bs points that, at the point he was asking for his claim to be closed 
immediately, no third party had claimed at that point and no costs had been paid out. From 
the information Ive seen, its clear esure did take steps to update their system to reflect the 
fact that Mr B no longer wished to claim. But, as mentioned above, I cant say it was 
unreasonable for them to keep the claim open.  
The next point Ive looked at is how esure recorded the incident. Esures records show they 
initially noted the liability stance as partial responsibility while they carried out further 
investigations. Taking into account the incident circumstances, and the fact that esure didnt 
at that stage have any independent evidence, I dont think it was unreasonable for them to 
take this initial view. I have seen information which shows Mr Bs other insurer informed him 
that esure has treated this incident as a fault claim, but Ive seen no evidence that esure 
treated this as a settled fault claim. 
What I believe has happened here, and which the information supports, is that, at the point 
Mr B took out a policy with the other insurer, this incident was showing as an 
open/outstanding claim on the CUE database. Esure confirm the incident was reported on 
the CUE database. The CUE is a database which records information about motor and 
home incidents, as well as other areas. An insurer has a duty to make accurate records. If 
an insurer is signed up to CUE, then they will make a record of any incident theyve been 
made aware of, whether that leads to a claim or not. In this case, while Mr B asked esure to cancel his claim, the fact is hed notified esure of an incident so, given theres a duty on 
esure to make accurate records, I cant say theyve acted unfairly in recording this incident. 
   
I acknowledge Mr B was informed by his other insurer that a fault claim had been recorded 
and esure confirm theyve never recorded the incident as a fault claim. So Ive thought 
carefully about what I think, more likely than not, has happened here. Based on the 
information Ive seen, and as explained above, Im satisfied it was reasonable for esure to 
keep the claim open for three months. That being the case, under the claim status section of 
the CUE database, this incident would show as open/outstanding. Im persuaded this is the 
case as Ive listened to a call recording where Mr Bs other insurer mentions the fault claim 
and explains theyve seen information which shows the claim is still going ahead. And 
they also explain Mr B will need to get confirmation from esure that the claim has been 
closed and theres no further action. 
When carrying out a risk assessment, its not unusual or uncommon for an insurer to rate an 
open/outstanding claim in the same way as a fault claim. Thats because the claim isnt 
showing as a non-fault claim. So, given Ive seen no evidence esure recorded the claim as a 
settled fault claim on the CUE database, and taking into account how information generally 
is recorded on the database and what information it shows, I believe its more likely than not 
the incident was recorded as open/outstanding - and this is why Mr Bs other insurer rated 
the risk based on this being a fault claim. And, given that Ive already explained why I dont 
think it was unreasonable for esure to keep the claim open for three months, I cant say 
theyve acted unfairly here. 
I understand Mr B will be disappointed, but I hope he feels reassured the incident hasnt 
been recorded as a settled fault claim and is now closed as notification only. I wish to 
reassure Mr B Ive read and considered everything he has sent in, but if I havent mentioned 
a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. 
Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This isnt intended as a 
discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of our service. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman