DRN-2271513
The complaint
Mrs T complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with Black Horse Limited (Black Horse).
What happened
I issued a second provisional decision on this complaint in September 2020. Extracts the 
provisional decisions are set out below.
Mrs T took receipt of a used car on 26 January 2019. She financed the deal through a 
hire purchase agreement with Black Horse. At the point the car was supplied to her it had 
already completed about 30,000 miles and was almost four years old.
Mrs T had problems with the car. The following table lists what happened; the action taken 
and the findings of the independent inspector who looked at the car in June 2019.
Issue Reported on Action Independent
Findings
Whining in reverse 4 and 28 February 
2019Clutch replaced in 
late FebruaryThe noise in reverse 
thats now present is 
normal.
Seat faulty Twice in February 
and again in March 
and April 2019Replaced latching 
mechanismThe seat now 
operates correctly.
Paintwork February Repairs completed 
but its unclear what 
was done.Notes touch-ins to 
front bumper, skirt, 
off side quarter 
panel. Also chipping 
to bonnet, rear 
bumper, roof and 
three dents and a 
scratch to the near 
side door.
Fuel nozzle Replaced but no fault 
found.Operating correctly.
Mrs T complained to Black Horse and they accepted problems had occurred with a whining 
noise, seat failure and bodywork problems. They noted that the fuel nozzle had been 
replaced as a goodwill gesture as no fault could be detected. They said the independent 
inspector had now suggested no faults were present and that hed explained the paintwork 
was of an acceptable standard for a vehicle of this age and mileage. So, whilst they offered 
Mrs T £150 in compensation, they didnt allow her to reject the car.
Mrs T therefore referred her complaint to this service and our investigator provided an 
opinion. She thought the compensation wasnt sufficient. She noted that courtesy cars had 
been arranged whilst Mrs T was off the road, but she thought it was clear her enjoyment of 
the vehicle would have been impaired. She suggested that Black Horse should increase 
their compensation to £300.
Black Horse agreed but Mrs T didnt. She said shed tried to reject the car on 12 February, 
only a couple of weeks after taking receipt of it, but that the dealership had told her that 
wasnt possible. She said the paintwork damage was not acceptable and would likely result 
in her being charged to refurbish it when she returned the car. She provided photographs of 
the damage to the sill and the wheel arch to show how poor the repairs had been. She didnt 
think the business had given thorough consideration to the problems she had faced, and she 
explained that shed had a further problem with the car in May 2019. She reported a steering 
issue to them and that wasnt rectified until October despite the independent inspector not 
identifying it. She therefore asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont currently agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator. Im 
expecting to uphold Mrs Ts complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs T acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. The hire purchase agreement is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Black Horse, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied to Mrs T. The car here 
was around four years old and had completed about 30,000 miles.
I think there were clearly problems with this car when it was supplied to Mrs T. The drivers 
seat wasnt working properly, and I also dont think the dealership would have replaced the 
clutch if there wasnt an unacceptable whining in reverse. Mrs T reported this to them in 
February and within 30 days of taking receipt of the car. In an email on 19 February she 
explained:
my car is coming in today for some bodywork paint repairs. I would also ask that sort 
out the reversing noise which is very disconcertingI am so disappointed as the problem 
was meant to be sorted already along with the drivers seat which I still have to force to get 
the seat to go downI feel let down and I dont want the car back until these issues are 
fixedThe relevant legislation gives a consumer the short term right to reject goods if theyre not of 
satisfactory quality and they report the issue within 30 days. Mrs T says she asked to reject 
the goods on 12 February 2019. Thats within 30 days and I think the business should 
therefore have consented. I think her email of 19 February (above) supports the suggestion 
she had asked to reject the car if it wasnt fixed and I accept Mrs Ts explanation that she 
may well not have known her rights and could have expected the business to have explained 
them to her.
And, even if Im wrong about that and Mrs T consented to have her car repaired, the relevant 
legislation allows a business one opportunity to repair faults that are present on a vehicle 
when its supplied. I dont think those repairs have been successful. I say that because Mrs T 
had to return the car to have the seat and the clutch fixed on several occasions. So, for that 
reason as well, I think the business should have allowed her to reject the car.
By the time the independent inspection was completed the faults had been fixed; although I 
note a further problem with the steering had by this time been identified by Mrs T. Its not 
clear whether that steering fault was present when the car was supplied but I dont think its 
necessary for me to establish that as I think there were other faults that meant the business 
should have allowed a rejection.
The inspector therefore didnt find any faults with the car, but he did note several areas of 
damage on the paintwork. He said these were normal for a car of this age and mileage. I 
disagree. At this point Mrs T had only driven the car about 2,166 miles so there had been 
limited opportunity for the car to incur paintwork damage. Shed clearly identified paintwork 
problems within a couple of weeks of picking the car up. I think its feasible that this damage 
wasnt immediately evident, and I think its reasonable to suggest the dealership accepted 
that was the case because they appear to have completed repairs to the paintwork free of 
charge.
Mrs T has sent in photographs to show poor repairs to the sill and the wheel arch. Both 
repairs appear to show raised filler and I think its clear that they would fail any end of lease 
inspection. Mrs T would then face charges to have that damage refurbished and that cant 
be fair.
The independent inspector has also explained that there is peeling of the paint on the front 
bumper and three dents and a scratch on the front door. I think these issues are also likely to 
be in excess of what the industry guidelines, provided by the British Vehicle Rental and 
Leasing Association (BVRLA) would consider fair wear on a car being returned at the end of 
a lease, even a car of this age and mileage. 
So, I dont think it can be the case that the paintwork on this car was of the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider on a car of this age and mileage and I think, because 
Mrs T has completed such limited mileage in it, some, if not all, of the paintwork problems 
were likely to be present when Mrs T took receipt of the car, 
In those circumstances I dont think this car has been of satisfactory quality and I think Black 
Horse should therefore allow Mrs T to reject it.
They should return Mrs Ts deposit to her and pay interest on that deposit as shes been 
deprived of that money whilst financing an unsatisfactory car.
Its clear Mrs T hasnt had full use of the car so Black Horse should compensate her for any 
lack of use. They have provided courtesy cars whilst Mrs Ts vehicle has been in the garage 
and those cars seem to have been of a comparable standard and will have mitigated to a 
degree any loss of use.  But, Mrs Ts finance agreement entitled her to travel 10,000 miles a year before she faced 
charges for excess mileage. So, I think she would have been likely to have completed 5,000 
miles after six months. The independent inspector noted that at the six-month mark the car 
had completed less than half of that amount. So, I think its reasonable that Black Horse 
refunds three of the first six monthly instalments Mrs T paid in respect of lack of use. But, 
thereafter, I dont think there is evidence that Mrs Ts use of the car has been particularly 
hindered.
However, Mrs Ts enjoyment of the car would also have been affected. She was able to drive 
the car but would clearly have been concerned about it breaking down given the noise in 
reverse. She would also have been disappointed by the poor paint repairs and frustrated by 
the failure to repair the drivers seat. In the circumstances, I think Black Horse should refund 
5% of the finance instalments shes paid in respect of loss of enjoyment.
I also think its clear Mrs T has been inconvenienced by these matters. Shes had to take her 
car back to the dealership on several occasions and shes had to progress a complaint 
though this service when I think it could have been resolved earlier. Shes also had to make 
arrangements to allow the independent inspector to view the car and, I think in the 
circumstances, Black Horse should pay her £300 to compensate her for the distress and 
inconvenience experienced.
My provisional decision
Im expecting to tell Black Horse Limited to:
allow Mrs T to reject the car and terminate her finance agreement at no further cost;
collect the car at no cost to Mrs T;
refund Mrs Ts deposit and add 8% simple interest per annum from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement;
pay Mrs T £300 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes 
experienced;
refund the first three finance instalments to compensate Mrs T for loss of use of the 
car. Add 8% simple interest per annum from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement;
refund 5% of all finance instalments in respect of loss of enjoyment and add 8% 
simple interest per annum from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mrs Ts credit file with respect to 
this agreement.
What happened
Black Horse accepted my provisional decision, but Mrs T explained that shed sold the car
on 5 June 2020. She provided a receipt for the vehicle. This detailed that shed received
£5,825 for the car. £4423.28 of that had been paid to Black Horse to settle her hire purchase
agreement; a transaction fee of £74.99 was paid to the buyer and the remaining £1,326.73
was returned to Mrs T.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Ive thought about how the sale of the car affects the redress I am proposing. I dont think the
settlement Mrs T reached with her buyer has sufficiently compensated her for the issues
shes had whilst financing a car that was of unsatisfactory quality.
The difference between the settlement Mrs T has achieved and my provisional suggestion is
as follows:
The redress I set out in Julys provisional decision was that Black Horse should:
Return the deposit of £3,500 plus interest at 8% per annum and return three instalments 
totalling £263.49 and provide a 5% refund of all 16 instalments made totalling £70.26 and
make a £300 payment in respect of the distress and inconvenience caused.
The total redress suggested in Julys provisional decision was therefore £4,133.75 plus
interest on the deposit.
Mrs T received a balancing payment of £1,326.73 once shed settled her account with Black
Horse and sold the car.
The difference is therefore £4,133.75 less £1,326.73 = £2,807.02 plus 8% interest on the
initial deposit.
Ive considered whether Mrs Ts sale of the car to a third party has resulted in Black Horse
being deprived of an opportunity to obtain a higher sales value. But I dont think it will have
made much, if any, difference.
I think its likely that the car would have been taken directly to auction and I dont think the
sales value realised there would have been significantly higher than Mrs T achieved.
So, I think the best way to resolve this matter is now for Black Horse to pay Mrs T £2,807.02
and to pay interest on the deposit that Mrs T paid and for the time she was deprived of that
money.
My provisional decision
Im expecting to tell Black Horse Limited to:
ensure the agreement is ended with nothing further to pay,
pay Mrs T £2,807.02,
pay Mrs T 8% simple interest per annum from the date of payment to the date of
settlement, on the initial deposit of £3,500,
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mrs Ts credit file with respect to
this agreement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs T and Black Horse didnt have anything to add and both accepted my second 
provisional decision.
Putting things rightIve therefore seen no reason to change my provisional decision and that now becomes my 
final decision.
.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Black Horse Limited to:
ensure the agreement is ended with nothing further to pay,
pay Mrs T £2,807.02,
pay Mrs T 8% simple interest per annum from the date of payment to the date of
settlement, on the initial deposit of £3,500,
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mrs Ts credit file with respect to
this agreement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman