DRN-3844814
The complaint
Miss E says West Bay Insurance Plc misled her in relation to a claim she made on her motor 
insurance policy and provided poor service in general. 
What happened
Miss Es car was damaged by another vehicle whilst it was parked and unattended. The 
other driver accepted liability. When Miss E called a number provided with her policy 
documents to make a claim, she thought she was dealing with her insurer. In fact, the 
number was issued by her broker, and she was directed to an accident management 
company (firm K) that deals with non-fault claims. Later on there was a dispute between 
Miss E and firm K about part of the cars repairs, as it didnt think an issue was caused by 
the accident. So Miss E called West Bay. It said shed have to make a claim on her policy. 
West Bay then instructed an independent engineer to assess the car. He said it needed 
diagnostic checks at a dealership garage. West Bay said Miss E would have to pay for that, 
and she spent £350 on the checks. West Bay then said it couldnt deal with her claim, given 
that firm K had done so. Miss E wasnt happy with that  and by then, shed made many 
calls and had sent many emails to West Bay. She says she was left out of pocket and had 
suffered stress due to its poor service. 
One of our investigators reviewed Miss Es complaint. He didnt think West Bay was wrong 
to decide it couldnt look at the repair issue, given firm Ks previous involvement. But he said 
West Bays actions had raised Miss Es expectations, and shed spent money as a result. He 
thought shed have had to get diagnostic checks done anyway (to dispute the decision made 
by firm K). But he said West Bay should refund her call charges (with interest) and pay her 
£150 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Miss E didnt accept the investigators view, so the complaint was referred to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
West Bay accepts that it should have referred Miss E back to firm K at the start, as there 
was no new claim for it to deal with. But I think it was reasonable for it to say that its 
involvement was useful to Miss E. Its independent engineer didnt agree with firm K that the 
disputed fault wasnt accident related. He left its cause open, pending investigation by a 
dealership garage. I think Miss E would always have needed to get diagnostic checks done, 
in order to challenge firm Ks decision with any prospect of success. So I dont think West 
Bay should have to refund the £350 she spent on them.  
In my opinion, it was reasonable for West Bay to decide it couldnt deal with the disputed 
issue, as it was part of the claim being dealt with by firm K. But in starting to assist Miss E in 
error, I think West Bay raised her expectations, so it was a blow to her when she found it 
wouldnt be dealing with her claim after all. And when calling West Bay Miss E faced long 
waiting times before being cut off. Shes shown that she also had to chase responses to the 
emails she sent it. I think the communication issues with West Bay caused her stress and 
inconvenience, most of which could have been avoided, but for its poor service. 
Miss E has complained to her broker about its actions and has referred that complaint to us, 
which well consider separately. Regarding her complaint about firm K, I can see shes 
raised her concerns with it, and she has also referred them to us. But Im unable to comment 
on that complaint, as it relates to the actions of a separate business.
I sympathise with Miss E, who has found herself in a very difficult situation. I think it was 
reasonable for her to assume the car would be fully repaired, at no cost to her. Instead, 
having paid for diagnostic checks. Miss E now faces a large bill for the cars remaining 
repairs. But I dont think West Bay is responsible for that, for the reasons stated above. And 
although Miss E thought she was dealing with her insurer when she called the number 
issued by her broker, West Bay had provided its own claims number in the policy booklet. 
Had Miss E called that number instead, her claim would have been dealt with by West Bay. 
As I think West Bay caused Miss E distress and inconvenience by starting to deal with her 
claim in error, I think it would be fair and reasonable for it to put matters right by paying her 
£150 compensation, and by refunding her call charges, with interest. I know Miss E wont be 
happy with my decision, but I dont think it would be fair to require West Bay to do more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require West Bay Insurance Plc to pay Miss 
E £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience and to refund her call charges. It 
should add interest to the latter sum, at the simple yearly rate of 8%, from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement. 
If West Bay thinks its required by HM Revenue and Customs to withhold income tax from 
the interest, it should tell Miss E how much it has taken off and provide a tax deduction 
certificate if required, so she can reclaim the tax if appropriate.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 April 2023. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman