DRN-2442234
The complaint
Mr G complained that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold his credit card 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr G bought the policy in February 1997 when he took out a credit card. RBS said this was a 
postal application and that it didnt advise Mr G to take out the policy. Mr G said that the PPI 
wasnt explained to him and he wasnt given a clear choice about it  and he didnt need it as 
he had good employee benefits.
The policy cost 75p for each £100 Mr G owed on his credit card, and provided accident, 
sickness and unemployment cover. If hed successfully claimed on the policy, each month it 
would have paid out 10% of what he owed on the card when he stopped working. This would 
have carried on for up to 12 months per claim. The policy also provided life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr G disagreed, and asked that it be referred to 
an ombudsman for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website, and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Gs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
RBS sent in a copy of Mr Gs credit card application, along with copies of some of Mr Gs 
credit card statements, showing the PPI premiums. I can see from the application that Mr 
Gs name and address were pre-printed, and theres a received stamp dated a few days 
after the date of Mr Gs signature. So it looks as though Mr G applied for the card in 
response to a mailshot and that this was a postal application as RBS said. Ive no evidence 
to suggest any contact with a representative from RBS as part of the application process.
I can also see that Mr G signed the application  separately from his signature for the card 
itself and in a section headed cardholder payment protection plan - to say that he wanted 
PPI. Theres nothing on the application form to suggest the PPI was compulsory. So overall, 
I think Mr G had a choice about taking the PPI  and decided to do so. 
Im satisfied RBS didnt advise Mr G to take out the PPI. But it shouldve given him enough 
information for him to decide if the policy was right for him. 
The credit card application form refers to a separate summary of cover for the PPI. We have 
a sample copy in our records, and I think its reasonable to take it as representative of what 
Mr G is likely to have received as part of the mailshot. There are brief details of the main 
exclusions, but I cant see that Mr G wouldve been affected by any of these. The premium is 
shown, but I dont think it was clear that interest could be charged on the premiums, or that 
Mr G wouldve had to keep paying for the policy during a claim. 
Mr G told us that, when he took out the policy, he was entitled to sick pay from his employer 
of six months full pay followed by six months half pay. He also said he had a small amount 
of savings. On balance, I think Mr G couldve found it difficult to make the card repayments 
once his sick pay reduced or if hed lost his job. So I think the PPI couldve provided a useful 
benefit  Ive kept in mind that the policy couldve paid out for up to 12 month per claim, and 
in addition to his sick pay. 
Overall, although I cant say that RBS fully explained the policy, Im not satisfied that Mr G 
would have acted differently  and not taken out the PPI  if it had. It couldve provided 
useful protection for him if he couldnt work. This means Mr G isnt worse off as a result of 
what RBS may have done wrong, so theres nothing it needs to do to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman