DRN-1628003
The complaint
Mr T has complained about Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Company of Europe SE. He isnt 
happy that it turned down his insurance claim following the theft of his car. 
What happened
Mr T made a claim under his car insurance policy after his car was stolen. Mr T realised his 
car had been stolen when the police contacted him after his car was found abandoned after 
being involved in an accident. So Mr T made a claim under his car insurance policy and Aioi 
Nissay looked into his claim.
Mr T complained to this service initially about the time it took to look into his claim and later 
about the fact that it turned down his claim. 
Our investigator looked into things for him but didnt uphold his complaint. He thought that 
Aioi Nissay didnt act unreasonably. This was because he thought that its investigations 
were detailed and that its decision to turn down the claim wasnt unreasonable. 
As Mr T didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding the complaint. I know this will come as a disappointment 
to Mr T, but Ill explain why. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision and focus on Mr Ts main 
concern, the decline of his claim.  
Mr T left his car at his home address and went out for the evening. When he returned home 
his parents told him that the police had attended his home address to report that his car had 
been involved in an accident. And when Mr T went to check he realised his car mustve been 
stolen which he reported to Aioi Nissay. 
When Aioi Nissay looked into things for him it turned down his claim. This was because it 
wasnt satisfied with Mr Ts account about the circumstances surrounding the theft of his car. 
When Aioi Nissay looked into the claim it undertook a full investigation of the circumstances. 
I know this took longer than Mr T wouldve wanted but it appointed an investigator, 
undertook enquiries with the police and got an assessment of his car keys which takes time. 
And following these enquiries it wasnt satisfied that an original car key wasnt used as part 
of the theft. 
Mr T provided two sets of car keys for Aioi Nissay. But when it tested the keys it became 
clear that one of the keys wasnt from his car. And the other key showed a mileage reading 
that was about 500 miles less than when the car had been driven. So Aioi Nissay thought it 
was likely that the missing key had been used to drive the car last. Mr T went on to explain 
that he had sent the wrong key in error. But he couldnt place the other key now and 
believed hed lost it. 
But given that there wasnt any evidence of theft damage to Mr Ts car it is possible that the 
missing key was used to take the car. I say this as the key provided wasnt the key that Mr T 
used the last time he drove the car. Given the short period of time between Mr Ts last use of 
the car Id expect Mr T to be able to provide this key. Indeed, I would expect Mr T to be able 
to provide a clear explanation as to the loss of the key if he wasnt able to provide it, but he 
hasnt. So I can understand why Aioi Nissay has questions around the circumstances 
surrounding the theft.
As such, I cant say that Aioi Nissay has acted unreasonably in turning down the claim. And I 
dont think Aioi Nissay delayed things unnecessarily, it just undertook a thorough 
investigation.  
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2020.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman