DRN-2893347
The complaint
Mr J complains as a director of H (a limited company) that Paymentsense Limited 
(Paymentsense) didnt explain the terms of the agreements he entered into at the point of 
sale.
What happened
In June 2018 H entered into a hire agreement for a card payment terminal and merchant 
services agreement with Paymentsense. H also entered into a card processing agreement 
with a separate company. Paymentsense was acting as the broker for all agreements.
Mr J has said he was told at the point of sale all agreements had a term of 12 months. But, 
in January 2020 he realised H was still being charged for the card terminal and the terminal 
hadnt been collected around June 2019 as expected. He says he also realised at this point 
he hadnt received the till rolls hed signed up for as part of the merchant services 
agreement.
Mr J contacted Paymentsense to enquire about this and was told the term for the card 
terminal was 36 months. As it hadnt yet expired H was being correctly charged. Mr J 
complained to Paymentsense and said hed been misled about the term at the point of sale. 
He also complained H had been charged for an online payment service it didnt want, that he 
didnt sign up for till rolls and said he was unhappy with the Payments Card Industry Data 
Security Standard (PCI DSS) fees H had been charged. 
Paymentsense responded to the complaint. It said there was no information from the point of 
sale meeting aside from the agreements and they couldnt contact the individual agent whod 
visited Mr J. Because of this it needed to rely on the signed agreements and it felt the 
services Mr J had signed up H for, and the term, were clearly set out. Paymentsense also 
explained H had been correctly charged for PCI DSS non-compliance. As a gesture of 
goodwill Paymentsense offered to:
Refund all the payments made for one of the services H hadnt used (an online 
payment service for customers) which equaled £371.74
Or
Cancel the card terminal agreement and waive the cancellation costs equaling £396
Mr J didnt accept this. He maintained the 36 month term hadnt been explained so felt H 
shouldnt be liable for any payment beyond 12 months. 
I issued a provisional decision earlier this year setting out why I didnt intend to uphold the 
complaint. In summary I said that:
Our service could only consider a complaint arising from a hire agreement where its 
in relation to the activity of consumer hire. As the hire agreement in this case was 
between Paymentsense and H, which is a limited company, under the Financial 
Services and Markets Act 2000 the agreement didnt meet the definition of a 
consumer hire agreement. This meant our service was unable to consider Mr Js 
complaint about the term of the agreement as it didnt fall within our jurisdiction. 
I felt I could consider Mr Js complaints in relation to the merchant services 
agreement H was party to as the same rules didnt apply. Mr Js complaint in relation 
to this agreement was that the till rolls he signed up for werent ever delivered to H. 
Due to the time that had passed Paymentsense no longer had any records of what 
was sent out to him. But if they hadnt been received at the time I thought it wouldve 
been reasonable to expect Mr J to contact Paymentsense about this. And whilst I 
understood he was saying he didnt know hed signed up for them, I couldnt fairly 
hold Paymentsense responsible for this as the agreement hed accepted clearly set 
out hed signed up to receive till rolls.
Mr J complained about the PCI DSS charges hed incurred throughout his 
agreements. I explained H, not Paymentsense, had a duty to meet these standards 
in order to protect the sensitive payment data it was holding in using a card payment 
terminal. It was also responsible for attesting to its compliance with the standards. If it 
failed to do so, it incurred a fine. Overall, I felt Paymentsense had given Mr J clear 
information about Hs PCI DSS obligations before he signed the agreements, 
provided support and facilities that allowed him to attest to its compliance and 
contacted him frequently to let him know when H wasnt compliant. So I felt it had 
acted as I wouldve expected and H was fairly liable for any fines it received as a 
result of non-compliance.
Paymentsense responded and accepted my findings. It also let us know that Mr J had 
contacted it in May 2021 to ask if it would be willing to revise its offer to him. It confirmed the 
card terminal contract had been cancelled due to arrears but it remained happy to offer a 
refund of the online service less the arrears outstanding which came to around £300. It 
doesnt appear Mr J has accepted this offer at this stage.
Mr J didnt accept my findings. He raised some additional points he wanted me to consider 
and in summary said that:
He remembers seeing a 48 month term on an agreement, but when he asked about 
this he was shown 12 months was written elsewhere and was told the 48 months 
was the term of the contract between Paymentsense and a third party.
The contract was amended several times over the course of his dealings with 
Paymentsense and I should ask it to provide the contract amendments so I can see 
this. He feels this demonstrates he was tricked into signing up for a longer term than 
intended. Hes also said the fact he didnt use the terminal after the 12 month mark 
demonstrates he only signed up for a 12 month term.
He feels Paymentsense have clearly admitted he didnt agree to the online payment services 
as it has offered to refund the payments in relation to this. He feels this shows it has tricked 
him into signing the agreements. And as its admitted he didnt sign up for online payment 
services, this should be refunded plus a refund of the cost of till rolls he didnt sign up for and 
the PCI DSS fees he incurred beyond the 12 month term he agreed to.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought very carefully about what Mr J has said in response to my provisional decision 
but even considering everything afresh, Im not persuaded to change my mind. I wont repeat everything Ive said in my provisional decision (and have summarised above) but I would like 
to address Mr Js ongoing concerns.
I recognise a large part of Mr Js complaint is that he feels he didnt agree for his business to 
enter into a terminal hire agreement for more than 12 months. And I can see much of his 
response to the provisional decision  what he was told about the 48 month term and asking 
me to review the amendments to the contract  is in relation to this part of his complaint. 
But, as Ive explained, his complaint about the terminal hire agreement doesnt fall within the 
jurisdiction of this service. So I cant look into this complaint for him any further. And, as the 
term of the agreement is longer than 12 months, I dont think Paymentsense needs to cover 
the cost of any PCI DSS fines H has incurred after the first 12 months of the term.
With regards to the refund Paymentsense has offered, I dont agree this is an admission Mr 
J has been tricked into signing the agreements on behalf of his company. Businesses 
sometimes do make offers like this as a gesture of goodwill. 
But, either way, Ive independently looked at whether or not I think he likely was misled by 
Paymentsense regarding the merchant services agreement. Ive concluded this was unlikely 
because, even if the contracts were amended numerous times throughout negotiations, I 
think the information given to Mr J in the agreement he ultimately signed and accepted was 
clear.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
If Mr J would like to accept the options Paymentsense Limited has offered him in resolution 
to his complaint, he can continue to correspond with it directly about this.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman