The complaint
Ms S complains about the sale of a life and critical illness policy by Bank of Scotland plc 
(trading as Halifax). She's unhappy to have discovered that the cover only lasts for 13 years 
and not for life as she'd been led to believe.
What happened
Ms S was advised to start the plan in November 2009 to meet a documented need for critical 
illness cover. At the time she was divorced and had a dependent 11-year old daughter. 
She recently cancelled the policy.
She complained to Halifax but it concluded that the policy had been suitable for her. It noted 
that the 'fact find' completed at the time of the advice showed she had no existing cover and 
little in the way of savings. It also said there'd been no reference made to the policy being for 
thewhole of life, with the 13-year term being clearly stated.  
Ms S referred the complaint to this service where our investigator reached the same 
conclusion as Halifax. In brief, he said there was nothing to suggest the policy was for 
anything other than a 13-year term. He felt that there'd been an identified need for the cover 
and the policy was a reasonable means by which to meet that need.  
Ms S said she didn't agree, so the matter's been referred to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. 
I note Ms S says she was persuaded to cancel an existing policy to take out the new one. 
But there's no mention of this policy in the fact find. And in any event, it does appear that the 
Halifax policy provided a wider range of cover for the same cost. 
Given Ms S' circumstances at the time it seems reasonable that she might have wanted 
critical illness cover and it would've provided valuable benefit and support in looking after her 
daughter if she'd become ill. It was recommended after the adviser had completed a 
comprehensive fact find and so they were fully aware of her circumstances. 
As the investigator noted, there's nothing in the documentation to indicate that the policy had 
anything other than a limited 13-year term, and the key facts document also made clear that 
the policy would have no cash-in value at any time. 
DRN-1319614Overall, I can't see any basis on which to conclude that Halifax acted incorrectly in 
recommending the policy to Ms S.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I don't uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 February 2020.
James Harris
Ombudsman