DRN-4069236
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy with the settlement AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited 
offered for the repair of their storm-damaged garden wall.
Mr and Mrs M had a joint policy for home insurance underwritten by AA. For ease of reading, 
Ill refer mainly to Mr M throughout my decision.
What happened
The background to this complaint is that in February 2022 Mr M claimed under his policy for 
storm damage. AA declined his claim the following month. In September, it decided to 
accept the claim and offered £250 compensation for the delay. Mr M didnt think it was 
enough and brought his complaint to our service. We thought AA had done enough to 
compensate Mr M, so we didnt ask it to do any more.
In October 2022, Mr M raised a new complaint about the cash settlement AA offered for his 
wall repairs. In summary, AAs surveyor reported that the repairs would cost around £9,400, 
but it offered a cash settlement of £3,900. Mr Ms local builder quoted £10,200.
Because the surveyors and the local builders quotes were so similar, Mr M thought it was 
unfair that AA offered him less than half the amount. He declined its offer and complained.
AA sent Mr M its final response giving three reasons for not upholding his complaint:
Any payment of a cash settlement would be the same as the cost to AA to do the 
work.
The repair costs were in line with the national schedule of rates.
The wall was not fit for purpose, so covering the full costs would amount to 
betterment.
Mr M didnt agree, so he brought this second complaint to us.
Our investigator upheld Mr Ms complaint because:
AA hadnt made it clear to him that its contractors could carry out the work. 
There were measurement inaccuracies in the surveyors report, meaning the cost to 
repair was based on incorrect materials.
AA hadnt offered a cash settlement that would allow Mr M to have the repairs 
completed.
AA didnt provide any persuasive evidence that the repairs amounted to betterment.
Our investigator said AA should clarify whether it was offering to carry out the repairs itself or 
only provide a cash settlement. If AA offered a cash settlement, it should be sufficient to put 
Mr M back in the position he was in before the damage happened. Our investigator also 
proposed compensation of £200 for the ongoing delays and inconvenience.
While the complaint was with us, AA made another offer to Mr M, which was to pay for the 
repairs at around £8,000. But Mr Ms contractor completed the repairs. Our investigator 
asked AA whether it was happy to settle the claim based on the cost to Mr M, but it didnt 
reply, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
The complaint has moved on since Mr M first brought it to us, and both parties have been 
kept up to date of the progress. Therefore, there seems little benefit in repeating the detail of 
the complaint up to this point or in providing further opportunity to agree a resolution. So, Ill 
summarise the current position and then focus on the key points, referencing the evidence 
where I think it helps explain my decision.
Current position
Mr Ms own contractor repaired his garden wall at a cost of £11,100.
AAs final cash settlement offer was £7,925.06.
AA declined Mr Ms request for payment of the full repair cost because it said the 
work included betterment.
On consideration of the evidence, I think its fair and reasonable for AA to settle the full 
invoice amount of £11,100. Thats because:
AA has unfairly relied on the policy term that allows it to cash settle at its own cost 
because theres no evidence to show AA offered to complete the work.
AA declined Mr Ms request for payment because it said his work schedule included 
elements of betterment. Having considered AAs quote and Mr Ms quote, I havent 
identified any significant differences in the work proposed. Looking at photos of the 
work at various stages, the evidence contradicts AAs claim that Mr M had his 
foundations redone, which is an area of betterment it commented on.
Theres limited information from AA regarding its refusal to cover Mr Ms repair cost, 
and Ive not seen valid reasons for paying a reduced amount.
Mr Ms contractor and AAs contractor both estimated the work cost at a similar 
amount, suggesting Mr Ms quote was reasonable. In turn, then, his request for 
payment of that invoice was reasonable because, even if AA had offered its 
contractors, the cost to AA wouldve been a similar amount.
In the absence of any evidence showing that AA made a fair offer to settle Mr Ms claim, Im 
going to ask AA to pay the full repair cost, less any policy excess or cash payments already 
made. If Mr M has already paid for the work, I think its reasonable that he should provide AA 
with evidence of payment.
Additionally, Im satisfied that the proposed compensation of £200 is reasonable in the 
circumstances and addresses the delays AA caused, its failure to respond to Mr M about his 
claim settlement, and the ongoing inconvenience caused since it agreed to settle his claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and AA 
Underwriting Insurance Company Limited must:Pay the full repair cost to Mr and Mrs M, less any policy excess or cash settlements 
already made.
Pay £200 compensation for the failure to communicate with Mr M effectively about 
his claim and for the ongoing inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 July 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman