DRN-4119607
The complaint
Mrs F complains John Lewis Financial Services Limited (JLFS) unfairly rejected her claim 
under section 75 of The Consumer Credit Act 1974 in respect of solar panels she 
purchased. She believes they werent installed adequately thereby causing damage to her 
house. 
Mrs F is represented by her husband but as the credit card is in her name, I will refer to her 
throughout this decision.
What happened
In October 2020, Mrs F entered into a contract for the supply and installation of solar panels 
with a company who I will refer to as K. It cost a total of £5,995. She paid a deposit of £600 
and later paid the outstanding balance using her JLFS credit card.
Due to the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, the panels werent installed until April 2021. 
Within a couple of months, she reported issues with it. She said the roof was leaking and the 
ingress of water was causing damage to the house. Mrs F believed K hadnt surveyed the 
roof sufficiently and given she had no previous issues with it, she believed the leak was most 
likely caused by the installation of the solar panels. 
Mrs F says she made several attempts to contact K between August and October 2021 but 
with no success. She wanted K to remove the panels, repair the roof and re-fit the panels 
correctly.  
In October 2021, she raised a section 75 claim with JLFS. To consider it, they said they 
needed more information including the invoice, correspondence with K and an independent 
inspection report to determine the issues and the quotes for any remedial work. JLFS said 
as this evidence wasnt provided, they were unable to substantiate the s75 claim. Mrs F said 
in order to determine the cause of the leak, the panels had to be removed which would incur 
a cost.
Unhappy with their response, Mrs F referred the complaint to our service. The investigator 
recommended the complaint was upheld. She concluded the solar panels hadnt been fitted 
with reasonable care and skill. She said given the proximity of the leak to the fitting points of 
the solar panels, and the fact the leak occurred within three months of its installation, its 
likely it caused the leak.
JLFS disagreed and maintained their position. Since then, Mrs F has provided further 
pictures and a video of the damage caused by the leak. Shes also provided a quote from a 
third party company to remove the panels and repair the roof (around £2,160).
In April 2023, I issued a provisional decision outlining my intentions not to uphold the 
complaint. I said:
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer a right to claim against a supplier of 
goods (K) or the provider of credit (JLFS) if theres been a breach of contract or a 
misrepresentation. Im satisfied the requirement for a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement is 
present and Mrs F paid for the solar panels via her JLFS credit card. As the relevant 
circumstances are met, I find she was able to make a s75 claim. 
However, I must stress in order to uphold Mrs Fs complaint, I would need to be satisfied that 
theres been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation by K and that JLFS response to the 
section 75 claim wasnt fair or reasonable.
In this case, the relevant law that applies is The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). It implies 
a term that the service delivered must be carried out with reasonable care and skill. That is, 
the standard a reasonably competent person in that trade or profession would expect.
Based on the evidence presented to me from Mrs F, its clear there is evidence of a leak 
which is causing damage to her house. She says K didnt sufficiently survey the roof before 
installing the solar panels. Having reviewed the contract, it says a roof structural survey will 
be carried out. However I havent been presented with the findings of this survey so Im 
unable to say whether one was carried out and if it was, what it showed. But that doesnt 
necessarily mean one wasnt carried out by K. 
Ive taken into account Mrs Fs comments about the structure of the roof and her belief the 
bolts securing the solar panels have hit the roofs steel frame thereby causing the leak. Ive 
also considered the quote by the third party which includes the need for scaffolding, the 
removal of the solar panels and the repair to the roof. However it doesnt provide any 
commentary or indication as to the cause or source of the leak.
In light of the above, Im not persuaded theres sufficient evidence for me to reasonably 
conclude K failed to install the solar panels with reasonable skill and care which caused the 
roof to leak. Therefore I cant say theres been a breach of contract by K so it wouldnt be fair 
for me to require JLFS to take any further action in response to this claim.  
I note JLFS has told our service they didnt decline the s75 claim but they were unable to 
progress it in the absence of the requested information and evidence. In the circumstances, I 
consider that fair. If Mrs F is able to provide further evidence such as an independent 
inspection report or any other evidence which confirms the cause of the leak was a result of 
the installation of the solar panels, I would be willing to consider it before reaching a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties were invited to respond to the provisional findings. Neither JLFS or Mrs F 
provided any further information or evidence for me to consider. 
On that basis, I still consider my findings to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Therefore, my final decision is the same for the reasons as set out in my provisional 
decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Fs complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2023.
 
Simona Reese
Ombudsman