DRN-3350335
The complaint
Mrs B and Mr B complain about Allianz Insurance Plcs (Allianz) handling of their claim 
under their car insurance.  
What happened
Mrs B and Mr B notified Allianz of a claim following an accident. They say they sent photos 
of the damage and Allianz then approved the claim and referred it to their repairers. Mrs B 
and Mr B say, despite numerous chasers to Allianz and the repairers, no action was taken to 
repair their car. They say their car is old, so availability of parts is limited. Mr B says he 
therefore gave the repairer details of where they could source the parts but still no action 
was taken despite Allianz instructing the repairer to order the parts. Mr B says given the 
delays, he decided to source the parts and carried out the repairs himself. Mr B says he paid 
for the parts out of his own pocket and it took him around 16 hours to deal with this. 
Mrs B and Mr B complained and Allianz accepted that over a month went by with little 
progress on repairing the car. And, once Mr B arranged the repairs privately, it took a further 
two months for him to be reimbursed. Allianz accepted, during this time it wasnt easy to get 
hold of them and Mr B had to wait on hold for extended periods of time. Allianz apologised 
and offered £250 compensation which theyd arranged to be sent by bank transfer. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs B and Mr B. He agreed Allianz had made errors 
and recommended they pay an additional £200 to what theyd already offered  bringing the 
total to £450. Allianz havent responded so the matter has come to me for a decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation here is a fair way to resolve matters. 
I think its important to stress Ive made my decision based on the information I have. I can 
see our investigator has provided Allianz with details of the complaint being made against 
them and allowed them a number of opportunities to provide information. Its important that 
we get an account from all parties in order to consider the complaint fully. In this case, while 
Allianz havent provided any information to our service, Im satisfied weve taken sufficient 
steps, and given sufficient time, to enable them to respond. 
I must be fair to both parties and dont feel its reasonable, in this case, for Mrs B and Mr B to 
have to continue waiting for an answer to their complaint.   
Firstly, Ive looked at the service given to Mrs B and Mr B. The key facts about the complaint 
arent in dispute. Allianz have admitted they got things wrong by carrying out no action in 
relation to the repairs and Mr B having to wait on hold for extended periods. The only issue I 
have to decide is whether Allianzs offer to put things right is fair and reasonable.
I think its right that Allianz should compensate Mrs B and Mr B for the trouble and 
inconvenience caused by their poor service. Theres a number of factors here that Ive taken 
into consideration when deciding what I think is a fair and reasonable level of compensation. 
Ill start by saying that I can understand why Mrs B and Mr B are upset at the delays. An 
insurer is required to handle a claim fairly and promptly  and that hasnt happened here. 
This has led to Mr B sourcing the parts himself and carrying out repairs. Given the facts in 
this case, I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr B to take this step on the basis there 
appeared to be a disagreement between Allianz and their repairer around ordering the parts. 
So, theres been significant trouble and inconvenience to Mr B in having to effectively take 
on the role of the repairer here  something which shouldve been carried out by Allianz 
under the terms of Mrs B and Mr Bs policy. Mr B says it took 16 hours of his own time to 
resolve the issues, this includes ordering parts and carrying out repairs. There is also the 
inconvenience to Mrs B and Mr B not being able to use their car during the period of delay 
caused by Allianz in carrying out the repairs. I can understand this was frustrating for Mrs B 
and Mr B and this was exacerbated by having to remain on hold for extended periods when 
calling Allianz. 
Taking this all into account, I dont think Allianzs offer of £250 goes far enough to reflect the 
impact on Mrs B and Mr B. And, I think £450 compensation would be fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this case. I acknowledge Mr B feels Allianz should pay him for his time 
in carrying out the repairs and £1,000 would be reasonable for the trouble and 
inconvenience caused. I am sorry to disappoint Mr B but, while I fully agree further 
compensation should be paid, I dont think a payment for his time or £1,000 would be fair 
and reasonable here. Allianz say they wont make specific payment for the time taken by   
Mr B to repair his car as this isnt a cost that he has incurred and it doesnt have a tangible 
value as its not Mr Bs line of work. I agree with Allianzs view here as there wasnt a 
specified cost incurred by Mr B in the same way that he incurred a cost for sourcing the 
parts. That said, I have factored in the trouble and inconvenience to Mr B in carrying out the 
repairs when considering the overall impact. In relation to Mr Bs view on compensation, 
while I can see the issues continued for a few months, I cant say theres any ongoing impact 
to Mrs B and Mr B or any serious consequences which would justify an award of £1,000.     
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that Allianz have caused delays in dealing with the claim and Mr B has 
also had to spend extended periods on hold when calling them. So, Allianz should pay a 
total of £450 compensation to Mrs B and Mr B. Its not clear whether Mrs B and Mr B have 
received the £250 already offered by Allianz. If they have, then Allianz should pay a further 
£200 to bring the total up to £450. If they havent, then Allianz should pay £450 to Mrs B and 
Mr B. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Allianz Insurance Plc must take the steps in 
accordance with what Ive said under Putting things right above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 June 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman