DRN-3392601
The complaint
Mrs S complains about the poor service provided by Aviva Insurance Limited when she 
made a claim on her home emergency insurance policy.
Where I refer to Aviva this includes its agents and claims handlers acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mrs S had a policy providing boiler breakdown cover for many years, underwritten by Aviva. 
When her boiler stopped working in November 2021 she called to arrange a repair. The 
engineer who visited said the boiler was beyond economic repair. So Aviva said it would pay 
Mrs S £200 towards the cost of a new boiler (in line with the policy terms).
Mrs S was very unhappy and asked for a second opinion. After she made a number of calls 
to Aviva, it agreed to send another engineer, who was able to repair the boiler.
Mrs S complained that she had been left without heating or hot water at a time when the 
weather was very cold. Aviva accepted that the boiler should have been repaired at the first 
visit and offered compensation of £125 for the delay.
As Mrs S wasnt happy with the offer she complained to this service. Our investigator said 
Mrs S had been very upset and was put to unnecessary trouble chasing Aviva to get the 
boiler fixed. She asked Aviva to increase the compensation by £75 to a total of £200.
Aviva hasnt agreed to increase the payment. It says the delay was only a few days and 
£125 is reasonable. Mrs S also hasnt agreed with the proposal. She doesnt think £200 is 
enough and would like a higher payment. So I need to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aviva accepts that the boiler should have been repaired at the first visit so thats not in 
dispute. The issue is how to put things right for Mrs S. 
Mrs S was left without hot water or heating for a further four days after the initial visit. And it 
was only because she chased a number of times that Aviva agreed to send another 
engineer  it refused to arrange this at first, saying the boiler could not be repaired. That 
wasnt correct. 
Mrs S wouldnt have been left another four days without a working boiler if the fault had been 
diagnosed correctly in the first place. She was reduced to tears and felt let down. It was also 
inconvenient to have to keep chasing Aviva to get another engineer to visit.
I appreciate that Aviva did apologise and offer compensation. It says the delay was only a 
few days. But I dont think £125 is a fair amount of compensation in these circumstances. 
Mrs S had no heating or hot water when the weather was very cold. The point of this policy 
was that Mrs S would have the reassurance of knowing if her boiler broke down it would be 
fixed quickly. She had to keep chasing to get things sorted. Taking everything into account, I 
agree £200 is a fair amount. 
Mrs S would like a much higher payment. Shes referred to the amount of premiums she has 
paid over the years and says a loyal customer shouldnt be treated like this. And she says 
£200 is no deterrent to prevent this happening again. But its not my role to punish a 
business; Im just looking at whats a fair amount to put things right for Mrs S. I appreciate it 
was very upsetting for Mrs S. But taking into account the distress caused over a period of 
four days Im satisfied £200 is a reasonable amount.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Aviva Insurance Limited to pay a 
total of £200 compensation to Mrs S for the distress and inconvenience caused to her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman