DRN-3292894
The complaint
Mr O complains that an engineer for Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) caused damage in his 
kitchen during a claim under his home emergency insurance.  
What happened
Mr O contacted Aviva to report a leak which was causing damage underneath his kitchen 
sink. An engineer attended and carried out work to repair this. Mr O then contacted Aviva 
again about two weeks later to say the leak was still present. A different engineer attended 
and identified what he felt was the issue. Mr O then contacted Aviva the following day and 
complained the second engineer had caused damage. Mr O explained the engineer had 
damaged the hinge on a cupboard door on his integrated washing machine which caused 
the door to drop onto the tiled floor and caused this to crack. 
Aviva responded and noted Mr O had sent them photos showing a loose hinge on a 
cupboard door, a damaged kitchen cupboard door and a tile with a crack in the corner. Aviva 
didnt accept responsibility for the damage and said their engineer denied making access by 
pulling out the washing machine. The engineer said no repair work was carried out by him 
and all his investigation work was done underneath the kitchen sink and not the integrated 
unit which housed the washing machine. Aviva said the photo Mr O had sent showing a 
cracked tile was also photographed by their engineer and the crack looks discoloured which 
suggests it has been there for a while and not recently made. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr O. She thought Aviva werent responsible for the 
damage and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr O disagreed so the matter has come to me for a 
decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr O will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision.
The first point I will make is that theres no dispute that photos provided by Mr O show there 
is a crack in a tile. What is in dispute is whether this was caused by Avivas engineer. By 
way of evidence, what I dont have here is a date stamped photo showing the condition of 
the tile and cupboard before the engineers attendance. 
So, while part of this complaint comes down to one account of events against another, Ive 
looked at the facts and Ive considered other information I do have. Ive then made a 
judgement call based on the balance of probabilities. That is, whether I think it is more likely 
than not Avivas engineer did cause the damage.  
Case notes provided by Aviva show the second engineer, during their visit, called Aviva to 
discuss what he thought the cause of the leak was and confirming another company would 
be attending to sort out the issue. The notes dont suggest the engineer carried out any 
repairs and it appears his visit was limited to carrying out an investigation into the possible 
cause of the leak. The photos show there was direct access underneath the sink through a 
cupboard situated directly under the sink. So, I think its unlikely the engineer wouldve had 
any need to open or remove the cupboard door to the integrated washing machine. I do note 
the cupboard door to the washing machine is next to the cupboard door to the underside of 
the sink, but this still doesnt persuade me that the engineer needed to carry out any 
investigation behind this cupboard door. 
I can see Aviva, as part of their investigation into Mr Os complaint, contacted the engineer 
for his recollection of events. The engineer confirms he didnt make any access during his 
visit. The contact with the engineer was around a month after the visit but their recollection is 
consistent with the notes which were taken following the engineers call to Aviva on the day 
of the visit as both suggest he only carried out an investigation into the leak. The engineer 
also recollected there was wear and tear to the kitchen units. Looking at the photos which 
have been provided, this does show wear and tear to the cupboard doors. So, I think the 
engineers recollection of events is supported by other information Ive seen. 
Mr O says, on the day of the visit, he was working in an open plan area of his kitchen and 
heard a loud noise which he knows was the cupboard door falling. Mr O says he saw the 
engineer lean on the cupboard door causing it to fall off. He says the engineer then refitted 
the cupboard door. Mr O says he didnt approach the engineer immediately or ask what had 
happened as the engineer was working at the time and Mr O was on a call. Mr O says his 
wife then noticed the crack in the tile later and this is when Mr O realised it mustve been 
caused by the cupboard door falling and he reported it to Aviva. I have carefully considered 
these points, but Im not persuaded this proves the engineer caused the damage. 
I believe a cupboard door falling can cause a tile to crack and, given the position of the 
cracked tile, I think its quite possible the cupboard door of the integrated washing machine 
couldve caused this. The issue here is theres no evidence it was the engineer who caused 
the cupboard door to fall. I think its reasonable to expect, if a customer were to see an 
engineer cause damage, they would approach them to see what had happened to cause a 
loud noise  and particularly so if they saw a cupboard door coming off. That being the case, 
it gives the customer the opportunity to raise it with the engineer immediately while theyre 
still at their property or to call the insurer to explain whats happened while the engineer is 
there. I acknowledge Mr O says he didnt know at the time that the tile had been cracked, but 
I still think its reasonable to expect a customer would look to see what had happened. And, 
while I note Mr O says he was on a call at that time, I believe there would still have been an 
opportunity to raise this with the engineer after Mr Os call had finished and before the 
engineer had left.   
So, taking this all into account, from the information Ive seen, I cant say its more likely than 
not, Avivas engineer caused the damage.       
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman