DRN-2310425
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E are unhappy that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) have declined a claim they
made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs E took out an annual travel insurance policy in March 2017 with IPA. They had 
booked a cruise between 7 and 14 September 2017. On 4 September 2017 Mr E had minor 
surgery to drain an abscess and was left with a wound which needed dressing. The GP 
notes show that Mr E saw the nurse on the 6 September who said Mr E was fit to travel.
On the night of 6 September Mr E emailed IPA to explain what had happened. He asked
whether hed be covered for the wound being dressed  he queried whether IPA agreed that
it would be better for him to go rather than cancel. IPA sent an email back on 8 September
which outlined what the policy covered and inviting him to call the claims team if he needed
help.
Whilst on the cruise Mr E says he developed an infection in the wound and needed to have
treatment for it. He says he accepts that there isnt cover for the dressing of the wound but
he thinks IPA should pay for the cost of his treatment, which was going on a drip twice a day.
Mr E told us there was a concern about sepsis. IPA has declined to cover the claim because
it says the abscess was a pre-existing condition which isnt covered under the policy.
Theyve also mentioned Mr E didnt declare a previous cyst.
Our investigator looked into what happened and upheld Mr and Mrs Es complaint. She
didnt think the infection should be treated as a pre-existing condition. So, she thought IPA
should pay the claim and 8% simple interest. She also recommended IPA paid Mr and Mrs E
£150 compensation.
Mr E accepted the investigators findings but IPA didnt. They say that there was a high risk
of infection which is why they declined cover on 8 September. So, they said this wasnt a fair
outcome.
In September 2020 I issued my provisional decision explaining that I wasnt intending to 
uphold Mr and Mrs Es complaint. I said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that IPA should handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
The policy terms and conditions contain a section called, Important Conditions 
relating to health. Within that section it says:
Our travel policies are offered on the understanding that you are fit to travel on the
day the policy is issued. If your health changes after the purchase of your policy
and/or the date your travel tickets or confirmation of booking were issued, you should
telephone Coverwise on  to discuss how this may affect your cover.
Im not intending to uphold this complaint because I think it was reasonable for IPA to
decline the claim. I say that because:
I think Mr E was required to let IPA know about the abscess before he 
travelled. Hed been diagnosed and treated for a new condition since he 
bought the policy and before the date of his departure. That was a 
requirement of the policy terms and conditions and isnt uncommon in the 
travel insurance industry
Mr E emailed IPA shortly before 8pm on the evening of 6 September 2017. In 
the email he said he was due to travel on 7 September. Thats consistent with 
the trip itinerary which says he was due to fly at 0745 on the 7 September
This didnt leave much time for IPA to look into the issue or respond as there 
was only around 12 hours between the email being sent and Mr E leaving the 
UK. And it wasnt usual office hours. So it isnt surprising that IPA werent able 
to get back to Mr E before he left. The medical evidence confirms that Mr E 
was treated with minor surgery on 4 September 2017 so its unclear why he 
didnt get in touch with IPA sooner given that hed had minor surgery and the 
proximity of his departure date. I dont think IPA had a reasonable opportunity 
to consider this information and give Mr E guidance before he left the UK
IPA responded to Mr E on the 8 September. I think the email could have 
made it clearer that Mr E wouldnt be covered at all due to his change in 
health. However, Mr E was already on holiday by then so this doesnt change 
my thoughts about the outcome of this complaint
Had Mr E contacted IPA earlier then theyd have assessed his change in 
health and decided whether or not to offer him cover. As Mr Es condition was 
ongoing IPA wouldnt have been able to offer him cover to travel, based on 
their underwriting criteria. Theyve also confirmed that, even if theyd looked 
to offer Mr E a policy with cover for pre-existing conditions, they wouldnt have 
been able to do so. Thats because an abscess carries a high risk of sepsis or 
infection. So, its not a risk that IPA would have agreed to cover
In such circumstances, had Mr E contacted them earlier, its most likely IPA 
would have offered Mr E the option either to cancel his holiday altogether or 
to cancel the policy and take out cover elsewhere. As Mr E had been deemed 
fit to travel it seems unlikely to me that he would have chosen to cancel. And, 
I also bear in mind the limited time IPA had to respond to the query. So, I 
dont think its fair and reasonable for IPA to pay the value of the medical bills 
up to the limit of cancellation cover in the circumstances of this case.
IPA accepted my provisional findings. Mr E queried why the medical professionals said he 
was fit to travel and positively encouraged him to go on holiday. So, I now need to make my 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Es further comments havent changed my provisional thoughts about the outcome of this 
complaint. 
I appreciate that the medical professionals considered that he was fit to travel and 
encouraged him to go. However, thats not the same as his insurance company being 
prepared to accept the risk of covering a condition with a high risk of sepsis and infection. 
So, whilst Mr Es medical team were happy for him to travel, it doesnt automatically follow 
that his insurer has to accept the level of risk his condition prevented following his change in 
health. 
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, Im not upholding this 
complaint.  
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E and Mr E to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 December 2020.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman