DRN-4103391
The complaint
A company which Ill call C complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) 
changed the interest rate on a loan proposal, after the property valuation that the loan was to 
be secured against was lowered. 
The complaint is brought on Cs behalf by their director Mr S. 
What happened
C held a business account with NatWest and wanted to arrange a loan to repurchase 
company shares from one of their directors. 
C told us:
In August 2022, they approached the bank to arrange finance and were told that to 
do this, theyd have to take out a secured loan against their property.
They were initially quoted a 10-year loan for £220,0000 at a fixed rate of 6.47%, 
based on an estimated property valuation of £300,000 and were happy to proceed on 
this basis. 
In late September, the banks valuers undertook a valuation and NatWest increased 
the rate C would be paying on the loan to 8.69%. This was unfair as they werent told 
that the rate was dependent on the property valuation and could increase. 
They believe the Bank of England Base Rate (BBR) increase on 23 September 
2022 caused the rate they were being charged to increase as it hadnt booked them 
the rate theyd initially been quoted. 
The directors had been caused distress due to the £30,000 increase in interest costs 
which would now be payable and the delay in responding to Cs complaint. 
NatWest told us:
The rate offered to C was indicative only and was subject to change whilst 
information was being obtained to proceed with their application. 
The loan was agreed by Cs relationship manager, subject to certain conditions, but 
even though the company had provided their solicitors details to book the rate, this 
had increased due to changes in the BBR.
It was unable to book the initial rate for C as the property valuation was below what 
the loan had originally been based on. This meant it couldnt lend to C on the original 
terms and had to restructure the loan based on this lower valuation, and when it did 
so, the original rate was no longer available. 
Cs rate should have been higher than the increased offer rate of 8.69% due to the 
loan restructure. However, Cs relationship manager requested an exception for them 
to retain the new offer rate.  
There had been a delay in the valuation taking place after the relationship manager 
had requested this on 12 September 2022 and it wasnt received until 11 October 
2022. However, this delay hadnt affected the rate payable by C, that had been due 
to the reduction in the property valuation. 
It had apologised for the delay in obtaining the valuation and paid C £500 
compensation for the inconvenience caused. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought C had been made 
aware that the 6.47% was only an indicative rate and not guaranteed. She also said that as 
Cs property valuation had been reduced, the bank had to offer a new loan agreement for a 
reduced amount, and it wasnt uncommon for rates to change in these circumstances. Our 
investigator didnt think that the delay in the valuation had caused Cs interest rate to 
change. However, she acknowledged this had caused the company inconvenience but 
thought that the £500 compensation paid by the bank was enough to put things right. 
C didnt agree. They said when they received the email from NatWest on 5 September 2022, 
the relationship manager had said they were getting the rate booked, so they believed the 
6.47% had been secured. They werent aware until the end of September that due to the 
lower valuation the original rate had been removed, and they still believed this was because 
of the valuation had been delayed by the bank. So C asked for an ombudsman to review 
their complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint C but theres not much more that I can add to what our investigator 
has already said. 
C says that NatWest treated them unfairly as they were told in an email from the bank on 
5 September 2022 that the rate of 6.47% had been booked. But I dont agree. I say this 
because Ive seen the emails from Cs relationship manager to the company on 2 September 
2022. These emails firstly explain that Cs loan has been sanctioned. However, it also says 
clearly that this is subject to certain conditions being fulfilled, which included their property 
being appraised at the agreed valuation. The follow up email on the same day then provided 
the indicative pricing which had been discussed. So Im not persuaded that the relationship 
manager said the rate of 6.47% was guaranteed.
I recognise that C says the relationship manager then emailed them to confirm the rate after 
theyd provided their solicitors details. However, based on what Ive seen I think its likely the 
relationship manager did book the rate for C, but because the valuation was less than 
expected, the company didnt meet the conditions for the rate and therefore were no longer 
eligible for the indicative quote. Ive seen evidence from the bank that this was in line with its 
process so I cant reasonably say NatWest acted unfairly here.  
C says that because NatWest delayed their property valuation, they were impacted by the 
change in the Bank of England base rate. But I dont agree. Ive seen that C only agreed with 
NatWest which valuer they wanted to use late on 7 September 2022, and the bank 
instructed the valuer on 12 September 2022 which was within its agreed service level 
agreement. Given that the base rate increased on 23 September 2022, which was only 
twelve working days after C had made their decision on which valuer they wanted to use, 
there wouldnt have been any guarantee that the valuation could have taken place and been 
returned to the bank within that time. 
I acknowledge C says after they chased the valuation it was received in a matter of days, but 
I think its likely that this had been expedited by the bank because of the time period that had 
passed and wasnt reflective of the usual timeframe for this to be completed. But even if I 
accepted that the valuation could have actioned within the twelve-day timescale, Im not persuaded this would have made a difference.  I say this because the fixed rate offered by 
the bank was subject to C meeting the conditions which had been agreed upon for them to 
receive the 6.47% and the lower valuation meant those conditions hadnt been met. Based 
on the evidence Ive seen from NatWest I think it would always have had to reassess the 
loan offered to C  because of the lower valuation. So even if the base rate hadnt increased, 
Im not persuaded that C would have been granted the rate of 6.47%. 
However, I do think NatWest made a mistake in not chasing the valuer more quickly for an 
update. I cant say that this would have made a difference in the valuation being done more 
quickly by the valuer, but I do think it was unfair that C had to chase the bank - given it had 
the business relationship with the valuer and therefore was the only party who could 
expediate matters. I can see that NatWest has apologised that it didnt provide C with the 
level of service it should have done and paid £500 compensation for the inconvenience 
caused. So I think its done enough to put things right for this part of Cs complaint.
The directors have told us that they have been caused distress due to NatWests actions. 
But this complaint has been brought on Cs behalf, so C is the eligible complainant. This 
means that I cant look at any distress or inconvenience caused to the directors in a personal 
capacity. Limited companies like C, as corporate bodies rather than individuals, are not 
capable of suffering distress, which means I can only look at the inconvenience caused to C 
by NatWests actions. 
I also acknowledge that the directors say C has been caused inconvenience due to 
NatWests delay in providing a response to their complaint. Im sorry to disappoint the 
directors, but complaint handling isnt an activity that falls within our jurisdiction so I cant 
look at the banks delay in providing C with a final response to their complaint.  
I recognise that Cs directors will be disappointed with my decision, but it follows that as I 
dont think NatWest did anything wrong in increasing the interest rate payable by C, I wont 
be making an award for any inconvenience or financial loss the directors say the company 
has suffered. And I wont be asking NatWest to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2023.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman