DRN-2382680
The complaint
Mr H complains that NewDay Ltd, trading as Aqua, was irresponsible when it gave him his 
credit cards.
What happened
Mr H successfully applied for a credit card with NewDay in 2013 with a credit limit of £250. 
Later that year his credit limit increased to £1,050. In August 2016, Mr H applied for another 
card with NewDay and was given a new card with a limit of £250.
Mr H has recently complained that both these cards were unaffordable for him at the time. 
He says it has led to his financial difficulties getting worse.
Our investigator explained we couldnt investigate Mr Hs complaint about the card and credit 
limit increase in 2013 as hed made the complaint too late. She explained NewDay hadnt 
consented to us considering this complaint and it had been more than six years since the 
events took place. She also explained that as Mr H had gone over his limit multiple times 
and had a notice of default on the card in 2014, he ought to have reasonably been aware 
that he had cause for complaint around this time. So, the investigator explained this wasnt 
something this service could consider.
Our investigator did think NewDay had been irresponsible when giving Mr H his second 
credit card with a limit of £250. She said that whilst the limit was low, Mr Hs history of 
managing his other account suggests he wasnt in a position to take on further lending at 
that time. She said that in the six months before his application hed been over his limit three 
times on his first card, and made a large proportion of cash withdrawals, incurring large fees. 
She felt this, along with him having an account in arrears, meant NewDay shouldnt have 
given him further lending. So, she recommended it refund the interest and charges applied 
to Mr Hs second card with NewDay and remove any information from his credit file about 
that card.
NewDay disagreed. It said Mr Hs credit file wouldnt have reflected his recent activity where 
he went over his limit. Also it explained it is a second chance lender, and the low credit limit 
of £250 was affordable as the application satisfied its lending criteria. So the complaint has 
been passed to me to reach a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigator for similar reasons. Ill explain why.
2013 credit card and increase
The rules under which this service operates can be found in the Financial Conduct Authority 
Handbook under DISP. These say that unless a business consents, or there are exceptional 
circumstances, we cant consider a complaint that has been brought more than six years 
after the event complained about or, if later, more than three years since the consumer was 
aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, of cause for complaint.
In this case, Mr H applied for his credit card in 2013 and his limit was increased in the same 
year. He didnt complain until 2020 which is more than six years since the event happened. 
Mr Hs complaint is that the lending was unaffordable for him. I can see he was issued a 
notice of default in 2014 which I think wouldve made him aware that his credit card may 
have been unaffordable for him. That was more than three years ago so I think hes 
complained too late about this credit card and limit increase. As NewDay hasnt consented to 
us looking at this complaint, and Mr H hasnt told us about any exceptional circumstances I 
cant consider this complaint point.
2016 credit card
I can consider whether Mr Hs credit card from NewDay he was given in 2016 was affordable 
for him.
When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, I need to 
consider whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy them 
the lending was affordable, and whether it was sustainable. Where those checks were 
carried out, I need to consider if the lending decision was fair. And if they werent carried out, 
I need to consider if the increases wouldve been approved had the checks taken place. 
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportional checks are, but Id expect lenders to 
consider things such as the amount of the credit limit being applied for; and Mr Hs personal 
circumstances at the time of application.
When Mr H applied for the card he told NewDay he had an income of around £13,000 and 
lived with his parents. NewDay ran a credit check and saw he had one account in arrears but 
hadnt had any recent payday loans. It decided that Mr Hs circumstances met its 
affordability criteria. Ive considered this, but I dont think NewDay carried out proportionate 
checks on this occasion.
NewDay has asserted that it only gave Mr H a low credit limit of £250, and that this was 
affordable when it looked at its criteria. However, it doesnt appear to have taken into 
account Mr Hs conduct on his other card with NewDay. Mr H was already a customer of 
NewDay with a credit limit of £1,050. So whilst this new credit card was for £250, it brings his 
total lending with NewDay to £1,300. So, it was important to consider how Mr H managed his 
other NewDay card when he applied for this credit card. 
I can see Mr H was over his limit three times in the six months before his application. Hed 
relied on his credit card to withdraw cash a number of times incurring large fees that it 
appears he couldnt afford given hed frequently been over his limit. Mr H also had an 
existing debt that was in arrears at the time he applied. NewDay has said his credit file 
wouldnt have shown that hed been over is limit as hed rectified it. But Mr H was over his 
limit on a card he had with NewDay. And Id expect NewDay to review the way he managed 
his account he already had with it before agreeing to lend him more. I cant see that it did 
that here.
I understand that the new card fell within NewDays affordability criteria. But, looking at the 
picture as a whole, I dont think this was a responsible lending decision. This is because 
NewDay lent more money to Mr H who already had over £1,000 of debt with it. That credit 
card had been over its limit in the months before his new application which he incurred a lot 
of fees and charges on, and it was defaulted. Mr H also had one account in arrears at the time. I think if NewDay had looked at the way Mr H handled his other credit card he had with 
it, I dont think it wouldve, or shouldve given him additional lending.
Putting things right
NewDay shouldnt have given Mr H his credit card in 2016. So, it should now refund all 
interest and charges applied to the card. As Mr Hs card has been repaid in full NewDay 
should add 8% interest to the refund from the date the card was closed to the date of 
settlement. NewDay should also remove any reference to this credit card on Mr Hs credit 
file.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint. NewDay Ltd, trading as Aqua, must 
follow the instructions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 January 2021.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman