DRN-3049660
The complaint
Mr T complains about the advice given by Bluesky Wealth Management Limited to transfer 
the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal 
pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this caused him a financial 
loss.
What happened
Bluesky hasnt provided a full copy of any sales documentation. Ive only received the 
recommendation letter and its response to the complaint. So, what I have to look at is 
limited.  But what I understand about how the transfer took place is below. 
In early 2019 Mr T entered his details onto a website that traded as an appointed 
representative of Bluesky. This website said that it would assist Mr T to access cash from 
your pension without having to retire. It said he could do this by transferring his DB pension 
value to a personal pension. 
As far as I know, Bluesky used the information Mr T provided to the website to obtain a 
transfer value from his DB scheme. And advise Mr T about transferring his DB benefits.
Bluesky says that it put Mr T through an initial triage process and he then had some contact 
with an advisor. It hasnt provided any further detail about this. So, I dont know how, or to 
what extent, Bluesky completed a fact-finding exercise to gather information about Mr Ts 
circumstances and objectives. 
Bluesky described Mr Ts attitude to risk (ATR) at the time of sale as being conservative. I 
dont know how it arrived at this ATR.
On 21 March 2019, Bluesky advised Mr T to transfer his pension benefits into a personal 
pension with a third party. The suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation 
were that Mr T could release some of the cash he wanted from his pension immediately by 
making the transfer. It listed some of the advantages of making the transfer. 
Mr T complained in 2020 to Bluesky about the suitability of the transfer advice. His 
representative said that:  
The advice process, and reasons for recommendation, were very brief. There wasnt 
a full consideration of Mr Ts circumstances. 
Mr T didnt need to release the cash from his pension to repay debts. As he was still 
working he could have managed his finances another way and not transferred his DB 
scheme benefits. 
The transfer was not suitable for Mr T. His attitude, and capacity for risk, were low 
and he couldnt afford to give up his DB scheme benefits. 
Bluesky didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint. It said: 
Mr T had requested to access his tax-free cash (TFC) as he was overcommitted on 
debt. 
This was confirmed in the initial triage process and the subsequent advice process.  
Mr T was provided with full information about the transfer and he agreed with it at the 
time. He wasnt pressured into transferring his DB scheme benefits. 
He was made well aware of the risk of the transfer and benefits he was giving up, 
there were strongly worded caveats and warnings on the website. 
The DB transfer was suitable for Mr T, given his circumstances at the time. 
Mr T referred his complaint to our service. An investigator upheld the complaint and said that 
Bluesky should pay compensation. He said that it wasnt clear that the advice was suitable 
for Mr T. Or that he was an insistent customer. This was partly due to the lack of information 
that Bluesky had provided
Bluesky didnt respond to the investigators opinion, despite being given several 
opportunities to do so. As the complaint hasnt been resolved it has been referred to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint for largely the same reasons given by 
the investigator. 
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it 
is unsuitable. So, Bluesky should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly 
demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ts best interests (COBS 19.1.6). And having looked 
at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his best interests.
Financial viability 
Bluesky should have investigated whether the transfer of the DB scheme benefits was 
financially viable. And it should have made a full Appropriate Pension Transfer Analysis 
(APTA) which would show that it had evaluated all of the Mr Ts options. It should also have 
produced a Transfer value comparator (TVC). This would show what sum of money Mr T 
would need to invest at a risk-free rate to provide equivalent benefits to the DB scheme at 
retirement. This should take the form of a lump sum figure which can be compared directly 
with the DB transfer value.
Bluesky said in the final response letter that these would have been done. But it hasnt 
provided any further evidence to show that it actually completed them. And it hasnt referred 
to what would have been in these analyses in its suitability report. So, Im not persuaded that 
it fully looked into the viability of the transfer. 
The suitability letter did say that the DB Scheme would provide an increasing yearly income 
of £5,746.48. But it said a realistic income from the personal pension would be between £3,480 and £4,980. And it said that in all likelihood the income would be les compared to the 
income from the DB scheme. 
So, I think its clear that Bluesky understood Mr T was likely to be worse off in retirement if 
he transferred out of the DB scheme. But I dont think the warnings it gave about the 
downside to the transfer were enough to fully inform Mr T about how the transfer would 
affect him financially. Bluesky has said that there are warnings about making a DB pension 
transfer on its website. But these are generic and arent an adequate replacement for fully 
informing Mr T about the individual circumstances of his transfer and providing a suitable 
recommendation. 
Given Mr T was likely to be worse off at retirement, I think a transfer out of the DB scheme 
was unlikely to be in Mr Ts best interests. 
Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as 
Bluesky has said in this case. It thinks that Mr T had a desperate need for the TFC to repay 
some debts. And there might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, 
despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and TFC needs
The main reason that Bluesky said that Mr T needed to transfer his DB scheme was so he 
could access his TFC. Bluesky says he needed to do this to repay some debts that he was 
having problems meeting the repayments for. It does seem established that Mr T did want to 
transfer and access some of his pension fund. And that Bluesky was aware of this.
But Mr T says that this wasnt essential. He says he did have some debts to repay but he 
didnt need to repay them all immediately. He used some of the TFC he released to pay for 
things for his house as well as repaying some debt. 
In order to say that the transfer was suitable for this reason I would need to see some 
detailed investigation, or advice, from Bluesky that demonstrates it had determined this was 
the case at the time of sale. And Id also need to see that Mr Ts need to transfer, and 
access his pension fund, outweighed the financial disadvantages of the transfer. 
But I dont have this evidence. In fact, I cant see a mention of any debt repayment at all in 
the suitability letter. So, in the absence of any detailed rationale around this from the time, I 
cant say the advice was suitable for this reason. And what Mr T has said also seem 
reasonable and consistent. So, Im not persuaded that he needed, rather than wanted, to 
transfer for this reason. 
I also cant see evidence that Mr T had a strong need for variable income throughout his 
retirement. This doesnt seem to have been discussed. 
So, I dont think it has been established that Mr T had a genuine need for flexible pension 
arrangements or that he needed to transfer his DB benefits to access his TFC. 
Death benefits
In the suitability letter Bluesky said the death benefits through the personal pension were 
more flexible than Mr Ts DB scheme. Although, it doesnt appear that the transfer was 
recommended due to the death benefits offered by the personal pension.Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension were likely an attractive feature to Mr T. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr T might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr T about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think Bluesky explored to what extent, 
if any, Mr T was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death 
benefits.
Suitability of investments
Bluesky recommended that Mr T invest in one of Royal Londons pension funds (its not 
clear which one, but it would have been at least partly equity based). As Im upholding the 
complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr T, it 
follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment recommendation. This is 
because Mr T should have been advised to remain in the DB scheme and so the 
investments wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been given.
Summary
I dont doubt that flexibility, and in particular the immediate access to his TFC, would have 
sounded like attractive features to Mr T. But Bluesky wasnt there to just transact what Mr T 
might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really understand what Mr T 
needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think the advice given to Mr T was 
suitable. He was giving up a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr 
T was very likely to obtain lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other 
compelling reasons which would justify a transfer and outweigh this.  Mr T shouldnt have 
been advised to transfer out of the scheme just to repay some debts, which dont appear to 
have been unmanageable, especially as no alternative means of doing this seem to have 
been explored. 
So, I think Bluesky shouldve advised Mr T to remain in his DB scheme.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr T would've gone ahead anyway, against Bluesky's 
advice. 
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr T wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against Blueskys advice. 
Im not persuaded that Mr Ts want for cash was so great that he wouldve insisted on the 
transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he had sought out and was 
paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. If Bluesky had explained 
that Mr T could likely meet all of his objectives without risking his guaranteed pension and 
making the transfer I think that wouldve carried significant weight. 
So, if Bluesky had provided Mr T with clear advice against transferring out of the DB 
scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he wouldve accepted that 
advice. And, I dont think Mr T would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme.
In light of the above, I think Bluesky should compensate Mr T for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr T, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for Blueskys unsuitable advice. I consider Mr T would 
have most likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
Bluesky must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, Mr T has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ts acceptance of the decision.
Bluesky may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ts 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ts SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ts pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr T as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr T within 90 days of the date Bluesky receives notification 
of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Bluesky to pay Mr T.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Bluesky Wealth 
Management Limited to pay Mr T the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, 
up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Bluesky Wealth Management Limited to pay Mr T any interest on that amount in full, as set 
out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Bluesky 
Wealth Management Limited to pay Mr T any interest as set out above on the sum of 
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Bluesky Wealth Management Limited pays Mr T the balance. I would additionally 
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr T.
If Mr T accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Bluesky Wealth 
Management Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr T can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr T may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2022.  
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman