DRN-2931780
The complaint
Mrs G complains Aviva Insurance Limited turned down her claim on her home emergency 
insurance policy. Shes also unhappy with the service she got from Aviva.
What happened
Mrs Gs home emergency insurance policy, which was underwritten by Aviva, started in mid-
January 2021. It covered the plumbing and drainage in her home.
Mrs G had recently moved into her home and wanted a new bathroom and boiler. Her 
plumber told her there was a problem with the water pressure, which needed fixing before he 
could do this work. In February 2021, Mrs G made a call-out under her home emergency 
policy.
The first engineer who visited said he thought a stop cock behind some kitchen units had 
seized but he couldnt access it. Mrs G had the units removed and a second engineer 
visited. This engineer said he thought the galvanised water supply pipe was furring up. 
Aviva said this wasnt covered by Mrs Gs policy and so turned down her claim.
Mrs G is unhappy about this. She also says the service she got from Aviva was poor  there 
were missed appointments, calls werent returned and she says she was given conflicting 
information about whether or not Aviva would cover the claim.
Aviva upheld Mrs Gs complaint in part. It said the overall level of service it gave her was 
unsatisfactory. It has paid Mrs G £250 for the distress and inconvenience shes been 
caused. Aviva has also reimbursed Mrs G a £30 call-out fee, as well as some of her costs in 
getting her kitchen units removed. But Aviva said the issue with Mrs Gs water supply pipe 
was a maintenance one and not covered by her home emergency policy.
Mrs G then brought her complaint to us. Initially, the investigator who looked at Mrs Gs 
complaint upheld it. While he was satisfied Avivas proposed compensation for the poor 
service Mrs G had had was fair, he thought Aviva should settle the claim by reimbursing
Mrs G with the amount shed paid for the repairs. 
Aviva then sent in some more information and our investigator changed his view. He still 
thought Avivas proposed compensation was fair but he also thought Aviva had shown the 
claim wasnt covered by the policy.
Unhappy with this, Mrs G has asked for an ombudsman to decide her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
I think the overall service Mrs G got from Aviva wasnt satisfactory. Its clear from Avivas 
internal call records that Mrs G suffered distress and inconvenience because of the mixed 
messages she got about whether or not the claim was covered, because of missed 
appointments and because of delays in being called back. 
But Aviva has accepted these failings and has compensated Mrs G for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused her, as Ive set out above. I think the compensation Aviva has paid 
Mrs G is fair and reasonable in the circumstances shes described.
On balance, I also dont think Aviva has treated Mrs G unfairly or unreasonably in turning 
down her claim.
My starting point is Mrs Gs home emergency policy. In relation to Mrs Gs water supply pipe, 
this says Mrs G is covered for a leak or blockage in her water supply pipe. It goes on to say 
an engineer will locate the problem and repair, unblock or replace the section of the pipe that 
is damaged. 
The policy has a section about the types of plumbing and drainage claim it covers. It 
specifically includes repairs to a leaking and/or seized internal stop tap and repairing a 
leaking and/or blocked water supply pipe.
The policy also has a section about the types of plumbing and drainage claim not covered. 
This includes where theres no evidence of a blockage, a leak or damage. 
And the policy also has some general exclusions. These broadly include things arising from 
circumstances known to Mrs G before her policy started and the normal day-to-day 
maintenance of items covered by the policy.
Mrs G made the call-out under her home emergency policy because of low water pressure. 
In notes he made, the first engineer said a seized stop tap (which he couldnt access) could 
be the problem. But his notes also say the water supply pipe may be corroded and restricting 
the water flow.
After Mrs G had the kitchen units removed to access the stop tap, a second engineer said 
the galvanised water supply pipe was furring up. His notes record the water flow from the 
kitchen tap (which it seems was at a safe level, although low). The notes also say Mrs G had 
noticed the water pressure was low ever since shed moved in.
Aviva turned down Mrs Gs claim saying there was no immediate leak or total blockage to 
her water supply pipe and checks showed there was a safe level of water coming from the 
supply. It says Mrs Gs water supply pipe had narrowed and corroded over time causing low 
water pressure. It says this was a maintenance issue, which existed before the policy 
started. 
Mrs G says Aviva should accept the claim. Among other things, she says theres nothing in 
the policy to say cover only applies when the water pressure has fallen below a certain level 
or that furred up pipes arent covered. 
Mrs Gs policy covers her home for a leak or blockage in its water supply pipe. And I should 
say, in response to the points Mrs G has raised, that I wouldnt expect an insurance policy of 
this type to go into detail about issues as specific as water pressure levels and corrosion to 
pipes. 
From the information Ive seen, theres nothing to suggest Mrs Gs water pressure was low 
because of a leak. So what I have to consider is whether it was fair and reasonable of Aviva to say the furred up pipes werent a blockage. The word blockage isnt defined in the 
policy so I think its fair to give it its natural meaning. Its clear the pipe wasnt totally 
obstructed  water was still flowing through it. From what Aviva says the flow was quite low  
but while the movement of water was restricted, it was within safe limits. In these 
circumstances, and in the absence of any information showing otherwise, I think it was fair 
and reasonable of Aviva to say the corrosion to the pipe hadnt created a blockage and so 
wasnt covered by Mrs Gs policy.
I know Mrs G is frustrated she had kitchen units removed to give the engineers access to the 
water supply pipe, only for Aviva then to turn down a claim shed been told would be 
covered. But access was necessary for Aviva to investigate the problem, its clear from    
Mrs Gs policy terms it was needed for her claim to be progressed and also Aviva has 
contributed to Mrs Gs costs in getting the units taken out.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mrs Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2021.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman