DRN-3520146
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained that St Andrews Insurance Plc cancelled a mortgage 
payment protection insurance policy without their knowledge or consent.
What happened
Mrs C contacted St Andrews in November 2020 to enquire about making a sickness claim 
for Mr C on a mortgage payment protection policy they believed they still had. Mrs C 
explained that they had previously claimed on a policy and provided two policy numbers. 
She was told that the numbers related to a mortgage repayment insurance (MRI) policy that 
was cancelled in September 2008 and a total mortgage payment plan (TMPP) policy that 
was cancelled in January 2009.
In responding to Mr and Mrs Cs complaint, St Andrews said that the MRI policy had been 
cancelled when the mortgage was redeemed, in line with the terms and conditions. It also 
said that the TMPP policy had been cancelled following a request from Mrs C to do so.
Our adjudicator thought that St Andrews had acted reasonably in cancelling the policies and 
so did not uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs C disagree with the adjudicators opinion and so 
the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The MRI policy was set up in 1999 around the same time as the mortgage was arranged. Its 
the MRI policy that Mr and Mrs C must have claimed on previously because that provided 
cover for the monthly mortgage payments if either Mr or Mrs C were unable to work due to 
accident, sickness or unemployment.
The TMPP policy was sold to Mr and Mrs C when they were arranging a further advance in 
2005. This policy did not provide cover for the monthly mortgage repayments. It was 
covering Mr and Mrs C for life and critical illness. That means it would have paid out a lump 
sum in the event of either of their deaths or if they had been diagnosed with one of the 
named critical illnesses set out in the policy terms.
The MRI policy was cancelled in 2008. This was because the policy was set up to cover Mr 
and Mrs Cs existing mortgage and that mortgage was redeemed in September 2008. Mr 
and Mrs C say they still have a mortgage with the same lender to this day. However, as I 
understand it, they moved house at that time. In that scenario, the existing mortgage would 
end at that point and a new one would be set up against the new property, even if someone 
was staying with the same lender.  The policy terms set out that the policy will come to an 
end if the mortgage ends. Based on the available evidence, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs C 
did redeem their mortgage in 2008. Therefore the MRI was automatically cancelled in line 
with the policy terms and there is no fault on the part of St Andrews.
The TMPP policy was a stand-alone policy and therefore could have continued even if a 
particular mortgage product had ended. In fact, I can see that St Andrews wrote to Mrs C on 
8 October 2008 referring to the recent closure of the mortgage and saying that the TMPP 
would remain in force. 
St Andrews has provided system notes from 8 January 2009 which evidence that Mrs C rang 
to cancel the TMPP, saying that she had cover elsewhere. It then wrote to Mrs C on 9 
January 2009 to confirm the policy had been cancelled as requested. On balance, Im 
satisfied that it was Mrs C who requested cancellation of the TMPP and that Mr and Mrs C 
would have been aware that it had been cancelled because they then received written 
notification.
However, even if this policy had still been active, being a life and critical illness only policy, it 
wouldnt have been any help to Mr and Mrs C in 2020 when they wanted to make a claim for 
Mr Cs period of sickness (I dont know the details of Mr Cs illness but I take it that it would 
not have been classed as a critical illness as defined by the policy). 
Mr and Mrs C have been paying £28.41 a month for a policy to this day. They say they 
thought this was the original MRI or TMPP policy and believed that it covered them for 
accident and sickness. Having looked into this in more detail, I have found that Mr and Mrs C 
have a current life and critical illness policy with another insurer. As such, this again does not 
provide cover for monthly mortgage repayments. The current insurer has confirmed that the 
policy was taken out in February 2000. Therefore, this is likely the policy that Mr and Mrs C 
have talked about as being the one they were originally sold and told that they should keep 
hold off. As the TMPP policy that they took out in 2005 was also a life and critical illness 
policy, it makes sense that they later cancelled it as it was potentially duplicating their 
existing cover.
In summary, I find that it was fair and reasonable of St Andrews to cancel both the MRI 
policy in 2008 and the TMPP policy in 2009.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 September 2022. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman