DRN-4331326
The complaint
Mrs P complains that The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc (TMW) unfairly declined her mortgage 
application.
What happened
Mrs P applied for a buy-to-let mortgage with TMW on a property she already owned that was 
mortgage free. The application was approved and a valuation was carried out.
The valuation report identified that right of way/access to the property across neighbouring 
properties was a problem and that there was no valid energy performance certificate (EPC). 
It gave a zero valuation. 
Mrs P responded to say that the surveyor had got it wrong, there were no issues with access 
to the property and the Land Registry proved that.
TMW said that the surveyor did not agree about access. And in any case the main reason 
for declining the application was that the property was next to two commercial premises and 
the possibility there could be a change of use of the properties.
Mrs P complains that the valuation report was factually inaccurate and if being next to 
commercial properties is not acceptable, then TMW should have asked about that at 
application stage. It isnt fair to then ask her to pay a valuation fee for a property that would 
never have met their lending criteria. The property was bought originally with a mortgage  
so it is fit for mortgage purposes. Mrs P wasnt the valuation fee refunded plus compensation 
for the time and cost of obtaining Land Registry information
The investigator did not think the complaint should be upheld. Mrs P did not accept what the 
investigator said.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mrs P thinks that TMW should have asked whether the property was next 
to commercial premises if that wasnt acceptable to it. But I dont consider it was 
unreasonable for TMW not to ask that question. I will explain why.
It is for each mortgage lender to decide which types of properties it is prepared to lend 
against. That is a legitimate use of its commercial judgment and not something I would look 
to interfere in. In my experience, many lenders have a long list of things relating to the 
property such as its construction type, its location, rights of way etc. that they arent prepared 
to lend against.  I dont consider it would be practicable or reasonable for lenders to ask 
detailed questions about the property for each and every potential scenario to make sure 
that the property meets its criteria. And the application of the criteria is often likely to be 
nuanced and very fact specific. Its unlikely that sufficient detail could be gathered in an 
application to make such a question useful. 
It is reasonable  and in line with good industry practice  for the lender to instruct a 
valuation to decide if a property offers suitable security. The property was valued by an 
independent surveyor. And they did not consider that the property was suitable for mortgage 
purposes. That does not mean the property was not worth anything or that there was not any 
lender that would be prepared to take the property as security, but rather that it was not 
acceptable security to TMW.
The surveyor was not employed by TMW, so I cant consider a complaint about them. But 
TMW was entitled to rely on their independent opinion. When Mrs P challenged the decision, 
it was referred back to the surveyor and looked at again by TMW. They clarified that it was 
the potential change of use of the commercial premises that presented an issue with access 
 so they did not consider the property was suitable security. This was reasonable and a 
decision it was entitled to take.   
I dont think it was unfair for TMW not to ask if the property was next to commercial premises 
in the application. It was reasonable for it to rely on the valuation to decide if the property 
offered suitable security  bearing in mind its own appetite for risk. In view of that, and as the 
valuation was carried out  it is fair and reasonable for TMW to apply the valuation fee. 
Mrs P was entitled to challenge the valuation and TMWs decision. But as I consider TMW 
has acted fairly and reasonably, I cant tell it to compensate her for her time and effort in 
doing so. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman