DRN-1585191
The complaint
Miss D says Barclays Bank UK PLC (when it was trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold her a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 1995. The policy was added to 
Miss Ds account when she applied for a Barclaycard during a meeting at the bank.
Miss D says she wasnt aware she was paying for PPI. She told us that she was in stable 
employment with generous sick pay, and she had savings, so she wouldnt have opted for 
PPI if it had been properly explained.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ds complaint.
I think Barclays made Miss D aware that the PPI was optional and she chose to take it. She 
made it clear on the application form she signed that she wanted to include the PPI option. 
There were Yes and No tick boxes for PPI and theres a tick in the Yes box to show she 
wanted to have the cover. Miss D could've ticked the No box instead if she hadnt wanted 
PPI. And Miss D has signed and dated the completed application form to take out her 
Barclaycard with PPI. So I dont find the evidence is strong enough for me fairly to say that 
Miss D wasnt made aware that the PPI was optional  or that she didnt opt to take it out 
with her credit card. 
Barclays says it recommended the PPI to Miss D. If a business makes a recommendation 
about PPI, it doesnt just have to give important policy information in a clear way. It also has 
to take reasonable steps to make sure the cover it recommends is suitable. 
It doesnt look as if PPI was unsuitable for Miss D based on what Ive seen of her 
circumstances when she applied for her Barclaycard.  
Miss D was eligible for the cover. There were some things the policy didnt cover but it 
doesnt look as if those applied to Miss D when she took out her Barclaycard. 
The policy wouldve protected Miss Ds Barclaycard repayments for up to 12 months per 
claim in the event that Miss D lost her job unexpectedly. And it wouldve also covered Miss D 
if she wasnt able to go to work because of accident or sickness. There can be no guarantee that any job will always be secure.
Ive taken into account that Miss Ds employer wouldve paid her 6 months full sick pay 
followed by 6 months half pay. But the policy couldve paid out in full for up to 12 months per 
accident and sickness claim. So the PPI provided better protection than she couldve relied 
on getting through her employer. And it wouldve paid out on top of sick pay providing Miss D 
with a useful benefit at a difficult time  especially bearing in mind that she mightve had 
some extra costs as a result of being sick or disabled and she wouldve only been on half 
pay after being off work sick for 6 months.   
And I dont know if Miss D wouldve always had savings she wouldve been able to rely on if 
shed needed to make a claim. 
Its possible some information Barclays gave Miss D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. I dont know what was discussed or how much information Miss D wouldve 
known about the policy cost and benefits  its possible Barclays didnt explain this as well as 
it shouldve done. But Miss D chose to take out the policy when she didnt have to  and it 
seems to have been affordable for her. 
Looked at overall, given the benefits PPI offered Miss D, I think it unlikely she wouldve 
made a different decision if better information had been provided. On balance, I think shed 
still have taken out the policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 March 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman