DRN-3563664
The complaint
Mr A has complained that Oplo PL Limited lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint in May 2022 that I summarise below.
Mr A was given a loan of £3,000 by Oplo in November 2015. This was due to be repaid in
36 monthly instalments of around £146. The total amount payable, including interest, was
just over £5,268. I understand that after about two years, Mr A ran into difficulties repaying
the loan and the debt was eventually sold to a third party.
I explained the basis on which I would decide the complaint, in particular the checks that 
Oplo needed to do such as the amount being lent, and the consumers income and 
expenditure.  I said that Oplo needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to 
Mr A irresponsibly. And that the lender should have carried out proportionate checks to 
satisfy itself that he could repay the loan in a sustainable way. 
I carefully considered all the evidence, arguments, and information Id seen about this matter 
in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Oplo gathered some information from Mr A before it agreed the loan. It asked him for details
of his income and outgoings, and then used industry statistical data to estimate his normal
expenditure. And it carried out some credit checks. Mr A told Oplo that he lived where he
worked, and therefore had low outgoings. Oplo assessed Mr As disposable income and it
says the loan was affordable for him.
Mr A was entering into a significant commitment with Oplo and had to maintain his monthly
repayments for three years. I thought it was right that Oplo wanted to gather, and 
independently verify, information about Mr As financial circumstances before it agreed to 
lend to him. From what Id seen, I thought the checks that Oplo carried out before lending to 
Mr A were reasonable and proportionate, in the circumstances.
Mr As credit report included an unsecured loan taken a year earlier, three credit cards and
an overdraft. There was some adverse information on his credit report, but I thought Oplo
would reasonably have considered this to be historic. Mr A was over the limit on one card
and close to the limit on the others. I considered Mr As total outstanding balances, but
from the information gathered, I thought it was reasonable for Oplo to conclude that Mr A 
was managing his active accounts reasonably well. Mr A also told the lender that he 
intended to use his loan to reduce the outstanding balance on one of his credit cards. On 
balance, given what Mr A told Oplo about his outgoings and the way he appeared
to be managing his credit commitments, I didnt think there was anything that ought
reasonably to have caused Oplo additional concerns about Mr As financial position or that
ought reasonably to have led to more in-depth checks being carried out at the time.
I considered the proportion of Mr As monthly income that was going towards his credit
commitments. But on balance, I couldnt fairly say that Id seen sufficient evidence for me to
say it was irresponsible for Oplo to lend to Mr A on the basis that he would be paying
too high a proportion of his income to meet his credit commitments. Overall, from what Id
seen, I couldnt fairly say that Oplo ought reasonably to have come to the conclusion that 
lending to Mr A would be irresponsible.
Mr A has also complained that the interest he was charged on his loan was too high. There
is limited information about what actually happened at the time but given that this loan was
apparently being used for debt consolidation, I thought its likely there was some discussion
between Mr A and Oplo when the loan was arranged. The loan application documents set
out the amount of interest and the interest rate. I thought its likely that Mr A had to take 
steps to confirm he wanted the loan, and I thought its likely he was given loan 
documentation as part of the process. Overall, I thought its more likely than not that Mr A 
was told about the interest he would be paying on the loan. Taking everything into account, I 
couldnt reasonably say that Oplo treated Mr A unfairly in relation to the rate and amount of 
interest it charged on his loan.
Taking everything into account, I couldnt fairly conclude that Oplo was wrong to provide the
loan to Mr A. And I hadnt seen anything to suggest that the lender acted unfairly towards
him in some other way.    
I said I was not intending to uphold the complaint about the loan. I invited both parties to 
send me further evidence or comment. Oplo says it has nothing further to add. Ive not seen 
any further comment from Mr A or any new evidence. The deadline for commenting further 
on my provisional decision has now passed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that Ive not received any new evidence or comment that changes my mind about this 
complaint, I confirm the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
As I explained, I cannot fairly conclude that Oplo acted irresponsibly when it provided the 
loan to Mr A. And Ive not seen anything which makes me think that the lender treated him 
unfairly in some other way. 
I am sorry that Mr A will be disappointed by my decision, but having taken everything into 
account, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against Oplo 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2022.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman