DRN-2730570
The complaint
Miss O complains that a car she took on hire purchase from MotoNovo Finance Limited was 
not of satisfactory quality. She believes she should be able to reject the car and cancel the 
hire purchase agreement.   
Background
The background to this complaint was set out in a provisional decision issued on 2 March 
2021 by an ombudsman colleague. I have copied below that ombudsmans assessment of 
the complaint and her recommendations for resolving it. Because the first ombudsman is not 
in a position to issue the final determination of Miss Os complaint, the complaint has been 
passed to me for further consideration. 
Provisional decision dated 2 March 2021  
The complaint
Mrs O complains that the car provided to her by Blue Motor Finance Ltd wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. Shed like to reject the car and cancel the agreement.
What happened
On 20 October 2019 Mrs O acquired a second-hand car with the benefit of a hire purchase 
agreement with Blue Motor Finance. The agreement was arranged through a broker, Z. At 
the time the car was approximately 5 years old and had done 75,958 miles.
Mrs O bought the car online and didnt see it before it was delivered. However almost 
immediately she noticed that the car had a number of cosmetic issues, including a bonnet 
that was a different colour, no internal light or sat nav and ripped carpets. She also 
complained about a noise from the wheel area and that the car felt sluggish when being 
driven.
Mrs O raised her concerns with the broker on 30 October and said she wanted to reject the 
car. The broker agreed and arranged for it to be collected on 4 December. However, the 
collection was cancelled on the day as Mrs O decided that shed prefer to get the car 
inspected and repaired.
Mrs O took the car to an autocentre on 7 December. The report stated, engine oil level low_ 
suspect gearbox fault causing loss of power.
On 17 December Mrs O went back to the broker with the results of the report. As Mrs O 
didnt want to go back to the dealership that had provided the car, the broker suggested she 
get the repairs done under the warranty. Mrs O says she couldnt do this as the warranty 
didnt cover faults occurring within the first 30 days or which had been developing at the 
point of sale. Instead she went back to the broker who reopened the complaint and arranged 
for the car to be inspected by another autocentre. This reported a number of green and 
amber problems as well as three requiring urgent attention which were oil filter leaking oil, 
timing chain cover slightly seeping oil, autobox cooler lines rotted out and leaking. In 
addition, it noted that two of the tyres needed immediate replacement.
Z said that it would cover the cost of replacing the oil, oil filter and gearbox cooler pipes but 
not the cost of any of the other repairs or to replace the tyres. It said Mrs O hadnt raised this 
as part of her original complaint and as shed done just over 4,000 miles since shed had the 
car, it felt this was due to the usual wear and tear to be expected over time.
Mrs O made an appointment to get the car repaired but this was cancelled when the broker 
confirmed it wasnt willing to cover the cost of the other repairs. The following month Mrs O 
raised her complaints with Blue Motor and asked for a full repair of all the faults found on the 
diagnostic report as well compensation or to return the car.
Blue Motor declined and said it felt the broker had offered a reasonable solution so it 
wouldnt be offering to do anything more.
Mrs O remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service. She said the car had 
been faulty since shed had it and shed raised her concerns straight away. She said it had 
now broken down completely and wasnt safe to drive. In the circumstances she felt she 
should be allowed to reject it and cancel the agreement.
In her initial view, our investigator said that the legislation required that any goods supplied 
will be of satisfactory quality, which in the case of a car could include its age and mileage. 
Mrs O had noticed faults almost immediately after the car was delivered so it seemed 
probable that the faults had been present or developing at the point of sale. On that basis 
she didnt consider the car had been of satisfactory quality.
She could see that Mrs O had asked to reject the car within the first 30 days. Although shed 
then changed her mind and decided to have it repaired instead, Mrs O still had the right to 
reject it if the repairs werent successful. It didnt seem that any repairs had been carried out 
on the car but she felt it only reasonable that Mrs O should be able to reject the car now and 
cancel the agreement.
Blue Motor disagreed and said that it could only be responsible for faults that were present 
or developing at the point of sale. It had accepted the repairs identified by the inspection in 
February and agreed to pay for those repairs. However, it noted that although Mrs O had 
said the car had broken down completely in April 2020, it appeared that she may still be 
using it as indicated by the mileage. If so, it wasnt responsible for any problems caused by 
Mrs O continuing to use it without having it repaired.
After our investigator confirmed with Mrs O that the current mileage was 88,000 she issued a 
second view that said, in view of the fact Mrs O had done more than 8,000 miles since the 
inspection report in February, it wasnt clear that the problems that had caused the latest 
breakdown were the same as those identified in that report. This was a second-hand car that 
had done over 75,000 miles on delivery and there could be a number of reasons for the 
breakdown, including wear and tear. Shed also taken into account that Mrs O had continued 
to drive the car even after being told about the faults, which was likely to have made the 
problem worse.
For that reason, she didnt feel it was reasonable to ask Blue Motor to allow Mrs O to reject 
the car at this point. However, she recommended that it should still pay for the cost of 
replacing the oil filter and gearbox cooler pipes that had been diagnosed in February 2020.
Shed considered what Mrs O had said about the other faults such as the paintwork on the 
bonnet, the chips to the wheel rims, the condition of the tyres and the internal carpet but this 
was a second-hand car and its condition had to be viewed in that context. She felt that these problems were the usual wear and tear to be expected of a car of that age and mileage, 
including the mileage Mrs O had done since shed had the car.
Mrs O disagreed and said in summary:
Shed bought the car online and hadnt seen it before purchase. Shed noticed problem 
on delivery but had been told to contact the dealer. The next day shed gone for a drive 
and found a number of problems including its performance. Shed reported the faults to 
the broker within 24 hours of purchase.
Shed been told by the garage in December 2019 that the vehicle had been in an 
accident and the bonnet replaced which was why it was a different colour. She hadnt 
been told about this before she acquired it. It also said that there was something wrong 
with the vehicle and that the fault was not something that would have happened 
suddenly but had developed over a long time.
When shed bought the car shed intended to keep it for some time and if shed known 
about these faults, she wouldnt have purchased it. She considered the car was unsafe 
and that it had been mis-sold and was not as described.
She felt the mileage shed done was irrelevant to the decision as to whether she should 
be able to return the car. It had now broken and couldnt be driven but she was still 
having to pay the monthly instalments as well as the tax and insurance.
She didnt want a repair but to return the vehicle as she was entitled to do.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As has been said, Mrs O acquired the car under a hire purchase agreement. Under the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015, as the provider of the finance, Blue Motor has a shared 
responsibility to ensure that the car it has provided to Mrs O is of satisfactory quality.
Theres no precise definition of satisfactory but its what a reasonable person would consider 
to be satisfactory taking into account the description, its purpose and price. In the case of a 
car this can also include its age and its mileage. There are limits to that responsibility, 
however, and that is that any faults must be present or developing at the point of sale.
When Mrs O acquired this car it was almost 5 years old and had done 75,958 miles. Its not 
unreasonable to expect that a car of this age and mileage is more likely to develop 
problems, including serious ones, than a newer one and thats reflected in its price. I should 
add that although Mrs O has queried the mileage, I havent seen anything to show it wasnt 
correct case so, on balance, I think its reasonable to use this figure.
Ive seen Mrs O identified a number of problems with the car straight away and, following her 
complaint to the broker on 30 October it was agreed that Mrs O could reject the car. 
However, on the day of collection, Mrs O changed her mind and decided that she would get 
the car inspected instead.
Mrs O has said that she intended to get a report and then decide whether to reject it. But 
when Mrs O got the report in December 2019, her discussions with the broker at that time 
were about getting the repairs done and not rejection, so I consider on balance that it was 
still Mrs Os intention at this point to keep the car and get it repaired.Unfortunately, Mrs O couldnt get the repairs done under her warranty so the broker 
arranged for a second diagnostic report in February 2020. This revealed a number of 
problems including urgent repairs to the oil filter, gearbox oil cooler pipes and 2 of the tyres. 
It also noted a number of other issues that might need attention soon although I dont 
consider that these were unusual in a car of this age and mileage.
On the basis of this report, I dont consider that this car was of satisfactory quality at the 
point of sale and, in the circumstances, I think its surprising that Mrs O wasnt offered the 
choice of rejecting the car rather than repairing it, not least as the broker and Mrs O couldnt 
agree on the repairs that should be carried out by the broker. Instead Mrs O agreed to have 
the car repaired.
Under the CRA the consumer has an automatic right to reject the vehicle within the first 30 
days if its faulty. If the consumer decides to get it repaired instead, they have the balance of 
that 30 day period, or 7 further days if later, to see if the repairs have worked or to reject the 
car.
Although arrangements were made to get the car repaired, no repairs have actually been 
done. Having said that the 30 day period isnt intended to be an open ended arrangement 
that can be extended indefinitely. Its there to allow the consumer the opportunity to see if 
the fault can be repaired and if that then resolves the issue. In this case it would be 
unreasonable to suggest the 30 day period hasnt expired due to the time thats elapsed 
since Mrs O acquired the car. For that reason, Ive focussed on whether the car was of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply and, if not, what needs to be done to put matters 
right.
In general, it considered that if a fault is identified within the first six months after supply, 
then its more likely that the fault was present or developing at the point of sale. After that its 
for the customer to prove that this was the case.
Its clear theres some disagreement between Mrs O and Blue motor as to exactly what was 
wrong with this car on delivery and whether this was linked to the most recent breakdown. 
For that reason, I requested an independent report. This was carried out in December 2020 
and concluded:
The fault codes as imaged within the report confirm that the vehicle has an underlying 
issue with the transmission; this in conjunction with the audible noise from the 
transmission and the fact that the vehicle will not select reverse gear is all confirmation 
that the transmission requires a complete overhaul.
Undoubtedly the current issue could not have been present at the point of purchase as 
the vehicle could not have been driven in its current condition or have been driven the 
6500 miles or so since the date of purchase, which leads us to the conclusion that the 
current issue has developed after the point of sale.
The most likely cause is in service wear to the transmission components i.e. this is a 
known issue and is normally associated with the drive belt/chain within the transmission 
stretching in service as a result of progressive general wear and tear rather than a 
manufacturing defect.
From past experience the transmission not only requires replacement of the drive 
belt/chain, but as a result it would be prudent to overhaul the transmission as fragments 
of the old belt can contaminate the transmission sale. 
Overhauling the transmission on a vehicle which has covered well over 80,000 miles should be classed as routine maintenance on a vehicle of this age and therefore would 
not impinge on the vehicle being fit for purpose or being in a durable condition at the 
point of The fault codes as imaged within the report confirm that the vehicle has an 
underlying issue with the transmission; this in conjunction with the audible noise from 
the transmission and the fact that the vehicle will not select reverse gear is all 
confirmation that the transmission requires a complete overhaul.
I realise Mrs O disagrees but the mileage that shes done since she had this car is relevant. 
The more miles a car has done, the more likely it is that problems will occur or that parts will 
wear out through usage. Mrs O confirmed that the mileage in July 2020 was 88,000, thats 
almost 13 000 miles more than the delivery mileage of 75,958. Its not unusual for a car of 
this age and mileage to develop faults and as the report has said, the transmission is a part 
that does wear out over time so the fact its faulty now doesnt mean that it was faulty at the 
time Mrs O acquired the car.
Ive also had to take into account that the inspection in February 2020 identified a serious 
problem with the gearbox cooler pipes. They werent replaced as recommended and it 
seems Mrs O continued to drive the car as the mileage increased by a further 8,000 miles 
before it broke down. One of the problems in continuing to drive the car while it has a fault is 
that the fault will almost inevitably get worse. And one of the consequences of low gearbox 
oil is that this can ultimately affect the performance of the gearbox and the transmission. For 
that reason, I think it more likely than not that the failure to get the original repair completed 
may have caused or contributed to the current problem. And, on that basis I cant reasonably 
hold Blue Motor entirely responsible for this.
However, its clear that a number of faults were identified early on. These were also 
confirmed by the inspection report in February 2020. As they appeared so soon after 
purchase, Im satisfied that they were in all probability present at the point of sale. On that 
basis I dont consider that this car was of satisfactory quality at the point of sale. In those 
circumstances the options are to replace, repair or reject the car. In view of the mileage that 
Mrs O has done since she had the car, I dont consider that it would be reasonable now to 
allow her to reject it or to arrange a replacement. That leaves repair and, in the 
circumstances, I consider that this would be the most appropriate.
I can only ask Blue Motor to repair those faults that were present or developing at the point 
pf sale and which would fall outside of what would be considered to be wear and tear for a 
car of this age. These were set out in the inspection report from February 2020 as follows: to 
replace the oil, oil filter and gearbox cooler pipes. On the basis of the independent report 
from December 2020, the current problem with the transmission was not likely to have been 
present at the point of sale so I cant reasonably ask Blue Motor to pay for this repair.
With regard to the problems with the tyres, bonnet and wheel trims identified by Mrs O early 
on, I dont consider that these would fall outside of the usual wear and tear expected for a 
car of this age. While I understand Mrs Os concerns about the bonnet, I note that the broker 
has said that it had passed all the usual checks that it makes before any sale and there was 
no evidence it had been in a serious accident.
Finally, I cant see that any consideration has been given to the impact of these problems on 
Mrs O. Mrs O has had the upset of receiving a car that was faulty and all the inconvenience 
and upset that goes with this. Its reasonable to think that this has reduced her enjoyment of 
the car. In view of the mileage Mrs O has done, I wont be asking Blue Motor to refund any of 
the monthly payments but I think it is fair and reasonable for it to pay Mrs O £300 
compensation for the upset and trouble that shes had.
I can see that Blue Motor Finance has now refunded Mrs O the cost of the diagnostic report in December 2019 so I consider that this is now resolved.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that Blue Motor Finance Ltd should
Pay for the cost of replacing the oil, oil filter and gearbox cooler pipes
Pay Mrs O £300 for the upset and inconvenience caused by having a car that was faulty at 
the point of delivery.
Responses to the provisional decision
Neither Mrs O not Blue Motor accepted the first ombudsmans provisional decision. 
Mrs O thought that the ombudsman had not attached sufficient weigh to the evidence that 
the car was not of satisfactory quality. She had told the broker within 24 hours of collecting 
the car about the issues with it. Her call was not dealt with promptly. She said too that she 
did not change her mind about rejecting the car; she put a hold on the return while the 
problems were investigated. She did not think that the ombudsman had properly considered 
her time, money and effort in dealing with the issue. 
For its part, Blue Motor said that the proposed award of £300 was too high and suggested 
£150 instead. Both Blue Motor and the dealership had been willing to assist and had agreed 
to carry out some repairs  covering the items for which it felt it was responsible. 
Mrs O also made a counter-offer to settle the complaint, but Blue Motor was not prepared to 
accept it. She also obtained a further report on the condition of the car. The case was 
therefore passed to me for further consideration.       
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to broadly the same conclusions as the first ombudsman did, 
and for similar reasons.
Both Mrs O and Blue Motor have submitted lengthy submissions and evidence about this 
case. And the first ombudsmans provisional set out the facts in some detail, as well as the 
ombudsmans reasoning. I do not believe therefore that I need to repeat anything that has 
already been said, but I will make some additional observations. 
When Mrs O acquired the car, it was over five years old and had a fairly high mileage. The 
cash price was £6,790  very much less than the price of a newer, lower-mileage vehicle. 
Those matters are relevant to the question of whether the car was of satisfactory quality at 
delivery. 
Mrs O could have ended the agreement within 14 days  as she initially said she wanted  
and paid £3.10 a day for the time she had the car. She could have done that as of right and 
regardless of the cars condition. Blue Motor and the dealership were prepared to accept her 
withdrawal from the agreement  as indeed they had to. However, she continued to use the 
car for several thousand miles after that. 
Mrs O obtained a further report on the cars condition after she received the provisional decision. That was however of limited assistance because it reported only on the cars then 
condition. It did not address its condition at the time of delivery. That is not a criticism of the 
engineer who carried out the inspection or of Mrs O. It simply reflects the fact that the report 
was prepared many months and several thousand miles after Mrs O took delivery of the car.
As for the suggested award to reflect Mrs Os distress and inconvenience, I think that Blue 
Motors suggested figure of £150 is not enough. Even though many of the problems she 
experienced did not develop until later, she was provided with a car that was not of 
satisfactory quality, which will have impaired her enjoyment of it. I think that the figure of 
£300 is fair. 
Putting things right
As I have indicated, I broadly agree with the first ombudsmans provisional decision and so 
see no reason to make a different award.   
My final decision
My final decision is that, to resolve Mrs Os complaint, Blue Motor Finance Ltd should:
pay for the cost of replacing the oil, oil filter and gearbox cooler pipes; and
pay Mrs O £300 for the upset and inconvenience caused by having a car that was faulty 
at the point of delivery.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 October 2021.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman