DRN-1155602
 
The complaint
Mr H says Monecor (London) Ltd (trading as ETX Capital) incorrectly converted his Rangold 
Resources ('RRS') spread-bet position to a Barrick Gold Corp ('ABX') position on 2 January 
2019. The base currency for his account was GBP. He says ETX Capital also incorrectly 
applied a CAD (and then USD) value to the matter that incurred a currency conversion 
charge that he disputes.  
What happened
The RRS position, at £2.50 per point, was opened in July 2018 and by the end of that year it 
remained open and was in profit. By 2 January 2019 RRS had been de-listed from the 
London Stock Exchange and had merged with ABX (which was traded on the Toronto Stock 
Exchange). This created the cause for conversion of Mr H's RRS position.
ETX Capital applied a process in which the RRS position was closed at the artificial closing 
price of £0 and, immediately, the ABX position (at a size that reflected the merger's 
allocation of 6.128 ABX shares for each/single RRS share) was opened at the artificial 
opening price of £0. It says this method was supported by relevant provisions within the 
terms for the account agreed by Mr H. It also says the effect of the exercise created an ABX 
position for Mr H that was the equivalent of his RRS position on 2 January 2019, that 
remained open thereafter and that continued to gain further thereafter.
Mr H says ETX Capital was wrong not to have used what he considers to be conventional 
(or more conventional) methods for the conversion. He says it could have either continued 
the bet under the new corporate name (with the relevant adjustments made within the 
continuation) or it could have closed and opened the respective positions at real and 
relevant prices which allowed for reflection, retention and transition of the profit his RRS 
position had made. He also asserts that ETX Capital's method affected the cash and margin 
status of his account and created a currency conversion related charge that remains unclear.
ETX Capital disputes the above. It says regulations from the European Securities and 
Markets Authority ('ESMA') in 2018 could have meant Mr H's 5% margin rate changed to 
20% but, to his benefit, it agreed to retain the original margin rate. It also says that 
it arranged a refund to Mr H of an overnight charge related to the currency matter given that 
a confusion that arose within the matter was not his fault. Overall, it says the outcome of the 
conversion was the ABX equivalent of Mr H's previous RRS position, so no detriment has 
been caused to him.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and broadly agreed with ETX Capital. In 
addition, he was not persuaded by Mr H's argument that financing charges had been 
unreasonably applied to the ABX position, he did not consider it unreasonable that the 
position had not been initially priced in GBP given that it was based on a non-GBP market 
and he did not consider the idea of currency conversion charge unfair in this context.
Mr H disagreed with this outcome. In the main - he retains the concern that the ABX position 
was un-leveraged so it was not the equivalent of the leveraged RRS position and it had the cash and margin status implications he has described; he argues that if the ABX position 
was not leveraged, no financing charges ought to apply and the same should be the case on 
the basis of the purchase price of £0 (that is, there would have been no cause for leverage in 
such a purchase price so there should be no financing charge); he also maintains that ETX 
Capital should have used, for the conversion exercise, the conventional (or more 
conventional) methods he has described.
The investigator addressed the above points in further correspondence with Mr H but did not 
change his view. Neither did Mr H, so the matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
Available evidence supports the conclusion that the ABX position opened on 2 January 2019 
was designed to be and resulted in the equivalent of the RRS position that was closed. I 
have not seen evidence to establish, on balance, that it was a cash based position on the 
underlying asset as Mr H claims. Evidence suggests the ABX position was a leveraged 
spread-bet, as was the previous RRS position, that began with essentially the 
same GBP value as the GBP value of the RRS position when it was closed. There is no 
mismatch in value and the size of the ABX position correctly reflects the size of the RRS 
position and the merger's share split. I also have not seen evidence to suggest that the profit 
made in the previous RRS position was not reflected in the conversion and moved into the 
new ABX position. The ABX position began with the relevant profit within it.
The point about ESMA does not appear to be a live issue given that both parties agreed on 
retaining the previous 5% margin. The same applies to the charge that arose from the 
currency related matter, which ETX Capital says it has refunded to Mr H. If that refund has 
yet to be made I consider ETX Capital bound to make it.
With regards to the method used by ETX Capital in the conversion exercise, it has explained 
that because ABX was/is a different stock it could not simply continue Mr H's position as he 
has argued - the position had to be recreated. It also says the idea of selling and buying the 
respective positions at real prices would have depicted a transaction that did not happen - as 
Mr H did not sell and buy the respective positions - and would have raised transaction 
reporting issues.
I can understand the rationale behind the alternative methods Mr H has argued for and I can 
understand ETX Capital's responses to them. The matter boils down to ETX Capital's 
entitlement - under the terms agreed by Mr H - to use the method that it used. The relevant 
terms specified the use of zero based pricing in situations akin to the type that arose in Mr 
H's case. The investigator's view explained the same point.
The alternatives Mr H has proposed could be argued as being two ways in which the 
situation could have been addressed, but they were not the only relevant ways and they 
were not the ways ETX Capital was entitled to use under the terms for the account. It used 
the way it was entitled to use and I do not consider that any wrongdoing arose from that.
I have noted Mr H's argument about the financing (and financing charges) with regards to 
the position opened at £0. I am not persuaded by the argument. The overall 
conversion context in Mr H's case is relevant to the consideration of this argument. The aim 
was to move from the RRS position to the ABX position, the method that was used is as 
stated above and the result was the ABX equivalent of the RRS position. The zero price basis appears to have been a part of the method - not an indication that the leverage basis 
had changed (or disappeared). This is arguably reflected in the ABX position being of an 
equivalent size to the former RRS position (inclusive of the share split) - and the previous 
position size was based on leverage. Overall, available evidence is that the ABX position 
was leveraged, so financing charges would have applied to it.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr H's complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2020.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman