DRN-3238920
The complaint
Mrs J complains that Soteria Insurance Limited (Soteria) declined her claim for damage 
following a leak from the first-floor bathroom at her home. She wants Soteria to pay the 
claim. 
What happened
Mrs J brings the complaint through a representative.
Mrs J held home insurance with Soteria.
In March 2020, Mrs J noticed water on the floor of her dining room. She initially believed that 
water had been spilled.
A few days later, part of her dining room ceiling collapsed, due to water leaking into the 
ceiling. She contacted a local contractor who attended her home and sourced the leak to a 
saniflo toilet in the bathroom above the dining room. The contractor capped off the water to 
the bathroom pending repairs being carried out and removed the collapsed part of the 
ceiling. Mrs J was to use her downstairs bathroom until repairs could be carried out and the 
first-floor bathroom reinstated.
Mrs J logged a claim with Soteria.
Before further repairs could be completed, the UK entered a national lockdown.
When the lockdown was eased in June 2020, Mrs Js contractor attended and repaired the 
saniflo, reinstating the bathroom.
Soteria was unable to send its loss adjuster until September 2020.
When the loss adjuster attended Mrs Js house, they noted staining to the dining room 
ceiling, and the dining room wall. They did not identify significant other damage. 
Whilst the loss adjuster was at the property, Mrs Js relative (a child) passed by and joined 
their conversation. The child mentioned something about the leak, and suggested that Mrs J 
and her family had known about the leak for some time.
The loss adjuster then prepared a report for Soteria and Soteria declined the claim. The 
claim was declined on the basis that the staining seen by the loss adjuster indicated that the 
leak had been ongoing for some time. It also relied upon the comments made by Mrs Js 
child relative and considered that Mrs J had known about the leak and had not mitigated the 
damage.
Mrs J complained.
Soteria sent its final response to the complaint in November 2020. It rejected the complaint 
and maintained its decision to decline the claim.
Mrs J was not happy so contacted us.
Our investigator looked into this matter and did not uphold Mrs Js complaint. She felt that 
Soteria had reasonably relied upon the policy exclusions which exclude damage which 
occurs gradually over time.
Mrs J did not accept this view and asked for an ombudsman decision.
I subsequently made further enquiries of the parties and set out my view on this complaint in 
a provisional decision. 
In that provisional decision I explained that I did not consider that Soteria had reasonably 
declined the claim. This was because the basis for the decline decision was that there 
existed staining on the ceiling, and also because of the statements of a relative, which 
suggested that Mrs J had been aware of an ongoing leak. Soteria had considered that these 
points demonstrated that Mrs J had failed to mitigate her loss. 
I set out that I did not think that the evidence supported this decision, as I had not seen clear 
evidence of a leak existing prior to March 2020. As Soteria had not been in a position to 
inspect the damage until around 6 months after the ceiling collapse I considered that both 
the comments of Mrs Js relative, and the staining, could have likely related to, or developed 
over, the 6 months since the ceiling collapse. I therefore considered that Soteria should 
settle the claim and should pay Mrs J compensation. 
This view was shared with the parties and they have been given the opportunity to comment. 
Mrs Js representative has responded, setting out the details of the claim and costs of 
repairs. They ask that I include these in my decision and consider making an award for Mrs 
Js electricity use during the drying process. 
Soteria has responded. It did not comment on the majority of my view, but argued that the 
delay in a surveyor attending Mrs Js home was partly due to Mrs J not wanting a surveyor to 
attend her home while she self-isolated following health treatment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has disputed my understanding of events, or my understanding of the basis of 
the decline decision or the evidence used to support that decision. I therefore remain of the 
view that the decline decision was not fair and reasonable. I therefore uphold Mrs Js 
complaint in line with my provisional decision and direct that Soteria settle the claim in line 
with the remaining policy terms.
Mrs Js representative has provided full details of all items claimed and the costs sought. 
This information ought to be provided to Soteria, as other limits or exclusions may apply to 
parts of the claim. Mrs J should make clear to Soteria if she wishes to claim for a contribution 
towards her power costs while her home was being dried. 
It is not our role to decide or quantify all aspects of the claim. Instead, we consider whether 
the business has acted fairly and reasonably in its decisions. If Mrs J remains unhappy with 
the settlement put forward by Soteria and she believes that the settlement offered is unfair 
and unreasonable then she is able to raise a complaint about the settlement offered. This would need to be considered by Soteria in the first instance, and then by us if needed. 
I have assessed Soterias comments that the delay in attending Mrs Js home was partly due 
to Mrs J not wanting a surveyor in her home, and these correspond with comments made by 
Mrs J. Consequently, I accept that the delay suffered by Mrs J in having the matter rectified 
was not wholly the fault of Soteria. Clearly, part of the delay was due to the pandemic and 
Mrs Js reasonable concerns, and this part of the delay would have happened in any event. 
I do, however, remain of the view that Mrs J has been caused distress and inconvenience by 
the unfair decision to decline her claim, and because she has had to pay for her repairs 
privately, or await the outcome of this complaint to have repairs carried out.
Overall, I think that the appropriate compensation for her distress and inconvenience is 
£200, rather than the £300 I indicated in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
I think that in order to put matters right, Soteria should now seek details of Mrs Js claim and 
settle this in line with the remaining terms of her policy. 
In relation to any part of that settlement which represents reimbursing Mrs J for costs which 
she has incurred and paid, which ought to have been paid by Soteria, Soteria should also 
calculate and reimburse to Mrs J interest at a rate of 8% per annum, from the date on which 
Mrs J paid the cost, up until the date of settlement.
Soteria also ought to pay to Mrs J £200 compensation for her distress and inconvenience.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mrs Js complaint and 
direct Soteria Insurance Limited to:
Clarify details of Mrs Js claim and settle her claim in line with the remaining policy 
terms; 
Apply interest to any reimbursement to Mrs J, at a rate of 8% per annum from the 
date she paid a cost up until settlement; and
Pay to Mrs J £200 compensation for her distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2022.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman