DRN-3703618
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) wont refund all the 
money she has lost after she fell victim to a scam. 
Mrs M in bringing her complaint to our service is being represented by solicitors. For ease, I 
will refer to Mrs M throughout this decision.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not go into every detail 
of what happened here. But in summary, in July 2021 Mrs M was contacted by an individual 
on a social media platform. After initially speaking through the social media platform, Mrs M 
and the individual exchanged numbers and began to speak every day. Unbeknown to Mrs M 
at the time, she was in contact with a scammer. 
Mrs M told us that through her exchanges with the scammer, she developed feelings for 
them. Around a month later - in August 2021, they told her that they wanted to send her a 
gift for her upcoming birthday. She explained she received contact from a courier company 
advising the parcel had arrived at an airport and was with customs. She was told she 
needed to pay £2,850 for custom fees. Mrs M paid this money from an account she held with 
a different bank to a third-party personal account. 
For completeness, a separate complaint was brought to our service under a separate case 
reference - in relation to the payment of £2,850. While Ive referred to this payment for the 
purpose of setting out the background of whats happened, I make no findings within this 
decision about this payment. 
Mrs M then received a tracking number for the delivery of the parcel, which she searched on 
the courier site. Mrs M says she was impressed by the courier companys website. On 
searching her tracking number, Mrs M says this showed her details, the individuals details 
(senders), and the contents of the parcel. Mrs M told us that the gift contained a variety of 
items, which included (but not limited to) two Rolex watches, perfume, a mobile phone, 
jewellery, a designer handbag, and an envelope.  
It was discovered that the envelope contained €20,000 in cash. Mrs M was contacted by the 
courier company who was delivering the parcel and told shed need to pay £6,999 for the 
conversion of the funds from euros into pound sterling, which she paid to the details 
provided (payee one) on 6 August 2021.  
Mrs M was then told by the courier that itd tried to deliver the parcel but was unable to as 
there was no anti-money laundering certificate. She was told shed need to pay £10,999 for 
this certificate and that after this, the parcel would be delivered. She was given bank details 
to make the payment to but on trying to make the payment it showed the bank details didnt 
exist, which she advised the company. The courier company then provided other bank 
details to which Mrs M proceeded to make the payment to. She made this payment on 
9 August 2021.  
Following this, Mrs M was asked to make a further payment of £18,999 on 10 August 2021, 
which she was told was refundable. This was for a certificate of ownership. She was again 
given bank details but said they didnt work. She was then provided with the account details 
which shed previously been given. Mrs M added that shed need to hand the cash over to 
the courier once it arrived and that shed then get back £40,000 and the converted euros. 
Mrs M says the scammer provided excuses as to why the parcel couldnt be delivered and 
requested that she pay more money. When Mrs M didnt receive the parcel, she says she 
began to question whether it was legitimate. After speaking with a close relative, they 
advised Mrs M something didnt seem right. Mrs M then contacted Halifax on 
11 August 2021 to report the scam. 
Halifax contacted the beneficiary banks, but unfortunately was unable to recover any of the 
funds. 
Halifax refunded Mrs M 50% of the money (£18,498.50) she lost on the basis that it said it 
couldve done more to protect her from the scam. However, it considered Mrs M was 
partially liable for her loss due to lack of due diligence in protecting herself and her account. 
It said there were red flags, such as, the reasons given for the payments not making sense, 
the email communication was unconvincing, and she made the payments to two payees. 
Unhappy with Halifaxs response, Mrs M brought her complaint to our service. One of our 
Investigators looked into the matter and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She 
thought Halifaxs refund of 50% of the money Mrs M had lost, was fair in the circumstances. 
In summary, she thought there was enough going on that Mrs M ought to have had concerns 
about the payments she was making. Our Investigator said under the provisions of the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code) the bank had acted fairly in choosing to 
reimburse Mrs M 50% as she didnt have a reasonable basis for belief when making the 
payments. 
Mrs M didnt agree with our Investigators opinion. She explained that she did conduct 
research into the courier company and was impressed when she came across its website. 
Further, she was able to enter the tracking number and all the details appeared which she 
added made the process and company seem legitimate. Mrs M added that she was in love 
with the scammer. 
Our investigator, having considered Mrs Ms further comments wasnt minded to change her 
opinion. She reiterated that she didnt consider the emails received from the courier 
company to be professional and, that they were poorly written. And whilst she recognised 
Mrs M told us she was in love with the scammer, the emails received were from the courier 
company and not the individual she had feelings for. It followed that she didnt consider 
Halifax needed to reimburse her the remaining funds shed lost to the scam. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has now been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether 
Halifax should have reimbursed Mrs M under the provisions of the CRM Code and whether it 
ought to have done more to protect her from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Im persuaded that Mrs M has fallen victim to a scam. But this isnt enough for her to receive 
a refund of the money under the CRM Code. Halifax has accepted liability, in part, and 
refunded 50% of the money Mrs M lost. But the CRM Code also places a level of care on 
Mrs M too. 
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish 
that*:
- The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: 
the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate. 
*There are further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code that do not apply to this case.
Did Mrs M have a reasonable basis for belief?
Taking into account all the circumstances of this case, I dont think Mrs M had a reasonable 
basis for believing that the person she transacted with was legitimate. I understand it is in 
the nature of scams like this one that scammers develop and build a relationship with their 
victims. But I also think there were several points where Mrs M reasonably ought to have 
questioned what she was being told. I say this because:
- Mrs M had been contacted unexpectedly by someone online and within a few weeks 
of contact, they told her theyd sent her a gift that contained numerous high value 
items along with cash, when theyd never met her. Im persuaded this ought to have 
fairly and reasonably led Mrs M to question whether this was realistic or simply too 
good to be true from someone shed only been speaking with for a short time. 
- Mrs Ms explained she had developed feelings for the scammer. I dont dispute what 
shes told us about her feelings in this regard. But the communication which led to 
her making the payments came from the courier company who were delivering the 
parcel sent to her. So whilst I have carefully considered Mrs Ms personal feelings 
towards the scammer, Im not persuaded that this means she shouldnt have had 
concerns about the courier. She was impressed by the courier companys website 
which she says she checked. But from the emails Ive been given of the contact 
between Mrs M and the company, I dont find these to be particularly professional. 
The emails Ive seen contain grammatical and spelling errors. I also note Mrs M at 
one point asked to speak with an employee of the company by phone, yet it wouldnt 
do so. I think these factors ought to have given her pause for thought and led her to 
proceed more cautiously than she did. 
- Further, in her contact with the courier company, I have to keep in mind that she was 
provided with numerous accounts to make the respective payments to. There were 
two occasions where two of the accounts didnt work. When she informed the courier 
of this, she was given other details. I think this ought to have raised Mrs Ms 
suspicions. The payee details provided were also to personal named accounts at 
different banks and the company also told her to choose friends and family as a 
payment purpose. I can see Mrs M questioned this, but the company didnt provide a 
response to her question. Yet Mrs M proceeded to select this payment purpose for 
two of the payments she made. Given that Mrs M believed she was making the payments for the purpose of custom fees for example, I think this ought to have 
raised some doubts on her part. Overall, I cant see that Mrs M asked many 
questions about the payments she was being asked to make to receive delivery of 
the parcel and, those that were asked dont appear to have been answered. Yet 
Mrs M seemingly took what she was being told about the custom fee, conversion fee 
and payment for the certificate of ownership for the parcel at face value. I find that 
the above factors Ive outlined should have led to a greater degree of suspicion and a 
more cautious approach on Mrs Ms part. 
Im mindful that, taking any of the individual factors above in isolation, they may not have 
been enough to have prevented Mrs M from proceeding to make the payments. But taken 
collectively and considering the specific circumstances of this case and the factors in the 
round, on balance, I think that there was enough going on and sufficient red flags that Mrs M 
ought reasonably to have taken further steps to protect herself from the risks.
I acknowledge Mrs M feelings towards the scammer and that shes said she was in love. 
Shes explained that they appeared extremely invested in her and she felt so happy. I have 
taken into account the specific background circumstances regarding Mrs Ms personal life. 
But Ive not been provided with any compelling evidence that indicates there were other 
factors that wouldve significantly impacted her ability to have protected herself from falling 
victim for this scam. 
So with all things considered, for the reasons Ive explained above, this aspect doesnt alter 
my conclusions. I cant fairly say that Mrs M met her requirements under the CRM Code as I 
find she didnt have a reasonable basis for believing that: the payee was the person the 
Customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or the 
person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate.
Ive then gone on to consider whether Halifax took reasonable steps to recover Mrs Ms 
funds. Mrs M reported the scam to Halifax around 19:56 on 11 August 2021. It contacted the 
beneficiary banks (the banks where Mrs M paid her funds to) on 12 August 2021 around 
11:01. While it could be said that Halifax couldve contacted the receiving banks sooner than 
it did after it was made aware of the scam, I dont think this has made a difference here. I 
say this because, Mrs M reported the scam a day after the last payment shed made and 
several days after the first and second payments. Halifax said unfortunately no funds were 
recovered. And sadly, from my experience it is quite typical for scammers to move money 
away from the beneficiary account(s), soon after the payments are made, presumably to 
frustrate the efforts at this type of recovery.  
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mrs M and Id like to assure her she has my 
considerable sympathies. I understand the whole experience has been deeply upsetting for 
her and I dont underestimate her strength of feeling and the impact this has had on her. But 
overall, for the reasons Ive explained, Im persuaded that the offer Halifax has already 
made, to refund 50% of the money lost, is fair and reasonable considering the circumstances 
of this case. So, I dont think Halifax needs to do anything more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Staci RowlandOmbudsman