DRN-2865932
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy with Society of Lloyds decision to not pay his claim.
 
What happened
Mr O said he took an income protection policy with Lloyds in 2016. He was made redundant 
and so claimed on his policy in August 2019. Mr O said that Lloyds has asked him to provide 
information thats not part of the policy terms. He believes this is unfair because the 
information its requested was not made clear within the policy. Hes provided some of the 
information and would like Lloyds to pay his claim on that basis. Mr O also said that Lloyds 
deliberately delayed asking for this information and caused unnecessary delays throughout 
its handling of the claim. 
Lloyds said it needs Mr O to send everything its asked for so it can validate his claim. It said 
that without this, its unable to determine whether he meets the policy terms. Lloyds 
accepted there were delays between September and December 2019, because it was 
unable to gain the necessary information from Mr Os previous employer. However, once this 
was received, it was able to move things along in good time.  
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She said Lloyds was entitled to ask for the 
information and that the terms didnt need to give this level of detail. She also agreed that 
the delays werent caused by Lloyds and said it was proactive when attempting to gather 
evidence to decide Mr Os claim. 
Mr O didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. He said that 
Lloyds moved the goal posts in December 2019 about what it expected. He also said that 
hes been without money for more than six months and that he would like this issue 
resolved. And so, its for me to make a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. My reasons are the same as 
those already explained by our investigator in that Lloyds is entitled to validate his claim prior 
to making any payments. I also disagree that Lloyds have moved the goal posts because I 
think its been clear about the information required from Mr O. Ill explain why.
Lloyds hasnt given a decision on this claim to date. And the reason for that is because Mr O 
hasnt provided all the necessary information for it to do that. I can see that Mr O has shared 
some of the information requested, but its still waiting for him to agree to its declaration and 
send further information to evidence hed searched for at least three new jobs each month. 
Lloyds was clear about what it needed from August 2019 and has continued to reiterate and 
request this evidence since then. But Mr O hasnt complied with Lloyds requests. And so, 
Lloyds has been unable to verify his claim. Should Mr O want his claim assessed properly, 
then hell need to comply with Lloyds so it can decide. So, although there are delays here, 
Im satisfied theyre not caused by Lloyds. 
Ive considered Mr Os arguments about the policy terms not clearly stating all the 
information it might need to assess a claim, but Im not persuaded by it. I say that because 
the policy terms arent designed to explain every eventuality, nor would I expect such a 
granular level of detail to be included here. They tend to be much broader in that respect.  
The policy terms say a consumer must;
 supply and pay for all information or evidence asked for throughout your claim
So, Im satisfied that Lloyds made it clear that its consumers should comply with its 
reasonable requests for information. Further, I say the request is reasonable because its 
what Id expect an insurer to do in the circumstances and is in line with good industry 
practice. Ive not seen that Lloyds has requested anything more from Mr O than what it 
needed to assess his claim fairly. However, its still entitled to request any information it 
deems relevant to do this. Lloyds clearly stated from the outset what it might need;
you must ensure you keep all of the following evidence of searches for work as these may 
be required in the future:
- Copies of job applications
- Invitations to interviews
- Rejection letters
- Registration with employment agencies
- Emails chains etc
- Evidence of continuous receipt of Jobseekers Allowance.
And then, in December 2019, following information from Mr Os previous employer, Lloyds 
asked for completed information or evidence of;
a Customer Declaration to be submitted as soon as possible:
1. Confirming that you are still receiving Jobseekers Allowance.
2. Requesting details/evidence of at least 3 positions applied for per month for the period 5 
September 2020 to 4 December 2020; including copies of applications, response letters and
interviews.
3. Requesting evidence of your continuous Jobseeker's Allowance payments for the same 
period. if we are dissatisfied with the evidence you provide, then we may request further 
proof or withhold your claim".
I also note that Mr O was claiming other government benefits and that he would have had to 
provide similar evidence in order to obtain them. Given what Ive just explained, Im unclear 
as to why Mr O has chosen not to engage with Lloyds in the same way, as he hasnt given 
any direct acknowledgement to this element of the complaint, despite our investigator 
highlighting this very point. 
My decision is that should Mr O want to receive the benefit of this policy, then he must first 
comply with Lloyds request for information, as detailed in many of its letters including those 
sent in August, December and January 2020. Lloyds can then validate his claim and give an 
answer on whether itll accept it, subject to the remaining policy terms. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint because I dont think Lloyds has done anything wrong for the 
reasons Ive explained. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2021.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman