DRN-3859049
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy about the delays caused by Vitality Health Limited (Vitality) in arranging an 
appointment for his son through a service provider.
What happened
Mr K had a private medical insurance policy through his employer which provided cover for 
him and his family. The policy is underwritten by Vitality.
On 23 June 2022, Mr K contacted Vitality as he wanted to submit a claim on behalf of his 
son. The claim was accepted, and Mr K was transferred to the service provider to arrange 
the appointment. As Mr K hadnt heard anything back, he contacted the service provider on 
5 July 2022. 
The service provider informed Vitality on 19 July 2022 that Mr K had made a complaint about 
the delays caused in arranging the appointment. Vitality said it wasnt responsible for the 
delays, the service provider was responsible and therefore Vitality didnt accept the 
complaint. 
Mr K didnt agree so he brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold 
the complaint. She concluded that Mr Ks concerns were about the service provider and not 
about Vitality. The service provider and Vitality are separate businesses and not responsible 
for each others actions. 
Unhappy with the investigators assessment, Mr K asked for the complaint to be referred to 
an ombudsman. So, its been passed to me. 
In summary, Mr K says he didnt specifically ask to be referred to this service provider and 
was only given the choice if this one. Private medical policies are designed to allow 
treatment from a range of providers.
He also says his employer was due to stop the Vitality plan with effect from 31 October 
2022, and he requests that Vitality honour the rest of the approved sessions, which would 
have been utilised had the delays not been caused by the service provider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly 
and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
Ive carefully considered what happened. Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint. 
Ill explain why.
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions of Mr Ks policy. On page 27 of the policy booklet, 
there is a section on mental health. This says:
Mental health panel
You can refer yourself for talking therapy, without a referral from a GP. The number of 
sessions you are eligible for is stated on your membership certificate. However, you must 
contact us before undergoing treatment, so we can arrange for you to see a mental health 
therapist on our panel. You can find more information on the options available to you, and 
how to arrange your treatment, by visiting the Care Hub.
Based on the above, Mr K was required to contact Vitality for authorisation of the treatment 
via its panel. In order to ensure cover is available, the policyholder is required to contact 
Vitality so it can direct them to an approved therapist. I can see Mr K did do this and theres 
no dispute in this regard. 
Once Mr K had been directed, he clearly experienced delays. However, those delays cannot 
be attributed to Vitality. I note from the evidence provided that Mr K did contact the service 
provider who caused the delays. But he also then made a complaint to Vitality. 
Vitality did what it was required to do. That is, refer Mr K to an approved service provider. 
Once it had done this, the responsibility is with the service provider to ensure an 
appointment is arranged in a timely manner. Vitality wasnt itself responsible for making the 
appointment and I cant see anywhere in the terms and conditions of Mr Ks policy that 
Vitality would have been expected to make the appointment on behalf of Mr K (and his son). 
But only that it would arrange to be seen by a mental health therapist. So, Im afraid I dont 
agree that the service providers actions are the responsibility of Vitality. 
I appreciate Mr Ks comments that private medical insurance policies are designed to allow 
treatment from a range of providers. But that is dependent on the treatment for which his son 
was being referred. In the circumstances here, the referral was made to this one service 
provider. I cant comment on whether Vitality should have referred to more service providers 
but only on what happened. Each policy is designed differently and, in this case, Mr Ks son 
was referred to this one service provider.  
I note Mr Ks comments that he would like Vitality to honour the remaining sessions his son 
had due to the expiry of the plan. I cannot make such a request on Mr Ks behalf as thats 
not within my remit. He should therefore contact Vitality directly to make that request, if he 
hasnt done so already. 
Overall, taking everything into account, Im not persuaded that Vitality is responsible for the 
actions of the service provider. It follows that I dont think Vitality needs to do anything 
further.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint against Vitality Health Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2023.
 Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman