DRN-4192492
The complaint
Mr E complains that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (hereafter Legal and 
General) unfairly ceased his group income protection claim.
What happened
Mr E had access to a group income protection policy through his employer. The policy was 
underwritten by Legal and General and paid benefit if an employee was unable to work 
because of illness or injury after a deferred period. 
Legal and General accepted a claim for Mr E in 2013 due to hip and joint pain. Mr E later 
received a diagnosis of osteoarthritis and experienced mental health difficulties too, and his 
claim was reviewed at different intervals. In 2022 Legal and General said Mr Es symptoms 
no longer met the policy definition of incapacity and he was considered ready to return to a 
suited occupation. So, it ceased the claim and confirmed itd be unable to continue paying 
benefit. 
Mr E didnt think the claim had been ceased fairly and complained. He explained why he 
remained incapacitated and raised concerns about the evidence relied on, but Legal and 
General maintained its decision so Mr E brought that complaint here. 
As our investigator didnt think the claim had been ceased unfairly they didnt recommend Mr 
Es complaint be upheld. But Mr E disagreed, reiterated his concerns about the medical 
evidence relied on, and set out that he remained incapacitated. He asked for the complaint 
to be considered by an ombudsman and so the matter was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr E clearly feels very strongly about what happened and I thank him for taking the time to 
set out his position. This decision will not address every point made, it will focus on those 
matters I consider central to the outcome of this complaint, and having considered all of the 
available evidence and arguments I wont be upholding it for the following reasons.
Legal and General has a responsibility to handle claims both promptly and fairly and not 
reject them unreasonably. 
Mr E was insured on a suited occupation basis. The policy defined this as meaning: 
the insured member is incapacitated by an illness or injury so that he is unable to 
undertake any occupation appropriate to his experience, training or education. 
For the purposes of this definition an occupation will not be considered to be inappropriate to 
an insured members experience, training or education on the grounds that:
(i) the pay from such occupation may be lower than that paid to the insured member 
prior to the deferred period in relation to his own job or lower than the amount of 
members benefit, or
(ii)such occupation lacks the status or seniority associated with the insured members 
own job.
So it wouldnt be sufficient for the medical evidence to demonstrate that Mr E was 
incapacitated from undertaking his own role because of illness or injury. Rather, it would 
need to demonstrate that he was incapacitated from undertaking any occupation that was 
appropriate to his experience, training, or education. 
I wont refer to all of the evidence made available to Legal and General at the time of its 
review, but in particular I note:
A transferable skills assessment (TSA), designed to identify the potential of his 
transferable skills in relation to suited return to work options that met his functional 
capacity, took place with Mr E on 21 March 2019. The TSA found three suited 
occupations  a patient transport service call handler, a taxi dispatcher, and a 
warehouse administrator.
A vocational clinical specialist consultation (VCS) took place with Mr E on 21 
December 2021. This was designed to gain a better understanding of Mr Es current 
medical situation, potential future prognosis, new or existing treatments, and potential 
barriers to returning to work. And it found little evidence to suggest that [Mr E] would 
not be capable of doing some suitable work-related activities on a part time basis.
A functional capacity evaluation (FCE) also took place with Mr E on 8 February 2022. 
Similarly, this too found there to be no contra-indications during todays assessment 
to (Mr E) making a return to work, either to his previous role (providing there is only a 
light to medium lifting requirement), or any other role of a light to medium physical 
demand 
Its not for me to make a medical finding on Mr Es ability or inability to work, but I dont think 
Legal and Generals conclusions (that much of what was made available supported Mr E 
being capable of working in a suited occupation) was unreasonable. Legal and Generals 
company medical officer (CMO) provide their opinion on the available evidence too, and 
without reciting everything I note they found:
Mr E had been reviewed by specialists circa 2012 to 2014, but there were no surgical 
interventions or specialist reviews pending for him, he wasnt under a psychiatrist for 
care, and he wasnt under the care of any orthopaedics/spinal surgery/pain clinic.
Thered been demonstratable improvement/objective assessment of Mr Es functional 
ability, relative to previous reviews. The suitable roles identified for him remained 
valid and the major barrier to a return to work appeared to be animosity with his 
former employer and deconditioning. 
Mr Es functional ability was compatible with a phased return over a 10 to 12 week 
period likely with some support needed at first. 
In addition to the above the CMO also explained that many people with chronic conditions 
had been able to successfully re-engage and participate in the workplace given the 
advances in technology and wider awareness of and focus on workplace adjustments and 
inclusion. 
I know that Mr E says the activities in the FCE caused him ongoing pain/injury and he is 
concerned about this particular report being relied on as evidence of his ability to work. Our investigator explained that Mr E didnt appear to have sought input for this reported 
pain/injury until some two months after the FCE took place. And I too note that the letter his 
GP provided in relation to this reported pain was also written some four months after the 
FCE. 
So although I acknowledge Mr Es concerns, Im not persuaded they invalidate the FCE in its 
entirety. Legal and General took the FCE into account as part of its wider assessment of all 
the evidence made available to it, and I dont think it was unreasonable of it to do so.  
For all of the reasons given above Im not persuaded that Legal and General unreasonably 
concluded that the medical evidence no longer supported Mr E being precluded from 
engaging in a supported and carefully managed phased return to work. And I am satisfied its 
decision to cease this claim was in line with the policy too. So, Ill not be directing Legal and 
General to reinstate this claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman