DRN-3014865
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy Nationwide Building Society hasnt refunded him £110 he lost to a scam.
Mr C is represented by his mother in bringing this complaint. But for ease of reading, Ill refer 
to any submission and comments she has made as being made by Mr C himself.  
What happened
The details of this case have been clearly set out by our investigator when she wrote to the 
bank upholding Mr Cs complaint. As such, the facts are well-known to both parties, so I 
dont need to repeat them at length here. In summary:
Mr C sent £110 via mobile banking to an account controlled by a fraudster on 31 
August 2020.
He did so on the premise he was purchasing trainers with a legitimate business, 
selling on a social media platform.
After making the transfer, the fraudster told Mr C the payment hadnt been received 
and asked him to send it again. Mr C refused to do so and was immediately blocked 
from the fraudsters page.
Realising hed been the victim of fraud, Mr C tried to contact Nationwide. He says he 
was unable to reach Nationwide after waiting for over an hour on the phone. He 
therefore attended his local branch first thing in the morning the following day.
The case was considered under the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM). This is 
a voluntary scheme Nationwide has signed up to, designed to reimburse customers that 
have fallen victim to a scam. The starting position under the Code is for a customer to be 
refunded. A firm might choose not to refund if it establishes that a customer has not met their 
requisite level of care. In making such an assessment, a firm may consider whether the 
customer:
ignored an effective warning;
made the payment without having a reasonable basis for belief that it was for 
legitimate purposes; or
has been grossly negligent.
Nationwide hasnt provided its file for this complaint to explain why it considers Mr C hasnt 
met his requisite level of care in this instance. Based on its final response letter sent to Mr C, 
it appears Nationwide considers it provided an effective warning before Mr C made the 
payment. 
The warning Nationwide presented read as follows:
LOOK OUT: Criminals are using COVID-19 to their advantage advertising items such as 
protective wear and testing kits. Please be careful of this!
Criminals often sell things that can seem too good to be true and dont exist at all. Take the 
time to check online reviews. Youre likely to lose money if your item never arrives or if your 
activity doesnt work out as planned.
Debit/credit cards offer better protection than sending a payment directly to a sellers 
account
While not included in its final response letter, Mr C says he has since been awarded a total 
of £120 by Nationwide. Mr C has stated this was compensation for errors made during the 
complaints process and not for the loss incurred as a result of fraud. Nationwide has not 
provided any comments to dispute this being the case. 
Mr C brought his complaint to our service as he wasnt happy with Nationwides decision to 
not reimburse him. One of our investigators looked into it and recommended the complaint 
be upheld. 
The investigator didnt consider the warning was effective in Mr Cs circumstances. He 
wasnt purchasing any COVID related items and the investigator didnt consider the price Mr 
C paid was too good to be true. She also thought Mr C wouldve thought he had complied 
with the guidance to check online reviews, as he had seen a number of positive testimonials 
on the fraudsters page.
While its not clear from Nationwides final response letter if it considers Mr C acted without 
having a reasonable basis for believing this payment was for legitimate purposes, the 
investigator also considered this element of the Code.
Our investigator found Mr C had a reasonable basis for believing he was dealing with a 
legitimate seller. She noted Mr C had been following the seller online for a number of 
months, which she thought supported Mr Cs assumption that the seller was genuine as the 
page hadnt been closed down. Mr C also said the page had around 20,000 followers and a 
number of apparent positive reviews from happy customers, which supported his belief that 
the page was genuine. 
The investigator considered Mr C had attempted to conduct checks online by searching the 
company and had found a business that was registered. The price Mr C paid for the trainers 
also didnt seem unrealistic based on the cost of other legitimate trainers on sale. 
Mr C was 17 years old when he made the payment transfer. Hes said he had no credit 
cards or PayPal account at the time to make the payment through and had limited 
experience of buying things online.
The investigator said Lloyds ought to have fully reimbursed Mr C at the time he made his 
claim and so should refund the £110 he sent to the fraudster in order to settle the complaint, 
together with interest on the refund at the simple rate of 8% a year from the date it declined 
his claim to the date of settlement. 
The investigators findings were sent to both parties on 30 June 2021 with a deadline for 
responding of 14 July 2021. That deadline has passed and, about four months later, the 
bank has still failed to respond. As such, the case has been escalated to me for a final 
decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it.  
Our statutory rules provide  at DISP 3.5.8 to 3.5.15 of the Financial Conduct Authority 
Handbook  that we may give case-management directions and fix or extend deadlines; and 
that we may:
reach a decision on the basis of what has been supplied and take account of the 
failure by a party to provide information requested; 
And that
If a respondent fails to comply with a time limit, the Ombudsman may: (1) proceed 
with consideration of the complaint; and (2) include provision for any material distress 
or material inconvenience caused by that failure in any award which he decides to 
make.
Ive therefore concluded that, in the absence of a response from Nationwide to the 
investigators initial assessment, it is fair and reasonable to proceed on the basis of the 
evidence we already have and/or to take account of Nationwides failure to reply to the 
investigators opinion. 
Ive considered whether, under the CRM, Mr C ought to have been fully reimbursed when he 
notified Nationwide of the scam. In doing so, Ive considered whether or not he met his 
requisite level of care. I believe he did, for substantively the same reasons the investigator 
has already explained.
In particular Mr C was 17 years old when he fell for the scam with little experience of online 
purchases, so taking his personal circumstances into account I think he did have a 
reasonable basis for believing the account he was viewing was legitimate, particularly 
considering it had been active for some time with a high number of followers which Mr C 
placed weight on.
Ive considered that Mr C looked on Companies House and saw the business name on the 
site. Ive noted that the company listed was actually dissolved prior to the purchase he 
made, but based on the other factors of the complaint Ive already covered I still think that 
overall, Mr C acted reasonably when considering the circumstances of the complaint and the 
personal characteristics of Mr C. I therefore think it would have been fair and reasonable for 
Mr C to have received a full refund at the time he raised his claim with Nationwide.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out by the investigator and above, Ive decided that Mr C ought 
reasonably to have been fully refunded under the CRM. I therefore direct Nationwide 
Building Society to pay Mr C:
the £110 he lost to the fraudster  within 28 days of receiving notification of his 
acceptance of my final decision; plus
interest at the simple rate of 8% per year on that amount (less any tax properly 
deductible) from the date Nationwide declined Mr Cs claim under the CRM to the 
date of settlement. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 
Kirsty Upton
Ombudsman