DRN-2322898
The complaint
Ms G complains that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) mishandled her motor insurance claim.  
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Ms G is unhappy because she was given a small hire car despite having a family of 
five. But in terms of courtesy cars, her policy terms and conditions state that she is 
only entitled to a small hatchback or similar and that this car should keep you 
mobile but may not be the same as your car in terms of its size, type, value or 
status. So UKI were under no obligation to provide the same size car as the one Ms 
G had insured, as her level of cover does not provide for this. She was also told by 
UKI over the phone that the hire car would not be like for like and would be a small 
hatchback. 
Ms G says UKI told her she was eligible for £50 a day in expenses. But having 
listened to the phone call between her and the UKI agent, Ive not heard any mention 
of Ms G being told to expect this allowance  or that there would be any reason for it 
considering that she was having a hire car arranged her. Ive also seen nothing within 
the policy terms and conditions to suggest that Ms G is entitled to this allowance 
either, so I do not consider this is something UKI are obliged to pay.
Ms G says she was not given a choice over which garage her car would be taken to. 
But I cannot see that she expressed any particular preference of garage to UKI 
during the call, and she seemed to be happy for the insurer to come and recover her 
vehicle and take it to the garage chosen by them. Its also usual for insurers to have 
preferred garages/contractors to carry out their repair work. So I do not think UKI 
have done anything wrong here by failing to ask Ms G where she wanted her car to 
be taken to.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2020.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman
