DRN-3131137
The complaint
 Ms B has complained that TFS Loans Limited (TFS Loans) provided her with two 
unaffordable loans.
What happened
  TFS Loans provided Ms B with two unsecured guarantor loans. The details are as follows:
Number Date taken Amount Term Repayment
1 09/01/2015 £5000 48 months £211.86
2 16/12/2015 £7500 60 months £279.25
 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in September 2021. Both parties have 
received a copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from 
the decision below. I said;
Were the checks that TFS Loans carried out reasonable and proportionate for the loans?
I can see from the documentation TFS Loans submitted that it carried out checks before it 
agreed to lend to Ms B. It says it recorded down her declared income and expenditure and 
did this through a series of phone call discussions. It says it verified Ms Bs income by 
checking a payslip. It then carried out a credit check and asked Ms B questions about what it 
found from this.
Ive carefully considered what TFS Loans has said. And based on its calculation and the 
disposable income that it assessed Ms B to have, the loan repayments on the surface of it 
looked affordable. But when I look through the credit search results that it would have had in 
front of it, the amount of impaired credit data doesnt seem to add up with the amount of 
disposable income TFS assessed Ms B to have. Ms B had five defaults recorded against her 
name, 3 from payday loans, 1 from a mail order account and 1 from a credit card. Three of 
these accounts had defaulted around 13 or 14 months before she applied for loan 1 and 
although the other 2 had defaulted a lot earlier than this, there were outstanding balances 
still to be repaid, one of them for quite a sizeable amount. I can see that TFS Loans had 
recorded down a monthly amount of £37.52 for a default in its assessment. But there is no 
explanation as to what this is for and it doesnt seem to cover what TFS Loans would have 
seen in the credit search results. When I consider what Ive seen on the search and also the 
amount Ms B was borrowing in relation to her income along with the total cost and length of 
the loan, I think TFS Loans should have carried out a complete review of Ms Bs finances to 
see whether the loan repayments were sustainable, including verifying her expenditure in 
greater detail.   
As I cant see that TFS Loans did do this, I dont think that the checks it carried out before 
providing Ms B with loan 1 were reasonable and proportionate.
When Ms B applied for loan 2 some 11 months later, I can see that she applied for a larger 
loan over a longer term and higher repayment amount. This was now her second loan with it 
and she was looking to take her borrowing for a further 60 months. She had also made a late 
payment in August 2015 on loan 1. So, I think by this stage TFS Loans should have carried 
out a complete review of Ms Bs finances again, to see if the repayments were sustainable 
for her over the 5-year term. 
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to TFS Loans that Ms B would 
have been unable to repay the loans?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before loan 1 was provided, I 
cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So, I need to decide whether it is more likely 
than not that a proportionate check would have told TFS Loans that Ms B would have been 
unable to sustainably repay this loan.
Ms B has provided bank statements to our service from a three-month period of time leading 
up to when loan 1 was granted, and Ive carefully considered the information provided. 
Having done so, I can see that, on balance, the loan repayments for loan 1 were 
unaffordable. I can see monthly expenditure on her statements that were not taken into 
consideration when TFS Loans carried out its assessment. Ms B was paying £132.50 
monthly to a debt collection service most likely for a utilities debt or housing arrears. She 
was also paying £20.00 to a debt recovery company a month and as our investigator had 
spotted she was paying £54 for a sky subscription that she hadnt declared to TFS Loans 
either. Of greater concern was her overdraft where she paid a regular monthly fee of around 
£50 and a payday loan that she had taken out on 05/11/2014 with another finance provider. 
This added a monthly repayment of £159.30 a month also. When I take all of this into 
consideration along with higher expenditure in other areas like food, her phone bill and 
insurance, I can see that she didnt have the disposable income TFS Loans assessed her to 
have. She was struggling to pay all of her expenditure each month and in October and 
November 2014 she had returned direct debits shortly before her payday where she didnt 
have enough in her account to cover them.  
If TFS loans had carried out further checks, it would have seen that the loan repayments 
were not sustainable for Ms B over the 4-year loan term. So, I dont think it should have 
agreed to give her this loan based on what I have seen. 
When Ms B asked for loan 2 in December 2015, I can see that her finances hadnt improved. 
The credit search that TFS Loans had carried out showed that Ms B had defaulted again on 
a home credit account and this was recorded only 2 months before her application. I think its 
clear from seeing this that Ms B was still struggling to manage her finances and I think its 
more likely than not that further checks would have shown this too. 
Bearing all this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more 
likely than not have shown TFS Loans that Ms B would not have been able to repay this loan 
in a sustainable manner as the information she has provided shows she was having 
problems managing her finances. So, Im satisfied that its failure to carry out proportionate 
checks resulted in it unfairly providing loan 1 to Ms B. And on balance, I think Ms Bs 
finances hadnt improved for loan 2 and so it shouldnt have given her this loan either.
So, it follows that TFS Loans needs to put things right.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response to 
my provisional decision. Ms B responded and said she agrees with the provisional 
decision. TFS Loans did not respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms B has not made any new points for me to respond to and TFS Loans has not 
responded. So, as neither party has anything further to add that I feel I need to comment 
on or that will change the outcome of this complaint, I dont see any reason to depart from 
my findings within my provisional decision. With that being the case, I uphold Ms Bs 
complaint.  
 
Putting things right
 Having thought about everything, I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Ms Bs complaint for TFS Loans to put things right by:
Remove all interest, fees and charges on loans 1-2 and treat all the payments Ms B 
has made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Ms Bs loan account results in her having effectively made payments 
above the original capital borrowed, then TFS Loans should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled*.
Treat Ms B fairly, if there is a balance remaining for her to repay. It should work with 
Ms B to find an affordable payment plan.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Bs credit file in relation to loans 1-
2. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS Loans to take off tax from this interest. TFS Loans 
must give Ms B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
 
My final decision
  My final decision is that I uphold Ms Bs complaint and direct TFS Loans Limited to put 
things right as described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman