DRN-3770027
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain that Fairmead Insurance Limited unfairly declined a claim under their 
legal expenses insurance policy. 
Where I refer to Fairmead, this includes its agents and claims handlers. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs K made a claim on their policy seeking cover to take legal action against their 
neighbours. The dispute concerned ownership of a path at the rear of their property. 
Fairmead referred the claim to solicitors to assess, who said there wasnt a reasonable 
chance of the claim being successful. So Fairmead said it wouldnt continue to provide 
cover.
Whilst in the process of pursuing that claim against their neighbours, Mr and Mrs K became 
aware that the neighbours may have provided misleading information to the Land Registry. 
They contacted Fairmead to raise a second claim, but it was declined on the basis that the 
misleading information was provided to the Land Registry back in 2011, which was before 
the policy started. 
Mr and Mrs K were unhappy with this decision, so they raised a complaint which they 
brought to our service. Theyve told us they held a policy back in 2011 but, despite having 
the policy documents, the insurer is unable to locate the details on its system due to the time 
thats passed. They dont think its likely the insurer will provide cover for the claim when the 
policy cant be located. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said whilst the event occurred before the policy 
started, Mr and Mrs K had no knowledge of it until this year when the policy was in place. 
She asked Fairmead to cover the claim. 
Fairmead didnt accept our investigators findings, so the complaint has been passed to me 
for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ks legal expenses insurance policy say:
We agree to provide the insurance described in this section, subject to the terms, 
conditions, exclusions and limitations set out below, provided thatthe date of 
occurrence of the insured incident is during the period of insurance.
The policy defines the date of occurrence as:
For civil cases, the date of the event that leads to a claim. If there is more than one 
event arising at different times from the same originating cause, the date of 
occurrence is the date of the first of these events. (This is the date the event 
happened, which may be before the date you first became aware of it.)
As the event leading to the claim occurred in 2011 and the policy didnt start until 2019, on a 
strict interpretation of the policy terms, the claim doesnt meet the policy criteria for cover. 
However, my role is not only to determine whether Fairmeads decision was in line with the 
policy terms, but also whether or not it was fair. And I dont think it is. Ill explain why. 
Like all insurance policies, legal expenses insurance is meant to cover uncertain risks  not 
inevitable or existing events. So its not uncommon  nor unreasonable  for these policies 
to exclude claims for events that had already occurred or that the policyholder was likely to 
have known would occur before the policy was taken out. This is to prevent policyholders 
from taking out insurance cover specifically to make a claim for a known imminent dispute.
But Im not persuaded that is whats happened here. Its clear Mr and Mrs K only became 
aware of this potential event when Fairmeads solicitors were assessing another claim and 
brought it to their attention. And Mr and Mrs K logged their claim as soon as they were 
notified.
When Mr and Mrs K first claimed on their policy, Fairmead said the claim would be covered, 
provided it had a reasonable chance of success (as required under the policy terms). The 
solicitors who assessed this concluded it didnt have a reasonable chance of success, based 
on the evidence available. 
Whats happened since is that Mr and Mrs K became aware of further information  namely 
that the neighbour may have provided misleading information to the Land Registry  which 
would affect the chances of succeeding with their case. Where new information comes to 
light, Id expect the insurer to refer that to the solicitors to review but Fairmead has refused 
to do this.
Whilst I acknowledge that Fairmeads policy makes it clear that the event must occur within 
the policy period regardless of the date of knowledge, Im not satisfied this term is a fair one 
in the circumstances of this case. The information is relevant to the assessment of whether 
they are likely to succeed in their claim against the neighbours. I appreciate the information 
they have now discovered concerns something that is alleged to have happened in the past. 
But their dispute only arose after they had taken out this policy. Mr and Mrs K had no way of 
bringing their claim any sooner than they have, and its extremely unlikely that an insurer 
from eleven years ago will honour this claim. So it wouldnt be fair to leave Mr and Mrs K 
without cover for an event that they only became aware of recently and within Fairmeads 
policy period.
As such, Im directing Fairmead to reconsider this claim in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions on the basis that the date of occurrence is within the policy period. For clarity to 
Mr and Mrs K, Fairmead are still entitled to assess the claim to ensure it satisfies all other 
policy conditions, such as prospects of success. Mr and Mrs K have highlighted to our 
service that they believe the claim to be a criminal case, rather than a civil one  and, if 
thats the case, it may be that the policy doesnt extend to criminal matters in these 
circumstances.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding this complaint and directing Fairmead 
Insurance Limited to reconsider this claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions on 
the basis that the date of occurrence is within the policy period.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman