DRN-3559737
The complaint
Mrs P complains that NewDay Ltd did not register a default to her credit card account at the 
correct time. 
I know that when Mrs P applied for her credit card, it was owned by a different business. To 
keep things simple, Ill refer mainly to NewDay in this decision. Thats because NewDay is 
the business responsible for answering the complaint. 
What happened
Mrs P took her credit card out in 2005. In around 2009, she ran into some financial 
difficulties and entered into a debt management plan. Mrs P then made payments to 
NewDay in accordance with that plan. In 2012, NewDay sold the account to a third-party 
business  C. In 2017, C asked a different business  N - to administer the account on its 
behalf. Mrs P continued to make regular payments in accordance with the plan throughout. 
In 2020, Mrs P planned to move home and she applied for a mortgage decision in principle 
from a third-party business. The application was rejected. At about that time, Mrs P found 
out that her NewDay account was visible on one of her credit files. The records showed that 
she was significantly behind with her repayments and that she still had a credit limit of 
£3,600. She thought this was the reason her decision in principle application had been 
refused. 
Mrs P then contacted NewDay and was told that her account had defaulted in March 2013 
after the account was sold to C.  Mrs P then complained to NewDay because she said the 
default should have been registered on her credit file at that time and the account wouldnt 
have shown on her credit file when she made her decision in principle application. 
In response to the complaint, NewDay then said that it had not defaulted the account at all. It 
said that when it sold the account in 2012, Mrs Ps account was not sufficiently in arrears for 
a default to be recorded because she had stuck to the terms of her payment plan. NewDay 
apologised for giving Mrs P information that was not correct and offered to pay £30 to 
compensate her for that mistake. 
Mrs P then complained to this service. NewDay didnt think we could consider the matter 
because Mrs P had referred her complaint too late. The matter was passed to an 
ombudsman who said that we could consider the complaint about whether NewDay should 
have defaulted the account earlier. She said we couldnt look at whether NewDay lent 
irresponsibly by agreeing to give Mrs P a credit card. 
Our investigator then considered the matter. He contacted the third-party business that had 
refused Mrs Ps mortgage application. The third-party business told our investigator that it 
had refused two applications in principle  the first in August 2020 and the second in 
September 2020  because the application had not passed its credit score. It said its credit 
score was a combination of various factors. It could not say that the reason the application 
failed was because of the information on Mrs Ps credit file about the NewDay credit card. It 
also told us it did agree to lend to Mrs P in principle in March 2021, although it agreed to 
lend less than she applied for. 
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think he could say the 
information recorded about the NewDay card was the only reason why Mrs Ps mortgage 
was refused.  But he could see why Mrs P would have been upset to discover it may have 
been a factor. He said Mrs P had to explain the entries to her employer as part of its security 
vetting processes and our investigator thought that would have caused her some distress 
and inconvenience. He thought NewDay should pay £300 to compensate her for its error. 
Mrs P didnt agree with our investigators view. She said she had received an offer on her 
property and had made a successful offer on another. She said she had to pull out of the 
sale because of the incorrect information on her credit file, which caused her embarrassment 
in her local community. She also said that she lost the opportunity to take advantage of the 
stamp duty reduction at the time. She thought NewDays mistake would cause her ongoing 
difficulties when she tried to take out further financial products with the third-party business 
and its banking group. 
Our investigator then reconsidered the matter. He said he thought NewDay should pay £500 
to Mrs P because of the additional inconvenience she was put to in having to raise a dispute 
with the credit reference agencies. The matter was then passed to me for a final decision. 
I asked our investigator to find out some more about how Mrs Ps employment was affected 
by her credit file. Mrs P told us that in 2017, she was called to an interview by her employer 
and asked a number of intrusive questions about her finances. Mrs P believes this interview 
arose as part of her employers periodic security checks, and that the questions were asked 
because of the erroneous information contained on her credit file. Mrs P told us that as she 
was unaware of the information recorded on her credit file and she could not fully answer the 
questions. She felt that her answers were doubted by her employer. She believes her 
employer may have viewed her answers with suspicion. She is upset that her integrity at 
work may have been called into question and that she may have been subject to additional 
vetting checks. Mrs P said this has caused her significant distress. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have upheld the complaint to the same extent as our investigator. Ill explain why below. 
The first thing Ive looked at is whether it would have been fair for NewDay to default the 
account before it was sold to C.
  
NewDay couldnt give us a lot of information about Mrs Ps account between 2009 and 2012. 
Thats not surprising given how much time has passed. So its not entirely clear what Mrs Ps 
contractual minimum payments would have been at the point when she entered into the debt 
management plan. However, our investigator worked out that even if Mrs P was required to 
pay 1% of her outstanding balance, her minimum repayment at that time would have been in 
the region of £36 per month. 
When Mrs P initially entered into the debt management plan, she made three repayments of 
£5.70. After that and up to May 2011, she paid less than £16 a month. When the account 
was sold to C, Mrs P was paying £22.66 a month. 
So, by the time the account was sold to C, I think NewDay would have known Mrs P hadnt 
met her contractual repayments for over three years. Her outstanding balance was still over 
£3,000 and I think it would have been clear to NewDay that Mrs P was unlikely to resume 
her contractual repayments. I dont think it could have reasonably thought that the 
agreement was temporary. On that basis, I think Mrs Ps account should have been 
defaulted before it was sold to C at the latest. Ive next looked at the impact NewDays mistake had on Mrs P. She says that if NewDay 
had defaulted the account earlier, it would not have appeared on her credit file and her 
mortgage would have been agreed in 2020. Mrs P provided information from her mortgage 
broker to indicate her application for a mortgage agreement in principle was refused 
because of her credit score. 
I know that Mrs P feels strongly about this point. But I cant say that the mortgage would 
have been agreed but for NewDays error. The third-party mortgage provider could not say 
the information recorded about the NewDay credit card was the reason the application for a 
decision in principle was refused. Rather, it said that this was one of several things that 
would have been considered. 
When deciding whether to offer a mortgage decision in principle, a lender will usually apply 
its own unique criteria. Those criteria will generally be tailored to the product being offered 
and the market circumstances at the time. Those criteria will usually change regularly. Here, 
Mrs P made a joint application with another person  so her credit file would have been one 
of a range of things that would have been considered. It wouldnt just have been her own 
position that was relevant to a lenders decision here, the other persons situation would 
have been considered too. From the information I have, I cant say that the information about 
the NewDay credit card on Mrs Ps credit file was solely the reason the lender declined the 
decision in principle. 
It follows then that as I cant say NewDay was responsible for the declined mortgage 
decision in principle, I cant find that it was responsible for the embarrassment Mrs P says 
she was caused when she had to pull out of the property purchase, or the lost opportunity to 
take advantage of the stamp duty reduction. 
In any event, I can see that the decision in principle was refused initially on 20 August 2020 
and then again on 9 September 2020. Mrs P accepted an offer on her property on 5 
September 2020 and her offer on another property was accepted on 11 September 2020. It 
seems that Mrs P would have been aware there may have been difficulties with a mortgage 
application before an agreement with the buyer and vendor of the respective properties was 
reached. Im also aware that the stamp duty holiday ended in September 2021 and the third-
party mortgage provider did decide in principle that it could lend to Mrs P on 4 March 2021, 
albeit not the full amount she requested.   
Mrs P believes that the issues NewDay caused with her credit file will affect her ongoing 
relationship with the third-party mortgage provider. I note from Mrs Ps complaint about C 
that agreed to de-list the account from the credit reference agency. And I can see that the 
third-party mortgage provider did agree in principle to lend to Mrs P in March 2021, which 
does not indicate a difficulty with that ongoing relationship. So while I can understand why 
Mrs P might be worried here, given the circumstances, it doesnt look like this situation is 
impacting her in a way that means the third-party business is unwilling to potentially lend to 
her or consider her applications further.
Ive thought about the impact NewDays mistake had on her employment. If NewDay had 
defaulted the account before it was sold to C, it could well have been the case that the 
default would have still shown on her credit file in 2017. But I think even if that was the case, 
Mrs P would have been aware of it and she could have been upfront with her employer 
about that. Understandably, Mrs P cant say definitively that she was called for the interview 
with her employer because of the NewDay card. I can see why she is upset and worried her 
integrity may have been called into account, when she works in a role where integrity is of 
paramount importance. So I realise why Mrs P may believe she was called for the interview 
because of this issue, but ultimately, the evidence here doesnt persuade me that NewDay 
can fairly be held liable for that happening here. I agree with our investigator that Mrs P was inconvenienced by having to dispute her credit 
file and that this caused her additional upset and worry. If NewDay had defaulted the 
account when it should have done, then its unlikely the entry would have still shown on her 
credit file in 2020 and Mrs P wouldnt have had to raise the dispute at all. 
It follows then that although I cant say NewDay caused the third-party business to reject 
Mrs Ps application for a mortgage agreement in principle, I can see how she was distressed 
and inconvenienced by its mistake in not defaulting her account. I agree with our investigator 
that it must pay £500 to Mrs P to compensate her for that distress and inconvenience. 
Putting things right
NewDay must pay £500 to Mrs P to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience 
caused because it did not default her account at the appropriate time. 
My final decision
I have upheld this complaint to the extent set out above and require NewDay Ltd to put 
things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman