DRN-3353700
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs E say Santander UK Plc (trading at the time as Abbey National) mis-sold them 
a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy for a mortgage.
What happened
Mr M and Mrs E were sold a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1991. Mr M and Mrs E paid for 
the PPI with a regular monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered them in case 
either one or both of them was off work sick or lost their job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr M and Mrs E didnt agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr M and Mrs Es case. 
To clarify, in this case Im only looking at the sale of this particular PPI policy.
While I know this will come as a disappointment for Mr M and Mrs E, I have not found this 
particular policy to have been mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mr M and Mrs Es mortgage application had a section for PPI, which offered them the choice 
to take it out or turn it down. The option to buy PPI for both of them was ticked, the options to 
turn it down were left blank, and Mr M and Mrs E signed the form to confirm their choices. 
Mr M and Mrs E said the adviser filled the form, not them, and I understand why they thought 
to raise this. But its quite normal for a staff member to physically fill the form. And in order to 
fill the form, the adviser would need to have discussed it in detail with Mr M and Mrs E in 
order to get their personal details, employment details, preferences, details about the 
property, and so on. So I think its most likely they discussed the section for PPI with Mr M 
and Mrs E too  which did offer a clear choice. Further, Im afraid there was an onus on 
Mr M and Mrs E to read what they were signing, and I think the paperwork was clear about 
offering a choice when it came to PPI.
From what Ive seen of the sales process from the time, in order to get this policy Mr M and 
Mrs E would also need to have signed and submitted a separate application specifically for 
PPI for the insurer. They also would need to have set up a direct debit specifically to pay for 
the PPI  it was not paid as part and parcel of their mortgage. Understandably, because of 
the decades that have passed, the insurer hasnt been able to provide the original copy of 
Mr M and Mrs Es form. But I have looked at a sample copy, and the process reinforces that 
the PPI was a separate, optional product rather than a necessary part of the mortgage.
Mr M and Mrs E pointed out that the policy didnt appear on their mortgage offer. Again, 
I can see why they raised this. But given that their mortgage offer set out the conditions of 
the mortgage, and given that their PPI was optional and was not a condition of the mortgage, 
its not surprising that it wasnt included in the mortgage offer. 
Ive not seen anything in the paperwork which said or reasonably implied that the PPI was 
compulsory. And Ive not seen any wider problems with Santanders sales process from the 
time, nor any evidence which shows that Mr M and Mrs E were misled into buying PPI here. 
From the documents from the time, it looks like they were offered a choice and chose it. So 
overall, I think its most likely that Santander made Mr M and Mrs E aware they had a choice 
about buying the PPI, and that they chose to take it at the time  though I can understand if 
they no longer recall doing so after so many years.
Its not clear whether Santander gave Mr M and Mrs E tailored advice about buying PPI, or 
not. The requirements were stricter on Santander if it did give tailored advice. But even if 
I assess things using the higher standard, it doesnt change the outcome. Thats because 
under the higher standard, Santander would have been required to check that the policy was 
right for Mr M and Mrs E  and based on what theyve told us of their circumstances at the 
time, I think it most likely was.
For example, it looks like Mr M and Mrs E were both eligible for the cover and werent 
affected by any of its main exclusions or limitations. They had only been in their roles a 
relatively short time, and the PPI offered lengthy cover  up to three years for each incident 
of accidents or illness. So its most likely that the PPI offered Mr M and Mrs E much more 
comprehensive cover than their existing benefits, even if their benefits were more generous 
than usual. I understand Mr M and Mrs Es family wouldve been happy to help, but there 
was always the chance theyd be unable to help when needed. And this mortgage was Mr M 
and Mrs Es responsibility, not anyone elses, so I dont think it wouldve been suitable if 
Santander had recommended they rely on other individuals to pay it. Ultimately, its worth 
bearing in mind that if Mr M and Mrs E had fallen behind on their mortgage, they couldve 
lost their home. So in their situation, the PPI could have really been useful for them in 
protecting their home and providing some peace of mind.
Its possible that the information Santander gave Mr M and Mrs E about PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. But that, on its own, does not necessarily mean the policy was mis-
sold. Instead, the question is whether I think better information was likely to have changed 
their minds. Here, it looks like Mr M and Mrs E chose to take out PPI, which indicates they 
wanted this type of cover. As I explained above, Mr M and Mrs E werent affected by any of 
the main things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful for them in case 
something went wrong. The policy was competitively priced given how much it would pay out 
in a claim. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr M and Mrs E could cancel 
it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think that better information was likely to have 
put them off taking out the cover.My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mr M and Mrs Es complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman