DRN-3205812
The complaint
S, a limited company, complains that Aviva Insurance Limited avoided its commercial motor 
insurance policy (treated it as if it never existed) and declined its claim following an accident. 
S is represented in this matter by Mr T, its director. He wants Aviva to pay the claim. 
What happened
Aviva carried out validation checks after Mr T made a claim on his policy. Aviva was firstly 
concerned that the car involved had been a previous Category B write-off and so shouldnt 
have been on the road. Aviva then found that it had previously repudiated a claim made by 
Mr T and told him that it wouldnt offer him any further policies. Aviva said Mr Ts failure to 
disclose the repudiation was a qualifying breach under The Insurance Act 2015. And it said 
this entitled it to decline the claim, avoid the policy and retain the premiums. 
Mr T said hed never received the repudiation letter. He said he didnt know that the car had 
been a Category B and Aviva had never asked him if it was. And he said the policy was in 
Ss name and he wasnt driving at the time of the accident. So he thought Aviva should pay 
the claim. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Mr T 
hadnt made a full disclosure to Aviva when he took out the policy. She thought he hadnt 
disclosed the previous repudiation and Category B. And so she thought Aviva was entitled 
under The Insurance Act 2015 to reject the claim, avoid the policy and retain the premiums. 
Mr T replied that he wanted a review of his complaint, so its come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Commercial policies are covered by The Insurance Act 2015, which came into effect on 12 
August 2016. Unlike consumer policies, commercial policyholders have to volunteer 
information  they have a duty to make a fair presentation of the risk to the insurer when 
taking out a policy. This means they have to disclose either:
everything they know, or ought to know, that would influence the judgment of an 
insurer in deciding whether to insure the risk and on what terms; or
enough information to put an insurer on notice that it needs to make further enquiries 
about potentially material circumstances.
There are some exceptions. For example  unless the insurer asks about it  the 
policyholder doesnt have to disclose something if it reduces the risk or if the insurer already 
knows (or should reasonably know) about it.
The Insurance Act says the policyholder ought to know what should reasonably have been 
revealed by a reasonable search of information available to them. So the policyholder should 
take reasonable steps to check any information available to them and consider if theres 
anything they ought to disclose.
So Ive considered whether Mr T gave a fair presentation to Aviva of everything he knew  or 
ought to have known  about the risks he wanted to insure. And Im satisfied that Mr T didnt 
give Aviva a fair presentation. I say this because:
1. Aviva had previously repudiated a claim Mr T had made on a private motor insurance 
policy and it had told him that it wouldnt provide him with cover in the future. Mr T said 
he never received this letter. But I think Mr T must have been aware of this as he didnt 
make any further contact with Aviva about the claim. 
2. Mr T said he wasnt driving at the time of the incident and the policy was in Ss name. 
But as Mr T was associated with S, as its director, then I think he should have disclosed 
the previous repudiation to Aviva.  
3. The car involved in the incident was a previous Category B write-off. Mr T said he wasnt 
aware of this. But I think he must have known as he told us hed contacted the DVLA to 
obtain the V5 registration document which wouldnt have been provided due to the 
categorisation. 
Aviva would have done something different if Mr T had made a fair presentation  it wouldnt 
have offered cover. So Im satisfied that this was a qualifying breach under The Insurance 
Act 2015. 
And as Im satisfied that Mr T knew his previous claim had been repudiated I think this was a 
deliberate or reckless qualifying breach. And Aviva is entitled to avoid the policy and refuse 
all claims and it doesnt have to return the premiums. And so I dont require Aviva to pay Ss 
claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman