DRN-2344136
The complaint
Mr P complains that Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd mishandled a claim on his motor 
insurance policy.
What happened
Through an insurance intermediary, Mr P had a policy under which Accredited was 
responsible for dealing with claims. Where I refer to Accredited, I include claims-handers and 
others insofar as I hold Accredited responsible for their actions.
In January 2020, Mr Ps car and a third partys van were involved in a road traffic accident. 
At first, Accredited held the third party responsible. But later Accredited settled the third 
partys claim against Mr P.
Mr P complained to Accredited about that. It sent a final response letter dated 14 September 
2020. Unhappy with that, Mr P brought his complaint to us in October 2020.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that the 
information Accredited had relied upon was accurate and it had considered the evidence 
available when it made its decision. She thought this was reasonable given the evidence 
available.
Mr P disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that he has nothing to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Any claim is likely to affect the policyholders premium on renewal. Its usual for an insurer to 
treat a claim as a fault claim against its policyholder unless and until that insurer recovers its 
outlay in full from a third party.
Mr Ps policy with Accredited included the following term:
We shall be entitled to conduct the defence or settlement of any claimIn the 
circumstances where it is considered appropriate to do so we will be entitled to admit 
liability on behalf of yousuch admissions may be made prior to or after the 
commencement of proceedings in relation to any event likely to give rise to a claim 
under the policy.
The effect of that term is that  on the question of whether to settle a third partys claim  the 
view of Accredited would prevail over the view of Mr P. Thats not unusual in a motor policy.
I will consider whether Accredited took into account all the evidence available to it in Mr Ps 
case. Unlike a court, we dont hear from both drivers and decide the extent to which either of 
them is responsible for causing damage or injury. 
Accredited took into account Mr Ps report that, as he was about to turn left, the third party 
undertook him at speed in a bus lane.
There was a witness who Accredited contacted. In his opinion the third party was at fault. 
However, the third party and his insurer made a claim against Mr P. Accredited had to deal 
with that claim. The third party said Mr P had turned across the third partys path. 
Accredited tried to contact the witness again but he didnt respond or give a witness 
statement.
Accredited considered the times of operation of the bus lane. It concluded that the third party 
hadnt been precluded from driving in that lane at the time.
Accredited took into account the nature and location of damage to each vehicle. That 
included damage to Mr Ps front left door and to the vans front and right side.
Im satisfied that Accredited did a reasonable and proportionate investigation.
It weighed up the evidence. I find it likely that Accredited knew from experience that a court 
would place more weight on the manoeuvre of each vehicle than on its speed.
In April 2020 Accredited decided that  rather than incur the cost and risk of a court case  it 
would settle the third partys claim.  
In August 2020, the witness contacted Accredited. Accredited considered that a witness 
statement so long after the accident wouldnt have carried much weight, particularly on the 
question of the third partys speed. So Accredited wouldnt change its decision.
Im satisfied that Accredited took into account all the evidence available at the time of 
making its decisions. I cant say that it treated Mr P unfairly in the circumstances. I say that 
even though its decisions were likely to have adverse financial effects on Mr P. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2021.
 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman