DRN-2974887
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Zurich Insurance Plc (Zurich) declined his claim for damage caused by 
a drugs farm at his rental property. The policy was in Mr Ss name, but his estate agent 
managed the rental property for him. For ease, Ill refer only to Mr S, but any reference to 
actions includes those of his estate agent.
What happened
Mr S had Residential Landlord Home Insurance with Zurich for his rental property. The 
estate agent managing the rental property found evidence of a drugs farm after the tenants 
left without warning. Mr S told the police and obtained a crime reference number.
Mr S made a claim under his home insurance policy, but Zurich declined it because there 
was no evidence of an insured peril. There was no dispute that Mr Ss property was 
damaged. But Zurich explained that it was likely his tenants caused the damaged and that 
wasnt covered under the policy. Mr S was unhappy with its response because the police 
had been unable to say who caused the damage.
To begin with, our investigator thought Zurich should cover the cost of repairs to the door 
which wasnt damaged as a direct result of creating the drugs farm. However, the cost was 
less than the policy excess and Mr S confirmed he didnt want that considered. So, our 
investigator didnt think Zurich had done anything wrong. He agreed that the policy excluded 
damage caused by tenants, and he saw no reason to ask Zurich to settle the claim.
Mr S didnt agree. He provided further confirmation that the police couldnt determine who 
was responsible for the damage, so he didnt think it was fair that Zurich assumed it was his 
tenants.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Mr S will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. Ill explain.
Firstly, theres no dispute that Mr Ss property was damaged. My role here is not to decide 
who caused the damage but to decide whether Zurich declined Mr Ss claim fairly, for the 
reasons it gave and in line with the policy.
The issue here is that Zurich declined Mr Ss claim because his policy didnt provide cover 
for malicious damage caused by tenants. Ive looked at the policy which states:
Insured perils
4 Malicious Persons
Malicious persons excluding damage:
a) caused by you, your officers, or an employee
b) caused by a resident to the portion of the buildings in which they reside
c) to garden landscaping and paving, garden furniture, trees and plants.
The policy defines resident as:
Any person who is the owner, lessee or occupier of any private dwelling or flat and any 
member of their family permanently living with them at the buildings.
I think its clear that the policy excludes damage caused purposely by the tenants so, on the 
face of it, Zurich declined the claim fairly in line with the policy.
The next issue, then, is whether it was fair for Zurich to decline the claim based on its 
assumption that the tenants caused the damage. There was a gap of around four weeks 
from the date Mr Ss tenants were last known to be at the property and the date the damage 
was found. Mr S thinks it likely that the tenants didnt return to the property after finding the 
drugs farm in case they were blamed. He provided a copy of the police statement which 
said:
there were considerable evidential difficulties in identifying a suspect. I cannot comment 
on the insurance companies [sic] investigation and the likelihood of a pay-outthey work 
on the burden of probability rather than beyond reasonable doubt (in criminal cases). 
Mr S provided this to show that there was no evidence his tenants caused the damage. 
However, as the statement confirms, it simply means the police couldnt prove who caused 
the damage. The police also points out here, Zurich doesnt need to prove who caused the 
damage  there just needs to be a reasonable likelihood that the tenants were responsible. 
It is Mr Ss responsibility to show that an insured peril has occurred. He hasnt been able to 
show that the damage was caused by someone other than his tenants, who had been there 
several months, werent available for tenancy checks, and who left without notice. So, on 
balance, I think it was reasonable that Zurich concluded it was more likely that Mr Ss 
tenants, rather than someone breaking in, who damaged his property.
Ive noted Mr Ss comment that a drugs farm can be set up very quickly, and plants grow 
within a matter of weeks. He also thinks its likely that people broke in to use his property as 
a warehouse. I understand that Mr S is pointing out other possibilities so that Zurich might 
consider his claim. While any of the scenarios he describes are possibilities, in the absence 
of any evidence, Im satisfied that Zurich reached a reasonable conclusion based on the 
balance of probability. 
Im sorry that Mr S has had this upsetting and costly experience and I can understand why 
hed hope his policy would cover it. However, Im satisfied that Zurich has declined his claim 
fairly, for the reason it gave, and in line with the policy exclusions. I wont be asking Zurich to 
settle the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman