DRN-3604915
The complaint
Ms S complains that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) have mishandled her legal expenses 
insurance claim.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. In summary, Ms S is unhappy because she says UKI have provided false and 
misleading information to the solicitors tasked with assessing her claim for a legal dispute 
against her Property Factor. She also complained that the insurer refused to agree to only 
communicate with her solicitors via written communication (with her copied in), and that they 
continued to correspond with the solicitors after she had disinstructed them.
UKI subsequently withdrew cover as the appointed solicitors didnt think a claim in the First 
Tier Tribunal would be appropriate in the circumstances. The solicitor also could not obtain 
further information from the Property Factor to determine prospects of success as Ms S had 
refused to allow them to write to the defendant. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She didnt consider that any of UKIs 
correspondence or discussions with the solicitor had been inappropriate, and also didnt 
think they had withdrawn cover unfairly. Ms S disagreed, so the matter has been escalated 
to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
First, I note that a large part of Ms Ss complaint concerns the discussions that took place 
between UKI and her appointed solicitor. Having reviewed this correspondence, I can see 
that UKI posed questions to the solicitors with regards to the validity of her claim, as she had 
made previous claims in the past that were declined and they wanted to ensure this wasnt 
overlapping or covering any of the same issues previously considered. I dont think the 
interactions UKI had with either of Ms Ss solicitors was inappropriate. An insurer is entitled 
to test the validity of a claim. And with legal expenses insurance, the insurer is not legally 
qualified, so it is routine to see them seeking advice from an appointed solicitor with regards 
to claim coverage.
I understand that Ms S subsequently requested a change of solicitor. But Ive not seen any 
persuasive evidence to suggest that UKI provided false or misleading information that 
resulted in her having to make this change. Ms S had concerns about what UKI were 
discussing with the newly appointed solicitors over the phone, particularly after 19 March 
2021. Id like to assure Ms S that I have reviewed all the evidence she has submitted, 
including the solicitors attendance/telephone notes from conversations that occurred after 
19 March 2021.
Having reviewed notes of the discussions that were had between the two parties, I cannot 
see that the insurer said anything or acted in a way that could be considered inappropriate or 
unprofessional. Matters such as the next steps in Ms Ss claim were discussed, such as the 
solicitor requesting further information from the Property Factor, and later discussions 
centred around concerns and complaints Ms S had made.
I acknowledge that there was a concern on the insurers part that Ms S might have been 
trying to include historic claims into her present one. But as I set out above, an insurer is 
entitled to seek advice from appointed legal professionals with regards to claim coverage. 
There does not appear to have been anything said that wouldnt normally be discussed 
between a legal expenses insurer and the solicitor appointed to assess the claim, and I cant 
agree that it amounts to UKI accusing Ms S of dishonesty as she has alleged. There are 
various other concerns that Ms S has raised about the insurers communication with the 
solicitor, such as the fact that they disclosed that she had made a complaint. But having 
considered everything, Im not persuaded that UKIs interactions with either of the appointed 
solicitors was ultimately inappropriate in the circumstances. So I wont be asking them to pay 
any compensation for this. 
I understand that Ms S has since had a complaint upheld against her solicitors as they 
continued to correspond with UKI after she says she disinstructed them in February 2021. 
However, going by the emails sent by Ms S, it only appears that she had asked them not to 
take any further action until she authorised them to do so (i.e. a pausing of instruction). But 
even if she had disinstructed them as she has claimed, there are sometimes occasions 
where an insurer will continue to correspond with a solicitor after a claim has concluded, or 
where solicitors have been changed, such as when they need to request further information 
or seek clarification on certain matters. 
I acknowledge that Ms S is unhappy that this occurred with the solicitors whom she had 
asked not to take any further action. But UKI were still dealing with her claim (and complaint) 
as her insurer. And given it was the solicitors who had handled and assessed the legal 
claim, I dont consider it unusual that UKI might have needed to seek clarification or to have 
confirmed certain points with them in order to assist with their further consideration of her 
claim and complaint. 
Ms S is also unhappy because UKI refused to correspond with the solicitors in writing only 
(with her copied in). She submits that this amounts to a breach of the Equality Act 2010 and 
the Mental Health (Care and Treatment) (Scotland) Act 2002 by failing to make reasonable 
adjustments for her and her mental health. 
However, her concerns here relate to the insurers communication with the solicitor; not with 
her directly. So, it cant be said that theyve failed to make reasonable adjustments in the 
way they communicate with Ms S if at certain times they chose to phone the solicitor, as she 
is not the recipient or subject of the communication in these circumstances. She could have 
also requested details of any correspondence from her solicitor as well, which I can see she 
has already done. UKI have explained that they sometimes called the solicitor to avoid 
unnecessary delays, which I dont think is unreasonable in the circumstances to ensure the 
claim was progressed in a timely manner. 
UKI subsequently withdrew cover following the advice of the appointed solicitors. The 
solicitors advised that the First Tier Tribunal was not appropriate forum to litigate Ms Ss 
dispute against her Property Factor, which they advised ought to be pursued in court. 
I appreciate that Ms S had been told differently by a law clinic that she attended. But this did not take the form of a contrary legal assessment from a solicitor or barrister explaining why 
the claim had prospects and should be covered by the insurer. So it cannot reasonably 
outweigh the assessment of the appointed solicitors. And in the absence of any such 
contrary legal assessment, I dont think the insurer was wrong to rely on the advice of the 
appointed representative. As a result, Im not persuaded UKI have acted unfairly by declining 
cover for Ms Ss claim to proceed to the First Tier Tribunal (which was in line with the 
solicitors advice), or that there would be any obligation on them to seek a further opinion 
from Counsel in these circumstances. 
I acknowledge that Ms S made an application to the First Tier Tribunal to show that it had 
jurisdiction to consider her complaint. But even if it did, it would still have to be determined 
that her case was proportionate to pursue and had reasonable prospects of success. 
However, in this instance, prospects could not be determined as Ms S refused to allow the 
solicitors to write to the defendant requesting further information.
It is a requirement of cover that reasonable prospects of success be confirmed by the 
solicitor. So, in the absence of this, there was no obligation on UKI to have to cover the 
claim. Given that Ms S withdrew her consent for the appointed solicitors to obtain any further 
information, she was also in breach of the policy term for her to fully co-operate with the 
appointed representative and with [UKI]. So, in light of all these circumstances, Im not 
persuaded that UKI have acted unreasonably by withdrawing cover. 
I accept that UKI could have dealt with Ms Ss SAR more promptly. But I can see that she 
has since received this, and I dont consider the impact of the delay to have caused distress 
or inconvenience that would warrant an award of compensation.  
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Ms S, who understandably feels 
strongly about her complaint. But overall, Im not persuaded that UKI have done anything 
substantially wrong, so I will not be asking them to take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman