DRN-3149677
The complaint
Mr D complains that BUPA Insurance Limited refused his request for a refund of part of the 
premium in relation to his private dental insurance policy for the time services were restricted 
due to Covid-19.   
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr D had annual dental insurance with BUPA. The plan relevant 
to this complaint started on 1 July 2019 and was due to end on 30 June 2020. Mr D paid 
his annual premium by monthly subscriptions.
On 23 March 2020, the UK government put in place wide ranging restrictions on 
movement in response to the Covid-19 pandemic, leading to the closure of NHS and 
private dentists to prevent the spread of the virus. That meant Mr Ds dental check-up 
and hygienist appointment on 20 April 2020 couldnt take place. 
In May 2020, Mr D cancelled his direct debit payment. Mr D asked BUPA to refund three 
months subscriptions. BUPA declined that request, so Mr D pursued his complaint. 
Mr D says that his membership provides for two dental check-ups and two hygienist 
appointments a year and theres nothing to say that his membership is invalid in a pandemic. 
He also complains that BUPA didnt respond to his first two e-mails about this matter.  
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that BUPA had 
acted unfairly. Mr D didnt agree with the investigator. He said, in summary, that his 
policy provides for two check-up and hygienist appointments in the policy year and 
external events are irrelevant. Mr D says that he didnt received the treatments he was 
entitled to under the policy and BUPA cant change the terms of the contract by, for 
example, delaying treatment beyond the policy year. 
Mr D asked that an ombudsman consider the matter, so it was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When making my decision about what I think if fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
Mr Ds complaint, Ive taken into account the terms and conditions of his contract with BUPA 
as well as other relevant considerations such as the law and industry guidance. I think that 
BUPA didnt treat Mr D unfairly or unreasonably and Ill explain why:
Mr Ds dental plan is an annual contract and the terms and conditions say that the 
premium must be paid for cover to be provided in the policy year. Insurance policies 
are intended to cover the risk of uncertain events over the duration of the contract. 
An insurer is entitled to retain the benefit of the premium paid to cover the risk during 
that time, even if no successful claim has been made. 
BUPA provided cover for Mr D from 1 July 2019. Dental practices were temporarily 
impacted by closures and restricted services between 23 March 2020 and                 
8 June 2020. This means that Mr D would have been able to avail himself of the full 
benefits for a significant proportion of the policy year. BUPA is entitled to retain the 
premium it charged to cover the risk of Mr D making a claim during the year. I 
understand that Mr D made a claim for appointments he had earlier in the policy 
year.  
Theres no term in Mr Ds contract with BUPA that requires it to refund the premium 
in part if treatment becomes unavailable. I dont think that BUPA treated Mr D unfairly 
or unreasonably in declining to do so. Thats because I wouldnt expect an insurer to 
refund part of a premium if treatment was unavailable due to circumstances outside 
its control  which was what happened here. 
I dont agree that external events have no bearing in this case. The closure of dental 
practices was a result of government restrictions to prevent the spread of Covid-19. 
This was an unprecedented and unforeseen event which was entirely outside 
BUPAs control. 
Although dental services were restricted for a period, BUPA still offered cover for 
emergencies or remote dental consultations. And if Mr D hadnt cancelled the policy, 
it would have been possible for him to claim for non-urgent treatment at a later date, 
when services resumed, subject to the policy terms. So, I dont think that Mr D paid 
for a policy that was unusable. 
Considering everything, I dont think that BUPA treated Mr D unfairly or unreasonably 
in declining to refund part of the premium. I think that in the unprecedented 
circumstances arising out of Covid-19 some disruption in provision was inevitable. 
But, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think that means that BUPA is required to 
refund part of Mr Ds premium. And I understand that BUPA treated all of its 
members in the same way, so I dont think that it singled Mr D out unfairly. 
Mr D says that BUPA didnt respond to his first two e-mails about this matter. 
Unfortunately, BUPA has no record of those e-mails and Mr D cant now reproduce 
them as he sent the e-mails via on-line forms which didnt show the e-mail address 
they were sent to. Based on what Ive seen, I dont think I can fairly say that BUPA 
didnt respond to Mr Ds initial e-mails.  
For these reasons, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman