DRN-4149713
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund all the money they have 
lost to a scam.
What happened
Between July 2021 and August 2022 Mr and Mrs P made five payments totalling 
approximately £4,360 to a company - who Ill refer to as A, as they believed A could help 
them recover funds theyd lost because of a problem with a timeshare.    
Transaction Date/account 
debited dateAmount Payment Type
09 July 2021/12 July 2021 £1,331.48 Debit card
14 July 2022/15 July 2022 £744.36 International transfer
26 July 2022/27 July 2022 £829.08 International transfer
03 August 2022/04 August 
2022£852.08 International transfer
11 August 2022 £604 Bill payment
Mr and Mrs P later realised they had been the victims of a scam. They initially complained to 
Barclays about the payments made from 26 July 2022 onwards  in that Barclays had failed 
to protect them from falling victim to the scam.
Barclays considered these payments and refunded one of them - £604 made on                        
11 August 2022. But it didnt refund the other two. It said Mr and Mrs P had failed to carry 
out any due diligence before making the payments. And, as these payments were 
international payments, they werent covered by the Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM) code. It said it had tried to recover the funds from the beneficiary bank, but its 
attempts were unsuccessful. 
Unhappy with this outcome, Mr and Mrs P referred the complaint to this service. They said:
they had made checks via Companies House about A and A looked to be a 
legitimate company. 
they didnt realise it was a scam until the funds they were expecting werent received 
on 12 August 2022. 
Barclays didnt act quickly enough to recover the funds.
Our investigator looked into the complaint. In doing so, it came to light that Mr and Mrs P 
were also disputing two earlier payments made on 9 July 2021 and 14 July 2022. So, he 
considered all five payments, but he didnt uphold the complaint. 
He noted that Barclays had refunded the payment from 11 August 2022. But he didnt think 
the other payments were particularly unusual or suspicious when considered against the 
normal account activity. He added that Barclays had shown it had made appropriate 
attempts to recover the payments made 26 July and 3 August 2022, but those attempts had 
been unsuccessful. He noted that Barclays hadnt attempted to recover the payment made 
on 14 July 2022, but he thought it was unlikely that Barclays wouldve have recovered those 
funds given the recovery attempt on the later payments had been unsuccessful.
Mr and Mrs P disagreed. They said A was registered on Company House records. And that 
the payment in July 2021 wasnt consistent with their normal account activity. They 
maintained that Barclays should have stopped the money from leaving their account.
 
Our investigator considered this further. But he didnt think this altered the outcome he had 
reached. He said Barclays had no control over what information was recorded on               
Company House records. And that the type and amount of the payments Mr and Mrs P 
made werent large enough for him to say Barclays should have intervened before allowing 
the payments to debit Mr and Mrs Ps account. 
Mr and Mrs P still didnt agree. So, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint for largely the same reasons as our 
investigator previously set out. I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs P. 
But for the reasons Ill go on to explain, I dont think Barclays has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably.
Im sorry to hear Mr and Mrs P were the victims of a targeted scam and lost a considerable 
sum of money as a result. I can appreciate why they want to do all they can to recover the 
money they lost. But I can only direct Barclays to refund Mr and Mrs Ps losses if it can fairly 
and reasonably be held responsible for them. 
Its not in dispute that Mr and Mrs P authorised the payments from their Barclays account.  
While I accept Mr and Mrs P didnt intend the money to go to the scammers, under the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017 and the terms and conditions of their account,                      
Mr and Mrs P are presumed liable for their loss in the first instance. I'm also satisfied that as 
the payments in dispute are international payments, they do not fall under the provisions of 
the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code). The CRM 
Code only covers payments between UK based, pound sterling accounts. 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate 
for a bank to take additional steps or make additional checks before processing a payment in 
order to help protect its customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
But there is a balance to be struck between identifying payments that could potentially be 
fraudulent and minimising disruption to legitimate payments. So, a bank would only need to 
intervene and ask more questions about the payment if an instruction was sufficiently 
unusual or uncharacteristic for the account. 
So, the starting point for me is to consider is whether any of Mr and Mrs Ps payment 
instructions  taken individually or collectively - were particularly unusual or uncharacteristic, 
when looking at their normal payments on their account.Barclays has refunded the payment made on 11 August 2022, so I dont need to make a 
finding on that payment. But Ive given careful thought to the other four payments.
The first payment in July 2021 was the largest of the payments Mr and Mrs P made. Ive 
looked at their account statements. And Ive noted the account this payment was made from 
was different to the one used for the other payments. And it was card payment rather than 
international transfer  although it was also in Euros. While I accept it was larger than other 
card payments Mr and Mrs P made from this account, Im not persuaded the payment was 
so large or particularly unusual to the extent that Barclays should have intervened before 
allowing the payment to go through. 
Ive then considered the sequence of payments made between 14 July and 3 August 2022. 
Again, I accept these payments were not completely in keeping with Mr and Mrs P day-to-
day account use. But the payments werent made in particularly quick succession  the first 
payment was instructed on 14 July, the second on 26 July and the final payment was on      
3 August 2022. I dont think it would be reasonable to say Barclays should have identified a 
pattern from these three payments that was especially indicative that a scam was taking 
place. So here, I also dont find that the payments were so unusual that Barclays should 
have intervened.  
As I can find no reason why Barclays ought to have intervened before processing                           
Mr and Mrs Ps payments, I cant reasonably conclude that it could or should have prevented 
their loss.
I have considered whether Barclays met the standards Id reasonably expect of it in terms of 
attempting to recover Mr and Mrs Ps funds from the beneficiary bank. I havent seen 
anything to suggest that Mr and Mrs P raised the payment made in July 2021 with Barclays. 
And given the time that has passed before Mr and Mrs P contacted Barclays about the 
subsequent transactions, I find its most unlikely that Barclays would have been able to 
recover this payment. This is because the relevant card scheme rules which apply to card 
payment chargebacks only provide a limited timeframe for transactions to be disputed. And 
here the timeframe had passed.
All the other payments were international transfers. In these circumstances any recovery 
attempt is made on a best endeavours basis and rely on both the money still being present 
in the beneficiary account and the willingness of the receiving bank to give it back. Barclays 
has shown that it did try to recover the money, but the beneficiary bank responded to confirm 
that the funds had been moved.  
I note Mr and Mrs P have said that had Barclays tried to recover the money sooner the 
outcome might have been different. Mr and Mrs P initially said they first contacted Barclays 
on 12 August 2022. But in an email to the investigator Mrs P says the matter was raised in 
branch on 18 August 2022. So, I think its most likely that Mr and Mrs P raised the matter on 
18 August 2022. 
Ive seen that Barclays attempted to recover two of the payments a few days later. Given the 
circumstances, I do think Barclays could have made the recovery attempt sooner than it did. 
But even if had, Im not persuaded that the outcome would have been any different. 
I think its most likely that following receipt of the payments, the scammers would have 
moved the money from the beneficiary account very quickly  most likely as soon as it had 
been received. And our experience shows that once money has been transferred outside of 
the United Kingdom it is unlikely that it will be recovered once a scam has been identified. I appreciate that Barclays didnt attempt to recover the payment sent on 13 July 2022, but as 
the recovery attempt on the later payments was unsuccessful, Im not persuaded that a 
recovery attempt on this payment would have been successful. 
In summary, I have a great deal of sympathy with Mr and Mrs P being the victim of what was 
clearly a scam. But it would only be fair for me to direct Barclays to refund their loss if I 
thought it was responsible  and Im not persuaded that this was the case. As such, I cannot 
fairly and reasonably hold Barclays liable in these circumstances. It follows that I will not be 
asking Barclays to take any further action in respect of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 August 2023.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman