DRN-2238753
The complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) blocked and closed his accounts,
without giving him notice and without explaining its reasons for doing so. He says the block
caused him to miss out on a business opportunity, suffer reputational damage and distress
and inconvenience.
To put things right, Mr A wants Barclays to explain its actions and pay him compensation. Mr
A brings his complaint on behalf of his business, C Limited.
What happened
In February 2019, Barclays blocked Mr As accounts, which held a significant balance,
without giving him advance notice and without explaining its reasons for doing so. It then told
Mr A it intended to close his accounts and gave him 2 months notice.
At the end of February, the block was lifted and Mr A was given access to his accounts.
Then, on 5 March 2019 Barclays told Mr A it would be bringing his account closures forward
and that the accounts would be closed with immediate effect.
Mr A says he spent a significant amount of time chasing Barclays in order to find out what
they were doing with his accounts, while the block was in place. He says the blocks brought
his business to a standstill for 11 days and that he missed out on a business opportunity
worth £4,000,000 as a result. And that the letters Barclays issued confirming the account
closures took 10 and 14 days to arrive.
Barclays issued a final response to Mr As complaint on 5 March 2019. It apologised for the
inconvenience caused by the account blocks, but said it was satisfied it had made the
correct decision to do so.
Our investigator felt that Barclays had acted fairly when it blocked and closed Mr As
accounts, so he didnt ask Barclays to take any further action to resolve Mr As complaint. Mr
A remained unhappy, so he asked for an ombudsman to review the matter afresh.
Our investigator had also commented on other accounts Barclays closed in respect of
related companies. But because those accounts werent owned or controlled by C Limited, I
wont comment on those matters in my decision.
Mr A disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the matter afresh. On 21 September 
2020, I issued a provisional decision. In it, I said:
Having reviewed Mr As complaint, I have provisionally decided not to uphold it for the
following reasons.
Account block
Given what Mr A has told our service about the business opportunities C Limited was
involved in at the time all of this happened, I dont doubt for one moment the mental and
financial stress Mr A went through while his accounts were blocked. And I appreciate that it
was frustrating not knowing why Barclays had taken its actions, or when it would complete
its review.
But in order to make an award to Mr A, I would need to be satisfied that Barclays acted
unfairly or took action it wasnt entitled to take. And, having looked at the evidence, Im
satisfied that Barclays acted in line with its legal and regulatory obligations when it blocked
Mr As accounts. And that it was entitled to do so under the account terms and conditions
that govern the relationship between Barclays and C Limited.
Ive also reviewed the timeline to see if Barclays acted promptly or caused any unnecessary
delays. Having done so, Im satisfied it completed its review in a reasonable timeframe. So,
while I accept Mr A may have been put to significant inconvenience and loss, I cant
reasonably say that was as a result of an error on Barclays part.
Having reviewed the actions Barclays took, I can see no basis on which I might make an
award against it. And I am satisfied that it complied with its own procedures when it blocked
and reviewed Mr As accounts. So, Im not going to ask it to compensate him for any distress
and inconvenience this may have caused. Or for any losses he suffered as a result.
I know Mr A is frustrated that he wasnt given a proper explanation as to why is accounts
were frozen. And that he feels very strongly about his complaint. But under the terms and
conditions, Barclays doesnt have to give a reason for doing so. So, I cant say it did anything
wrong by not giving Mr A this information when he complained.
Account closure
A bank is entitled to close an account with a customer, so long as it does so in a way that
complies with the terms and conditions of the customers account.
The terms and conditions of Mr As accounts  which both Barclays and Mr A had to comply
with  say that Barclays could close the accounts at any time by giving two months notice,
or immediately and without notice, under certain circumstances.
Mr A received two letters giving him notice to close his accounts. The first was dated 18
February 2019 and said his accounts would be closed on 19 April 2019. The second was
dated 5 March 2019 and said his accounts would be closed on 6 March 2019. Because Mr
As accounts were closed within two months, Ive looked at the provisions of Barclays terms
and conditions that govern when it can do so, and Ive thought about the evidence it
provided me to support its decision. Having considered the evidence Ive been provided, Im
satisfied that Barclays acted in accordance with its terms and conditions when it closed Mr
As account.
Mr A had a long history with Barclays and has told our service about significant business
plans he had that would have involved his accounts. And while I understand that adds to Mr
As frustration and confusion as to why Barclays closed his accounts, it doesnt change that
Barclays was entitled to do so. And for that reason, Im not going to uphold Mr As complaint.
I do note that Mr A received the two notice letters some 10 and 14 days after the date
Barclays says they were posted. And Ive thought about whether it would be appropriate to
make a small compensation award in recognition of the delay. But because Mr A says he
was also given notice on the phone on the day the letters were dated, Im satisfied that he
was aware his accounts would be closed and that, while disappointing, there was no harm
caused by the late arrival of the letters.In summary, I understand Mr As frustration at the situation and I know he will be
disappointed with the outcome. But, having looked at all of the available evidence, I cant say
that Barclays did anything wrong. So, Im not minded to uphold Mr As complaint.
I asked Mr A and Barclays to provide any further submissions or evidence by 6 October 
2020. Barclays didnt reply, but Mr A did email out investigator on 7 October 2020. He asked 
to see the evidence Ive relied on in reaching my decision, but didnt provide and further 
evidence or submissions for me to consider. Because the request for evidence doesnt 
impact the outcome of my decision, Ill respond to Mr A on that subject separately.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr A, nor Barclays made any further representations or offered any
more evidence, my findings about this complaint havent changed. It follows that I dont
uphold Mr As complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2020.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman