DRN-4197713
The complaint
Mr A and Miss C complain about how Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited handled their 
claim on their home insurance following a water leak.
While Mr A is the main policyholder of the insurance, Miss C lives in the property and has 
made the complaint. So I will refer only to Miss C throughout. Further, throughout most of 
this complaint Miss C has been represented by a third party. However for ease of reading, all 
references to Miss C include the actions of her representative.  
What happened
Miss C is the beneficiary of a home insurance policy that covers the property she lives in. 
The policy is underwritten by Admiral.
In December 2021 she made a claim after there was a leak from her bathroom. Admiral 
accepted the claim and initially moved her into alternative accommodation as it said the 
house was unfit to live in. 
Repairs began and in March 2022 Admiral decided Miss C could move back into the 
property. However the conditions at the property werent good with no flooring on the ground 
floor and no access to a downstairs toilet. In April 2022 Admiral agreed to buy a campervan 
for Miss C to live in for the duration of the work. 
Miss C made a complaint as she was unhappy with how the claim had been handled 
throughout and the impact it had had on her. In particular:
She said it was inappropriate for Admiral to move her back into her property when 
the policy provided for alternative accommodation and it wasnt in a liveable state. 
She said she had to arrange for a temporary toilet to be set up in her shed due to the 
fact there was no downstairs toilet during this time.
Some items of contents werent removed while work took place which had led to 
them being irreparably damaged. This included an electric piano which had 
sentimental value. 
Admirals contractors had inappropriately disposed of some chemicals which had 
caused her a severe skin irritation on her hands.
Admiral had concluded that some of the damage to the property was due to rising 
damp and not the water leak, however she had only bought the property eight 
months before the issue and there had been no mention of damp in the home buyers 
report. So she thought it should get a second opinion.
She had instructed a solicitor to represent her in the claim and thought Admiral 
should pay the fees for this. 
Admiral responded to her complaint across two final response letters and offered a total of 
£900 compensation. It also eventually offered a settlement of around £6,000 for a 
replacement piano as it said this was the cost of a second hand one.  However it didnt 
agree that its contractor caused the skin irritation and maintained its position that some of 
the damage was pre-existing. And it didnt agree to pay for Miss Cs legal fees. 
Unhappy with this, Miss C brought her complaint to this service. She didnt think the 
compensation was enough and said a new piano would cost around £9,000 so thought 
Admiral should increase its settlement for this. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld and asked Admiral to pay an 
additional £1,000 compensation due to the level of distress and inconvenience it had caused 
Miss C. However he thought the settlement offered for the piano was fair as the policy 
doesnt include new for old replacements, so it was reasonable it based the settlement on 
the cost of a second hand one. He also thought it was fair that Admiral declined to pay Miss 
Cs legal costs.
Miss C didnt agree with our investigators outcome. In summary she said:
The compensation wasnt high enough given the distress that had been caused 
throughout the claim.
The report from Admirals expert that concluded the property was suffering from 
rising damp was inaccurate and it should commission a different expert for another 
opinion.
The settlement for the piano wasnt enough for her to replace it. 
If she hadnt instructed the solicitors Admiral wouldnt have changed its position on 
some areas of the claim, so it should pay the fees. 
Admiral also didnt agree as it thought the additional compensation was too high.
As agreement hasnt been reached, the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss C has raised a number of points in relation to her complaint and provided a lot of 
detailed information. As this is an informal service, Ive not responded to each point she has 
raised individually. Instead Ive focussed on those I consider to be most relevant to the 
outcome. However I want to reassure Miss C that Ive read and carefully considered 
everything shes provided and thank her for the time it will have taken to put her responses 
together. 
Ill respond to the points I consider to be key in turn below. 
Alternative accommodation
From looking at the timeline of the claim, and considering the condition of the property when 
Miss C moved back in, its clear that Admiral should have continued her alternative 
accommodation arrangements. The contractors had removed the toilet from the downstairs 
bathroom and Miss C has explained that due to health conditions, this is something she 
requires. And meant she had to install a temporary toilet in her shed. This would have been very inconvenient and would have been a distressing arrangement.
It wasnt until mid-April that Admiral agreed to pay for a campervan to enable Miss C to live 
out of the property. This meant she was living in difficult conditions for around six weeks. 
It isnt clear why Admiral considered it suitable for Miss C to return to her property when she 
did, rather than extending the accommodation she was in. However due to the condition of 
the property and Miss Cs medical conditions, I dont think this was a fair and reasonable 
decision. And had Admiral extended the accommodation this would have prevented a 
significant amount of distress and inconvenience felt by Miss C. I have therefore considered 
this when deciding an appropriate level of compensation, which I lay out at the end of this 
decision. 
Skin irritation
Miss C has shown that she has suffered irritation of the skin on her hand. Shes said that this 
was caused by Admirals contractors disposing of chemicals by pouring them down the sink.
While it isnt possible to know what caused Miss Cs skin irritation, from looking at the time of 
the flair up and the symptoms, it seems likely that it was related to the work that was ongoing 
at her property at the time. This has caused Miss C distress and has meant she has had to 
receive treatment from her GP. Ive considered this when deciding appropriate 
compensation.
Piano
Admiral didnt remove the piano from the property while work commenced on repairs and it 
has now been shown to be irreparable. I understand this has been very distressing for Miss 
C.
Admiral initially offered £1,000 as settlement for the piano as it said because it was a 
valuable item it should have been specified on the policy. And as it wasnt the limit applied. It 
has since increased this offer to just over £6,000 to cover a second hand replacement. 
Miss Cs policy schedule states as follows, under the contents cover: 
Single unspecified High Risk items worth more than £1,000 must be specified in the table 
above to be covered to their full value. 
And there are no items specified on the policy. As the piano is over the value of £1,000 
Admiral is entitled to only offer that as settlement for the damage. 
However as Admiral could have taken action to remove the piano when the claim was first 
made, and this could have avoided further damage. I think its fair that it has offered to settle 
the full cost of a replacement. And as it is paying for a like for like replacement, I dont 
consider it unreasonable that it has offered settlement at the cost of a second hand version. I 
therefore wont ask it to do anything additional in this regard. 
However I appreciate that its inaction in removing the piano in the first place has caused 
Miss C further distress, so I have also considered this when deciding an appropriate level of 
compensation below.
Expert report
Miss C doesnt agree with Admirals second expert report into the cause of the damage that concludes there was an existing problem of rising damp at the property. I note shes said 
that this wasnt mentioned in her pre-purchase survey, which was carried out less than a 
year before the flood. 
I appreciate her frustration at this, however I dont think admiral has acted unfairly here. It 
has instructed an expert to inspect the damage and provide a comprehensive report. And its 
reasonable that it follows the recommendations contained within the report.
While I appreciate the damp wasnt mentioned in the survey, this doesnt mean it wasnt a 
developing issue at the time, it just may not have been visible. So this alone isnt enough to 
persuade me that Admirals report is incorrect. 
Should Miss C instruct her own expert to specifically report on the cause of the water 
damage and this contradicts Admirals experts findings, then I would expect it to reconsider 
its position on the claim. However in the absence of this, I think it reasonable that Admiral 
follow the findings in the expert report and I dont think it unreasonable that its declined to 
instruct another expert to carry out an additional report. 
Solicitors fees
While I understand Miss Cs reasons for instructing a solicitor to manage the claim for her, 
this was her own decision and isnt something that is necessary in order to claim on her 
policy. Due to this, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to ask Admiral to cover the cost of 
their fees. As it was Miss Cs own choice to undertake that service, at the additional cost. 
Compensation
I can see that this claim has been very poorly handled by Admiral. In the months it has taken 
to repair Miss Cs property, she has been subjected to a much higher level of distress and 
inconvenience than she should have been if the claim had been managed well. She was 
moved back into her property when it wasnt in a fit condition to be lived in. And inspite of 
Admirals knowledge of her existing medical conditions, it seems no regard was taken for her 
requirements which resulted in Miss C having to install her own temporary toilet in her shed.
Further she has developed an irritation on her skin, which seems likely to be linked to the 
work that was ongoing at the time. And she has been caused additional distress after a 
piano of sentimental value was irreparably damaged due to Admiral not taking action to 
remove it in the first place.  
All of these factors have caused Miss C distress as well as the inconvenience of having to 
continually liaise with Admiral in order to arrange more suitable accommodation and a 
replacement piano.
For these reasons, I agree with our investigators conclusion that Admiral should pay Miss C 
an additional £1,000 compensation to apologise for this additional distress and 
inconvenience. 
I appreciate Miss C doesnt think this is enough to make up for what she has experienced. 
And I want to reassure her that I can see it has been a very distressing time for her. 
However this amount is on the larger side of the awards we offer for the time period I am 
looking at here. And it is in line with our approach to other similar cases. So I am satisfied it 
is a fair award in the circumstances. My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Miss Cs complaint and require Admiral Insurance 
(Gibraltar) Limited to pay an additional £1,000 compensation on top of what it has already 
offered to resolve this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Miss C 
to accept or reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman