DRN-3728636
The complaint
Mr I says Bank of Scotland PLC, trading as Halifax, mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr I took out a mortgage with Halifax in September 1993. Then in July 1995 Mr I took out a 
further advance and it was at this time that he was sold PPI to cover his borrowing. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of these policies on our
website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Is case
Ive decided the policy was not mis-sold, and Ill explain why.
Unfortunately, due to the length of time thats passed there isnt much evidence from the 
time of the sale. It might be useful for me to explain that in cases like these I have to look at 
what information we do have and make a decision on what I think is more likely to have 
happened based on the circumstances at the time. 
Mr I says he was told that his mortgage application would be looked at more favourably if he 
accepted the PPI, so he felt under pressure to agree to it. But Mr I didnt take out this PPI at 
the time he applied for his mortgage, the PPI was sold after some years when Mr I went 
back to Halifax for a further advance. So, I think Mr I wouldve known it was possible to have 
a mortgage approved without PPI as he had taken out his original mortgage many years 
earlier. 
Halifax says the optional nature of the policy wouldve been made clear to Mr I before the 
sale was concluded. And from what weve seen of these types of sales in the past, the 
customer wouldve usually had to complete some paperwork making an active selection in 
favour of the PPI before it was added to their account. 
So, based on what we already know about these types of sales, and in the absence of any 
stronger evidence to the contrary, I think its likely Mr I wouldve been informed the policy was 
optional and he wouldve chose to take it out by some form of active selection in favour of 
the policy.
As Ive said, there isnt a lot of evidence available from the time. But our adjudicator 
considered the information we do have and felt this was an advised sale. Neither party has 
responded to disagree with this point, so I have also considered this to have been an 
advised sale. 
This means Halifax had to take reasonable steps to ensure the policy was suitable for Mr I - 
and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example, he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover and he 
seems to have had a need for this type of cover.
Mr I says he wouldve received generous sick pay from his employer at the time. But the PPI 
wouldve paid out in addition to his employee sick pay and for longer than his full sick pay 
wouldve lasted. So potentially during a difficult time of being unable to work, the PPI 
wouldve provided a useful benefit, allowing Mr I to use his sick pay for other day to day 
expenses. Mr I also hasnt told us about any other insurances or savings he had that he 
couldve made use of at a potentially difficult time. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr I about the policy wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But its likely he chose to take out the policy, and for the same reasons I think the 
policy was suitable for him, I think it wouldve been useful had something gone wrong. So, I 
dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover.
So overall, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont think this complaint should be upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2022.
 
Sienna Mahboobani
Ombudsman