DRN-3651066
The complaint
Ms M and Mr W complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold them a packaged bank 
account.
What happened
Ms M and Mr W had had a free bank account with Barclays since July 2007. In December 
2007 this was changed to an Additions Plus account, which came with a package of 
insurance and banking benefits including worldwide travel insurance, car breakdown cover, 
mobile phone insurance, card protection, extended warranty, and the first £250 of an agreed 
overdraft was interest free. It cost £14.50 per month.
In May 2009, the account was changed to a different packaged bank account  a Premier 
Life account. Ms M and Mr W paid £17.50 per month for this.  The benefits package was 
similar to the Additions Plus account, except that it also offered gadget insurance and the 
first £1000 of an agreed overdraft was interest free. 
Ms M says she only agreed to the account change in 2007 because a member of bank staff 
kept her in the branch for a long time, delaying a more important transaction involving a 
large money transfer. Ms M needed to complete the transaction and leave the bank because 
of a medical condition and a childcare commitment, and so agreed to the change in the 
account. Ms M and Mr W say that they didnt need the insurance. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the evidence and said they thought the complaint shouldnt 
be upheld. Ms M and Mr W didnt agree, and so the matter has been passed to me to make 
a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On our website, weve set out our approach to the sale of packaged bank accounts. Ive 
kept that approach in mind when considering this case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Ms M and Mr W are effectively saying they were pressurised into agreeing the upgrade in 
2007, against their better judgement. The problem is that this happened about 15 years 
ago, and it wouldnt be fair to rely only on what Ms M remembers happening now. A 
degree of persuasion in setting out the advantages of a product can be expected from a 
salesperson. But I cant know whether the bank workers words and actions overstepped 
what was reasonable. 
Where someone has said another person or organisation has done something wrong, 
fairness requires there to be evidence that this probably did happen. It wouldnt usually be 
fair to make someone prove they didnt do something wrong, especially when it was 
several years ago.
I dont have enough evidence to fairly uphold the complaint on this point. 
Barclays is saying it didnt formally recommend the account, in the technical way that 
word is used in the financial industry. That is to say, it didnt make a personal assessment 
of Ms M and Mr Ws circumstances and then tell them that this bank account was a good 
fit for their needs. And I dont have good evidence that Barclays did make a 
recommendation like that, beyond pointing out the supposed advantages of the account. 
So, instead, Barclays just had to give Ms M and Mr W information about the account. It 
would then have been for Ms M and Mr W to decide whether the accounts benefits suited 
their needs and whether this, and the convenience of the package, made it worth the 
monthly cost. 
I dont now know what type of information was given, but the length of the meeting 
mentioned by Ms M suggests that there was probably a reasonable level of information. 
The evidence is that there were benefits that were potentially useful, including the free 
overdraft which they appear to have made use of. Even though Ms M and Mr W say they 
found the insurance benefits to be poor value in practice, it still would have been up to 
them to decline to take the package (or to cancel it later in light of experience). 
Ms M and Mr W havent complained specifically about the upgrade of 2009. But the same 
considerations apply. The package was potentially useful, and they appear to have 
agreed to the change. I think it unlikely they would have done this without reasonable 
information  and, if it was recommended by Barclays, the potential usability of some of 
the benefits would have made it a reasonable recommendation. Again, it would have been 
for Ms M and Mr W to decide if it was worth the cost. 
Overall, I dont think the PBAs were mis-sold. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Ms M and Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 November 2022.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman