DRN-1580324
 
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Link Financial Investments Limited failed to properly consider and 
communicate the potential impact of the introduction of the Insurance Distribution Directive 
(IDD) legislation on the process of switching of funds.
What happened
In 2018 Mrs H received investment advice from an adviser that I'll refer to as Company A. 
The recommendation was to invest just under £150 monthly into a stocks and shares ISA, in 
the PruFund 20-55 Fund (now renamed to Risk Managed 3).
The investment started in August 2018. In September 2018 Mrs H's husband called Link, 
which administers the ISA, to request that Mrs H's investment and ongoing contributions be 
switched to the PruFund 40-80 Fund (now renamed to Risk Managed 4). 
Link explained that switches were subject to a £500 minimum and at that point the balance 
of Mrs H's ISA hadn't yet reached that level, so the switch couldn't be completed. Mrs H then 
attempted to make the switch in November 2018, when the ISA balance had exceeded 
the £500 minimum. But by that time the introduction of the IDD legislation, in October 2018, 
had led to a requirement that financial advice be obtained for any fund switch that involved a 
change in the risk level. 
Mrs H complained to Link. It explained the legislation and the changes that it had prompted. 
And it maintained that, as a result, it had acted correctly in declining the switch request until 
advice was obtained. But it accepted that its communication of the changes had not been 
acceptable and offered Mrs H £150 to compensate her for the trouble caused. 
Mrs H didn't accept the offer and referred the matter to this service. But our investigator 
reached the same conclusion as Link. He agreed that although it could've done more to 
inform Mrs H about the situation, ultimately she would've had to obtain advice to make the 
desired switch. 
Mrs H didn't accept the investigator's view. She didn't feel that Link's (or Company A's) 
actions were consistent with the Financial Conduct Authority's principles around treating 
customers fairly. She stressed that Link must have been aware in advance of the 
changes and, further, that both funds had the same 'risk rating'.
The investigator wasn't persuaded to change his opinion, so the matter's been referred to 
me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Although there have been many references made to Company A during the course of the 
investigation of Mrs H's complaint, I should stress that I am looking here solely at the actions 
of Link as administrators, as opposed to advisers, of Mrs H's ISA. 
And in that respect, I agree that there does appear to have been a missed opportunity for 
Link to have highlighted the upcoming changes when the call was made to it by Mr H in 
September 2018. But, that said, I don't think it's necessarily the case that Link should have 
alerted Mrs H's husband to the issue. More that it could have done and that doing so 
would've been good practice. And I agree that failing to take the opportunity warrants an 
acknowledgement and I think the £150 already offered in that respect is fair.  
But it remains the case that to make the desired switch in November 2019 required advice to 
be obtained. I think it was reasonable for this requirement to be introduced by Link in light of 
the IDD and the categorisation of the PruFunds as 'complex' products. Link has a 
commercial responsibility to take account of this type of legislation.
Mrs H hasn't suggested that she would've acted differently if she'd been made aware of the 
change in September 2019. She maintains that the requirement to obtain advice is unfair, 
and she would simply have complained earlier if she'd known. 
But the outcome would've been the same - the need to get advice would still have been 
there. I note Mrs H has said that the two funds have the same 'risk rating'. But that's not the 
case. Risk Managed 4 has a higher level of equity content than 3. Each of the five 
PruFunds has a different 'Target Volatility Level', a method of describing their respective risk 
levels. Fund 4 is 14.5%, Fund 3 - in which Mrs H is currently invested - is lower, at 12%.
I appreciate that the requirement to get advice on what, on the face of it, is simply a fund 
switch does seem quite strict. But it must be remembered that Mrs H had just gone through 
an advice process with Company A that had determined an appropriate risk level for her, 
which had in turn led to the resultant recommendation of Fund 3. Moving the whole 
investment (albeit at that point not a large amount) to a whole new risk level within months of 
receiving the advice does, in some respect, seem to act contrary to that advice.
It should be remembered that one of the objectives of the IDD was to enhance consumer 
protection, by ensuring that investment decisions were made with professional guidance. I 
note Mrs H's investment experience and that her husband invested in Fund 4, so I 
understand that she would likely have understood the implications of the switch. But I don't 
think Link can be expected to tailor its processes individually to investors' potential 
understanding. 
In summary, I'm satisfied that Link has already made an appropriate offer to address the 
issue of it missing the opportunity to better inform Mrs H and I don't consider it needs to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given I don't uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2020.
James Harris
Ombudsman