DRN-3770094
The complaint
Ms S complains that BISL Limited said the premium for the renewal of her motor insurance 
policy would increase substantially after she told it of a change of her name. She thought this 
was unfair. She wanted it to honour a previous renewal offer and pay compensation for the 
effect this has had. 
What happened
Ms S agreed to renew her policy through BISL. She then contacted it to tell it she had 
changed her name. BISL said it couldnt amend the policy as it hadnt yet begun. It said it 
would have to open a new policy in Ms Ss new name. The previous policy was no longer 
being offered. So BISL offered Ms S a new policy with a different insurer for a higher 
premium. 
BISL offered to leave the old policy in Ms Ss former name until it expired in three days time 
and then amend it. But BISL couldnt say what would happen if there was a claim in the 
meantime. Ms S wasnt happy with this and declined the renewal.  
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought the 
change in name hadnt caused BISL to increase the renewal premium. He thought it was 
because the insurer had stopped its previous offer and BISL could only provide quotes set 
by the insurers. So he didnt think BISL had done anything wrong. 
Ms S replied that she didnt recall BISLs offer to keep the policy in her old name and then 
amend it later. She thought that if this didnt guarantee cover, then BISL had acted wrongly. 
Ms S asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman, so its come to me for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Ms S felt shocked, disappointed and frustrated by the quoted increase 
in her premium when all she had done was report a simple name change on her driving 
licence. Ms S has explained that this has meant that she hasnt been able to insure and 
drive the van and this has had an effect on people she supports. I was sorry to hear this.
BISL acts as a broker that sells policies on behalf of a panel of insurers. So it doesnt set the 
premiums, but it administers the policies on the insurers behalf. Ms S changed the name on 
her driving licence. And so she reported this to BISL after she had received her renewal 
documents. I think Ms S acted correctly as this requirement is explained in her renewal pack. 
Ms Ss old policy had only three days to run. BISL tried to make the amendment, but this 
wasnt accepted by the insurer for Ms Ss old policy. And when BISL looked for a quote for 
the renewal of the policy, the insurers provided quotes that were substantially higher than 
the previous renewal quote. BISL explained that the change in name may have affected the 
rated risk due to the credit and other searches carried out. 
Its for the insurers to set the premiums for policies if they choose to offer cover. So Im 
satisfied that BISL wasnt responsible for the increased premiums quoted. And it cant 
compel an insurer to honour the original offer. And I can see that BISL did reasonably 
explain to Ms S that she might find cheaper cover through online comparison sites. 
BISL did offer to not make the amendment to Ms Ss old policy and so allow it to expire. I 
think it then explained the risk that cover could not be guaranteed in this case. Ms Ss 
additional year of No Claims Discount (NCD) wouldnt be due until the policy expired. So I 
think BISL reasonably gave Ms S an option to take if she wanted to gain an additional years 
NCD and it explained the risk so that she could make an informed decision. From what I can 
see, Ms Ss policy expired at renewal, so she seems to have taken up this offer. 
So Im satisfied that BISL hasnt done anything wrong in administering Ms Ss policy. And so 
I cant say that its responsible for Ms S not being able to insure her van and keeping it off 
the road. And so I dont require BISL to pay Ms S any compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman