DRN-2853480
The complaint
V, a limited company, represented by a director, Mr V, has complained about the way 
County Insurance Consultants Limited (CIC) set up a commercial property insurance policy. 
Mr V said as a result Vs policy was voided (treated as though it had never existed) by its 
insurer and its claim declined.  
What happened
V took out the policy through CIC in 2017. It had taken out other insurance policies through 
CIC previously. It gave information relating to the policy to CIC by phone. The phone call 
wasnt recorded. CIC said they were told Vs business was a taxi operator and cover was for 
its office premises. They passed that information on to the insurer. The policy was renewed 
in 2018.
In December 2018 V made a claim after a fire at its premises. When the insurer inspected 
the premises, it found the premises included a workshop/garage used for maintaining 
vehicles. It said it wouldnt have offered the policy if it had known about the vehicle 
maintenance use. So the insurer treated the policy as though it had never existed and 
declined the claim.
V complained to CIC. Mr V said hed told them in the original phone call what the premises 
were used for. CIC said V had only asked for cover for office premises and had never 
explained that it also had garage premises as part of the same unit in which vehicle 
maintenance was carried out. They said if theyd known that, they would have found an 
alternative policy that would have covered all the premises.
Mr V brought Vs complaint to this service. I issued a provisional decision explaining why I 
was minded to uphold the complaint in part. An extract from my provisional findings is set out 
below:
Firstly, I want to explain that the decision to void the policy wasnt made by CIC. That was 
the insurers decision. So in this decision, Im only looking at whether CIC treated V fairly 
and reasonably. 
The question for me to consider is whether CIC made sure that the policy was suitable for 
Vs needs. They had a duty to do that because they advised V regarding its insurance 
policy and recommended the policy to it. 
Unfortunately the phone calls made by Mr V to CIC werent recorded. So I have to form a 
view on what was most likely discussed from the documentation that was sent to V after 
the sale concluded. Having done so it seems clear to me that somehow or other CIC was 
under the impression that they were only being asked to arrange cover for office premises 
and V did nothing to correct that misunderstanding. Ive set out the key pieces from those 
documents below.
In 2017 a summary of the information provided by V through CIC (the Statement of Fact) 
was prepared by the insurer and sent by CIC to V. It said at the beginning that:
 
It is important that you check all the information immediately. If any of the information is 
incorrect you must contact your Insurance Adviser immediately. Failure to do so could 
invalidate the policy from inception or result in a claim being repudiated.
Prominently in a box underneath was a summary of the most important information being 
the policy number, the name of the insured, the effective date, the insurance adviser (CIC) 
and business description. The business description was said to be Taxi Operator and 
underneath that it said:
This Policy only applies to the office or surgery activities of the Business.
The same wording was included in the Schedule of Insurance.
The wording in the same part of the 2018 Statement of Fact was even clearer. It said the 
business description was Taxi Operator  clerical/non manual work only with the same 
wording about the policy only applying to the office or surgery activities of the business. 
Again the same wording was included in the 2018 Schedule.
I also note that the policy was called a Complete Office Policy.
When CIC sent these documents to V, they asked it to check them and let them know 
whether anything was incorrect. They warned V that if anything was incorrect, that could 
make the policy invalid and result in a claim not being paid. V didnt contact CIC to say that 
the business description didnt cover all the activities carried out at the premises, namely 
repairs to vehicles. So I think V must take some responsibility for its failure to check the 
policy documentation.
 
On the other hand CIC had a regulatory duty under this advised sale to establish the 
insurance needs of V. This included asking questions about its risk, its property and how 
the business worked in order to ensure they were able to find it suitable cover. CIC hasnt 
been able to provide us with a copy of the factfind or general information it held about the 
nature of Vs business. It seems that in the past someone else from CIC visited Vs 
premises regarding its fleet insurance policy. Mr V also said he discussed carrying out 
general maintenance on vehicles with CIC when he took out a separate contents policy for 
V. That cover was for plant, machinery and hand tools at the same address as the office. 
Plant, machinery and trade fixtures and fittings were insured under that policy for £20,000. 
Mr V says the workshop and the office were in the same building.
CIC has shown us the questions they asked V before it took out the commercial property 
policy. The questions were those required by the insurer. I dont think CIC took into 
consideration the other information they held about Vs business or took reasonable care to 
make enquiries about the nature of the insured premises which might well have led Mr V to 
mention matters which he thought CIC was already aware of such as the repair and 
maintenance of vehicles. Given that, I think its only fair that CIC should bear half the 
liability for Vs commercial property claim. If necessary a loss adjuster should be instructed 
at CICs expense to assess the amount of the claim.
I appreciate that the consequences for V of having its insurance policy voided are serious. 
In particular it can be more difficult to find insurance as a result. I propose to award V £500 
for the inconvenience caused by the voidance.
CIC accepted my provisional findings but asked me to clarify that it should be able to take 
into account in the settlement the fact that V was under-insured. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has objected to my provisional decision, I see no reason to change it.
I note that when declining the claim Vs insurer said the property had been insured for 
£150,000 whereas according to a survey made when the property was purchased the 
insurance reinstatement value was £275,000. Under the terms of the policy Vs insurer 
would have been entitled to reduce proportionately the amount payable on a claim by 
reference to the ratio which the premium actually charged bears to the premium it would 
have charged if it had known the true reinstatement value.
I referred in my provisional findings to CIC paying half the value of the insurable legal claim. 
Thats because it would be unfair for the settlement to be based on a higher figure than V 
would have been entitled to receive if its claim had been accepted.
Putting things right
To put things right I think County Insurance Consultants Limited should:
pay half of the value of the insurable legal claim against Vs commercial property insurer 
in respect of the fire. I require County Insurance Consultants Limited jointly with V to 
choose and instruct (at the expense of County Insurance Consultants Limited) a loss 
adjuster to consider the evidence and make any reasonable enquiries in order to assess 
in its professional opinion how much, if anything, the insurer would have paid had Vs 
policy not been voided for non-disclosure. A loss adjuster only need be instructed if V and 
County Insurance Consultants Limited cant agree on the amount V receive. 
pay interest on that sum at the rate of 8% simple per year (less tax if properly deductible) 
from the date of loss until the date of payment; 
pay to V £500 compensation for the inconvenience; and
if County Insurance Consultants Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell V how much its taken off. 
It should also give V a certificate showing this if it asks for one, so it can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and require County Insurance Consultants Limited to take the 
steps set out in the section headed Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask V to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman