DRN-1633441
The complaint
Mr G complained that he was mis-sold a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy by Santander UK plc (Santander).
What happened
Mr Gs PPI policy started in January 1998, and covered a mortgage that he took out in 1997. 
Mr G and Santander both said that the sale took place in a meeting and that Mr G was 
advised to take the PPI. Mr G complained that he wasn't given a choice about taking it.
The policy provided accident, sickness and unemployment cover for Mr G at a monthly cost 
of £15.77. The monthly benefit was £230.00. If Mr G had made a successful claim, the policy 
wouldve paid out for up to 24 months per claim.
Our adjudicator didn't think the complaint should be upheld. Mr G disagreed, and asked that 
it be referred to an ombudsman for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Gs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
This is a difficult case to decide as there is very limited information about the sale. Santander 
sent in copies of some computer records about the policy, along with copies of the welcome 
letter it sent out in 1998, a policy booklet, the policy document and a letter sent when Mr G 
redeemed the mortgage in 2002 (the PPI policy was cancelled at that point). Mr G has 
provided his recollections of the sale. There is no documentation, such as an application 
form, from the point of sale. 
Mr G complained that he wasnt given a clear choice about taking the PPI. He said he was 
advised to take out the PPI to get the mortgage approved. 
The evidence we have shows that the PPI policy started in January 1998, but the mortgage 
started in April 1997. So clearly the mortgage was approved  and completed - well before 
the PPI started. Our adjudicator mentioned this in his assessment of Mr Gs complaint. Mr G 
responded by saying that the adviser told him he wasn't eligible for the PPI as he had 
another policy in force at the time, which was in the process of being transferred to another 
party, and the new policy would start after that. Further, if hed wanted to claim, it would have 
been null and void as the policy would have been useless on either property but to obtain the 
mortgage offer, he had to agree to these terms.
I have carefully considered what Mr G told us. I cannot know what happened at the meeting 
between the adviser and Mr G  I have been given no record of what was discussed. But it 
seems unusual that Mr G would initially have been considered ineligible for the PPI because he had a separate policy relating to a mortgage on another property. Ive looked at the policy 
document that Santander sent in, and I cant see anything in the terms and conditions that 
suggests that Mr G wasn't eligible, or that he wouldn't have been able to claim on the policy 
if hed taken it out at the same time as the mortgage rather than later on.
Nonetheless, I have also considered the possibility that a Santander adviser led Mr G to 
believe that he had to take out the PPI, albeit at a later date, as he has said. But Im 
conscious that the sale took place over 22 years ago, and memories can fade with time, so it 
does make me reluctant to place complete weight on his recollection alone. As there is 
limited evidence here, I have also considered what we have learned about other Santander 
sales around this time. But we have not seen general problems in relation to policies being 
presented as compulsory. I have also kept in mind that Santander and Mr G agree that he 
was advised to take out the cover. So its possible that the adviser told Mr G that it was a 
good idea for him to have the policy, rather than that he must have the policy. This is a 
subtle difference, which its possible Mr G has misremembered after all this time. 
Overall, I dont think I can say that it is most likely that Mr G was told he had to take out the 
policy, which is what I must be able to do before I can uphold his complaint on this point. I 
simply dont have enough evidence that this is what happened.
Turning to other aspects of the sale, Santander shouldve made sure the PPI was suitable 
for Mr G. I think it was.
As Ive said, I cant know what was discussed at the meeting, so I cant say how the adviser 
explained the PPI - especially the things not covered. But I have no evidence to suggest that 
Mr G wouldve been affected by any of these. 
Mr G told us he wouldn't have been entitled to sick pay from his employer, but he had 
savings equivalent to between three and six months pay at the time of the sale. On this 
basis I think Mr G could quite quickly have found it difficult to meet the mortgage payments if 
he couldn't work. And Ive kept in mind that the policy couldve paid out for up to 24 months 
in the event of a successful claim  much longer than his savings wouldve lasted. Its not 
clear how the cost was explained to Mr G at the point of sale, but Ive no evidence to 
suggest that cost was an issue. And I think Mr G could reasonably have wanted to protect 
what was an important commitment. 
On balance, although I cant know whether Santander clearly explained all of the policy 
details, I think Mr G would still have bought the policy if it had. It couldve provided useful 
protection if Mr G had been off sick or lost his job. 
I note that Mr G said he became unemployed after he took out the PPI, but he didn't say 
when this happened. If it occurred when the policy was in force, he may wish to contact 
Santander to see if it is possible to make a backdated claim. 
I understand that Mr G feels very strongly about all this, but having carefully considered all 
the evidence, I cant fairly say the PPI was mis-sold. So Santander doesn't need to refund 
what Mr G paid for it.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2020.Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman