DRN-3249114
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W have complained that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) rejected their 
claim against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to their 
purchase of some solar panels.
Background
Mr W bought solar panels for his home in 2014. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Shawbrook to both Mr and Mrs W. Shawbrook is therefore liable for the acts and omissions 
of the installer under the relevant legislation (section 75 in Mr Ws case, since Mrs W was 
not a party to the sale, and section 56 in the case of both Mr and Mrs W). Their complaint is 
that the installer misled them into believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they 
werent, and that Shawbrook rejected their claim for compensation. They also complain that 
the installer breached their contract by not proofing the solar panels from damage by 
pigeons or other birds. They had spent £750 on hiring a third party to put that right.
While Mr and Mrs Ws complaint was being considered by one of our investigators, 
Shawbrook offered to settle the complaint by restructuring their loan to effectively make the 
panels self-funding. This restructure was based on evidence of the actual performance of the 
panels, and a number of assumptions on future performance. The investigator though this 
was fair, because it appeared to be in line with what she would normally have 
recommended. She didnt think Mr Ws contract with the installer had said anything about 
protecting the panels from pigeons, so she didnt uphold that complaint point.
Mr and Mrs W didnt accept that offer. They questioned Shawbrooks figures, and insisted 
that the installer had breached its contract by not pigeon-proofing the panels. So the case 
was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since Shawbrook accepts that this complaint should be upheld on the ground that the panels 
were misrepresented to be self-funding, when they were not, I do not need to reconsider that 
point here. It is not in dispute. So on that point I will confine myself to deciding what would be 
fair redress.
I do not uphold the other part of this complaint. There is nothing in the sales documentation 
to suggest that the installer undertook to proof the panels against damage by pigeons or 
other birds. Indeed, Mr and Mrs W wrote to the investigator: no information was provided 
concerning the maintenance of the panels or that they should be pigeon proofed. We can 
confirm that neither a maintenance package or any information was offered by the supplier. 
Rather, their case appears to be that this was a breach of a statutory implied term that the 
installation of the panels should be carried out with reasonable skill and care. But while there 
is such an implied term, I do not agree that it means that an installer must do more than 
competently install the panels. And I dont think that this term was breached by the installer 
not doing extra work to protect the panels from birds. In coming to that decision I have had 
regard to standard industry practice, and it is not standard practice to routinely add pigeon-
proofing to solar panels when they are installed. Rather, I think that needed to be contracted 
for expressly.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ws complaint for Shawbrook to put things right by 
recalculating the original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr 
W from the solar panels over the ten year term of the loan so that he and his wife pay no 
more than that, and they keep the solar panel system, and any future benefits once the loan 
has ended. Since this calculation has already been carried out and it shows that Mr and 
Mrs W are paying more than they should have, Shawbrook need to reimburse them 
accordingly. So I require Shawbrook to restructure the loan so as to put Mr and Mrs W in a 
position where the solar panel system is cost-neutral over the ten year loan term.
I have read Shawbrooks offer, which includes a breakdown of how it worked out the 
compensation, and a summary of the assumptions it made for the purposes of the 
calculation. Shawbrooks methodology appears to be in line with what the Financial 
Ombudsman Service would expect it to use. The offer was made in November 2021, and so 
it will need to be updated to April 2022, but apart from that I do not require Shawbrook to do 
anything different.
In its offer (and again in line with our usual approach), Shawbrook added simple interest at 
8% a year from the date of the overpayment to the date of settlement. So I think the fairest 
resolution would be to let Mr and Mrs W have the following options as to how they would like 
their overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and they 
continue to make their current monthly payment, resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and they 
pay a new, reduced monthly payment until the end of the original loan term,
c) the overpayments are returned to Mr and Mrs W and they continue to make their 
current monthly payment, resulting in their loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mr and Mrs W and they pay a new, reduced 
monthly payment until the end of the original loan term.
If Mr and Mrs W accept my decision, they should indicate on the acceptance form which 
option they wish to accept.
If Mr and Mrs W have settled the loan, Shawbrook should pay them the difference between 
what they paid in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 
interest at 8% a year. And if Mr and Mrs W have settled the loan by refinancing, they should 
supply evidence of the refinance to Shawbrook, and then Shawbrook must: 
1. Refund the extra Mr and Mrs W paid each month with the Shawbrook loan.
2. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr and Mrs W receives their 
refund.
3. Refund the extra Mr and Mrs W paid with the refinanced loan.
4. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr and Mrs W receives their 
refund.
5. Pay Mr and Mrs W the difference between the amount now owed and the amount 
they would have owed if the system had been self-funding.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding this complaint. Shawbrook Bank Limited must 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 2 May 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman