DRN-3518761
The complaint
Mr J complains that Everyday Lending Limited (ELL) lent to him in an irresponsible
Manner.
What happened
Mr J was given 4 loans by ELL. The details of these are as follows:
Number Date taken Amount Term Repayment Repaid
1 November 2016 £1000.00 24 months £92.13 March 2017
2 March 2017 £2015.98 24 months £194.40 January 2018
3 August 2018 £1500.00 18 months £193.18 February 2019
4 February 2019 £2551.32 24 months £278.49 outstanding
When Mr J took out loan 2, he used part of the capital amount to repay his existing loan. He 
did this when he took out loan 4. There was an amount outstanding for Mr J to repay at the 
time he complained to ELL. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in May 2022. Both parties have received a 
copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from the decision 
below. I said;
Loan 1
ELL gathered some information from Mr J before it agreed to loan 1 in November 2016. It 
asked him for details of his income and his expenditure. It verified Mr Js income by asking 
for a payslip. It then checked Mr Js credit file to determine how much he was paying to other 
lenders. And it asked Mr J to provide copies of his bank statements. It then used a figure of 
35% of Mr Js monthly income to calculate how much living costs he would have. 
Mr J was entering into a significant commitment with ELL. He was agreeing to
make monthly repayments for a period of 2 years. So, I think it is right that ELL wanted to
gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Mr Js financial
circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. I think that the checks it did achieved that aim.
I think its checks for loan 1 were proportionate.
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to
react appropriately to the information those checks show. So, Ive looked at the information
ELL gathered from Mr J to check whether I agree it was appropriate for him to be given
this loan.
Mr J told ELL he was using the proceeds from this loan for debt consolidation. ELL noted 
down Mr Js income as around £1350 and it says it verified this by looking at a payslip that 
he provided. It also recorded down Mr Js credit commitments and worked out his living 
expenses by using around 35% of Mr Js income. It then calculated Mr Js disposable 
income as around £484 after it took into consideration the repayment from loan 1. I can see 
the credit search that it conducted at this time and there is nothing in it that ought to have 
caused ELL any concerns. When I look at the credit search results, the bank statements and 
also ELLs assessment, I think on balance, it made a fair lending decision. The loan looked 
affordable for Mr J.
Loan 2
Mr J looked to refinance in March 2017, when he applied for loan 2. He would use part of the 
loan to repay loan 1 and then receive the rest. ELL again says it conducted the same checks 
for both of these loans. It recorded down his income, checked Mr Js credit commitments 
and says it looked through his bank statements. 
Again, I think the checks it carried out were proportionate. But it still needed to act on the 
information it gathered and if need be, ask for further information or not provide the loan if it 
identifies concerns that Mr J would be unable to repay the loan in a sustainable way. So, I 
have looked into the information it did gather. 
Within ELLs credit check results, 2 home lending accounts have appeared, both of which 
were taken out by Mr J in July 2011. I cant be sure why these accounts were not recorded 
on the credit search results that ELL conducted when it assessed whether loan 1 was 
affordable. But in any case, they appear when it carries out its search for loan 2. The finance 
provider for these home lending accounts reports that Mr J defaulted on these accounts in 
March 2017. So, I think this ought to have caused concerns to ELL, as this is so close to Mr 
Js application. 
In addition, Mr J has again said that he would be looking to consolidate debt. ELL would 
have seen from the credit search results that Mr J didnt consolidate any debt and had the 
same accounts as well as loan 1 recorded on his credit file. So, I think ELL ought to have 
had concerns about Mr Js ability to go on and consolidate debt and reduce his outgoings.  
But I can see that even if it added the amount back in that it had subtracted for debt 
consolidation, it would still have calculated that the loan repayments were affordable for Mr 
J. From its proportionate checks, I can see that Mr J would be able to afford the repayments 
in a sustainable way. So, on balance, I think, with all I have said above, it made a fair lending 
decision.
Loans 3-4
Mr J repaid loan 2 in January 2018. There was then a gap of around 7 months until Mr J 
came back and asked ELL for loan 3. I think although this was a reasonable amount of time 
for Mr J to not be indebted to ELL for, it ought to have considered what it had seen in Mr Js 
previous loan applications when he came back for a third time. 
ELL again, asked Mr J for declarations about his income and accommodation costs. It 
verified his income by asking for a payslip. This time it used Office of National Statistics 
(ONS) data to approximate his living costs. It also asked for bank statements and carried 
out a credit search. 
I again think ELL carried out proportionate checks here. But on this occasion, I dont think it 
made a fair lending decision and I will explain why.
ELL would have seen on Mr Js credit file that he had the same defaults recorded as he did 
when he applied for loan 2. The same 2 home lending accounts had a revised default date 
of July 2018. I cant be sure why this is the case, but I think it ought to have raised concerns 
again about Mr Js finances at that time. In addition, a county court judgment is recorded for the first time with a court date given as 
June 2018. This judgment was granted only 2 months before the application for loan 3. I 
think, on balance when I consider all that I have said about the defaults recorded against 
Mr Js name, and also previous failed debt consolidation and now this CCJ, ELL should 
have declined Mr Js application for Loan 3. I think it ought to have seen from all this that Mr 
J was having problems managing his finances and most likely would not be able to repay 
the loan in a sustainable way. 
Mr J refinanced Loan 3 and asked for Loan 4 only 6 months later. His finances had not 
improved, and another debt consolidation had failed. His credit file showed the same 
defaults and CCJ. So, it follows that I currently dont think ELL should have given Loan 4 
either for the same reasons as I think it shouldnt have given Loan 3.
In conclusion, I think the checks ELL carried out for loans 1 and 2 were proportionate and 
on balance it made fair lending decisions. For loans 3-4 I think ELL didnt make a fair 
lending decision. It would have seen from the information that it had gathered that Mr J was 
having problems managing his finances. So, I dont think it should have given him these 2 
loans.
I currently uphold Mr Js complaint about loans 3-4. ELL now needs to put things right.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response to 
my provisional decision. Mr J responded and said he was happy with the provisional 
decision. He also said he had nothing further to add. ELL responded and said it agreed 
with the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has anything further to add that I feel I need to comment on or that will 
change the outcome of this complaint, I dont see any reason to depart from my findings 
within my provisional decision. With that being the case, I uphold Mr Js complaint.  
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr J to repay the principal amount that he borrowed for 
loans 3 and 4, because he has had the benefit of that lending. But he has been indebted 
with interest and charges on loans 3 and 4 that shouldnt have been provided to him.
ELL should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges on loans 3 and 4 and treat all the payments Mr 
J has made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Mr Js loan account results in him having effectively made payments 
above the original capital borrowed, then ELL should refund these overpayments with 
8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments 
would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled*.
Remove all negative entries on Mr Js credit report relating to loan 3 and 4. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires ELL to deduct tax from this interest. ELL should give Mr J 
a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Js complaint and direct Everyday Lending Limited to put 
things right as described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman