DRN-4072469
The complaint
Mr T and Mrs T complain about how much they were charged by Ageas Insurance Limited 
for their motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr T holds a motor insurance policy underwritten by Ageas. Mrs T is a named driver on the 
policy. Shes been the one communicating with us on the complaint, but as Mr T is the main 
policyholder, Ill be referring to him alone throughout this decision for ease of reading.
Mr T complains that he was overcharged for the policy.
The policy began with what Ill call vehicle A on cover. Mr T then changed the vehicle to what 
Ill call vehicle B. Ageas charged an additional premium of £118.94 for the change (Mr Ts 
broker also charged fees to make the change but theyre not covered in this decision 
because they were applied by another business, the broker of the policy).
But the car Mr T changed the policy to wasnt ready to be collected, so the same day that Mr 
T made the change from vehicle A to vehicle B, he changed it back from vehicle B to vehicle 
A. This generated a return premium of £69.23.
A further return of premium of £79.88 was generated for matters unrelated to the change of 
vehicle.
Just over a month later, vehicle B was ready to be collected by Mr T, so he put in a further 
change of vehicle, from A to B. Ageas said this generated a further additional premium of 
£140.32.
Mr T complains that this is too much and doesnt think hes been charged fairly for what was 
in effect one change of vehicle (A to B).
Ageas didnt agree so Mr T brought his complaint to us.
Initially our investigator didnt uphold it because Ageas had shown that the price changes 
were generated automatically by its system, and they were satisfied that the premium did 
reflect the changes Mr T made. 
Mr T didnt agree and sked for an ombudsmans decision, and on further investigation we 
asked Ageas to explain in detail why it thought the changes were fair.
Ageas responded and in summary said that a further return of premium of £91.00 should be 
made to Mr T.
We put this to Mr T and explained we thought this fair. But we didnt hear back, so the case 
remains with me to issue a final decision on.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied Ageas offer to refund an additional £91 is reasonable. Ill 
explain why.
All the change requests were made by Mr T. And Ageas used the data he inputted.
Mr T made three change of vehicle requests on the policy. From A to B, from B to A 
and then from A to B again. Each one changed the premium.
During the first change, Mr T also changed the occupation of a named driver, and the 
purchase date of the car. During the second two changes, the purchase date and 
occupation didnt change again.
But in reality, Mr T only made one change of vehicle, from A to B (and one change in 
purchase date a driver occupation). Ageas were never on risk for vehicle B for the 
first change, because Mr T never took ownership of it.
Over the three changes, Mr Ts premium increased by £118.94 and £140.32, a total 
of £259.26. But it also decreased by £69.23 in between.
Adding in the further refund of premium of £91.00, Mr Ts policy increased by 
£259.26 during the changes made and decreased by £160.23 (£69.23 plus £91).
What this means in effect is that the change of vehicle, purchase date and named 
driver occupation cost Mr T £99.03 in additional premium. Im satisfied he hasnt 
been overcharged by way of being charged twice for the change.
The changes do represent a change in risk, and Im satisfied that risk has been 
assessed against Ageass underwriting criteria.
It should be noted that a further return of premium of £79.98 was made to the policy, 
but because this wasnt affected by the changes Mr T made, Ive not included it in the 
calculations set out above.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require 
Ageas Insurance Limited to:
Pay Mr T £91 to represent the additional premium return he should have been given 
when making the changes to his policy. 8% interest should also be added to this 
amount. Interest should be calculated from the date the policy was cancelled and the 
remaining balance became due, up to the date Ageas pays him this settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman