DRN-4170069
The complaint
Mr W and Mrs W, as trustees of the TMW Settlement [the trustees} complain that EFG 
Private Bank Limited trading as EFG Harris Allday {EFG} provided incorrect information 
about how the distribution for a holding in an investment portfolio should be treated.
What happened
In late 2021, EFG received a notification of a distribution for an investment in a company I 
will call A and recorded the distribution as a return of capital in the tax report it issued for 
that year. After the trustees accountant queried this, the nominee for company A later 
suggested it had received guidance that the distribution should be treated as income and not 
a capital withdrawal.
The trustees complained that EFG was responsible for the incorrect reporting and that EFG 
should pay the additional accountant costs the trustees had incurred in clarifying the how the 
distribution should be reported. EFG didnt uphold the complaint and said it had relied on 
how the distribution had been reported and that it wasnt authorised to provided tax advice.
The trustees brought the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our 
Investigators looked into things and didnt consider it unreasonable that EFG reported the 
distributions in the way it did, and that EFG doesnt need to reimburse the additional 
accountancy fees incurred by the trust. The trustees asked that an Ombudsman decides the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of this complaint is that the trustees believe EFG incorrectly reported the tax 
position of the distribution and is responsible for understanding the nature of the investments 
it holds for the trust. I understand the trustees will be disappointed with my final decision, but 
for very much the same reasons as the Investigator Ive decided not to uphold this 
complaint. I will now explain why. 
EFG provide a number of caveats and warnings in the reports it provides that the information 
shouldnt be relied on to complete a tax return, and that further investigation may be 
necessary. And, while it doesnt specifically address return of capital as a distribution, the 
glossary page in the tax report talks about gains realised from products like structured 
products (which this appears to have been) and that they might be reportable as income and 
not gains. EFG says these arent included in the tax voucher and the trustees should contact 
their tax adviser. It also mentions that with respect to offshore funds, some further 
information will or may be required, which the trustee or their accountant will need to get 
themselves. 
After the tax treatment of the distribution had been questioned by the trustees accountant, 
EFG worked with the accountant and contacted the nominee for company A to request 
clarity on how the distribution should be reported. I think this was a reasonable step for EFG 
to take and demonstrates it proactively attempted to resolve the position. In a telephone call, 
the nominee suggested that how the distribution is treated isnt a totally black and white 
situation - even saying there was no natural income produced - but later emailed EFG and 
the trustees accountant to say it had received its own guidance and that going forward 
distributions should be recognised as income. It also suggested that the trustees seek their 
own tax advice in this regard.
Im persuaded it wasnt unreasonable for EFG to rely on the information it had received from 
the nominee for company A referring to the distribution as a  Partial Return of Capital.  
EFG provide a number of caveats and warnings that the reports it provides shouldnt be 
relied on to complete a tax return, and further investigation may be necessary. And, while it 
doesnt specifically address return of capital as a distribution, the glossary page in the tax 
report talks about gains realised from structured products and that they might be reportable 
as income and not gains. It says these arent included in the tax voucher and the trustees  
in this case - should contact their tax adviser.
I acknowledge the trustees concerns that EFG ought to have a better understanding of the 
likely tax treatment of the investment it holds for the trustees. However, whilst I dont think 
EFG can rely on saying it doesnt give tax advice, it makes it reasonably clear that income 
detailed in its reports doesnt take into account the tax status of the trust, and that if the 
trustees have any doubts, they should consult their tax adviser. I dont think the information 
EFG provided in its report was misleading, and, in the circumstances of this complaint, even 
if EFG had presented the distribution in a different way, it would likely still have to caveat that 
the trustees seek tax advice anyway. So, unfortunately, I think any additional costs incurred 
by the accountant in assessing any liability the trustees had in relation to the distribution are 
likely to have been unavoidable.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, Ive decided that EFG Private Bank Limited trading as EFG 
Harris Allday hasnt done anything significantly wrong, and I havent upheld this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
as trustees of the TMW Settlement to accept or reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman