DRN-3937811
The complaint
Mr P complains the Royal Bank of Scotland Plc keeps on declining his online purchases.
What happened
Mr P has a current account with RBS and a debit card.
Mr P says he doesnt have a mobile phone and he doesnt want one and that also he has 
call screening set up on his landline. He says hes been unable to make online purchases 
using his debit card ever since RBS made changes to its processes in order to implement 
strong customer authentication. Mr P complained to RBS about this saying that it was 
discriminating against him in breach of the Equality Act 2010. He said he didnt want RBS to 
apply strong customer authentication to his account as hes well aware of how scammers 
work and is able to look after his own money.
RBS investigated Mr Ps complaint and said that it had decided to send one-time passcodes 
to customers mobiles or landlines when it implemented strong customer authentication and 
that it hadnt, therefore, done anything wrong. Mr P was unhappy with RBSs response.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ps complaint. After we got involved, RBS agreed to 
send one-time passcodes to Mr Ps email address. Our investigator thought that this was fair 
and reasonable but said that RBS should have offered this option sooner. So, they 
recommended RBS pay Mr P £150 in compensation.
RBS was unhappy with our investigators recommendation saying that it had agreed to send 
one-time passcodes to Mr P as an exception. Ultimately, however, it accepted our 
investigators recommendation. Mr P considered accepting our investigators 
recommendation but ultimately didnt do so. He said accepting the compensation would feel 
like he was endorsing RBSs approach. He asked for an ombudsman to look into his 
complaint. So thats what Ive done.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RBS made changes to the way its online banking and online shopping worked. RBS said 
these changes were as a result of new regulations that were going to come into effect in 
September 2019 that affected the whole banking sector.
RBS is right that new regulations making changes to the way businesses authenticate came 
into effect in September 2019  the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs). RBS is 
also right that these regulations affected the whole banking sector. The regulations required 
payment service providers (PSPs) to apply strong customer authentication in certain 
circumstances. Those circumstances are set out in in Article 100 of the regulations which 
says:
A payment service provider must apply strong customer authentication where a 
payment service user
(a) accesses its payment account online, whether directly or through an account 
information service provider;
(b) initiates an electronic payment transaction; or
(c) carries out any action through a remote channel which may imply a risk of 
payment fraud or other abuses.
The FCA gave PSPs until March 2020 to implement strong customer authentication for 
online banking and has given the e-commerce industry until March 2022 to implement strong 
customer authentication for online payments. The e-commerce industry includes card 
issuers, payment firms and online retailers. There was, of course, nothing to stop firms 
bringing in strong customer authentication sooner than that, if they wanted to do so.
The Payment Services Regulations  which implemented an EU Directive from 2015 
commonly known as the revised Payment Services Directive  define strong customer 
authentication as:
authentication based on the use of two or more elements that are independent, in that 
the breach of one element does not compromise the reliability of any other element, and 
designed in such a way as to protect the confidentiality of the authentication data, with 
the elements falling into two or more of the following categories
(a) something known only by the payment service user (knowledge);
(b) something held only by the payment service user (possession);
(c) something inherent to the payment service user (inherence);
In short, strong customer authentication involves, amongst other things, checking that the 
person accessing a payment account online or initiating an electronic payment is permitted 
to do so. PSPs have to authenticate the person in question using factors based on 
knowledge, inherence or possession and must use at least two independent factors 
when doing so. They cant, for example, check using only knowledge based factors, but 
they can check using one or more knowledge based factors and one or more possession 
based factors.
RBS approach to implementing strong customer authentication
RBS decided to ask its customers to authenticate through the use of a one-time passcode 
sent to either their mobile phone or their landline  in other words, to use possession as 
one of its factors. Why did Mr P complain?
Mr P has told us that he doesnt have a mobile phone and doesnt want to use one  hes 
explained to us why. Other than saying that Im satisfied that Mr P is disabled for the 
purposes of the Equality Act 2010, Im not going to go into any more detail about Mr Ps 
circumstances. Im satisfied that he has good reasons for not having and not wanting to use 
a mobile phone. Mr P has also told us that his landline has call screening  everyone 
appears to accept that this means RBSs one-time passcodes dont get delivered to his 
landline. And again, without going into more detail, Im satisfied that Mr P has good reasons 
for using call screening. Finally, Mr P has said he knows how fraudsters work, and so he 
doesnt want strong customer authentication applied to his account as he believes hes able 
to protect himself from fraud and he should be free to choose whether or not these 
measures apply.
Mr P is, in other words, not only complaining about strong customer authentication  its a 
measure he doesnt think should be applied to his account  but is also complaining about 
the way RBS has gone about implementing it. On that first point, its worth saying that strong 
customer authentication is an important measure designed to combat fraud, and one that 
PSPs are obliged to implement. And whilst I appreciate that Mr P may feel hes aware of 
how fraudsters work, frauds and scams are becoming increasingly sophisticated and change 
over time. And strong customer authentication is about protecting both the payment service 
provider and the payment service user. So, to the extent that his complaint is about RBS not 
letting him decide whether these measure apply to his account or not because he knows 
how fraudsters work and so is able to protect himself, thats not something that Im going to 
be upholding.
RBSs approach to strong customer authentication - now
RBS has told us that its now able to send one-time passcodes to its customers by email. 
Thats not, however, an option that RBS offered Mr P at the time. Im satisfied that this is a 
viable alternative for Mr P, and its one that hes told us hes happy to accept. Mr P has tried 
to make an online purchase since I got involved, but says he wasnt given the option of a 
one-time passcode by email. If he accepts this decision, given what Im about to say, it will 
be legally binding on RBS, so Id expect RBS to help him set one-time passcodes by email if 
thats needed. In the meantime, the only other question I need to answer is whether or not 
RBS should have done more for Mr P earlier. Before saying more, however, its worth saying 
a bit about the FCAs expectations.
What has the FCA said about strong customer authentication and its expectations?
The Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA) has published several papers about strong 
customer authentication and its expectations and it has written to firms about this too. In a 
paper published in June 2019  Payment Services and Electronic Money  Our Approach  
the FCA described its approach to the PSRs and payment services and e-money related 
rules in its Handbook. The FCA said the paper provides guidance for a practical 
understanding of the requirements, our regulatory approach and how businesses will 
experience regulatory supervision. The FCA added that its guidance is intended to illustrate 
ways (but not the only ways) in which a person can comply with the relevant regulations and 
rules. In paragraph 20.21 of its paper the FCA said:
We encourage firms to consider the impact of strong customer authentication 
solutions on different groups of customers, in particular those with protected 
characteristics, as part of the design process. Additionally, it may be necessary for a 
PSP [Payment Service Provider] to provide different methods of authentication, to 
comply with their obligation to apply strong customer authentication in line with regulation 100 of the PSRs 2017. For example, not all payment service users will 
possess a mobile phone or smart phone and payments may be made in areas 
without mobile phone reception. PSPs must provide a viable means to strongly 
authenticate customers in these situations.
The FCA has, in my opinion, made it clear in its paper and elsewhere that businesses 
shouldnt rely on mobile phones alone to authenticate their customers and should provide 
viable alternatives for different groups of customers. The FCA has, in my opinion, also made 
it clear in this paper and elsewhere that this includes people who dont possess a mobile 
phone or a smart phone and not just those who cant use one. The FCA has talked, for 
example, about managing the potentially negative impact of strong customer authentication 
on different groups of customers particularly the vulnerable, the less digitally engaged or 
located in areas with limited digital access. And the FCA has also talked about the need for 
firms to develop strong customer authentication solutions that work for all groups of 
consumers and has said that this means they may need to provide several different 
authentication methods for your customers.
Should RBS have done more for Mr P when he originally complained?
Mr P has told us that he doesnt own a mobile phone. So, Ive taken the papers the FCA has 
published on strong customer authentication and its thoughts  particularly in relation to 
people who do not possess a mobile  into account when deciding whether or not RBS 
should have done more when Mr P originally complained and whether or not its actions were 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. In addition, Ive taken the Payment Services 
Regulations  in particular, Article 100  into account as well as FCA Principle 6  that firms 
must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. And Ive taken the 
Equality Act 2010 into account too.
Having taken everything into account, and as Ive already mentioned, I dont think it was 
unfair or unreasonable of RBS to implement strong customer authentication  its an 
important measure to help combat fraud. Nor do I think it was unfair or unreasonable of RBS 
to decide that it was going to rely on possession as one of its factors when authenticating 
its customers. I do, however, agree with Mr P that RBS needed to provide its customers with 
an alternative to a mobile phone in order to prove possession.
At the time Mr P complained, RBS was offering an alternative to a mobile phone  namely 
the option of sending one-time passcodes to a landline. But that option doesnt, as Ive 
already mentioned, work for Mr P because he has call screening on his landline. I do, 
therefore, think RBS could have done more for Mr P. RBS has, since then, offered one-time 
passcodes to email which I consider to be a viable alternative and a fair resolution.Putting things right
In order to put things right, RBS should help Mr P get one-time passcodes by email set up 
on his account given that I consider this was of authenticating is a fair and reasonable 
alternative to using a mobile phone or landline to authenticate  at least in Mr Ps case. In 
addition, RBS should pay Mr P £150 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
hes been caused in the meantime.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding this complaint and requiring the Royal Bank of 
Scotland Plc to help Mr P get one-time passcodes by email set up on his account. In 
addition, Im requiring the Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to pay Mr P £150 in compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience hes been caused in the meantime.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman