DRN-3535271
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs B complain about the handling of a claim under their home insurance policy by 
their insurer, Ocaso SA,Compania de Seguros y Reaseguros (Ocaso). 
What happened
In July 2019 Mr B and Mrs B noticed water damage to oak flooring at their property, caused 
by a leak from a dishwasher. They had the leak repaired and contacted Ocaso to make a 
claim for the damage. Ocaso appointed a loss adjuster (L) and a surveyor (S). S inspected 
the property and based on their inspection L concluded that the leak came from a feed pipe 
in the utility room. It had been leaking for some time and had spread across the concrete 
under the flooring, causing damage in the utility room, kitchen and lounge. To repair the 
damage would involve replacing the flooring. To allow this, the kitchen would have to be 
removed and re-fitted, together with replacement of skirting board and redecoration of walls.
 
Mr B and Mrs B decided to purchase replacement flooring themselves, and this was 
reimbursed (£4,213). Separate interim payments were made in respect of estimated costs of 
redecoration (£3,802) as Mr B and Mrs B said they wanted to do this themselves and skirting 
boards (£379). The replacement flooring was subsequently fitted by a sub-contractor (C) in 
July 2020. During the fitting Mr B and Mrs B raised concerns about the quality of the work by 
C, who asked for a snagging list of issues from Mr B and Mrs B. The list was approved so 
the issues could be resolved. 
Before this could happen, Mr B and Mrs B noticed the floor was cupping and also raised 
concerns that a liquid damp proof membrane didnt appear to have been applied to the 
flooring as the specification for the repair work required. Ocaso initially said the issue was 
due to the flooring provided by Mr B and Mrs B not being treated  but they provided 
evidence this wasnt the case.
Unhappy with the issues that had arisen, Mr B and Mrs B appointed their own loss adjuster 
(A) in January 2021. He drew up a schedule of reinstatement work he assessed to be 
required to resolve the outstanding issues (totalling £22,855).
 
In April 2021 the flooring was inspected by an independent flooring expert appointed by Mr B 
and Mrs B (with L and S present). The expert concluded the flooring had been incorrectly 
laid, without moisture suppressants. As a result, the flooring had cupped and would need to 
be replaced, together with application of the correct waterproof membrane. The cost of the 
expert report (£600) was reimbursed to Mr B and Mrs B.
Unhappy at the issues that had arisen and the time being taken to resolve them and 
complete the reinstatement work, Mr B and Mrs B complained to Ocaso. In their final 
response in July 2021 they offered three alternatives to resolve the situation, being either:
Option A: a cash settlement of £8,956; 
Option B: the work be passed to Ocasos national flooring specialist for them to 
complete the rectification work in full; or
Option C: the original contractor (C) carry out the rectification 
Ocaso appreciated that while their preferred option was Option C, given the concerns Mr B 
and Mrs B had about C then Option B would be their (Ocasos) preference. Ocaso also 
considered various additional items Mr B and Mrs B said should be included in settlement of 
the claim, but concluded these either werent necessary under the claim, or the cost had 
been included in the cash settlement offer.
Mr B and Mrs B then complained to this service, unhappy at how their claim had been 
handled, the time taken to carry out reinstatement work and the problems that had arisen. 
They asked for a cash settlement to enable them to complete the reinstatement work, based 
on the estimate provided by A (£22,855). They also wanted the costs of additional items not 
included in As estimate to be included in settlement of the claim.
Our investigator upheld the complaint, concluding Ocaso needed to do more to put things 
right. He thought the reinstatement work had taken too long (even allowing for the impact of 
the Covid pandemic) and it was clear the flooring hadnt been replaced properly, given the 
issues that arose and the flooring experts findings. On the options provided by Ocaso to 
resolve the situation, the investigator wasnt sure why there was such a big difference 
between the Ocasos cash settlement figure and As estimate. But he thought the former 
didnt include the cost of fully rectifying the issues, so Ocasos figure would need re-visiting.
 
While understanding Mr B and Mrs Bs reservations, the investigator thought the option of 
using C to complete the repair work was reasonable, as was the option for Mr B and Mrs B 
to appoint their own contractor to complete the work. He also felt that there were some 
additional items that should be added to the snagging list to be fixed and that Ocaso should 
reimburse Mr B and Mrs B for the cost of their loss adjusters report. Given the length of time 
the reinstatement work had taken, and the inconvenience caused to Mr B and Mrs B he 
thought Ocaso should pay £500 in compensation.
Mr B and Mrs B disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman 
review the complaint. They still maintained the figure of £22,855 from their loss adjuster 
didnt include additional costs they thought should be covered. These included: the cost of 
alternative accommodation while the reinstatement work was being carried out (which they 
estimated at £2,030); damage to their front door (£1,400); the cost of redecoration theyd 
had to carry out given the length of time the work had been ongoing (£3,802); and the cost of 
their loss adjuster (which would be 10% of the total cost of the claim). They also thought 
£500 in compensation wasnt enough for the distress and inconvenience theyd suffered, 
including unprofessional behaviour by the contractors (C). They restated their view that they 
should be given a cash settlement instead of C completing the repairs. 
In my findings, I noted the time that had elapsed during this case, together with Mr B and 
Mrs Bs clear desire to bring matters to a conclusion. So, I sought to arrive at an outcome I 
thought would be fair and reasonable for both parties. But also one that would minimise the 
scope for further delays and enable matters to be drawn to a swift conclusion.
On the main issues in the complaint, with respect to the reinstatement work needed to fix the 
issues with the flooring, given what had happened I concluded a cash settlement would be a 
reasonable way to settle the claim (as it was one of Ocasos options and was also the clear 
preference of Mr B and Mrs B). Given the difference between the cash settlement figures 
from Ocaso and from A two figures, bearing in mind the length of time from the original 
incident, then I think a fair and reasonable outcome would be to base a cash settlement 
figure on the average of the two estimates (as adjusted to make them comparable). I 
calculated that figure as £18,012. On the question of other costs raised by Mr B and Mrs B, on alternative accommodation I 
thought it was fair and reasonable to include a figure based on Mr B and Mrs Bs estimate 
(£2,030) as part of the settlement.
On the question of damage to the front door, I didnt think a new door would be required as 
the damage appeared aesthetic. So, I didnt think Ocaso needed to do anything more.
On the issue of damage to a fridge freeze, I thought the dent appeared to be minor so I 
didnt think it should mean the whole fridge-freezer being replaced. But I thought a nominal 
amount should be included as part of the compensation for distress and inconvenience.
On the point about the cost of redecoration. Mr B and Mrs B said they redecorated due to 
the long period the claim had been outstanding, so the cost needs to be included. However, I 
also saw separate evidence that this sum was included (alongside a sum in respect of 
skirting boards) as part of an interim payment of £4,182 made to Mr B and Mrs B. If thats 
the case (unless theres other evidence to show the payment wasnt made) then I thought it 
had already been covered. Given the uncertainty (and what Mr B and Mrs B have said) I 
asked them and Ocaso to respond specifically on this point before I made my final decision.
On the need for replacement and painting of the skirting boards (and doors) Mr B and Mrs B 
said it was included in As estimate. But Ocaso said the skirting boards werent damaged 
and that removal and refitting is standard industry practice in reinstatement work of this type. 
Also, their cash settlement offer includes an element for removal and refitting. Given what I 
concluded would be a fair and reasonable outcome on the cash settlement issue, I didnt 
think there was anything specific that I should include on this point (nor require any further 
action by Ocaso).
I also considered the issue of the fee for Mr B and Mrs Bs loss adjuster (A). Mr B and Mrs B 
said this is calculated on the basis of 10% of the total value of the claim. Ocaso didnt make 
any reference to this element in their final response.  I thought about what would be 
reasonable in the circumstances of the case. I thought it was reasonable for Mr B and Mrs B 
to engage their own loss adjuster and, given this, I thought it reasonable for As fee to be 
considered as part of the settlement I was proposing. I thought a fair outcome would be (if 
As fee is levied at the rate of 10%) a 50:50 split between Mr B and Mrs B and Ocaso, based 
on the settlement figure for reinstatement I calculated (£18,012). Assuming a 10% rate, that 
would indicate a fee of £1,801 (say £1,800). A 50:50 split would mean Ocaso reimbursing 
£900.
Having reached these conclusions on each of the main issues within Mr B and Mrs Bs 
complaint, I considered the issue of compensation for the stress and inconvenience to Mr B 
and Mrs B. Our investigator thought £500 was reasonable compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience. But having thought about all the circumstances of the case, I concluded that 
a higher sum would be fair. Having done so, I thought £800 would be fair and reasonable.
Because I reached different conclusions to our investigator and was proposing what I 
thought would be a fair and reasonable outcome to the case, I issued a provisional decision 
to give both parties the opportunity to consider matters further. This is set out below. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Id first want to say to Mr B and Mrs B that I appreciate the impact that their experience has 
had on them and their family, given the claim has been ongoing for over two and a half years 
from the incident that caused the damage. I also appreciate the impact of having to live in 
the property over the period, which would have been stressful. I also sympathise with the impact on Mrs Bs health described to us when making their complaint. Im also aware that 
Mr B and Mrs Bs family circumstances have changed, and they are looking to move from 
the property. Ive borne this in mind when deciding whether Ocaso have acted fairly towards 
Mr B and Mrs B. 
Given the length of time thats elapsed during this case, together with Mr B and Mrs Bs clear 
desire to bring matters to a conclusion, Ive sought to arrive at an outcome I think is fair and 
reasonable for both them and for Ocaso, but also one that seeks to minimise the scope for 
further delays and would enable matters to be drawn to a swift conclusion.
Coming back to the issues in Mr B and Mrs Bs complaint, there are several main elements, 
which Ill consider in turn.
First, theres the issue of the reinstatement work required. From the evidence its clear the 
original reinstatement work wasnt carried out properly, leading to the replacement floor 
cupping because the necessary moisture suppressant hadnt been applied. Thats clearly 
down to the sub-contractor. So, the issue is what needs to happen to make good the 
flooring, to return the property to how it was before the incident. Mr B and Mrs B have clearly 
stated their preference for a cash settlement to enable them to carry out the necessary 
reinstatement work (perhaps through a contractor overseen by A). Given whats happened 
(including concerns and complaints they made about C) I think thats understandable. Its 
also one of the three options provided by Ocaso in their final response. So, the issue then is 
what would be a fair and reasonable cash settlement.
Looking at the figures, theres a significant difference between Ocasos offer (£8,955) and 
the estimate from A (£22,855). Looking at the breakdown of both figures, while some of the 
detail is consistent (for example, the floor areas of the rooms needing reinstatement) what 
differs significantly are some of the costs. From what I can see, a significant part of this 
relates to the flooring itself (as opposed to the work to remove and fit the new flooring). I 
cant see that Ocasos figure includes a cost for the flooring itself, whereas As estimate 
does. When the reinstatement work was first carried out, Ss original estimate also excluded 
the cost of flooring as this was purchased directly by Mr B and Mrs B (at a cost of £4,213). 
Assuming that new flooring will be required for the current reinstatement, then I think this 
needs to be added to Ocasos cash settlement figure. While the cost of flooring may now be 
different from that originally purchased by Mr B and Mrs B, adding the same original cost 
(£4,213) to Ocasos cash settlement offer (£8,956) would give a figure of £13,169. But this 
would still be significantly less than As estimate.
Given the difference between the two figures, bearing in mind the length of time from the 
original incident, then I think a fair and reasonable outcome would be to base a cash 
settlement figure on the average of the two estimates. That would be £18,012.
 
Having considered what would be a fair and reasonable cash settlement offer, Ive also 
thought about the points raised by Mr B and Mrs B about other costs they dont think are 
covered in As estimate (nor Ocasos cash settlement offer).
The first point relates to alternative accommodation. Mr B and Mrs B say that they would 
need to move out of the property while the reinstatement work is carried out (given the 
impact on the kitchen and living areas affected by the work). This isnt something that was 
covered in Ocasos final response. Mr B and Mrs B have provided their own estimate of what 
they think would be the cost of rented accommodation in their area for the estimated two 
week period the reinstatement work is thought to take (£2,030 based on 14 nights at £145 a 
night). While this issue hasnt been considered by Ocaso, given the length of time the claim 
has been ongoing then I think Mr B and Mrs Bs estimate is reasonable, so I think including it 
within the settlement Im proposing would be fair.The second point relates to damage to the front door at the property, which Mr B and Mrs B 
says was caused (by C) due to flooring primer during the original reinstatement work. Ocaso 
dispute that the door was damaged. Mr B and Mrs B have provided photographs of the 
damage, looking at them there is marking to the door frame. Mr B and Mrs B say they 
havent been able to remove it despite trying various cleaning agents. However, while the 
marking is visible, I dont think it requires a new door, particularly as the damage appears to 
be aesthetic. So, Im not going to require Ocaso to do anything more on this point.
Similarly, Mr B and Mrs B say that a fridge freezer was dented while being moved by C 
during the original reinstatement work. Again, theyve provided photographs of the dent. 
Looking at the photographs, together with Mr B and Mrs Bs version of how the dent 
happened, I dont doubt what theyve said. But the dent appears to be minor, so I dont think 
it should mean the whole fridge-freezer being replaced. I think a nominal amount should be 
included as part of the compensation for distress and inconvenience, which Ill consider later.
The third point relates to the cost of redecoration. Mr B and Mrs B say they have 
redecorated due to the long period the claim has been outstanding, so the cost needs to be 
included. They refer to the original cost of redecoration provided by S (separate to the main 
reinstatement work) of £3,802. Ive seen that estimate, which is separate. However, Ive also 
seen separate evidence that this sum was included (alongside a sum in respect of skirting 
boards) as part of an interim payment of £4,182 made to Mr B and Mrs B. If thats the case 
(unless theres other evidence to show the payment wasnt made) then I think its already 
been covered. Given the uncertainty (and what Mr B and Mrs B have said) I would like them 
(and Ocaso) to respond specifically on this point before I make my final decision.
The fourth point relates to replacement and painting of the skirting boards (and doors) as 
part of the snagging list. Mr B and Mrs B say its included in As estimate. In their final 
response, Ocaso say the skirting boards arent damaged (nor would have been when 
removed and refitted during the original reinstatement work) and that removal and refitting is 
standard industry practice in reinstatement work of this type. Also, their cash settlement offer 
includes an element for removal and refitting. In considering both views, Ive also noted the 
point above about the inclusion of an element for skirting boards in one of the interim 
payments (assuming it was made). However, given what Ive concluded would be a fair and 
reasonable outcome on the cash settlement issue, I dont think theres anything specific that 
I should include on this point (nor require any further action by Ocaso).
The fifth point relates to the fee for Mr B and Mrs Bs loss adjuster (A). Mr B and Mrs B say 
this is calculated on the basis of 10% of the total value of the claim. Ocaso havent made any 
reference to this element in their final response.  Ive thought about what would be 
reasonable in the circumstances of the case. Ive noted the fee for the flooring experts 
report (£600) was reimbursed by Ocaso. Similarly, I think it was reasonable for Mr B and Mrs 
B to engage their own loss adjuster given their doubts over Ocasos estimate, to provide a 
second opinion on the reinstatement work required (and its cost) While Im not proposing to 
require Ocaso should make a cash settlement based on As estimate, as Im proposing the 
cash settlement should be based on the average of Ocaso and As estimates, I think its 
reasonable for As fee to be considered as part of the settlement Im proposing. I think a fair 
outcome would be (if As fee is levied at the rate of 10%)  to be split 50:50 between Mr B and 
Mrs B and Ocaso, based on the settlement figure for reinstatement Ive calculated above 
(£18,012). Assuming a 10% rate, that would indicate a fee of £1,801 (say £1,800). A 50:50 
split would mean Ocaso reimbursing £900.
Having reached these conclusions on each of the main issues within Mr B and Mrs Bs 
complaint, Ive thought about the other issue raised by Mr B and Mrs B, that of compensation 
for the stress and inconvenience caused by the delays in their claim and the issues that arose with the quality of the work on the initial reinstatement. Mr B and Mrs B have also 
provided evidence of their unhappiness with how Ocaso have dealt with the claim and the 
issues arising, as well as specific concerns about how they were treated by both S and C. 
Ive also considered the length of time from the date of the leak (July 2019). It took a year for 
the reinstatement work to commence. While some of the delay can be attributed to the 
impact of the Covid pandemic and the restrictions brought in in response, that wouldnt 
explain why the reinstatement work didnt start in the eight months from the leak to the first 
national lockdown in March 2020.
Ive also considered other factors, including Ocaso initially seeking to attribute the problems 
with cupping to the flooring purchased by Mr B and Mrs B (which wasnt the case). Also, 
that Mr B and Mrs B had to engage a flooring expert to show that the problems were down to 
poor installation by C, as well as engaging their own loss adjuster. Together, all these factors 
meant that two years elapsed between the leak and Ocasos final response (and Mr and Mrs 
B bringing their complaint to this service). For a reinstatement job that should have taken 
around a fortnight to complete.
 
Our investigator thought £500 was reasonable compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience, but Mr B and Mrs B dont think this is sufficient for what theyve experienced. 
I agree. Ive thought about all the circumstances of the case and Ive concluded that a higher 
sum would be fair. Having done so, I think £800 would be fair and reasonable.
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, its my provisional decision to uphold Mr B and Mrs Bs 
complaint. I intend to require Ocaso SA,Compania de Seguros y Reaseguros to:
Settle Mr B and Mrs Bs claim by a cash settlement of £18,012 based on the average 
of Ocasos adjusted offer (£13,196) and As estimate (£22,855). 
Pay Mr B and Mrs B £2,030 in respect of the estimated cost of alternative 
accommodation during the reinstatement work.
Pay £900 towards the fee from Mr B and Mrs Bs loss adjuster (being 50% of the 
assumed 10% fee on a settlement figure of £18,012).
Pay Mr B and Mrs B £800 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Ocaso SA, Compania de Seguros y Reasequros must pay the compensation within 28 days 
of the date on which we tell it Mr B and Mrs B accepts my final decision. If they pay later 
than this they must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision 
to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Mr B and Mrs B responded, specifically on the issue of redecoration as Id requested in the 
provisional decision. They confirmed they received an interim payment of £4,182 as part of 
their initial claim, to cover the cost of redecorating, including replacing the skirting boards. 
Given the delay in rectifying the faulty flooring, they said theyd already used the £4,182 to 
replace the skirting boards and redecorate. Given this, they said that when the faulty flooring 
is replaced and the new skirting boards removed, damage would be caused to the walls and 
paintwork, meaning redecoration would again be needed. They thought it wasnt reasonable 
for them to have to pay the cost of further redecoration, so the cost (£3,802) should be part 
of any settlement.
Ocaso responded to acknowledge receipt of the provisional decision. Our investigator asked 
Ocaso to respond substantively by the date requested in the provisional decision, but a 
response wasnt received. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Ocaso have acted fairly towards Mr B and Mrs B.
As Ocaso havent provided a substantive response, the only response for me to consider is 
that from Mr B and Mrs B on the issue of redecoration. Ive considered their response 
carefully. But Im not persuaded I need to include an additional element in the settlement. I 
say that for two reasons. First, Ive considered Ocasos points about the need for new 
skirting boards and I think its reasonable that (with care) as theyre relatively new, they can 
be removed and reinstated as part of the work to replace the flooring.
 
Secondly, Ive looked again at As estimate for the cost of reinstatement (which Ive used 
along with Ocasos estimate as the basis for calculating what I think is a fair and reasonable 
cash settlement). I can see it includes items that appear to be redecoration. For example, 
priming, undercoat and gloss of new surfaces, and the existing door and window in the 
hallway (and landing). And coat of emulsion to existing surfaces in the stairway. Taken 
together, Im not persuaded its reasonable to include a further element of the settlement for 
redecoration. So, I havent changed my view on this point.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision to uphold Mr B and Mrs Bs complaint. I 
require Ocaso SA,Compania de Seguros y Reaseguros to:
Settle Mr B and Mrs Bs claim by a cash settlement of £18,012 based on the average 
of Ocasos adjusted offer (£13,196) and As estimate (£22,855). 
Pay Mr B and Mrs B £2,030 in respect of the estimated cost of alternative 
accommodation during the reinstatement work.
Pay £900 towards the fee from Mr B and Mrs Bs loss adjuster (being 50% of the 
assumed 10% fee on a settlement figure of £18,012).
Pay Mr B and Mrs B £800 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Ocaso SA, Compania de Seguros y Reasequros must pay the compensation within 28 days 
of the date on which we tell them Mr B and Mrs B accepts my final decision. If they pay later 
than this, they must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision 
to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman