DRN-4012051
The complaint
Mrs Ms complaint is about a mortgage account and related mortgage current account 
(MCA) she used to hold with Barclays Bank UK PLC. Mrs M says that the MCA was mis-sold 
and that it was irresponsible of Barclays to increase the limit on the MCA reserve, as this left 
her in financial difficulty. To settle the complaint, Mrs M wants Barclays to reimburse her for 
all the interest she paid on the MCA from the date she started using it until the account was 
closed.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Mrs M being identified. So for these reasons, I will 
keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
Mrs M took out a mortgage with Barclays (through its residential mortgage lending division, 
Woolwich) in September 2006, borrowing £57,000 on a capital repayment basis over a term 
of 15 years. Just over £42,000 of the mortgage was used to repay unsecured debts. The 
mortgage came with a related MCA.
The MCA is an overdraft facility, which works like this: as capital is repaid off the mortgage, 
the overdraft limit on the MCA increases by the same amount, due to what Barclays calls 
rebalancing, building up a reserve. The reserve can be spent by the borrower, through the 
MCA. But its not intended to be an additional regular income stream for the borrower; nor 
should it be used to make the mortgage repayments. 
Borrowers are free to repay the overdraft, in part or in full, if they wish to do so, at any time. 
Customers can pay money into the MCA if they want to, and operate it in credit. If there is a 
credit balance, interest accruing on that balance can, if the customer requests it, be offset 
against the mortgage interest. But the MCA in this case wasnt in credit and so it operated as 
an overdraft facility with debit interest accruing on the outstanding balance.
The overdraft becomes immediately repayable in full when the related mortgage account is 
repaid  either when the mortgage reaches the end of its term or if the mortgage is repaid 
sooner (for example, on sale or remortgage of the property). 
The MCA operates on an interest-only basis. Interest is currently charged on the overdraft 
balance at Bank of England Base Rate + 4.49%, except where the mortgage is a specific 
offset mortgages, where interest is charged at the offset mortgage rate. (This was not that 
type of mortgage and so the interest rate was Bank of England Base Rate + 4.49%.)
In 2016 Barclays wrote to Mrs M to confirm the mortgage term would be ending in 2021 and 
reminding her that the MCA balance would need to be repaid in full at that time.
On 8 July 2021, shortly before the mortgage term was due to end, Mrs M complained to 
Barclays that the MCA had been mis-sold and that there had been irresponsible lending by 
the bank in relation to the MCA. Mrs M said that when she had experienced financial 
difficulties, the overdraft had been instantly accessible and had been impossible for her to 
ignore. Mrs M said that, in using the MCA, she had not been fully able to grasp the 
consequences of her actions. 
Barclays, in its final response letter, said that it thought the complaint that the MCA had been 
mis-sold was time-barred, as the account had been taken out 15 years earlier. Barclays also 
said that the operation of the MCA was within its limits, as a result of which it was not 
flagged on its system. Barclays denied it had acted irresponsibly.
In September 2021 Mrs M sold her property and paid off the remaining mortgage balance 
and the outstanding MCA, which was at that point about £50,000.
Mrs M brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Barclays didnt agree to 
us looking at the complaint, saying it was out of time under our rules. An investigator looked 
at the time limits and was satisfied that the complaint that the MCA had been mis-sold was 
out of time. He was satisfied that we could look at the complaint about irresponsible lending 
from 8 July 2015 onwards, which was six years before Mrs M had first raised her complaint 
with Barclays.
Both Mrs M and Barclays accepted this and so the investigator went on to look at the merits 
of the complaint. He didnt think the complaint should be upheld. This was because the MCA 
had operated within its limits and so there was nothing that would have alerted Barclays that 
Mrs M might have been in financial difficulty.
Mrs M disagreed with the investigators findings. She said Barclays had been aware shed 
been in difficulty. This is because in July 2015 shed paid in a £10,000 cheque from a loan 
into the account. Mrs M also said that the MCA reserve limit had been decreased in 
November 2015 by almost £7,000, but later began to increase with every £2,000 paid off the 
mortgage. In addition, Mrs M said she was sent a letter (which she has not provided to us) 
because shed been paying the mortgage from the MCA and that Barclays would need to 
review the use of the account. Mrs M says that all this shows that Barclays was aware she 
was struggling financially.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will begin by confirming that I agree with the investigators conclusions relating to our 
jurisdiction to consider this complaint. Im satisfied the mis-sale complaint has been brought 
more than six years after the event (which was in 2006), and that it wasnt only in the three 
years before the complaint was first raised on 8 July 2021 that Mrs M first knew, or ought 
reasonably to have known she had cause to complain about this. 
Im also satisfied that we can only consider the complaint about irresponsible lending after 8 
July 2015, which is six years before the complaint was first raised. There are no exceptional 
circumstances that would allow the time limit to be waived.
The crux of Mrs Ms complaint is that she says it was irresponsible of Barclays to increase 
the MCA reserve limit by £2,000 every time the mortgage balance had decreased by this 
amount. Mrs M says she wasnt able to resist using this and that Barclays should have 
monitored her use of the account, particularly as she was in financial difficulty.I think its important to mention here that banking is largely an automated process managed 
by computer systems. Where the MCA is operating within its agreed limit, there would be 
nothing that would be flagged up on Barclays system. The same applies with direct debits. If 
a customer provides a business with a direct debit mandate to take payments from a current 
account, and the direct debit is paid when it is called for by the business, there would be no 
reason for this to be flagged up, unless the direct debit was returned unpaid.
Its also not the role of Barclays to police or monitor customer spending; Barclays is required 
to administer the account in accordance with Mrs Ms instructions, not to manage her 
spending for her. At some point, it appears Mrs M changed her direct debit mandate from 
her main current account so that the mortgage payments were being taken from the MCA 
instead. In other words, she was using money shed already paid off the mortgage to make 
the mortgage repayments, which resulted in no actual debt reduction. 
A change in the account from which the direct debit was being taken could only have been 
instigated by Mrs M, and so Im satisfied this was a conscious decision of hers. Mrs M says 
that Barclays contacted her in 2019 about this, but even after that, Mrs M didnt change her 
direct debit back to her main current account. 
By changing her direct debit mandate from her main current account, Mrs M would from then 
on have had additional funds in that account for her personal use  money that she would 
otherwise have had to use to pay the mortgage. And as I said above, because banking is an 
automated process, a change in the account number from which the direct debit was taken 
would not be flagged up unless there was a problem with the payment. Im satisfied, 
therefore, that Mrs M knew that using the MCA for her mortgage repayment wasnt resulting 
in her mortgage balance decreasing. The MCA and annual mortgage statements reflected 
this.
Im satisfied Barclays made Mrs M aware  from the annual mortgage statements and from 
correspondence sent to her for at least five years before the end of the term  that she would 
need to repay what shed spent on the MCA by the end of the mortgage term. Yet despite 
being told about this, Mrs M didnt change her use of the MCA or put in place any repayment 
strategy. 
There is nothing in the banks records to show Mrs M ever contacted Barclays to say she 
was in financial difficulties. In addition, the MCA operated within its limits, and so was not 
flagged up on Barclays system. Ive not seen Mrs Ms statements for her main current 
account, so I dont know how she was using that account, but its not relevant for the 
purposes of this decision. 
Mrs M wasnt obliged to use the MCA and Im not persuaded that Barclays is responsible for 
her decision to do so. Its arguable whether Barclays should have noticed sooner that the 
mortgage direct debit was being taken from the MCA. Because accounts arent monitored on 
an individual basis, this wasnt noted on Barclays system until 2019. 
However, even if Mrs M had switched her direct debit back to her main current account, the 
net position would have been the same because that account would have been reduced 
each month by the mortgage repayment, and I think its more likely than not that Mrs M 
would have made up the deficit in what she wanted or needed to spend each month from the 
MCA.
As Mrs M said, she wasnt able to resist using the MCA. As a result, when the mortgage 
term came to an end, Mrs M sold her property in order to pay off the outstanding balance. But I cant hold Barclays responsible for this. In all the circumstances, Im unable to find 
Barclays to be at fault here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman