DRN-2573091
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
Lloyds merged with the business that sold PPI to Mrs D and it is responsible for dealing with 
this complaint. So from now on, to keep things simpler, Ill just refer in my decision to Lloyds 
as the seller.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out on a mortgage account that started in 1994. 
When Mrs D complained to Lloyds it didnt agree that the PPI was mis-sold. So Mrs D 
brought her complaint to us. 
Lloyds couldnt provide any paperwork to show how or when PPI was sold to Mrs D. And 
Mrs D couldnt remember how shed taken out the PPI. 
To be as fair as possible to Mrs D, Lloyds looked at the complaint on the basis that PPI was 
sold to her in one of its branches when Lloyds recommended PPI to Mrs D. And our 
adjudicator looked at the complaint this way too.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion.
Mrs D mainly said that she had no need for PPI as she had other ways she couldve paid her 
mortgage if she wasnt able to work.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Im sorry Mrs D felt our adjudicator didnt properly address her point that she had sufficient 
financial resources in 1994 to cover her mortgage payments in the event of sickness from 
occupational benefits alone and that she told us she could, in any case, have borrowed 
against, or surrendered, some of her savings or equity. Id like to reassure Mrs D that Ive 
looked at the complaint afresh  and Ive independently reached the same conclusions as 
our adjudicator.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ds complaint. Ill explain my reasons.
Ive taken carefully into account everything Mrs D has told me. And I've no reason to doubt 
that shes sure about everything she has said. But this isn't enough on its own for me to be 
able to uphold her complaint. 
In order to uphold Mrs Ds complaint Id have to find it likely that she wasnt given a fair 
choice about PPI or that it was added to her account without her proper consent. But I cant 
fairly say this based on the limited information Ive got. I must look at the available 
information and take into account the wider circumstances. I have to be impartial. I can 
appreciate that Mrs D felt frustrated by the lack of paperwork. But the fact that Lloyds cant 
now produce the sale documents isnt a reason for me to uphold this complaint. 
Its possible PPI mightve been discussed when she went into a branch. And theres a 
chance the advisor she spoke to mightve advised her to have the PPI. So, given the lack of 
paperwork showing how Lloyds sold the PPI to Mrs D, I think the fairest way to look at this 
complaint is to assess it on the basis that Lloyds recommended PPI to Mrs D as it imposes 
extra obligations on the lender. Looking at the complaint this way gives Mrs Ds complaint 
the best chance of success. Thats because if a business makes a recommendation about 
PPI, it doesnt just have to give important policy information in a clear way. It also has to take 
reasonable steps to make sure the cover it recommends is suitable. 
I cant know precisely what was said when Mrs D arranged this PPI. But Ive thought about 
the fact that the mortgage was a major financial commitment for Mrs D, due to run for 12 
years. Mrs Ds home wouldve been at risk if the mortgage payments werent kept up to date. 
PPI provided a dependable means of ensuring her monthly mortgage repayments were 
protected even if Mrs D couldnt work. And it looks to me as if Mrs D couldve found PPI 
useful if shed needed to claim. I can see why she might reasonably have felt that having PPI 
was worthwhile for her.
Its completely understandable Mrs D has now forgotten the details of an application she 
made so long ago. But, on balance, I think its likely that Mrs D decided she wanted to 
protect her home by taking out the PPI offered and she chose to buy the policy. 
Mrs D told us she was entitled to at least 12 months sick pay. It would be quite unusual for 
someone to be guaranteed to receive full sick pay for a whole year or more  and Mrs D 
hasnt sent us anything to show shes right about this. PPI wouldve covered her for accident 
or sickness for up to 12 months each time she made a successful claim. The policy wouldve 
paid out an amount that covered her mortgage monthly repayments, plus some extra, on top 
of any sick pay. This couldve been a useful benefit at whats likely to have been a difficult 
time if Mrs D needed to claim as she mightve had extra costs if she was ill or disabled.  
As well as this, the policy also paid out for up to 12 months per claim in the event Mrs D lost 
her job unexpectedly and was out of work. 
Repeat claims were possible providing Mrs D with long term protection whilst she was 
paying for her home. So I think PPI offered Mrs D better cover than she wouldve had 
through her employer.
Ive taken into account that Mrs D had a significant amount of money tied up in long term 
savings accounts. But having PPI meant Mrs D could also keep savings and investments 
secure in the long term as she wouldnt have been forced to use this money to pay the 
mortgage. 
And it looks like Mrs D preferred not to spend savings since she took out this mortgage 
rather than draw on money she had invested to reduce the amount of her borrowing and 
keep down the overall cost of her mortgage. I think thats borne out by the fact that Mrs D also borrowed more money on her mortgage 
account the following year  which makes me think that she had other plans for her long 
term savings. Having PPI meant Mrs D could keep her savings in place to provide her with 
financial security. 
Ive also thought carefully about what Mrs D told us about having a half share in another 
property. But I dont think this would make the recommendation to take PPI unsuitable. 
Selling a property can be a lengthy process and so its unlikely this wouldve helped her to 
meet the monthly mortgage repayments in time if she wasnt able to work due to an 
accident, sickness or unemployment. Having PPI set up meant that Mrs D wouldnt have to 
sell her share in the other property if this happened.
And its possible that the option of relying on her equity in that property to raise funds to pay 
this mortgage mightnt have been open to her if she wasnt able to work.
So I think the policy was suitable for Mrs D taking into account what shes told us about her 
situation at the time.  
Mrs D also mentioned a concern that the policy wasnt suitable for her when her financial 
situation changed later  but thats not a reason for me to uphold her complaint. Im looking 
at her circumstances when the policy was sold to Mrs D. What happened later doesnt make 
a difference to the outcome of her mis-selling complaint.  
Its possible some of the information Lloyds gave Mrs D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Mrs D wasnt affected by any of the main conditions that mightve limited 
the policys benefit to her. So, even if these werent mentioned, I dont think that knowing 
more about things the policy didnt cover wouldve made any difference to Mrs Ds decision 
to have PPI. 
Mrs D was eligible for the policy. I dont know if the PPI cost was made clear to Mrs D when 
she bought the policy. But, from what Ive seen, it doesnt appear to have been unaffordable 
for her when she took it out. 
This was a policy she paid for on a monthly basis. Mrs D wouldve been able to cancel it at 
any time at no extra cost if her circumstances changed and she had felt that PPI was no 
longer right for her or she didnt want to keep on paying for it. 
Overall, its possible there may have been some failings in the way this policy was sold. But 
I think Mrs D still wouldve decided to buy the policy if she had been better informed as it 
gave her worthwhile protection in her particular situation. I dont think better information 
wouldve put Mrs D off buying PPI given the benefits it offered her.
This means Lloyds Bank PLC doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs D.
But Lloyds Bank PLC has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs D because: 
Lloyds Bank PLC got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of 
the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs D about that. Because Lloyds Bank 
PLC didnt tell Mrs D, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds Bank PLC has paid back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this 
case.In coming to my decision Ive thought carefully about everything that Mrs D told us, including 
the comments made in response to our adjudicators view. I appreciate she feels strongly 
about this complaint and I understand that what Ive said will come as a disappointment.
In my decision I've dealt with all the main points raised that have an impact on the outcome 
of this complaint. And whilst I've noted everything Mrs D mentioned, nothing else she has 
said makes any overall difference to my decision. I hope that setting out the reasons as Ive 
done will help explain how Ive reached my decision. 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs D.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Mrs D any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman