DRN-2451194
The complaint
Mr W complains that Marshall Motor Group Ltd (MMG) mis-sold him insurance policies 
when he arranged a hire purchase agreement with it for a new car.
What happened
In April 2017 Mr W discussed the acquiring of a new car with MMG via a three-year hire 
purchase agreement which it would arrange. The agreement was to have 36 equal monthly 
payments and in the 37th month Mr W could choose to either pay a lump sum and keep and 
the car, return the car or use it in part-exchange for another.
Mr W was also provided with details of the protection insurance policies that could be taken 
out to cover the car. He was told by an email sent from the salesperson that the cost of 
these policies Do not add significant differences to the monthly payments and that if he 
was interested the quote for the car would need to be amended and he would be given the 
applicable costs.
Mr W chose to take out cosmetic repair insurance, asset protection and alloy wheel 
insurance. Mr W says he was told the cost of adding these three policies was around £12 
per month.
Before the car was delivered, Mr W was advised that there had been an ordering error 
concerning the seat covers so the car wasnt as hed specified. However, Mr W agreed to 
accept the car and was informed there would have to be a change to the cars costs 
meaning the financial agreement would need to be amended.
The car was delivered in June 2017 and Mr W attended the dealership to collect it. Mr W 
says he was given the paperwork to sign but wasnt given enough time to read it. He says he 
was only shown page three of the agreement and asked to sign which he did. Mr W says he 
didnt have cause to read the paperwork later.
At the end of the three years, Mr W was provided with the optional final payment amount and 
was shocked to discover that the amount was around £850 more than hed expected. He 
queried the amount and discovered that there was an outstanding balloon payment for the 
insurance policies that was also due.
He complained to MMG that it had mis-sold the insurance policies as he had not been told 
that there would be a large payment he would need to make at the end of the contract if he 
kept the car which had always been his intention.
MMG didnt uphold his complaint. It said that the pre-contract information supplied to Mr W 
set out clearly the cost of the insurance policies separately from the cost of the car and the 
payment schedule showed there were 36 equal monthly payments followed by a lump sum 
payment of around £850 due in the 37th month. It said Mr W had signed the agreement to 
show he was happy with its terms and conditions.
MMG said the agreement came with a 14 day right to withdraw and so Mr W would have had 
to time to decide that the agreement wasnt right for him and arrange another credit provider 
for the car. 
Finally, MMG said that the individual costs of the policies had been set out in the Customer 
Declaration document which Mr W had signed stating he wanted to take these particular 
policies out. It said it would have been clear that £12 per month wouldnt have been enough 
to pay the full cost in 36 months and there would have been a balance left.
Mr W didnt accept the view of MMG and complained to this service. He said hed been 
misled as to the insurance policies cost and had been made to sign the documentation 
under pressure when he went to the collect the car and hadnt seen the true cost of the 
various insurances.
Our investigator didnt recommend Mr Ws complaint should be upheld. She said she didnt 
know what had been said at the time between Mr W and MMG but the full cost of the 
insurance policies and the need to pay a lump sum for them at the end of the agreement 
were all clearly set out in the paperwork which Mr W had signed.
Our investigator said it was important to read agreements before signing to make sure that 
the parties were happy with the terms and conditions. Mr W also had a 14 day right to 
withdraw which was enough time to check that the agreement suited him.  Our investigator 
said she didnt think MMG had acted unfairly.
Mr W disagreed with our investigators view. He said the email from the salesperson 
confirmed hed been told that the insurance policies wouldnt add any significant amount to 
his payments and that the true cost had been hidden from him.
As the parties were unable to agree the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W feels very strongly that MMG misled him as to the costs of the insurance policies he 
took out at the same time he entered into the hire purchase agreement for the car. He says 
he was only told about the monthly cost and not that there would be a lump sum payment to 
make if he decided to keep the car when the agreement came to an end.
Misrepresentation occurs when an untrue statement of fact is made by one party to another 
which induces that other party to enter into a contract and thereby causing that party a loss. 
The usual remedy would be to put the person back in the position they would have been had 
the misrepresentation not taken place. Here, Mr W says its unfair for him to have to pay the 
remaining lump sum for the policies.
I dont know what was said between Mr W and MMG at the time he agreed to take out these 
insurance policies and when evidence is missing or contradictory, I have to decide what I 
think is the most likely thing to have happened. In deciding this, I will take account of any 
documentary evidence thats been provided. 
Looking at the copy of an email provided by Mr W between himself and the salesperson, I 
can see Mr W had been supplied with information about the protection pack that was 
available to cover the car and that these products had already been discussed with him. 
While I note that MMG says the cost of these products wouldnt add much to the monthly payments it does say if Mr W is interested it can adjust the quotation and inform you of the 
applicable costs. 
Ive seen that Mr W chose to add three out of the seven available additional insurance 
policies to protect the car which had a combined total cost of around £1,300. Ive also seen 
that the cost of each of the policies was set out on the signed Customer Declaration 
directly beneath Mr Ws signature. By signing this declaration Mr W is agreeing that he had 
received various documents relating to the insurance policies such as the initial disclosure 
document and that the cost of the product(s) purchased by me is acceptable. I think that its 
reasonable to say Mr W should have been aware of the total cost of the insurance products 
he selected.
Looking at the first page of the Pre-contract Credit Information Ive seen that it clearly sets 
out in two separate columns the total cost of the hire purchase and the total cost of the 
insurance loan. The repayments for the insurance loan are shown as 36 monthly payments 
of around £13 and in the 37th month the cost will be around £850. This information is also 
repeated on the first page of the hire purchase agreement. So, I cant reasonably say the 
information about the cost of the insurance products was hidden from Mr W.
I appreciate that Mr W signed the back page of both the Pre-contract Credit Information and 
the hire purchase agreement and says he didnt see the other pages as he was under 
pressure to sign but I think its reasonable to have expected him to review the information 
before signing the paperwork. Signing the agreement shows Mr W was happy to be bound 
by its terms and conditions. Mr W says he didnt look for the information after signing as he 
had no reason to do so, but as set out above, everything about the cost of the policies was 
all clearly set out in the various documents he had signed and had been provided with. 
Ive seen that the salesperson had said the insurance products wouldnt add much to the 
monthly payments in the email they sent Mr W. But I dont think I can reasonably say that 
was entirely incorrect as the cost was around £13 for 36 of the 37 months. The final balloon 
payment for both the car and the insurance fell due on 37th month and this is shown in all the 
documentation that was signed by Mr W. I dont think I have enough evidence to say that Mr 
W was misled by the salesperson, as for instance, Mr W doesnt say that the salesperson 
told him to ignore the balloon payment that fell due for these policies at the end of the 
agreement.
Ive seen that Mr W has been concerned about the letters he has received over the 
outstanding balance on his account while his complaint has been investigated. However, 
those letters are sent by the credit provider and not MMG. So, although I am sorry he feels 
there have been aggressive tactics demonstrated by the credit company Im not going to 
deal with that here. Mr W can, if he wishes, complain to the credit provider if he thinks it has 
acted unfairly.
Looking at the evidence Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint that the insurance policies were 
misrepresented to him and that MMG has acted unfairly. Ive seen that he was provided with 
the total cost of the policies, the monthly cost of those policies for 36 months of the 
agreement and the amount of the final balloon payment due in month 37. I therefore cant 
reasonable say that the information wasnt provided to him prior to his taking out the 
agreement.  
 
My final decisionFor the reasons given above and while I appreciate this will be of disappointment to Mr W I 
am not upholding his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman