DRN-3883845
The complaint
Mr S complains that Revolut Ltd wont refund the money he lost when he fell victim to two 
investment scams.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017, Revolut is expected to execute 
authorised payment instructions without undue delay. It is agreed that Mr S authorised the 
payments he is disputing  so the starting position is that he, rather than Revolut, is liable for 
them.
However, there are circumstances when it might be appropriate for Revolut, as an electronic 
money institute (EMI), to identify a fraud risk and to therefore take additional steps before 
processing a payment. Such as when the payment is significantly unusual or 
uncharacteristic when compared to the normal use of the account. 
Although Mr Ss representative has argued that the payments were out of character, Im not 
persuaded they were so unusual that Revolut ought to have identified them as presenting a 
clear fraud risk. I appreciate Mr S generally used the account for low-level spending. But 
there were some payments in and out of the account for a few hundred pounds. And there is 
a balance to be struck between identifying payments that could potentially be fraudulent  
and then responding appropriately to any concerns  and ensuring minimal disruption to 
legitimate payment.
The payments were all made to the same, legitimate cryptocurrency merchant. They were 
spread out with gaps of at least a few days in between each payment. Only one payment 
was over £1,000  and by that point, Mr S had paid the merchant twice before, for individual 
amounts around £420 and £860. So I do not consider the highest payment (for around 
£1,300) so significant a change that Revolut ought to have been concerned. Overall, I do not 
think it looked suspicious in amongst Mr Ss account activity. 
I therefore do not think Revolut is at fault for not identifying a fraud risk when Mr S made 
these payments. And so it was reasonable for it to simply process the payments in line with 
the authorised instructions it received. 
When Mr S notified Revolut that he had been scammed, there was some discussion about 
raising a chargeback claim  but it does not appear he pursued this. Nor do I think he would 
have been able to recover his funds through the chargeback scheme. That is because the 
scheme only covers disputes about the merchant paid directly. Mr Ss dispute is not about 
the legitimate cryptocurrency merchant he paid, but the scammers he transferred the funds 
on to. So I do not think Revolut missed an opportunity to help Mr S recover his loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2023.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman