DRN-1888372
 
The complaint
Mr A has complained that Vitality Corporate Services Limited trading as Vitality Health 
(Vitality), turned down his claim under his serious illness cover following his diagnosis of 
coronary artery disease and bypass surgery. Mr A also complained about delays when 
Vitality assessed his claim. 
What happened
Mr A took out a 20 year Life and Serious Illness policy with Vitality in December 2017. The 
sum assured in relation to the serious illness cover was £200,000 and the account was set 
up on an indexed basis. The policy was taken out through an independent financial advisor 
(IFA).
Mr A underwent triple bypass open heart surgery in July 2019 and submitted a claim to 
Vitality in the same month. 
Mr A complained about delays in his claim being processed. Vitality responded in October 
2019. It said it was waiting for a medical report from his doctor and so didnt uphold the 
complaint.
Vitality turned down the claim. It said Mr A incorrectly answered the following question when 
he applied for the policy: 
Before the age of 60, have any members of your immediate family (natural parents, 
brothers or sisters) had any of the following medical conditions: Breast, Ovarian, Colon or 
Bowel Cancer, Heart Attack, Angina, Cardiomyopathy, Stroke or Diabetes, Multiple 
Sclerosis, Muscular Dystrophy, Parkinsons, Dementia / Alzheimers Disease, Huntingtons, 
Motor Neurone Disease or Polycystic Kidney Disease.
Mr A answered yes and, when asked for the number of family members, he said 1. 
Vitality said Mr As medical records show both of his parents and his brother suffered from 
heart disease prior to the age of 60 and this had not been fully disclosed by Mr A. 
Vitality also said the following questions were answered incorrectly: 
Apart from anything you have already told us about in this form, within the last 2 years have 
you undergone any investigation such as blood tests, scans or biopsies? If so, for what 
condition (or suspected condition)?
and 
Have you ever had or do you currently have any of the following: Diabetes, sugar in the 
urine, raised blood sugar, low blood sugar, glucose intolerance or thyroid problems?
Mr A answered no to both questions. Vitality said his medical records show he was 
prediabetic at the time he applied for the policy and he had undergone a blood test five 
weeks prior to taking out the policy and should have disclosed this. It also said Mr As 
medical records show abnormal HBAC1 (blood glucose levels) from 2013. 
Vitality said Mr A was sent a copy of his answers to check and amend post application. This 
was returned to Vitality without any amendments being made by Mr A. Vitality said the 
information Mr A failed to disclose was material and would have changed the terms its 
underwriters would have offered. It classified Mr As misrepresentation as careless and said 
his life cover can continue, with the appropriate rating being applied. But serious illness 
cover would never have been offered, so this will be removed from the outset. 
Mr A complained and said he disclosed his mothers heart condition when he applied for the 
policy. He said he was estranged from his brother and his brothers medical history only 
came up in conversation with family members after Mr As operation in 2019. So he said he 
answered that question to the best of his knowledge. Mr A also said he did not have 
diabetes in 2017 and was not aware of having any of the other conditions listed.
Vitality responded in November 2019. It said Mr A signed a confirmation schedule when he 
took out the policy, indicating that all information disclosed was correct. Vitality said if it had 
been made aware of pre-existing conditions then the serious illness benefit would have been 
declined and life cover would have been offered on different terms.
When Mr A complained to this service he said he completed his application fairly, honestly 
and to the best of his knowledge. He said Vitality didnt evidence its assumptions or offer an 
explanation about why it believes he should have declared a medical condition. Mr A said he 
is now diabetic, but this diagnosis happened long after inception of the policy. 
When this service contacted Vitality, it said its complaint response didnt address Mr As 
concerns and contained factual errors and it offered £100 compensation. It also said Mr A 
has not yet responded to accept or reject the changes to the plan  where life cover only 
would be offered for a higher premium. So the changes have not yet been made. 
Our investigator said more information could have been provided by Vitality to explain why 
Mr As claim was declined, but he said hes satisfied with Vitalitys offer of £100 as 
compensation for this. In relation to possible delays, he said Mr A was told his claim would 
take 7-14 days to be resolved and this didnt happen. Mr A was also advised of a call back 
and this didnt happen either. However, Vitality did chase Mr As doctor frequently for the 
necessary information. And our investigator said he could see why more information was 
required at each stage. So he doesnt think Vitality delayed Mr As claim. 
Our investigator said he thought Mr A had made misrepresentations when he took out the 
policy. Namely, that he did not disclose a full family history about heart conditions and that 
his medical records show a history of high blood sugar levels and a blood test five weeks 
before the policy was taken out. Our investigator said hes seen Vitalitys underwriting criteria 
and hes satisfied Vitality wouldnt have offered serious illness cover, and would have rated 
the life cover, if Mr A had correctly disclosed his medical and family history.  
Our investigator agreed that this was a careless misrepresentation and so Vitality are 
allowed to apply the terms it wouldve applied if it had known the information at the outset. 
He said he wont be asking Vitality to take further action, as it had already correctly offered to 
amend Mr As life cover and had voided his serious illness cover. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding Mr As complaint.In reviewing this case Ive considered the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA), which mirrors this services longstanding approach to 
cases like this. It sets out the roles and duties of the consumer and insurer when entering 
into an insurance contract. CIDRA places the consumer under a duty to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation (i.e. to say something untrue or misleading), provided 
the insurer has asked a clear question. If the consumer doesnt take reasonable care to 
answer questions accurately it sets out the remedies available to the insurer.
I should emphasise that while Ive taken note of all the arguments and comments made, 
Ive limited my response to the issues I consider to be central to this complaint. That is to 
say whether Vitality acted fairly when it said Mr A made a misrepresentation, when it 
classified the misrepresentation as careless and when it removed serious illness cover 
from the outset. Ive also looked at whether Vitality caused unnecessary delays during 
the claims process.
I first of all looked at the relevant questions asked by Vitality, to see whether I think they 
are worded clearly enough for Mr A to know what information he was being asked to 
provide. And Im satisfied that they are clearly worded. 
I can see that Mr As application was completed by an IFA, but as Mr A hasnt said the 
IFA submitted incorrect information, Im satisfied the IFA is likely to have provided the 
same information to Vitality that Mr A provided him with when the application was made. 
Having looked at Mr As medical records, Im satisfied that a misrepresentation was 
made. Ill explain why. 
Mr A was asked a question at application stage about his familys medical history. He 
disclosed that his mother passed away following a heart attack before the age of 60 
years. Mr A didnt disclose that his brother also passed away following a heart attack 
before the age of 60 years, and he should have done this. I can see a note in his medical 
records, dating from September 2013, that says his brother died from a heart attack a 
few weeks before. Im satisfied this information could only have come from Mr A and, as 
it pre-dates the start of the policy, it should have been disclosed. 
There were also two other questions asked at application stage that Vitality said werent 
answered correctly. Vitality said Mr A should have disclosed abnormal blood glucose 
levels, as his medical records show that tests were carried out between 2013 and 2015 
that showed abnormal glucose levels. Vitality said Mr A should also have disclosed that 
he was noted as being at risk for diabetes in 2017. 
Mr As medical records show a variety of what seem to be routine tests carried out on 
different dates between 2013 and 2015. And the results indicate Mr A had abnormal 
blood glucose levels. I can see from the medical records that Mr As GP phoned Mr A in 
May 2015 to discuss the test results. Mr As GP advised him to look on the Diabetes UK 
website for dietary advice. On that date, his medical records also said the problem was 
pre-diabetes. Mr As medical records also show that in November 2017 he was 
assessed as being at high risk of developing diabetes. On the same day, Mr As medical 
records say a referral to an NHS Diabetes Prevention Programme was declined by Mr A. 
Im satisfied that Mr As test results indicate he had high glucose levels on specific dates 
between 2013 and 2015 and that he was told about this on at least one occasion in 2015. 
Im also satisfied that Mr A was diagnosed as being pre-diabetic and was also told about 
this in November 2017. So Im satisfied that Vitality acted fairly when it said Mr A made 
misrepresentations when he applied for his policy. Having seen the underwriting criteria, Im satisfied that Vitality would not have offered this 
policy to Mr A if it had known his full medical and family history. It would have offered him 
only life cover, at a higher cost, and wouldnt have offered serious illness cover at all. So 
Vitality acted fairly when it declined Mr As claim and removed serious illness cover from 
his policy from the outset. 
Vitality classified Mr As misrepresentations as careless, which I think is fair in the 
circumstances, and has offered to allow Mr A to continue with the life policy. I understand 
Mr A hasnt yet responded to Vitality to confirm if he wants the policy to continue. I will 
leave that in Mr As hands. 
I realise my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr A, but I could only ask Vitality 
to act differently if I thought it had acted unfairly, and I dont think it did. 
I know that Mr A thinks Vitality should have approached his GP at the point of sale to 
confirm his responses to medical questions. But insurers will largely only contact a 
consumers GP at the point of sale if more information is needed about medical 
conditions that have been disclosed. In Mr As case, he didnt disclose any medical 
conditions, so Vitality didnt feel it was necessary to approach his GP. Vitality is allowed 
to rely on the information provided to it by Mr A at the point of sale. 
Mr A also complained about delays with his claim being processed and about Vitality not 
providing enough information in its response to Mr As complaint in November 2019. I 
think Vitalitys final response letter in November 2019 did not provide Mr A with a clear 
explanation about why his complaint was not being upheld, and it should have done this. 
It largely talked about the declarations he signed. Vitality has since acknowledged that its 
complaint response didnt address Mr As concerns and contained factual errors and it 
offered £100 compensation. I think this amount of compensation is enough and I wont 
be asking Vitality to pay more.
Looking at whether Vitality caused any delays when assessing the claim, I can see that 
Vitality told Mr A it would phone him on a particular date then didnt. Although Vitality 
didnt phone Mr A when it said it would, it continued to process Mr As claim and so this 
didnt cause a delay. Vitality also had to request medical information several times. 
Theres no doubt this will have added to the time taken to assess the claim, but Im 
satisfied it was necessary for Vitality to have this information in order to be able to fairly 
assess Mr As claim. So, overall, Im satisfied Vitality didnt cause unnecessary delays. 
My final decision
Its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2020.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman