DRN-1239956
The complaint
Mr Cs complaint is about the information he received when he set up a payment plan with 
Capital One (Europe) plc. He said that had he known that a missed payment marker would 
be applied to his credit file he would have acted differently. He wants the marker removed 
from his credit file and compensation for the impact caused.
What happened
Mr C contacted Capital One in April 2019 to request a payment plan. An assessment of his 
income and expenditure was carried out on the call and his offer of paying £40 a month was 
accepted for a period of five months starting in May 2019.
Mr C then received his statement which showed he was behind on his payments. He 
contacted Capital One and says he was told that the arrears arose because the minimum 
payment amount had already been generated for that month and Mr C paid less than this. 
He said he was also told that a missed payment marker would be recorded on his credit file. 
Mr C said that he wasnt told about this when he discussed the payment plan and that had 
he known this he would have made the minimum payment for that month and then started 
on the payment plan. He said he was offered £20 compensation, but he didnt accept this as 
he wanted the missed payment marker removed.
Capital One said that a payment plan was set up on Mr Cs account because he had 
explained he couldnt afford the minimum payment. It said the missed payment marker had 
been applied correctly because the minimum amount due had already been generated and 
this wasnt covered by Mr Cs payment. It said the letter sent about the payment plan 
explained that arears would be reported to the credit reference agencies. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She thought M C couldve been provided with 
clearer information on the call when he set up the payment plan but said that the letter he 
then received confirmed what the payment plan meant, including the reporting of arrears.
Mr C didnt accept our investigators view. He said he was told when setting up the payment 
plan that he was only required to make the £40 payment and he wasnt told the minimum 
payment remained in place. He reiterated that he had previously had a payment plan in 
place with Capital One and hadnt experienced this issue. He said had he been told a 
missed payment would be recorded he would have found a way to make the minimum 
payment for that month and then started the payment plan. 
Mr C said he wasnt provided with the information he needed to make an informed decision 
and that Capital One accepted that it had made a mistake when he called it about the issue. 
He said that this has had a knock-on impact on his credit file. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory, I have made my decision 
based on the balance of probabilities - that is what I consider is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Mr C contacted Capital One in April 2019 to ask for a payment plan on his account. He had 
previously had a payment plan which he said he ended early and he wanted to put a new 
plan in place. He explained he couldnt make his minimum payment amounts. An income 
and expenditure assessment was undertaken and Mr Cs offer of £40 was accepted for a 
five month period. I find that Capital One acted reasonably towards Mr C regarding his 
payment plan request.
Mr Cs complaint is that he then received a statement showing his account had was in 
arrears. He contacted Capital One and was told that about a missed payment marker being 
applied to his credit file. He was told the marker had been applied because the minimum 
payment for the month had been generated before the repayment plan was set up and the 
reduced payment made wasnt enough to cover the minimum payment. 
Mr C has sent extracts from his credit file referring to a missed payment marker being 
applied at this time. I have listened to the call when Mr C set up the payment plan and I have 
also considered the information provided including the letter sent to Mr C dated 30 April 
2019.
Before Mr C called Capital One, he had received his April statement and so was aware of 
the amount he needed to pay by 5 May to meet his minimum payment amount and prevent a 
missed payment being applied to his credit file. Before the payment was due, he called 
Capital One to discuss a payment plan. He was then sent a letter about the payment plan 
which made it clear that arrears would still be reported to his credit file and given this, and 
that Mr C had previously had a payment plan in place, I find he should have been aware that 
the arrears would continue and that his credit file would be affected.
Mr C didnt pay the minimum amount due on his April statement and so a missed payment 
marker was applied. I understand why Mr C is upset by this and appreciate his comments 
about his credit file. The marker being applied wasnt discussed on the call Mr C had when 
he set up his payment plan. However, Mr C had made it clear on the call that he couldnt 
afford his minimum payment. Therefore, the call focussed on assessing his income and 
expenditure and setting up an affordable payment plan. 
I agree that the call should have been clearer, and that Mr Cs current months payment and 
the recording of a missed payment marker should have been discussed. However, I have to 
consider if anything different would have happened had the information about the missed 
payment marker been provided. I note Mr Cs comments about finding the money for the 
months payment but given he was asking for a payment plan to be set up and he made it 
clear that he couldnt afford the minimum payments on his account, I find, on balance, it 
more likely than not that had the missed payment marker been discussed, then Mr C would 
still have gone ahead with the payment plan. 
Because of the above, I do not find that I have enough evidence to say that this complaint 
should be upheld. 
My final decision
My final decsion is that I do not uphold this complaint about Capital One (Europe) plc.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2020.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman