DRN-3028986
complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI). 
Mr and Mrs H say Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold them this type of cover. 
To keep things simple, Ill refer mainly to Halifax throughout this decision.
background
We now know, following our investigation, that PPI was sold to Mr and Mrs H initially in 
January 1988. Both were equally covered on this policy against losing their jobs or being 
unable to work. In these circumstances, the policy would have helped make the mortgage 
repayments for up to 24 months, depending on the type of claim.
It seems the mortgage protection insurance was changed to a Total Mortgage Protection 
Plan (TMPP) in 2003, when Mr and Mrs H were rearranging their affairs. A TMPP is a type of 
protection policy which typically includes payment protection insurance together with other 
features, such as life insurance and critical illness cover (CIC). The individual elements of 
the TMPP can be added or taken out as the consumer wishes. This time, only Mrs H was 
protected by the PPI element. She also had the life policy element, whilst Mr H only had CIC. 
Only the PPI has been complained about, so thats what Im addressing here.
One of our adjudicators previously looked into the mis-sale element(s) of the complaint and 
said they didnt think we should uphold this part. However, they thought Halifaxs subsequent 
offer to pay back some of the cost of the PPI, because of the non-disclosure of high 
commission and profit share Mr and Mrs H paid, was fair in the circumstances. I explain 
more about this later. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments in order to decide what is fair and reasonable.  When 
considering this, I am required to take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators 
rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to 
have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions setting out how these relevant considerations may 
apply to PPI sales like this one. I havent set out that detailed information here but Ive taken 
into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale elements of this complaint, either for 
the 1988 sale or the one in 2003. Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs H.
Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided Halifax 
should have disclosed the commission it received for the 1988 sale - but that its offer to 
refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused is fair in the 
circumstances. For the 2003 sale commission, Halifax has also made an offer, albeit a 
slightly different one.
1988
The PPI Mr and Mrs H were initially sold was a policy which covered them both. I can see 
they filled out a specific form for the PPI which was separate to their mortgage application. 
This showed how much protection they wanted to buy and who was to be covered. In my 
view, theres plenty of evidence this was an optional policy and they didnt need to buy it if 
they didnt want to. I think this would have been clear to them.
I also note the company bringing Mr and Mrs H complaint their behalf, makes no complaint 
about the optional nature not being clear during this sale. Mr and Mrs H signed the 
application form for the PPI and were also given a certificate confirming who was covered 
and how much this was going to cost them. In my view, the 1988 sale was clearly based on 
Mr and Mrs H providing their consent.
2003
As Ive said, this later sale was a slightly different type of policy. 
We dont have any application form for this sale, but of course, Mr and Mrs H had been 
operating a mortgage for several years by this time, with PPI attached (as above). And as 
Ive said, there was clear evidence that the type of cover they had, protecting their mortgage, 
was optional.
So entering this second PPI sale, I think Mr and Mrs H both probably knew they didnt need 
to have PPI if they didnt want it. They also appear to have tailored the new policy 
somewhat to fit their evolving circumstances of 2003, because they dropped Mr H form the 
PPI policy and applied those elements only to Mrs H.
Its unfortunate we dont seem to have as much paperwork left for this sale. However, 
businesses arent required to keep documents indefinitely. Halifaxs computer records, 
however, and indeed my own considerable experience of these types of sale, show that 
there would have been a discussion with a mortgage adviser in the branch. And I think the 
circumstances show that Mr and Mrs H re-thought their insurance requirements and 
consented to the policy being set up in this way. 
Again therefore, I think they consented to the PPI being added, in 2003.
Was PPI cover suitable for Mr and Mrs H?
This seems to be the area Mr and Mrs Hs representative is challenging. However, the 
arguments used on their behalf are somewhat generic and not, in my view, necessarily 
applicable to Mr and Mrs Hs situation in either 1988 or 2003, the two points of sale.
We asked, for example, about Mrs Hs working set-up in 1988 as our adjudicator noted she 
may have had two jobs. But we were sent no clarification on this and she herself hadnt 
mentioned it in her complaint form to us. 
The evidence also shows this type of cover was something they both wanted and theres 
nothing suggesting it was fundamentally wrong for them. Both Mr and Mrs H seem to have 
been eligible for the policies at the two relevant points in time. The mortgages were secured 
against their home and so the consequences of them not being able to make the 
repayments could have had serious consequences. The costs also seem affordable for them. The 1988 policy cost around £6 per month and 
could have paid out £150 (up to £75 each) if successfully claimed on. The second PPI 
policy, in 2003, was obviously more expensive. However, at around £12 per month, it 
covered Mrs H for up to £190 per month, the premium increase probably reflecting a greater 
insured sum and the passage of time.
As Ive said, Mr and Mrs Hs representatives made some general points. As regard their 
health, they made comments about Mr H having a bad back in 1996. But no real detail was 
provided, and he wasnt named on the PPI for the second sale anyway, so its unclear why 
this would be relevant. The information weve been given by the complainants concerning 
both their health situations for the 1988 sale is that both enjoyed good health. So I have no 
direct evidence from Mr and Mrs H that claiming for ill health could be problematic for them.
The representative also makes points about stress and certain back conditions being harder 
to claim for under the policy rules, however, theres nothing I can see relating to this case 
that suggests these types of policy rules (in either of the policies) would have altered Mr and 
Mrs Hs approach or desire to be insured by the PPI. Neither do I think Mr or Mrs H would 
have thought they could successfully claim without providing at least some evidence.
All this leads me to the conclusion that both policies were suitable for their circumstances of 
the time. Its clear the PPI was recommended to them on both occasions and I dont think 
doing so was necessarily wrong. I accept Mrs H, in particular, would have had some sick pay 
with her job which would have been fairly generous. But Im afraid this doesnt make 
mortgage protection unsuitable  and the evidence is that it was something they wanted to 
buy. The cover would have paid out in addition to any other means they had.
Were Mr and Mrs H given enough information?
Its possible the information Halifax gave to Mr and Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
might have been, on either occasion. But the paperwork they signed in 1988, for example, 
does look quite comprehensive to me and I think they knew the costs and what was covered. 
Overall, I think they probably had enough information on which to make an informed decision 
about what they wanted to do. My experience of similar 2003 TMPP sales Ive seen is very 
similar  I think they would have been given a schedule breaking down all the costs. 
So overall, the cover wasnt too dissimilar to what they reasonably thought they were buying 
from the information they were most likely given at the point(s) of sale, even if there were 
some failing by Halifax. 
Mr and Mrs Hs representative raised a number of what I consider to be other very general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Halifax should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Hs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mr and Mrs Hs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Hs particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the mis-sale element of this complaint. This means Halifax doesnt have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H.
non-disclosure of commission (1988)
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Halifax should have disclosed the commission it received for 
the 1988 sale and that Halifaxs offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the 
unfairness caused is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship in 1988?
Halifax didnt tell Mr and Mrs H about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in 
this case. So taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Halifax and Mr and Mrs H was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 
because Halifax didnt tell them about the high levels of commission and profit share in 
this case 
I dont think Halifax acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr and Mrs H because it 
failed to disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mr and Mrs Hs representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act.
In summary they have said Mr and Mrs H should get back all the money they paid for the 
policy because: Halifax failed to tell Mr and Mrs H in 1988 about the high commission and 
profit-share rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. 
Because they say that meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mr and Mrs H 
wouldnt have taken out the policy had they known about the level of commission and they 
should receive a refund of all the premiums they paid.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipBut I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a 
consumer would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; 
and
- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge 
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance 
about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
Mr and Mrs H in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Halifax not disclosing the high 
level of commission before they purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mr and Mrs Hs representative suggests, driven to conclude that they 
wouldnt have purchased the policy but for Halifaxs failure to disclose the level of 
commission for the reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for Halifax to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some of the money Mr and Mrs H paid for the PPI policy. I consider this fairly removes 
the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Mr and Mrs H with the policy Ive 
concluded above they would still have taken out if Halifax had done everything it should 
have done  but with lower commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that Halifaxs offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
 
was there an unfair relationship in 2003?
For this second sale, I dont think Halifax needed to tell Mr and Mrs H about the commission 
levels because they were less than 50%. It follows that I dont think the non-disclosure 
created an unfair relationship and I dont therefore think Halifax treated them unfairly. This 
means it doesnt need to pay Mr and Mrs H back any of the commission he paid for the PPI. However, in any event, Halifax has since offered to give back to Mr and Mrs H some of the 
cost of the PPI to compensate them as if it had treated them unfairly. 
To be clear then, for the 2003 sale, Halifax has shown us that the commission for the PPI 
element was less than half of what was paid for each premium. Weve looked at how Halifax 
has worked this out and based on what weve seen, Im satisfied that the commission in this 
case was less than half the cost of the PPI, and therefore below the threshold mentioned in 
the rules about compensating consumers. So I dont think Halifax needs to do anything more 
than this for the 2003 sale.
my decision
I dont uphold the mis-sale element of the complaint or make any award for this.
However, because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share for the 1988 sale, 
Ive decided that Bank of Scotland Plc should pay Mr and Mrs H an amount equivalent to the 
commission and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated 
interest where applicable) if it hasnt already done so.
For the 2003 sale, I have decided that Bank of Scotland Plc didnt need to disclose the 
commission it received, but it has already offered to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr and Mrs H. It should therefore now make arrangements to pay them, if it hasnt done so 
already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman