DRN-2028299
The complaint
Mrs H complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) gave poor customer service 
following the freezing of joint bank accounts held with her husband, from whom she had 
separated. 
What happened
Mrs H held joint bank accounts with her husband and following a marital split the joint bank 
accounts were blocked on her husbands instructions without her knowledge. Following 
various phone calls to NatWest, Mrs H asked for the joint bank account correspondence to 
be sent to her husband and gave her address for other communications and then requested 
for a sole account in her name to be opened so that she could operate a bank account. 
Despite promises from NatWest to call her back to arrange these matters, neither the 
address changes were implemented properly or her request to open a sole bank account 
actioned. NatWest said they needed to refer the sole bank account application, but this was 
never followed up by them. Mrs H also visited the branch to ask for her name to be removed 
from the joint bank accounts and she believed this had been done, but it hadnt. This caused 
a great deal of inconvenience and stress for Mrs H during an already difficult time and Mrs H 
lodged a complaint with NatWest.
NatWest have apologised for making a series of mistakes including giving misleading 
information about  the opening of her sole bank account and failing to change the 
correspondence address for the joint bank accounts as she asked.  NatWest says they were 
correct in freezing the joint bank accounts when given notice by Mrs Hs husband as this 
was to prevent either party accessing funds when a dispute exists - in line with the terms and 
conditions of the joint account. NatWest apologised for the trouble and upset they caused 
and have offered £250 by way of an apology.
Mrs H doesnt feel that this level of compensation reflects the extent of the stress she has 
gone through and referred the matter to this service through her partner.
The investigator looked at all the information available to him but didnt uphold the complaint. 
While the investigator could see NatWest had provided poor service to Mrs H, she hadnt 
been financially disadvantaged, and NatWest had apologised for this and offered £250 as 
way of compensation.  He felt that the level of compensation offered was fair and in line with 
his expectations for the level of the trouble and upset it caused.
Mrs H wasnt happy with the investigators view and  asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
I was sorry to learn of Mrs Hs marital problems and I can see that this must have been a 
very difficult time for her. When considering this complaint and to be fair to both parties, I 
have concentrated on what mistakes NatWest made and the extent of the inconvenience this 
caused and any financial disadvantage this has had on Mrs H. 
I can see that NatWest have admitted to making a number of mistakes and have apologised 
for these and offered £250 in apology for the inconvenience and upset it caused. 
As far as the freezing of the joint bank accounts is concerned, I am satisfied that NatWest 
have acted correctly here as like most banks, the terms and conditions, which I have read, 
 stipulate that notice from either party of a dispute will result in a freezing of withdrawal of 
funds from that account. This is done to protect both parties until such time as an agreement 
is reached and instructions from both parties are given to the bank. This was explained in a 
phone call to Mrs H and I am satisfied that NatWest have acted correctly here. I can see that 
subsequent instructions have now been given to remove Mrs Hs name from the joint bank 
 accounts. 
I agree with the investigator, and as NatWest have admitted, it did not carry out her 
instructions to change the joint account address to her husbands address and these were 
sent to her new address. I can see this would be frustrating for her at this time although I 
cant see any correspondence for Mrs H solely, being sent to her husband, which would 
have been more of an issue here, given the circumstances.   
NatWest have also accepted that they failed to follow up telephone calls to Mrs H regarding 
her request to open a sole bank account and the information they gave to her was 
misleading. While I can see, given a block was put in place on the joint bank accounts, this 
may have meant the process of opening a sole bank account needed referral and 
consideration, it could have been handled more efficiently. I cant see any reason why 
NatWest, knowing the urgency here, couldnt have dealt with this request much sooner. So 
rather than a refusal to open the account it was more of a case of NatWest providing poor 
customer service here. I am pleased to see that Mrs H has since made alternative banking 
arrangements, so she has access to a bank account. 
While there is no question NatWest have made a series of mistakes, which they have 
admitted responsibility for and apologised, like the investigator I cant see that this has 
resulted in any financial disadvantage to her. I have been left to consider if NatWest have 
been fair and reasonable when putting matters right. NatWest have apologised for the poor 
service they have provided to Mrs H, as I would expect to see, and they have also sent a 
cheque for £250 by way of an apology to Mrs H, although I understand this hasnt been 
accepted by Mrs H. It isnt my role to penalise banks but to ensure they have acted fairly 
when putting matters right, I am satisfied this is what happened here for the reasons I have 
given before. 
I know that my decision will be disappointing to Mrs H, but it follows I wont be asking 
anymore of NatWest. I will leave it to Mrs H to contact NatWest if she now wishes to accept 
their offer. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27August 2020.
Barry White
Ombudsman