DRN-1638131
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited didnt compensate her properly 
for faulty goods it supplied.
What happened
In August 2019 Mrs M bought an electric bicycle from Shop Direct at a cost of £1299. It 
arrived requiring the pedals and handle bars to be fitted. She says the brakes were 
incorrectly fitted and her husband had an accident. She contacted Shop Direct and it agreed 
to collect the bicycle. Mrs M says she contacted Shop to Direct to reject the bicycle that day, 
but its records show the contact was made several days later. The records also note that 
Mrs M complained about the battery not holding charge and didnt reference her husbands 
accident. It says she raised this at a later stage.
The bicycle was collected on 7 September after Mrs M had made a number of calls to Shop 
Direct. It says that when she first complained she said she was away on holiday and so 
collection of the bicycle was delayed. It says there were no problems with the bicycle and it 
was returned.
It was sent back a second time and Shop Direct had the bicycle inspected and the 
inspectors report states that it had been altered and several items were broken. It also noted 
from the electronic data that it had been ridden for 54 miles. The bicycle was returned to Mrs 
M, but the courier left it at the side of the house and Mrs M says she didnt receive it. She 
reported the loss to the police. Shop Direct accepted responsibility for the non-delivery and 
offered to pay her the value of the bicycle which it said was £750.
Mrs M didnt consider that to be reasonable and brought her complaint to this service. It was 
considered by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. He set out the 
background in more detail than I have above and noted that the first time the brake issue 
was mentioned was on 24 August and the first time an accident was mentioned was 4 
September. 
He said he believed the bicycle had been used before the issue with the brakes was raised. 
He thought that if the bicycle had been faulty this would have been apparent from the outset. 
He added that it had been ridden for 54 miles which didnt tally with it being defective on 
delivery. 
He also noted the detailed report which showed the bicycle had been altered with tooling 
marks found on the connecting bolts and the maximum speed had been reprogrammed from 
15.5 mph to 30mph. However, he noted Mrs M has said she had an inspection carried out 
and he asked her to send that it. She has yet to do so.
He said that if Mrs M had been charged for the failed delivery that should be removed. He 
also suggested that any additional charges that had been applied as a result of missed 
payments on the bicycle since the failed delivery these should also be removed as there had 
been a legitimate dispute about the delivery of the bike.Shop Direct agreed and said no delivery charge had been made and her account had not 
suffered any additional charges during the dispute. Mrs M didnt agree and said the bicycle 
had only been professionally inspected once.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs M has a regulated credit agreement with Shop Direct and this service is able to consider 
complaints relating to goods supplied funded by this type of finance agreement. Ive 
considered whether it has supplied goods of satisfactory quality, as its responsible to do 
under the Consumer Rights Act 2015. Ive also considered how it had administered her 
account in relation to the charges applied etc.
I have looked at all the evidence and in particular at the web chat records Mrs M initiated 
after the bicycle was delivered. I find they support the position taken by Shop Direct. I can 
see that initially Mrs M was concerned about the battery life and not any other issue with the 
bicycle. I can also see that she explained she was on holiday and wouldnt be home until 31 
August which explains why Shop Direct took no action to collect the bicycle until her return.
I have also looked at the detailed inspection report with photographs. This shows the bicycle 
had been altered and had covered 54 miles. I have seen no evidence to show that it was 
faulty on delivery. I appreciate Mrs M has said she had it inspected by a local bicycle shop 
but she has not supplied any evidence to show what it said. I have to base my decision on 
all the available evidence and that does not allow me to uphold this complaint.
Shop Direct returned a used second-hand bicycle to Mrs M which regrettably went astray. It 
has accepted responsibility for this failure and had has offered Mrs M the current value for a 
used bicycle. I consider that to be fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
Shop Direct Finance Company Limited has already made an offer to pay £750 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.  So, my decision is that Shop 
Direct Finance Company Limited should pay £750.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman