DRN-3399271
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Society of Lloyd's declined her claim on her landlords insurance 
policy. 
Throughout this complaint, Mrs H has been represented by a third party. However for ease 
of reading, all references to Mrs H include the actions of her representative. 
What happened
Mrs H had landlords insurance for a property she owned and rented out. She took the policy 
out in 2016. In 2019 she made a claim for subsidence after discovering cracks at the 
property shortly after the tenant departed. 
Lloyds sent a loss adjuster to inspect the damage and concluded it had begun before the 
policy incepted with it in 2016. It therefore said it was the responsibility of Mrs Hs previous 
insurer. Mrs H made a complaint which it didnt uphold so she brought it to this service.
After the complaint came to us Lloyds said that while it maintained the issue should be 
raised with the previous insurer, if it had known about the cracks when the policy was taken 
out it wouldnt have provided subsidence cover at all. So the claim would also be declined on 
the basis that a misrepresentation had been made when the policy was taken out. 
Our investigator considered this and thought it was fair and in line with the relevant law. So 
didnt recommend the complaint be upheld.
Mrs H didnt agree. She said that she had a managing agent that looked after the property 
and no cracks were mentioned in its report from a 2017 visit, so thought they must have 
appeared after this date. Further she said that Lloyds had already affirmed the contract of 
insurance by making a decision on the claim, before it said there had been a 
misrepresentation. So she didnt think it was fair for Lloyds to decide after this that there had 
been a misrepresentation. She asked for the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will start by considering whether the damage most likely existed before the policy was 
taken out in 2016. As this is the heart of the complaint.
As there is no report from around that time, it isnt possible to know for certain, so instead 
Ive considered the accounts from both sides in order to decide whats most likely. 
Lloyds has provided a report that was compiled by its loss adjuster from the initial visit in 
2019 and one subsequent to the damage being confirmed as subsidence. In these it 
concludes that the cracks are so significant they most likely developed a while before the 
policy inception. The first report also includes extensive photos of the cracking.
Mrs H has provided an account from the company that manages, and inspects, the property. 
This confirms that in their inspection of the property in 2017, no cracking was noticed. 
Ive considered both accounts and I am more persuaded that the cracking developed before 
the policy with Lloyds began. The loss adjuster has evidenced their findings with photos that 
show the cracks to be significant and in numerous locations across the building. These also 
appear to have had attempted repairs in places. So Im satisfied it has done enough to show 
that the cracks are most likely long standing.
Further, while Mrs Hs managing agent has confirmed they hadnt noted any cracking on 
their visits, I dont consider this persuasive. The agent visited the property to inspect it to 
ensure the tenant was maintaining it in line with the tenancy agreement. And not to consider 
any structural issues. Nor is the managing agent an expert in such matters. So I wouldnt 
expect these type of issues to be noted in a report of this nature. 
For these reasons, I think Lloyds has done enough to show that the damage most likely pre-
dated the policy inception.
Misrepresentation
Lloyds has also said that Mrs H made a misrepresentation when she took out the policy by 
not accurately disclosing the cracks in the walls. It says if she had, then it wouldnt have 
offered subsidence cover on the policy at all.
Under the Insurance Act 2015, when Mrs H took out and renewed the policy she had a duty 
to make a fair presentation of the risk to the insurer. In order to fulfil a fair presentation of 
risk, the act says a commercial policyholder must disclose everything they know, or ought to 
know, that would influence the judgment of an insurer in deciding whether to insure the risk 
and on what terms.
When Mrs H took out the policy, she was asked about the state of repair of the property and 
whether there were, or had been, any subsidence issues. Mrs H hadnt visited the property 
to inspect it herself, nor have I been made aware of any recent structural reports she had in 
possession about the structure and state of the property. So I dont think she could have 
been sure she was making a fair presentation of the risk when answering these questions. 
Further the Insurance Act says that what the policyholder ought to know is what would be 
revealed by a reasonable search of information available to them. So they should take 
reasonable steps to make sure they have all the relevant information. And I dont agree Mrs 
H has done so here.
Mrs H has said that she uses the managing agent as her way of checking the property. And 
as they hadnt reported any problems, she thought it was in a good state of repair without 
any subsidence damage. However Mrs H knew she had a responsibility to ensure she 
answered the questions from her insurer correctly. And I think its reasonable to assume that 
a report from a managing agent wouldnt provide full detail on any structural issues with the 
property. So Mrs H would have been reasonably aware that she may not have been 
providing a fair presentation of the risk when she took out the policy. 
Ive decided its most likely the cracks existed when the policy was taken out, and by not 
declaring the cracks this wasnt a fair presentation of the state of repair of the property. And I 
think this is something that she ought to have known would influence the insurers decision 
about providing cover. Based on this, I agree Mrs H made a misrepresentation when taking 
out the policy. Lloyds has provided evidence from a senior underwriter to show that if it had had the full 
information about the cracking it wouldnt have offered subsidence cover as part of the 
policy. Under the Insurance Act, this means there has been a qualifying misrepresentation, 
which means Lloyds can avoid the contract of insurance.
However Lloyds has said as it would only have not offered subsidence cover, it hasnt 
avoided the policy but maintains its decision to decline the claim. And I think this is fair in the 
circumstances as it would have covered other perils if claims had arisen in the policy period. 
Mrs H has said that as Lloyds affirmed the insurance contract by previously making a 
decision on the claim before it raised that there had been a misrepresentation, it hasnt acted 
fairly or in line with this services usual approach. Ive considered this but it doesnt change 
my opinion that Lloyds has acted fairly. While it had previously declined the claim for a 
different reason, as it hasnt avoided the policy  but instead just maintained its position to 
decline the claim  the policy decision leaves the customer in the same position as the 
decline based on misrepresentation. So Mrs H is no worse off. Further, as the decision about 
the misrepresentation is based on information that came to light as part of that claim, I dont 
think this is unreasonable.
For these reasons Im satisfied that Lloyds has acted fairly by declining Mrs Hs claim. So I 
wont ask it to do anything differently. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman