DRN-1886649
The complaint
Mr Ms complains that Madison CF UK Limited (118 Money) recorded a default against his 
credit file despite having agreed a repayment plan with them.
What happened
Mr M had a loan with 118 Money but fell into financial difficulty. In June 2019 he was three 
months in arrears which led to a default notice being issued on 3 July and registered on 25 
July. 118 Money later accepted a reduced settlement from Mr M on 25 October. 
Mr M is unhappy that 118 Money registered the default because he says he had entered into 
a payment plan through StepChange commencing in March, and so the default shouldnt 
have been registered.
But 118 Money said that no payment plan had been set up. They accepted they had 
received a payment plan proposal from StepChange but rejected it on 10 June because 
there was a discrepancy with Mr Ms address, and as such, the plan hadnt been agreed to. 
They also accepted that the payment plan proposal was eventually resubmitted to them on 
17 October which they then accepted, shortly before they agree to the reduced settlement.
118 Money accepted it had received monthly payments from Mr M which were less than the 
minimum required, but as there was no payment plan in place, when Mr Ms account 
became three months in arrears they started the default process. 118 Money didnt think 
they had done anything wrong because they had correctly reported factual information to the 
credit reference agencies.
Mr M was unhappy with 118 Moneys final response and so approached this service to see if 
we could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that 118 Money hadnt 
done anything wrong and as Mr M didnt agree, he asked for the complaint to be passed to 
an Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
118 Money accepted they agreed to a payment plan for Mr Ms credit card account, but not 
his loan account, in March, when the plan was first submitted. They also say that their 
departments which dealt with the loans and credit cards were separate and in fact the credit 
card function had been outsourced. And they say that these two different departments did 
not have access to each others information. 
Mr M has subsequently said that 118 Money have confirmed to him that 118 Moneys 
systems remained owned and managed by them. So naturally he wonders why one payment 
plan was accepted and not the other. Even though the systems were owned and managed 
by 118 Money I havent seen any evidence to persuade me that the loan department was 
able to access information from the outsourced agency. So, I think it is more likely than not 
that they wouldnt because of the very nature of an outsourced agency and it being outside 
the control of 118 Money.
So, I find that when 118 Moneys loan dept received the payment plan from StepChange 
initially, which raised the address discrepancy, they would be unaware of the information the 
outsourced agency held. 
That said, the key to this complaint is whether the payment plan was or was not set up. Its 
accepted that it was sent to 118 Money, but they say they rejected it because of address 
discrepancies. Having looked at the evidence I can see that 118 Money didnt accept the 
proposal initially sent to them and returned it to StepChange.
Mr M has confirmed that the payment plan was sent to 118 Money in March and then again 
in June and finally again in October. It seems clear from this that StepChange were aware 
that the payment plan had been rejected because they kept resubmitting it. It follows they 
would be aware that the payment plan hadnt therefore been set up. I do not know whether 
StepChange notified Mr M of this but is clear to me that they must have known the payment 
plan wasnt set up because of the communication they were receiving from 118 Money. And 
as StepChange were representing Mr M I would have expected them to have told him.
That means that the point about the information the credit card department would have held 
becomes beside the point, since StepChange knew the payment plan had not been set up.
So, I am satisfied that the payment plan hadnt been set up in March as Mr M believes, and 
that between April and June Mr M didnt make the minimum payment required. And because 
of that, I cant say that 118 Money acted unfairly in issuing a default notice and registering 
the default because they were reporting the facts. And that is what I would expect to see 
when an account was three to six months in arrears. 
So, although Mr M will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say 118 Money 
has acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2020.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman