DRN-2257719
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D are unhappy that St Andrews Insurance Plc declined their water damage 
claim under their home insurance policy. The property was empty at the point of claim but is 
usually let out to tenants.
Any agents or representatives of St Andrews will be referred to as St Andrews in this 
decision.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D made a claim for water damage. St Andrews decided that a claims consultant 
would visit the property and review the damage to validate the claim. St Andrews found that 
utilities hadnt been turned off at the property despite it being unoccupied for more than 30 
days in a row. Further investigations found that letting agents hadnt been advised to turn off 
or leave on utilities. There was also a change of letting agents around this time. Based on 
the policy condition that St Andrews needed to be informed of the unoccupancy it declined 
the claim.
Mr and Mrs D complained about this. They raised issue with delays in getting policy 
documentation and argued that the heating in the property had been left on. They said there 
was no evidence to the contrary. St Andrews still declined the claim. But it accepted that it 
had delayed getting the documentation to Mr and Mrs D and it offered them £50 as 
compensation. Mr and Mrs D didnt accept the offer and brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said there wasnt enough evidence to show 
that the property had been heated to the required temperature. The temperature required 
was noted in the policy endorsements that St Andrews wouldve applied to Mr and Mrs Ds 
policy if theyd informed it that the property was unoccupied. As that hadnt happened there 
was no proof that the endorsement requirements had been met and so our investigator said 
St Andrews had acted reasonably when it declined to deal with the claim for water damage 
to the building. The endorsement for the contents was slightly different but as the water 
hadnt been turned off our investigator said it was reasonable for this part of the claim to be 
declined too. Regarding the compensation offer of £50 our investigator said this was fair 
based on the information hed seen.
Mr and Mrs D didnt accept this and asked for their complaint to be passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its taken a little time to try and unravel the details of this case. Requests were made for 
further information to try and clear up issues.
As a start point St Andrews declined the claim as it said a general policy condition hadnt 
been met:
General conditions
Changes you must tell us about
Your home is to become unoccupied for more than 30 days in a row.
I dont think theres any dispute about this. The dates that apply clearly show that the 
property was unoccupied for a period beyond 30 days in a row. The only point raised in 
mitigation was that this type of property would usually have new tenants again very quickly. 
Clearly that didnt happen on this occasion. So, I think St Andrews acted fairly when it 
declined to deal with the claim for this reason.
But the issue was made more confusing about what wouldve happened if Mr and Mrs D had 
followed the policy requirement to notify St Andrews of the unoccupancy. St Andrews said it 
wouldve applied endorsements as follows:
For contents cover, the endorsement wouldve said:
After your home is left unoccupied for more than 30 days in a row (or, if tenanted, it is 
untenanted for more than 14 days or left unoccupied by your tenant for more than 30 days in 
a row), it is a condition of your policy that the water, gas and electricity supplies shall be 
turned off at the mains and during the period 1st November to 31st March the water system 
(excluding the central heating system) drained. The electricity supply can however remain on 
if it is required to power your household alarm system.
From the information Ive seen there wasnt an alarm at the premises. So, I think it follows 
that as the property suffered water damage and the water was left on it was reasonable for 
St Andrews to decline the claim under this section. Its clear if Mr and Mrs D had followed 
the general condition St Andrews would still have been able to apply this endorsement as 
the terms hadnt been met.
In relation to buildings the endorsement is slightly different, it has a further section:
In addition, during the months of October to March (inclusive) you must turn off the water 
supply at the mains and drain the water and heating systems. If you wish to heat your home 
throughout this period and your heating system uses the water supply you do not need to 
drain the system or switch off the relevant power supply providing the heating is 
thermostatically controlled and is switched on and set to maintain a temperature of at least 
50 degrees Fahrenheit or 10 degrees Celsius.
Based on these details being provided Ill work on the assumption this extra section applies 
to this policy too.
St Andrews sent their claims consultant to check the property, but he couldnt find the 
thermostat and wasnt able to work out if the heating was thermostatically controlled. In 
fairness to St Andrews despite this, it did follow up by asking questions of Mr and Mrs D. 
Although Im not sure the answers were given. Questions were also asked of both sets of 
letting agents to ensure nothing was missed but both said they werent advised regarding 
turning the heating off or leaving it on.
Mr and Mrs D raised issues about not receiving policy documents and said there was no 
evidence the heating was turned off, they claimed that St Andrews had declined the claim 
too quickly without giving them the opportunity to answer questions or review their policy. 
They followed up with a copy of the check out report and said the photo of the thermostat and the boiler confirmed the heating was left on. They also said this showed a temperature 
well above the 10 degrees Celsius required by the policy. In response to this St Andrews 
said this wasnt evidence that the endorsement had been complied with. It was purely 
showing the switches at the date of the inspection.
Mr and Mrs D went on to say the various utility bills theyve now provided show the heating 
had been left on at a level above that required by the endorsement. In response to that 
St Andrews said it didnt consider the bills confirmed the heating was left on.
St Andrews raised further issues about the requirement to have the property inspected 
every fortnight during the unoccupancy. On the file theres a note taken by St Andrews that 
Mr and Mrs D did confirm this to be the case. But when it asked the new letting agent to 
confirm this the letting agent was unable to. The new agent only confirmed that the property 
was just in process of transferring to them. So, St Andrews said it hadnt seen any evidence 
that this was carried out by the letting agency. And Ive seen no evidence on this point from 
the previous letting agent either.
St Andrews said it felt Mr and Mrs D had plenty of time to comply with the general condition 
to inform it that the property was vacant. It continued that under the escape of water peril 
within the policy it specifically states, what we dont cover, damage occurring when your 
home is unoccupied.
Theres been further opportunity given to produce evidence showing the letting agents were 
given specific details and to show how the utility bills confirm the endorsement has been 
met. But Ive not seen anything that persuades me.
I have to consider whether based on the evidence St Andrews acted reasonably and fairly 
when it declined to deal with the claim. I think it has. Mr and Mrs D clearly didnt comply with 
the general condition to notify St Andrews that the property was unoccupied. And theres no 
clear details to show that the endorsements that wouldve followed that were met either.
compensation
St Andrews offered £50 as compensation due to the delays getting back to and providing 
the policy documentation to Mr and Mrs D. In the circumstances and due to the issues with 
the claim I think that was fair. If St Andrews havent yet paid this amount it should do so as 
soon as possible.
Mr and Mrs D suggested in their correspondence at one point that they were willing to take 
legal action against St Andrews if the claim wasnt paid. I can confirm theyre perfectly 
entitled to do so if they dont accept my final decision.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I make no further award against St Andrews Insurance Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman