DRN-3083563
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy because Barclays Bank UK PLC has refused to refund transactions 
totalling almost £86,500, which he says he didnt authorise. 
The circumstances that led to this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat 
them in detail here. But, in summary, Mr G says he was overseas between 13 December 
2013 and 6 March 2014 and didnt authorise or otherwise consent to any of the transactions 
that moved between and/or left his savings, personal and business accounts over that period 
of time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusion reached by the investigator and I cannot fairly 
instruct Barclays to refund the disputed transactions. I say this for the following reasons: 
In line with the Payment Service Regulations 2009, the starting position is that Mr G isnt 
liable for payments he didnt authorise. So Ive considered whether its more likely than 
not Mr G authorised the transactions hes disputed, by completing the agreed steps to 
make the payments himself or giving consent for someone else to complete them. And 
where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the 
light of the evidence.
The records the bank has been able to provide suggest the disputed cash machine 
withdrawals were likely authenticated using the debit cards (and embedded chips and 
associated PINs) that were provided in connection with the accounts Mr G owned 
personally or on behalf of his business. And the transfers between those accounts were 
likely performed using his telephone banking and/or online banking facilities and their 
associated credentials. Mr G hasnt provided any evidence which shows he was out of 
the country when the disputed transactions took place. Nor has he put forward any 
suggestions to explain how an unknown third party mightve been able to access 
sufficient information about him, his accounts, his debit cards and/or his online banking 
credentials (which were apparently issued to Mr G in 2008) and/or telephone banking 
credentials in order to carry out the disputed transactions.
The disputed transactions took place over the course of three months, involving transfers 
between Mr Gs accounts and to accounts owned by other individuals. This behaviour 
seems unusual for a fraudster not least because they usually try to maximise their gains 
in as short a time as possible. I also note Mr G has suggested it wasnt his intention to 
stay overseas for as long as he did, but a fraudster wouldnt have known this. I find it, 
somewhat overly, coincidental that Mr G says he returned home just two days after the 
final disputed transactions took place, which had also cleared out all the money from his 
accounts. And I find it somewhat odd that, having been away for so long, Mr G didnt 
check his UK bank accounts and identify the disputed transactions for almost three 
weeks after his return.
Mr Gs representative says the disputed transactions were unusual, given the way Mr G 
had managed his accounts in the past, such that the bank ought to have stopped them. I 
dont agree entirely with that, but I do note that Barclays fraud detection systems was 
triggered by a payment to a new payee in early-February 2014. The banks note suggest 
contact was made by phone with someone who was able to pass its security checks and 
confirmed the payment was genuine. The individual to whom the bank spoke also 
appears to have confirmed they had run an anti-virus programme on their computer and 
didnt require new online banking credentials to be issued. If this individual was not Mr G, 
it seems to have been someone who had access to all of his details and his phone, yet 
(as previously noted) he hasnt been able to point to who this mightve been. 
Mr Gs representative has accused Barclays of failing to secure essential evidence 
relating to this case. But Ive seen little to support Mr Gs assertion that he tried to pursue 
a complaint in the six years between receiving the banks reply in July 2014 and his 
contact with Barclays in early 2020. And so I can understand why the bank probably 
considered the matter resolved in 2014. Banks arent required to retain records 
indefinitely and I can understand why there are some gaps in this case, given the time 
thats passed. Nevertheless, I think there is sufficient evidence available to enable me to 
reach a fair and reasonable decision.
Barclays took longer than expected to investigate the disputed transactions and share its 
findings with Mr G in 2014. After Mr G raised his complaint in 2020, Barclays 
acknowledge that delay and, in recognition of this, offered £100 compensation. I 
consider that to be fair and reasonable overall, given the circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. But Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay 
Mr G the £100 compensation it offered, if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman