DRN-3463663
The complaint
Miss A complains that Santander UK Plc were unable to locate a payment that was returned 
to her account, they gave her incorrect information about when it would be recredited, and 
they didnt communicate with her well. 
   
What happened
In September 2021 Miss A made a payment from her Santander account to another bank. 
She didnt include a reference and so the receiving bank sent the payment back to 
Santander. 
Two weeks later Miss A spoke to Santander to query when she would get the returned 
payment back. She was told that the money was back with Santander and had been since 
the day it was paid, and it should be in her account within 20 business days  by 11 
November 2021. 
The payment was not in Miss As account by 11 November and so she complained. 
Santander initially refuted having told Miss A that she would get her funds back in 20 
working days. However, having listened to the call they subsequently agreed that she was 
given that information, but that it was incorrect as the payment hadnt been received, and it 
can take longer to locate returned payments.
 
The payment has now been credited to Miss As receiving account and Santander have paid 
Miss A £200 compensation by way of an apology for the incorrect information she was given. 
However, Miss A was unhappy with this and so she brought her complaint to us.  
Our investigator looked into this and he thought that the compensation offered by Santander 
was fair.  
Miss A didnt agree and so she has asked for an Ombudsmans decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent upheld the complaint and I will explain my reasons below. 
I can understand how frustrating this situation was for Miss A, and how anxious she will have 
been about the whereabouts of her money while she was waiting for it to be recredited. She 
points out that it is a large sum, and she was understandably worried about whether it would 
be returned. 
Miss A made several calls to Santander about this and spent significant time on the phone 
both on hold and speaking to different people. She was also given what we now understand 
to be incorrect information during the phone call in mid-October.  
This level of service isnt what we would expect, and Santander have accepted that they fell 
short of the service they aim to provide, particularly in relation to the incorrect advice she 
was given. 
However, I am pleased to see that after Miss A complained on 11 November 2021, the 
complaints team were proactive in dealing with the issue for her.  I have seen evidence that 
Santander were in contact with the receiving bank and were regularly chasing them for 
resolution. This resulted in Miss As account being credited by the receiving bank on 24 
November 2021. 
So, I have taken into account the distress and inconvenience caused, the incorrect 
information given and the length of time taken to resolve the matter and I agree with the 
investigator that the £200 already paid by Santander is sufficient compensation. 
 
My final decision
My decision is that I am not upholding Miss As complaint and Santander UK Plc do not need 
to do anything further. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman