DRN-3046799
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ps complaint is about a buy-to-let mortgage they took out with TSB. They are 
unhappy about the requirements TSB had of them  having to register the property on the 
new land registry, register Mrs P as a landlord and produce a new tenancy agreement. In 
addition, they consider there were delays in processing the application and TSBs legal 
representatives were incompetent. They dont feel that TSB was managing the application 
process. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs P applied to TSB to re-mortgage their rental property in February 2018. A 
mortgage offer was issued on 27 March 2018, which Mr and Mrs P accepted. 
The property was on the Sasine register but hadnt been transferred to the new Land 
Register of Scotland. This needed to be done before the mortgage could be granted.  TSB 
has said that Mr and Mrs P were told that if the property was only registered on the Sasine 
register, additional legal work would be needed; TSB would pay for that work, but it might 
mean that normal timescales wouldnt be met. As there were problems with the registration, 
it was not completed until 23 October 2018.
In addition to registering the property on the land registry, as the property was jointly owned 
by Mr and Mrs P and the mortgage would also be in joint names, TSB wanted the tenancy 
agreement for the property to reflect that information. TSB also required both Mr and Mrs P 
to be registered as landlords with the local authority. 
Mr and Mrs P complained to TSB in August 2018. They explained what had happened 
during the application process and asked that the issues raised be resolved. They asked 
TSB what legislation had required Mrs P to be registered as a landlord. They also asked for 
an explanation as to why the existing tenancy agreement hadnt been acceptable and why it 
hadnt been pointed out to them at the start of the process or highlighted in the Mortgage 
Booklet. They said that had they been informed of the delays these matters would have 
caused, they would have walked away from the mortgage offer and looked elsewhere. The 
complaint was not addressed at the time it was received because of a system problem at 
TSB.
By the time the property was registered, the valuation had expired, as they will usually only 
be valid for a period of six months. A new valuation was commissioned and when it was 
returned, the value had increased. Shortly thereafter the mortgage offer also expired. Before 
a new mortgage offer was issued, Mr and Mrs P reduced the amount they wanted to borrow 
slightly, which meant they qualified for an interest rate product with a lower interest rate. The 
re-mortgage completed on 7 December 2018.
TSB responded to Mr and Mrs Ps concerns in early 2019.  It said that the time taken for 
processing the mortgage application had been due to the land registration taking as long as 
it did. In light of this, TSB has asked the solicitors that had dealt with that process to 
comment directly to Mr and Mrs P about what had happened. In response to Mr and Mrs Ps 
concerns about how their complaint had been handled, in that theyd made the complaint in 
August but it hadnt been acknowledged until December 2018. TSB offered them £250 for 
any distress or inconvenience and £50 toward any expenses theyd incurred. 
TSBs appointed solicitors wrote to Mr and Mrs P about the process to register the property 
on the land registry. It explained the process that had been gone through and the timescales 
for each part of it. It was confirmed the registration work was finalised on 23 October 2018 
and the solicitors were ready to draw down the mortgage funds. However, as the valuation 
had expired, the mortgage couldnt complete immediately and then a new offer needed to be 
produced and accepted by Mr and Mrs P. The solicitors said the cost to Mr and Mrs P of the 
first registration process was reduced from £150 to £45 as a gesture of goodwill because 
they had incorrectly been led to believe the lender would pay all the fees for the first 
registration, rather than just the basic costs. 
Mr and Mrs P werent happy with TSBs response and referred the complaint to this service. 
They said there had been a mortgage on the property before and it hadnt needed to be 
registered on a different register for that. They also explained that because of the delay the 
existing mortgage moved onto the lenders standard variable rate, so they paid more out in 
interest due to the delays. In addition, they confirmed that they hadnt received a response 
from the solicitors about the time taken for the registration process as TSB had promised. 
They also said that the solicitors had told them that it would be better getting the property 
registered at that time, rather than leaving it until they sold the flat in the future.
One of our investigators considered the complaint. She found that it wasnt unreasonable for 
TSB to have required Mrs P to register as a landlord and to be included in the tenancy 
agreement. This was because she was a joint owner of the property and had applied to be a 
joint borrower on the mortgage. In relation to the land registry process, she thought TSB was 
reasonable in requesting this be done and that most lenders would take the same position. 
She acknowledged this process took a long time, but the evidence showed that the solicitors 
were progressing the matter throughout. However, shed seen no evidence that either TSB 
or the solicitors had managed Mr and Mrs Ps expectations. 
The investigator also concluded that the valuation and mortgage offer expiring by the end of 
the registration process would have caused Mr and Mrs P further distress and inconvenience 
through no fault of their own. She thought that TSB and the solicitors should have been 
monitoring the situation and managing Mr and Mrs Ps expectations. However, she 
concluded that they hadnt suffered a financial loss due to the time it took for the mortgage 
application to go through, as the interest rate product they ended up with involved a lower 
interest rate than the one they originally applied for; saving them around £2,000 over the 
term of the product. This was more than Mr and Mrs P believed theyd lost because they 
were paying a higher rate of interest with their existing lender while the application went 
through. In addition, the investigator was satisfied the offer in relation to the delay in dealing 
with the complaint was reasonable. However, she considered that TSB should pay 
Mr and Mrs P a further £150 for the poor handling of the first registration and offer expiry by 
it and the solicitors.
Mr and Mrs P confirmed receipt of the investigators opinion. They said the reason they 
saved money on the new mortgage arrangement was because they reduced the amount 
they were borrowing by £1,500 by making a payment of that amount to the previous lender. 
So the saving wasnt through the generosity of the recalculated TSB mortgage. In response, 
our investigator confirmed she had taken this reduction in the lending into account when 
shed assessed whether Mr and Mrs P had suffered a financial loss.
TSB didnt accept the investigators conclusions as it didnt think it had done anything wrong. 
It asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman for decision. I issued a provisional decision on 23 August 2021, in which I set out my conclusions and 
reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt. 
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy about the overall time it took for their re-mortgage to reach 
completion. In this case, the bulk of the time taken for the process was due to the property 
being registered on the new Scottish Land Registry. My understanding is that in order for a 
property to be sold in Scotland, the property has to be on the new land registry. In addition, a 
new security charge (such as those used by lenders) can only be attached to a property if it 
is on the new land register, which means a property has to go through the first registration 
process before a re-mortgage can be completed. Due to the nature of the titles on the old 
register, the process of adding a title to the new registry is often complicated and time 
consuming. 
Mr and Mrs Ps property was only on the old register, they needed to complete a first 
registration for their flat before the mortgage could progress. It has been confirmed that 
because of previous changes to the property title, the registration was complex and took a 
significant amount of time to do. 
TSB included the cost of a straightforward first registration in with the free legal package 
attached to the application. However, if the registration process was more complicated, the 
borrowers had to pay the additional costs involved. That was the case for Mr and Mrs P. 
The work to register the property was not part of the regulated activity of lending and was 
done on behalf of Mr and Mrs P, so that they could present TSB with a suitable title as 
security for the borrowing. As such, the actions of the solicitors during that process, wasnt 
the responsibility of TSB, even if it paid some of the cost incurred. So if there were delays 
during that process, I cant find TSB responsible for them, or for ensuring that Mr and Mrs P 
were kept informed of progress. As such, I cant find TSB was responsible for any additional 
interest Mr and Mrs P had to pay their existing lender because of the time the first 
registration took.
Outside of the first registration process, I dont think there were delays on TSBs part. The 
valuation and mortgage offer both expired around the time the registration process was 
completed. However, the amount of time the first registration would take couldnt have been 
predicted by TSB, and quite simply, these documents had a time limit on them. Arranging 
the replacements was done in a timely manner once the title situation had been resolved. 
Mr and Mrs P are also unhappy that TSB required a new tenancy agreement with Mrs P 
included as a landlord; which required her to register as a landlord. Given the property was 
in joint names and the mortgage being applied for was also a joint one, it doesnt seem 
unreasonable for TSB to require any contracts relating to the property to be in both 
Mr and Mrs Ps names.  
I know that Mr and Mrs P will be disappointed with my conclusion, but I am not persuaded 
TSB did anything wrong when processing their mortgage application. 
TSB made an offer of compensation because it didnt deal with Mr and Mrs Ps complaint 
when it was received. Given their concerns about delays, their complaint not being 
responded to would have added to their frustration and upset. Having considered the matter 
of compensation for this carefully, I think the amount offered is appropriate in the 
circumstances.
Mr and Mrs P acknowledged receipt of my provisional decision and said they didnt have the 
time or energy to comment further.TSB didnt respond to my provisional decision, but I am satisfied it received it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further comment, I see no reason to alter my conclusions. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs P to accept or reject my decision 
before 13 October 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman