DRN-3292939
The complaint
Mr Ws complaint is about a specialist insurance policy he took out with Coverdrone Limited. 
He is unhappy that a claim he made for the loss of the drone covered by the policy, following 
an accident, has been declined. He considers the documentation associated with the policy 
was misleading and unclear, which meant he thought he had cover for damage and loss of 
his drone.
What happened
In 2021 Mr W applied for a policy from Coverdrone. Mr W completed an online form asking 
for a quote for cover. The form asked him whether he wanted to cover, or itemise any 
airborne equipment that you own? Mr W had the option to say yes or no. He selected no. 
Mr W was also asked whether he wanted to include public/products/aviation liability, to which 
he selected yes and chose £1,000,000 of cover. As such, the quote and subsequently, 
Mr Ws policy, only covered him for liability to third parties. 
The quote provided before Mr W bought the policy showed that the details in the second part 
of the document particulars about equipment. The first line allows for details of the drone to 
be documented, if they have been given: make, type, year of manufacture and any 
registration marks present. It then goes on to detail each type of cover the policy is able to 
provide for the equipment, with the sum assured applicable next to it. All of the areas of 
cover for equipment and data had sum assured written next to them and not insured beside 
that.
Mr W applied for the policy hed had quoted and Coverdrone sent him several pieces of 
documentation. The statement of fact took Mr W through the questions asked and his 
answers. He was asked to check it to ensure his answers were correct. Under Airborne 
equipment  drones it said:
Total value of all airborne equipment (including drones): Not insured
The policy schedule contained the same information as the quote, in the same format. So it 
also confirmed that Mr Ws equipment wasnt insured.
The insurance product information document (IPID) provided is a document to be used as a 
quick guide for the generic policy that Mr W arranged. It opens with the statement that says 
the agreed sums insured for the covers detailed in the document are specified in the policy 
schedule. It does then detail what is covered by the policy  physical loss or damage and 
third-party liability.
In the autumn of 2021 Mr W made a claim under his policy for the loss of his drone. 
Coverdrone declined the claim as his policy only covered him for third-party liability. Mr W 
wasnt happy with this response and questioned there being no cover for the drone itself. 
During his correspondence with Coverdrone, Mr W admitted that hed misread the question 
on the quotation request and answered it incorrectly. However, he considered that this 
mistake wasnt obvious as the documentation he was given was unclear and misleading.
Mr W complained, as hed believed that his drone had been covered for loss and damage, 
as well as third-party liability. He also considered that the policy quote and schedule werent 
clear about the cover provided and he believed the IPID document didnt comply with the 
regulators requirements for such documents.
Coverdrone responded to Mr Ws complaint. It took him through the questions on the 
application, confirming that he hadnt chosen to insure the drone itself. It then commented on 
the documentation provided to Mr W, before and after the application was made. It 
highlighted the areas of the documents that had confirmed the drone was not insured. 
Coverdrone reminded Mr W that the IPID said at the outset that the agreed sums insured are 
specified in the policy schedule, so it didnt consider the document was misleading. It didnt 
uphold the complaint. However, as a gesture of goodwill Coverdrone offered to refund the 
policy premium to Mr W, given it appeared that the policy didnt provide the cover he had 
wanted.
Mr W wasnt happy with Coverdrones response and asked this service to consider the 
complaint. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt uphold it. He was satisfied 
that Mr W hadnt asked for cover for damage or loss to his drone and that this would have 
been clear from the quote, policy schedule and statement of fact. In relation to the IPID the 
investigator explained that this was a general policy summary and it was meant to be read in 
combination with the policy schedule and terms and conditions. In that context, he didnt 
consider it misled Mr W about the policy benefits. The investigator reminded Mr W about the 
offer to refund the policy premium Coverdrone had made and asked if he wanted to accept 
it.
Mr W didnt accept the investigators conclusions. He reiterated his concerns about the IPID 
and that this meant that he was misled about the benefits the policy offered. Our investigator 
responded to Mr Ws further comments, but he didnt change his view that Mr W had enough 
information to know that his drone wasnt covered for damage or loss. Mr W asked that the 
complaint be escalated and so it has been passed to me for consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy Mr W chose to apply for is one that offers two core types of cover. The first being 
cover for physical damage to the drone and the other public liability. These are not optional 
covers in the terms the regulator means within the regulations Mr W has referenced. Rather 
they are the core benefits of the policy, but a policyholder has the option not to have one or 
the other area of cover if they choose.
When Mr W requested a quote for a policy he was asked to confirm if he wanted cover for 
physical damage/loss for his drone and public liability cover. I think the questions were clear 
and Mr W confirmed that he didnt want cover for physical damage/loss, but did want public 
liability cover. As such the subsequent documentation specific to his policy showed physical 
damage/loss risk was not insured. 
Mr W has said that he considers the quote and policy schedule were confusing. He has 
explained why, and this is because he has chosen to read part 2 of the details of cover as a 
table with headers, rather than as each horizontal line detailing individual items. I dont think 
Mr Ws interpretation of the information as a table is how it was intended or the way that an 
average consumer would view the information. I dont find the way Coverdrone has presented the information about the cover provided was misleading, and I dont think it was 
Coverdrones fault if Mr W misinterpreted it.
I have considered Mr Ws concerns about the IPID document. I am not sure that his 
interpretation of the regulations is correct in this respect. However, even if it were, that 
doesnt mean that his complaint would be upheld. The document makes it clear that it needs 
to be read in conjunction with the policy schedule, which confirms the amounts insured for 
each area of cover. The policy schedule clearly showed that there was no cover for physical 
damage or loss. 
I know this will disappoint Mr W, but I am satisfied that the information and documentation 
provided to him made it clear that the policy he had taken out only provided him with public 
liability cover. As such, I cant find that Coverdrone acted inappropriately when it declined his 
claim. 
Coverdrone offered to refund the policy premium to Mr W. This isnt something that I could 
require it to do in the circumstances, but if Mr W wants to accept that offer, he should contact 
Coverdrone directly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 
18 March 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman