DRN-3907384
The complaint
Miss Y complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) wont reimburse payments sent from her 
account which she didnt authorise.
What happened
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill recap the key points and focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
Miss Y was looking to sell an item through an online marketplace. She received a 
notification from what she thought was its online chat service, telling her that 
someone had purchased her item. Miss Y was told she needed to click on a link to 
confirm details which would then allow her to receive the payment. She was also told 
that information would be checked with her bank, and shed receive a notification on 
her banking app, but she wouldnt be charged. 
Miss Y followed the instructions but, rather than receiving the expected payment, 
£364.05 had left her Monzo account. She queried this with the agent and was 
advised that this had happened due to a system error following the website crashing. 
Miss Y was told the money was frozen and she needed to enter the data again to 
enable all the funds to be received. She followed the instructions and realised a 
further £364.05 had debited her bank account. 
Miss Y contacted Monzo and realised shed been scammed. It looked into her claim 
and said it wouldnt refund her as shed consented to the payments by approving 
them in the app. 
Our investigator concluded that Miss Y didnt authorise either payment but had acted 
with gross negligence in relation to the second transaction. They asked Monzo to 
refund the initial payment, along with interest, and pay £100 compensation for not 
refunding her sooner. 
Miss Y accepted the investigators assessment, but Monzo didnt.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), broadly speaking, 
Miss Y isnt liable for payments she hasnt authorised, unless she failed with intent or 
gross negligence to comply with the terms of the account or keep her personalised 
security details safe. And Miss Y is liable for payments shes authorised. The PSRs 
explain that authorisation depends on whether the payment transaction was 
authenticated correctly and whether the consumer consented to them.
There doesnt appear to be any dispute over whether the payment transactions were 
properly authenticated  Miss Ys security credentials were used on both occasions. 
Thinking about consent next, the PSRs state how consent is given. It must be in the 
form and in accordance with the procedure agreed between the consumer and the 
payment service provider (Monzo in this case). In other words, consent is provided 
when the consumer completes the agreed steps for making a transaction or allows 
someone else to complete them.
It is my understanding that Miss Ys card details and other payment information (such 
as the amount) were entered to initiate the transactions. Then, her PIN was entered 
on the banking app to complete the transactions. Having considered the available 
information, Im not persuaded that it was Miss Y who entered her card details and 
other payment information to initiate the transactions. She did share her card details 
on the link the scammer sent her, but she did so with the understanding that these 
were needed in order to receive the payment. 
Monzo argues that Miss Y consented to the payments as she entered her PIN on the 
app on both occasions. It submits that its terms and conditions, which Miss Y agreed 
to, set out how a customer can consent to making a payment, and entering the PIN is 
one of the methods. But Miss Y didnt enter her PIN with the understanding that she 
was consenting to a payment. Rather, she thought that this was part of the procedure 
to receive payment for an item she was selling. Its also important to note that 
entering the PIN alone isnt enough to execute a payment  additional steps, such as 
entering the card details and payment amount, are needed. And I can see that 
Monzos terms appear to acknowledge this (see Info the merchant may need to take 
the payment). 
Given that I find Miss Y didnt complete all the steps to make the payments or 
consent to someone else completing them on her behalf, despite Monzos position on 
the matter, the payments are unauthorised. 
Miss Y could still be held liable for payments she didnt authorise if she failed with 
intent or gross negligence to comply with the terms of the account or keep her 
personalised security details safe. I dont find that Miss Y intentionally failed to keep 
her account or security details safe. She entered her card details to receive a 
payment, not realising that this information could be used by the scammer to initiate 
a payment. And she didnt share her PIN; she entered it into her own banking app.
In relation to the first payment, I dont find that Miss Y failed with gross negligence 
either. She was selling an item through a marketplace that shed not used before. 
She provided her card details to receive payment for an item she believed shed sold. 
The scammer told Miss Y that entering her PIN on the app was part of the payment 
receipt process. In the context of what Miss Y was told by the scammer, I can see 
why in that moment she was persuaded to enter her PIN to receive the payment. 
Monzo argues that the app notification clearly set out that the payment was 
outbound. It has provided a sample screenshot which it says is just like the one 
Miss Y would have seen. Ive carefully reviewed it, but the screenshot makes no 
reference to the transaction being outbound. And while it displays an amount, its 
unclear whether a transaction executed in a different currency (as happened in 
Miss Ys case) would have shown the amount in that currency or the amount 
converted in sterling. Miss Y has told us she recalls seeing an amount in a different 
currency. This might explain why she may not have realised that the transaction amount was higher than what she was expecting to receive when she entered her 
PIN. Regardless, I dont think Miss Ys actions in that moment fell so far below what a 
reasonable person would have done such that I think they amount to gross 
negligence. And so, Miss Y isnt liable for this transaction, meaning Monzo needs to 
reimburse her alongside interest to compensate her for the time shes been out of 
pocket.
Thinking next about the second payment, the scammer told Miss Y to follow the 
instructions again as the system had crashed. This time, they instructed her to make 
a payment equal to the amount that had erroneously debited her account. The 
scammer went as far as to suggest that Miss Y top-up her Monzo account to enable 
the payment. These were red flags, and they ought reasonably to have given Miss Y 
cause for concern that her Monzo account was at risk. But she disregarded that 
obvious risk by proceeding with the scammers instructions and that led to the money 
being taken from her account. I find that Miss Ys actions were significantly careless, 
and so shes liable for this transaction. That means Monzo doesnt need to reimburse 
her.
Monzo ought to have reimbursed Miss Y the first transaction much sooner and this 
caused her inconvenience as she was left without money for a period. Additionally, 
shes been put through the time and trouble of pursuing this matter and thats caused 
her to worry about getting her money back. I agree with the investigator that £100 
compensation is a fair reflection of the impact of that.  
Putting things right
To put things right, Monzo Bank Ltd needs to:
reimburse Miss Y the first unauthorised payment transaction of £364.05;
pay 8% simple interest per year on that amount, from the date of the unauthorised 
transaction to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible); and 
pay Miss Y £100 compensation for her distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Monzo Bank 
Ltd to put things right for Miss Y as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Y to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman