DRN-2770401
The complaint
Mr T complains, on behalf of his group of companies that I will refer to as H, that Jelf 
Insurance Brokers Limited provided him with misleading information about Hs insurance 
policy. And this led to H being underinsured. 
  
What happened
Mr T is the director of a group of companies; H. He arranged insurance for H through Jelf  
an insurance broker. 
H was originally a single company. However in 2017 Mr T contacted Jelf to inform it that he 
had restructured the company. He said there were now four separate companies that came 
under the umbrella of H, and he needed insurance for all four. 
Jelf contacted the insurer and asked if Hs policy could be amended to meet the new 
requirements. It later confirmed to Mr T that the same policy would remain, with the new 
companies added as additional insureds. And the terms remained unchanged. 
In 2019 there was a leak at Hs premises that caused significant damage to the building and 
business equipment. Mr T made a claim on Hs insurance. 
While the claim was being investigated it transpired that the policy limits of the insurance 
applied jointly across the four companies. Rather than each company having its own 
individual limit, as Mr T had understood to be the case. This meant the business was 
underinsured and the claim pay out was around 25% of the true risk value, as the insurer 
applied an average. 
Mr T wasnt happy with this and he made a complaint. He said he had made it clear to Jelf 
when he made the adjustment to the policy that he wanted all four businesses to be insured 
in the same way. And the policy schedule Jelf had provided stated that additional insured 
parties are covered on the same basis as the insured. So he had thought all four businesses 
had the same level of cover  each up to the policy limits. He therefore said Jelf had 
provided unclear and misleading information and were responsible for the losses H had 
suffered due to the underinsurance. 
Jelf didnt uphold his complaint. It said it was Mr Ts responsibility to make it clear to it that 
he required each limit to apply to each individual company. And it should have been clear to 
him that this wasnt the case as the cost of the policy didnt increase when it was amended.
Mr T didnt think this was fair. He said  due to the fact that he only received 25% of the true 
value of the settlement, H had suffered significant losses. And he wouldnt have agreed to 
the policy if he had known the limits wouldnt apply individually. He brought his complaint to 
this service.
Our investigator recommended Hs complaint be upheld. He said he agreed Jelf had 
provided unclear information when the policy was adjusted. So he thought it should pay H 
the remaining 75% of the claim, without the average applied. He also thought it should pay H 
£2,000 compensation to make up for the inconvenience it had caused. However he didnt 
agree there was enough evidence to show that Jelf had caused the business losses H had 
suffered. So he didnt agree it should pay H any for these consequential losses. 
Jelf accepted our investigators opinion. However Mr T didnt agree. He said he thought Jelf 
had caused H to lose around £300,000 and provided a detailed breakdown of these losses. 
He said as Jelf caused the losses due to its mistake, it should reimburse H to put it back in 
the position it would have been in if it had got the correct pay out. 
This didnt change our investigators view, so the complaint has come to me to decide.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Underinsurance
Mr T says that when he asked Jelf to make the adjustment to his policy, he had understood 
that all four of his companies would have the same cover as the original company  
including the same applicable policy limits. 
Companies that sell insurance have a duty to provide their customers with clear and not 
misleading information, both at the point of sale and when adjustments are made. In this 
case Jelf has advised that it was acting under supervised delegated authority. This means 
that while it is the insurer that makes decisions about the cover offered, it is Jelf that puts the 
policy documents together and issues them to its customer. So it is its responsibility to make 
sure any significant terms in the policy are made clear. I need to decide if it provided clear 
and not misleading information when it made the adjustment.  
Mr T originally called Jelf to enquire about making the adjustment. Ive listened to this call 
and its clear that Mr T didnt know what needed to be done in order ensure he had the 
correct level of insurance. He explained he was restructuring his company but asked a 
number of times what he would need to do in order to ensure they all had insurance. From 
this, I think it was clear that he was seeking guidance from Jelf as experts. And therefore 
may not have known what information would be needed or which questions to ask.
After this Mr T sent through more detail about what each of the companies does  as 
requested by Jelf. And shortly after, Jelf confirmed the change to Hs policy. It said in the 
email: I can confirm [the insurer] are happy to add all companies to the policy and with 
amended business activities. They have also agreed to do this at no additional charge.
The email attached a copy of the new policy schedule which showed the three extra 
companies as additional insureds. And in the additional insureds section, next to the name 
of each it said covered on the same basis as the insured.
Having considered all the evidence I dont think Jelf did enough to ensure it was providing 
clear and not misleading information. It was clear from Mr Ts first enquiry that he was 
unsure what he would need to do to get the right level of cover. And after this enquiry Jelf 
provided very little information, other than to confirm the change had been made. Given that 
Mr T was looking for guidance, I think it would have been prudent and reasonable for Jelf to 
ask further questions of both Mr T and the insurer. To make sure It provided Mr T with clear 
information about any significant terms. Having reviewed the full policy document, under General Conditions it states that If more 
than one insured is named in the schedule, the total amount we will pay will not exceed the 
amount we would be liable to pay any one of you. So I can see that the policy limit would be 
the total payable, rather than applying to each individual insured. However this is included in 
the full policy wording only. And isnt highlighted by Jelf in the policy schedule or the key 
facts document  the documents that were sent to Mr T when the change was made. In the 
circumstances I think this is a significant term in the policy  especially as the policy was 
changing from having just one insured to multiple insureds. So previously it wouldnt have 
been significant, but following the change it was. So I think Jelf should have highlighted this 
term to Mr T when the adjustment was made. 
But as Jelf didnt highlight this, I think the information on the policy schedule that was 
attached to the email, suggested that the cover for all four companies would be the same as 
the main insured. So I think it would be reasonable for Mr T to assume this meant that all 
four companies had identical cover to the policy the first company had always had in place.
So for these reasons I agree with our investigator that Jelf didnt do enough to ensure it 
provided Mr T with clear and not misleading information about the change to the policy. And 
I think this resulted in H being underinsured and receiving a reduced pay out. So in order to 
put H back in the position it would have been in, I will require Jelf to pay the remainder of the 
claim without the average applied - £48,288.93. I will also require Jelf to pay 8% simple 
interest on this amount from the date the claim should have been settled until the date 
payment is made, to make up for the time H has been without the money.                                                      
Ive also considered the impact the underinsurance has had on H, to decide if Jelf should do 
anything more.
Consequential loss
Mr T has said that due to the fact H was underinsured, its suffered significant losses. He 
also says that Jelf delayed the payment of the claim, which led to further losses. 
When an insurance claim arises, there will usually be some loss suffered due to the insured 
event itself. In this case there was a leak that flooded Hs premises. It caused significant 
damage to the building and business equipment. These things would have been disruptive to 
Hs day to day running. 
When looking at this part of Hs complaint, I can only make an award if Im persuaded that 
Jelfs actions directly caused Hs losses, rather than the losses being a consequence of the 
leak itself. I therefore need to be satisfied that its most likely that H wouldnt have suffered 
the losses if it hadnt been underinsured, or if Jelf hadnt caused unnecessary delays.
To decide this, I have first considered whether Jelf caused unnecessary delays.
Ive looked at the correspondence and claim notes provided by Jelf. I can see it took around 
four months for it to investigate the matter and provide a response to H. While this took time, 
I dont think this was unreasonable in the circumstances. The matter involved enquires with 
both Jelf and the insurer. And H also made a complaint to the insurer, who subsequently 
provided two final responses  one in April and one in June. And Jelf was reliant on the 
insurers response in order to conclude its own investigations. 
Further I can see that Jelf was in correspondence with the insurer throughout its 
investigation and there was a lot of back and forth between the two when considering the 
matter. So while I appreciate it took a long time for Jelf to provide a full response to H, having looked at the notes from the investigation, including correspondence between Jelf 
and the insurer, I dont think this delay was avoidable. 
As I dont think Jelf caused unnecessary delays, I have gone on to consider whether the fact 
H was underinsured caused the business losses. 
Mr T has said that the main reason H has suffered losses is because its staff didnt have an 
appropriate place to work from, nor did they have the correct equipment. He says this meant 
the business couldnt continue as usual, causing it to lose customers, income and eventually 
staff. And if itd had the full insurance settlement it would have been able to arrange these 
things and avoid the losses.
I agree that these factors would have had an impact on the day to day business of H. And I 
can see that Hs turnover reduced in comparison to previous years since the leak happened. 
So I dont doubt that the business has been greatly impacted by the disruption. However Im 
not persuaded that if H hadnt been underinsured that these losses would have been 
avoided. 
It usually takes some time for a claim to be assessed and verified, and therefore H wouldnt 
have received the settlement on the day of the event. In this case the settlement was offered 
to H by the insurer towards the end of May 2019  but had the average applied. At the time 
Mr T didnt accept the amount as he was disputing the underinsurance. However if H hadnt 
been underinsured its likely he would have accepted the settlement at this stage. 
The leak happened in February 2019, so this was already over two months after the event. 
And during this time, H hadnt secured alternative premises or replaced equipment. So 
regardless of the settlement amount, this period of time without the correct premises or 
equipment would have impacted H. And this alone would have caused H financial loss.
I appreciate that had H received the full settlement in May it could have used the money to 
start the process of replacing the equipment and moving to a new premises. But even if this 
had happened, Ive not seen enough evidence to show that this would have meant H didnt 
suffer the losses it has. Or that the loss would have been substantially less. 
So while I recognise H has clearly suffered significant losses, I cant reasonably say that 
these were as a result of Jelfs actions. But were instead an unfortunate consequence of the 
damage caused by the leak. For this reason it wouldnt be fair for me to ask Jelf to pay for 
these losses. So I wont require Jelf to pay H for the losses it has suffered as a result of the 
claim. 
Compensation
While Im not persuaded that Jelf is responsible for Hs losses, I agree that it has caused it 
inconvenience. The fact H was underinsured led to a delay in Jelfs investigation, and while I 
dont think this delay was unreasonable in the circumstances, it did mean H was 
inconvenienced. It meant Mr T had to spend extra time corresponding with Jelf, at a time 
when H was already suffering the impact of the leak. For these reasons I agree with our 
investigator and will require Jelf to Pay H £2,000 compensation to make up for the 
inconvenience it caused.
 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I require Jelf Insurance Brokers Limited to:Pay H £48,288.93 - the remaining 75% of the claim, if H hadnt been underinsured. 
Pay H 8% simple interest on this amount from the date the claim should have been 
settled until the date payment is made.*
Pay H £2,000 compensation to make up for the inconvenience it has caused. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman