DRN-4209652
The complaint
Mrs B complains about the level of service, delays and the suitability of the advice provided 
by Chase de Vere Independent Financial Advisers limited (CDV) regarding accessing 
money from her personal pension plan (PPP) to partially fund the cost of renovating her 
house. She says she wasnt correctly advised about the tax implications of withdrawing 
money from her PPP and, by the time she realised, it was too late to change plans for the 
renovation.
She says that the delays and errors by CDV caused her to suffer significant stress, worry 
and embarrassment after she had to unexpectedly borrow money from friends and family 
before obtaining a mortgage of £320,000 as an alternative option to complete the renovation.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 20 June 2023 in which I set out the
background and my provisional findings. Ive repeated what I said here:
In October 2020, Mrs B bought a house knowing that it required significant renovation. She 
was an existing client of CDV who had previously provided advice on her investment and 
pension arrangements. In June 2021, she emailed CDV to request advice on how to the fund 
the renovation which she thought would cost somewhere between £300,000 and £400,000. 
In July 2021, Mrs B had a meeting with CDV who recorded details about her circumstances, 
summarised as follows:
She was aged 69, a widower, in good health and worked part-time as a locum having 
previously been employed by the NHS;
Her total monthly income after tax was about £7,684 which came from four sources: 
locum income of £3,930, an NHS pension of £2,106, a spouses pension of £1,033 
and State pension of £615. Details of how much Lifetime Allowance (LTA) was 
used when Mrs B took her NHS pension werent recorded or requested by CDV at 
that time;
Her monthly expenditure was about £4,000, meaning she had disposable income of 
about £3,500;
Her investable assets totalled about £1,338,289, which comprised an uncrystallised 
PPP valued at £1,021,000 (the PPP at the centre of this complaint), an ISA valued at 
£272,289 and cash savings of £45,000. She had an investment bond valued at 
£146,314 but couldnt access it since it was held in trust for the benefit of her 
children; and
Her goals and needs were recorded as, Client considering a capital withdrawal in 
the near future, to fund home improvements, following a recent house move.
A few days after the meeting, Mrs B emailed CDV and stated that, based on new information 
provided by her architect, the expected cost of the renovation had increased to about 
£465,000 plus VAT, fees and other costs. Following that meeting in July 2021, CDV didnt 
provide any formal recommendation to Mrs B about withdrawing capital from her PPP to 
cover the cost of the renovation.
In August 2021, the renovation started. Over the following months, Mrs B withdrew ad hoc 
lump sums from her ISA and cash savings to fund the early stages of the renovation. Her 
PPP remained untouched during this time.
In January 2022, Mrs B contacted CDV again. There followed an exchange of emails. In 
summary, she stated she required about another £400,000 to complete the renovation. But 
she required an immediate lump sum of £200,000 to fund the next stage. CDV explained to 
Mrs B that she didnt have enough money in her ISA, then valued at about £130,000, to 
provide the full £200,000 and would therefore need to access her PPP which would involve 
her withdrawing taxable money  it stated that, because of this, it would need to produce a 
pension drawdown report (the Report). To enable CDV to produce the Report, it asked  
Mrs B to provide precise details about costs and timescales so that it could consider 
recommending withdrawals across different tax years, where possible. CDV also asked                
Mrs B to provide details about how much LTA was used when she took her NHS pension.
On 21 February 2022, after obtaining the information from the NHS Pension Scheme, Mrs B 
emailed CDV and stated she had used 70.04% of her LTA when she took benefits in 2012  
this meant she had a remaining LTA of 29.96% or £321,500 based on the standard LTA of 
£1,073,100 for 2022/23. CDV replied to Mrs B on the following day to acknowledge this and 
stated that the Report was being worked on.
There followed a further exchange of emails in March during which time Mrs B stated she 
then required £350,000 and asked about the tax implications of withdrawing that money from 
her PPP. On 6 April 2022, CDV replied and stated it was, Finishing the drawdown report as 
we speak. Some of the pension withdrawal will be tax free and the remainder taxed as 
earned income. The report will detail this. On the same date, CDV issued its Report to             
Mrs B (she didnt receive this until 9 April because CDV sent it to the wrong address). In the 
Report CDV recommended that Mrs B crystallise £665,000 of her uncrystallised PPP then 
valued at £973,110 to generate a net of tax payment of £350,000. 
Mrs B accepted CDVs recommendation and expected to receive the net amount of 
£350,000 from her PPP shortly. But she became increasingly distressed and frustrated 
during the remainder of April and into early May 2022 about the lack of communication from 
CDV and the delay in receiving the money. She expressed her concerns to CDV and that 
she was under pressure to settle invoices for her builder. CDV responded and explained it 
was reliant on the PPP provider to act on its instruction and sell assets into cash before 
remitting the money to her bank account. 
On 9 May 2022, while dealing with the withdrawal request, an administrator at the PPP 
provider emailed CDV and stated:
I note that the client has indicated on the Flexi-Access Drawdown form that they 
have used 70.04% of the lifetime allowance and that they have requested a further 
crystallisation of £665,000.00. As such, the client will be incurring a Lifetime 
Allowance tax charge as the client will be exceeding the Lifetime Allowance by 
£343,499.24 (32.00%). Based on the lifetime allowance charge option chosen in the 
form (55% lifetime allowance charge and a 45% lump sum) the client will incur a tax 
charge of £188,924.58 and will be paid a lump sum of £154,574.65. If you have any 
queries in regards to this please do let us know.CDV forwarded the email to Mrs B and mentioned  for the first time during the advice 
process  that there would be an LTA tax charge on the crystallisation.
Mrs B replied to CDV by email and stated she was shocked to learn that implementing the 
recommendation would lead to an LTA tax charge of £188,294.58. Based on her 
interpretation of the PPP providers email of 9 May 2022, she thought the transaction would 
lead to a total tax charge of £510,425.35. She couldnt understand how CDV had concluded 
it was suitable advice to relinquish £510,425.35 of her PPP fund value in tax to receive a net 
payment of £154,574.65. 
In its email response of 10 May 2022, CDV stated, Yes, the Taxation and the Lifetime 
Allowance charge are high, which is one of the reasons that withdrawing capital from 
Pensions is usually a last resort. The withdrawal can be stopped and the funds reinvested, 
as the funds were disinvested proportionally across the portfolio. With regards remortgaging 
to cover the improvements, this can of course be done, and I can put you in contact with one 
of our specialists.
Shortly after this exchange, Mrs B was diagnosed with cancer. There followed further 
conversations between Mrs B and CDV during May 2022. The outcome was that she 
crystallised £321,500 of her PPP to exhaust her remaining LTA  this enabled her to take 
25%, or £80,375, as a tax-free lump sum on 16 May 2022 and leave the balance invested 
(so no taxable income was withdrawn). But this wasnt enough money to complete the 
renovation. So she borrowed money from family and friends as a short-term remedy until 
she was able to obtain a mortgage. She expected a mortgage adviser from CDV to contact 
her but that didnt happen. So she arranged for a £320,000 mortgage over a nine-year term 
on the advice of another adviser not connected to CDV. She then terminated her relationship 
with CDV.
This complaint
Mrs B was very upset about the level of service, delays and suitability of the advice provided 
by CDV. She was particularly upset about the delay in receiving its Report in April 2022 and 
that it failed to mention an LTA tax charge would apply if she crystallised £665,000 of her 
PPP fund value. She said that had she known this when she had a meeting with CDV in  
July 2021, she would never have embarked on such a large-scale renovation. But by the 
time she realised in May 2022 that an LTA tax charge would apply, it was too late to change 
plans for the renovation. And so this led to her unexpectedly having to borrow money from 
friends and family before obtaining a mortgage £320,000 as an alternative option to 
complete the renovation. She stated that borrowing money from friends and family had 
caused her embarrassment and that being diagnosed with cancer at the time amplified the 
stress, worry and embarrassment caused by CDVs delays and errors.  She thought that 
CDVs advice had caused her significant harm and led to her suffering a financial loss with 
no emergency fund or money available for discretionary spending because of her ongoing 
mortgage costs.
To put things right, she asked that CDV reimburse her for all costs associated with her 
borrowing money and pay redress for the considerable trouble and upset caused by its 
delays and errors.
CDVs response to this complaint
CDV upheld Mrs Bs complaint in part. It stated that its role wasnt to advise clients on 
moving properties or funding renovation projects since this was a specialist area. And so, in 
its view, it wasnt responsible for advising Mrs B on how to fund the renovation or scrutinising her decisions regarding how much to spend on it. It stated its relationship with Mrs B was 
limited only to advising on the management of her investment and pension arrangements 
and to facilitate withdrawal requests in the most appropriate manner. It apologised for the 
delays she had experienced in receiving some withdrawals but said it was dependent on the 
product providers to action its requests. It also apologised for the delay in issuing its Report 
and that one of its mortgage advisers didnt contact her, as had been promised.
While it understood the situation was upsetting, it stated it wasnt responsible for Mrs Bs 
decision to buy her house or the higher than expected renovation costs. But it accepted it 
shouldve recognised and considered in early 2022 the impact of the LTA which wouldve 
enabled Mrs B to consider alternative options sooner, such as obtaining a mortgage. But it 
was satisfied that, ultimately, the situation had been resolved satisfactorily because Mrs B 
took a reduced amount of £80,375 from her PPP to avoid an LTA tax charge and obtained a 
mortgage to complete the renovation, which is likely what wouldve had happened anyway 
had the LTA issue been identified sooner.
In recognition of the delays and material trouble and upset Mrs B suffered because of its 
error relating to the LTA, it offered to pay her a compensation payment of £1,500.
Our investigators assessment
Mrs B didnt accept CDVs offer and referred the matter to this service. Our investigator 
recommended that this complaint should be upheld. He thought that CDV had made several 
mistakes and provided a poor level of service to Mrs B. In his view, based on Mrs Bs 
recorded requirements in July 2021, CDV shouldve provided a recommendation at that time 
on how to fund the renovation using her investments and pension arrangements. And that, 
had it done this, the LTA issue wouldve become apparent sooner than early 2022, as 
suggested by CDV. He said that had this happened, Mrs B wouldve been placed into an 
informed position sooner and therefore able to consider reassessing the scale of the 
renovation and consider alternative options to fund it. Given her age, he didnt think Mrs B 
wouldve chosen to obtain a mortgage but, due to the delays and errors made by CDV, she 
was essentially compelled to obtain a mortgage of £320,000 to complete the renovation. But 
he recognised that obtaining the mortgage and investing more money into the renovation 
had, in turn, likely increased the value of her house beyond what it wouldve been had the 
renovation been scaled back. And that she ultimately has the option of equity release or to 
downsize to a smaller property to enable her to repay the mortgage.
To put things right, he recommended that CDV:
increase its compensation payment for the trouble and upset caused by its delays 
and errors from £1,500 to £2,000;
refund any relevant adviser fees related to its recommendation; and
pay the interest on Mrs Bs mortgage for the first five years as an upfront lump sum.
Mrs B accepted our investigators assessment and recommendation. She commented that 
while the value of her PPP is substantial, its effectively of little value to her due to the 
punitive tax charges to access money. And so she doesnt believe shell be able to benefit 
from it during her lifetime, although she acknowledged her children will on her death. She 
concluded that in the medium term, equity release was likely to be the best solution to 
enable her to remain in her house.
CDV didnt accept our investigators assessment. It said it cannot be held responsible for 
Mrs Bs decision to buy her home and start a large-scale renovation which, by her own action and subsequent admission, escalated beyond the initial estimates. Notwithstanding 
this, it said that there wasnt any evidence Mrs B wouldve scaled back the renovation had 
the issue regarding the LTA come to light sooner. So it didnt agree it should pay 
compensation in connection with Mrs Bs mortgage interest costs for the first five years of 
the loan. It noted that the fact find document from July 2021 showed she had disposable 
income that wouldve covered the cost of a mortgage and said that the investigator had 
ignored the scenario Mrs B likely wouldve had to obtain a mortgage anyway had the LTA 
issue been brought to her attention sooner. Finally, it said that Mrs B could decide to 
downsize at any time or achieve funding through equity release to resolve her situation. 
Our investigator considered CDVs comments but wasnt persuaded to change his mind. 
Since agreement couldnt be reached, it requested that this complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman for review.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules, guidance and good industry 
practice at the time. Ive also carefully considered the submissions made by Mrs B and CDV. 
Where the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, Ive made my decision based on the 
balance of probabilities. In other words Ive looked at what evidence we do have, and the 
surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have 
happened.
Before going any further, Id like to say that Im very sorry to hear about Mrs Bs ill-health. 
Reading through her correspondence, I can see that being diagnosed with cancer during a 
large-scale renovation on her home has had a significant impact on her life over the past 
year.
CDVs role
To begin with, I think its important that I express my view on CDVs role in its dealings with 
Mrs B. I dont think CDV was responsible for scrutinising or checking Mrs Bs decisions 
regarding the renovation of her home. In my view, it was ultimately for Mrs B to decide how 
much she was prepared to spend on the renovation. That the cost escalated and ended up 
being substantially more than was first estimated isnt CDVs fault or responsibility. 
CDV said that its role wasnt to advise clients on moving properties or funding renovation 
projects since this was a specialist area. But Mrs B wasnt seeking such specialist advice. 
Rather, she simply wanted CDV, who had advised her during the preceding several years, to 
provide advice on how best to withdraw money from her investment and pension 
arrangements to fund the renovation. If it wasnt CDVs role to advise on this, then I think it 
shouldve made this clear to Mrs B in June 2021. But it didnt. It instead proceeded to hold a 
fact find meeting with her in July 2021 during which it noted, Client considering a capital 
withdrawal in the near future, to fund home improvements, following a recent house move 
and then issued its Report in April 2022 recommending she crystallise £665,000 of her PPP 
fund value in connection with this. It later suggested in May 2022 that Mrs B obtain a 
mortgage to complete the renovation. So I think its fair to say that Mrs B reasonably 
believed CDV had agreed to provide advice to her on this and was, therefore, relying on it to 
provide expert advice. 
In my view, CDV had a regulatory obligation to act in Mrs Bs best interests and to provide a 
suitable recommendation to achieve her stated objective.              
CDVs recommendation
In its Report in April 2022, CDV recommended that Mrs B crystallise £665,000 of her PPP 
fund value to generate a net of tax payment of £350,000. The Report confirmed that the 
value of Mrs Bs PPP was then valued at £973,110 and CDV stated, I am recommending 
that you utilise your existing [PPP] which is currently uncrystallised and draw a capital sum 
of £665,000 as a gross taxable withdrawal of which, after tax, should provide you with a 
lump sum of approximately £350,000. We discussed the fact that you would have to pay tax 
on this withdrawal and you confirmed that you understood this. 
Mrs B made this complaint because CDV failed to consider the impact of an LTA tax charge 
when formulating its recommendation  it was only after the PPP provider, when facilitating 
the withdrawal request in May 2022, warned CDV that an LTA tax charge would apply that 
both CDV and Mrs B first became aware.
CDV doesnt dispute this and has already conceded that it made a mistake by failing to take 
into account the impact of the LTA earlier in the advice process. It says it shouldve identified 
the issue in early 2022. But I have a different view.
In June and July 2021 there were several email exchanges and a meeting between Mrs B 
and CDV when a fact find document was completed. This evidence confirms that from                   
July 2021 onwards, CDV knew:
the estimated cost of the renovation was over £465,000 plus VAT;
Mrs B wanted advice on using her investable assets to fund the renovation  and that 
her investable assets totalled about £1,338,289, which comprised an uncrystallised 
PPP valued at £1,021,000 (the PPP at the centre of this complaint), an ISA valued at 
£272,289 and cash savings of £45,000;
she was in receipt of income from four sources including an NHS pension income; 
and
she had disposable income of about £3,500 every month.
Based on what CDV knew in July 2021, its my view it ought to have realised Mrs Bs ISA 
and cash savings of about £317,289 wouldnt be enough to cover the estimated cost of the 
renovation of £465,000 plus VAT and that she would therefore likely need to crystallise some 
of her PPP in the short-term and/or obtain borrowing to complete the project. Given CDV 
knew Mrs B was receiving an NHS pension income, I think it shouldve realised she had 
previously used some of her LTA. And that this shouldve prompted it to establish her LTA 
position as soon as possible. But it didnt. Rather, despite knowing Mrs B would likely need 
to withdraw money from her PPP, CDV appears to have done nothing meaningful in advising 
Mrs B and inexplicably waited until January 2022 to request information from her about 
previous LTA usage before issuing its Report in April 2022.
 
Based on the above considerations, I think CDV shouldve recognised in July 2021 the 
importance of understanding Mrs Bs LTA position as soon as possible. Had it done so and 
acted in her best interests by obtaining the information sooner, I think its likely it wouldve 
issued its Report in late summer/early autumn 2021 rather than in April 2022.
CDV didnt include in its Report a computation of how it determined that crystallising 
£665,000 of the PPP fund value would generate a net payment of £350,000. For example, there wasnt any reference to 25% of the crystallised amount up to her remaining LTA being 
tax-free, or the level of income tax that would be applied to the residual taxable element or 
the part of the withdrawal above the LTA being subject to an LTA tax charge  this was 
despite noting in the Report that Mrs B was receiving NHS pension income and had 
previously been informed she had used 70.04% of her LTA in connection with this. Rather, 
CDV simply noted that the crystallised amount of £665,000 would be subject to income tax 
rate at, 40% & 45% and, it appears, used this as a basis to arrive at a net payment of 
£350,000. The Report also included typos and references to other individuals not connected 
to Mrs B, suggesting that CDV had cut and pasted content from a different report, which 
clearly wasnt appropriate.
Mrs B was content to proceed with the recommendation to crystallise £665,000 of her PPP 
fund value to receive a net payment of £350,000. When she received a copy of the email 
dated 9 May 2022 from the PPP provider, she incorrectly believed shed only receive 
£154,574.65 from the total crystallised amount of £665,000. What the email from the PPP 
provider didnt explain, or CDV when forwarding the email to Mrs B, was that £321,500 of the 
withdrawal would use her remaining LTA, and of that amount 25% (£80,375) would be tax-
free and the balance (£241,125) would be subject to income tax at her marginal rate  given 
her income from other sources, her marginal rate wouldve likely been 40% or even 45%. 
Had Mrs B followed the recommendation and crystallised £665,000 of her PPP fund value, 
she wouldve received a net payment of at least £367,569, broken down as follows:
£80,375 tax-free lump sum; plus
£241,125 less income tax of £108,506 (assumed worst case scenario of income tax 
at 45% on the whole amount) = £132,619; plus
£343,499 less the 55% LTA tax charge of £188,924 = £154,575
I cannot see any evidence that either CDV or the PPP provider explained this to Mrs B at the 
time or in response to this complaint. And so it appears shes continued to incorrectly 
believe, based on the content of that email of 9 May 2022, that crystallising £665,000 would 
result in a net payment of £154,574.65 which was substantially less than her requirement for 
a lump sum of £350,000. I think the lack of clarity on this point exacerbated her confusion 
which, understandably, led to her questioning the entire concept of withdrawing money from 
her PPP to the point where she now believes its of no value to her during her lifetime.
Mrs B has complained about the suitability of CDVs recommendation in April 2022, but she 
did so from an uninformed position because she incorrectly thought the transaction would 
lead to a total tax charge of £510,425.35. But this isnt the case, as Ive explained above. 
Had CDV understood and explained the above to Mrs B, she may well have proceeded with 
the withdrawal to achieve a net payment of £367,569  I think this is a fair conclusion 
bearing in mind she initially accepted the recommendation on the basis it would generate a 
net payment of £350,000.
But whether it was suitable for Mrs B to crystallise £665,000 of her PPP at that time and 
relinquish about £297,431 of its fund value in tax is a separate question which Ive covered 
in the next section.
What should CDV have recommended?
Had a competent business conducted a proper analysis and issued a Report to Mrs B in late 
summer/early autumn 2021, as I think shouldve happened for the reasons explained above, 
I think a suitable solution to achieve Mrs Bs objective wouldve entailed her:fully utilising her ISA and cash savings (because there werent any tax implications 
with this);
crystallising £321,500 of her PPP to exhaust her remaining LTA of £321,500 to 
enable her to take 25%, or £80,375, as a tax-free lump (and leave the balance 
invested so no taxable income was withdrawn); and
obtaining a mortgage for the balance of the money she required to complete the 
renovation (rather than withdrawing taxable money from her PPP which wouldve 
been subject to punitive tax charges given she was already receipt of significant 
taxable income from other sources and had limited LTA available).
Ultimately, this is what Mrs B did, albeit several months later in 2022. I think, given the 
circumstances, this was likely the most suitable option for her and so shes broadly in the 
correct financial position had a suitable recommendation been provided.
I say this because at that time she was in receipt of substantial annual income from four 
sources which was about £92,208 after income tax, meaning her gross annual income was 
well in excess of £100,000. So any taxable income she withdrew from her PPP wouldve 
been subject to income tax at 40% or even 45%. After paying for essentials, she had 
disposable income of about £3,500 available every month  so Im satisfied that she could 
afford to borrow money to complete the renovation; if affordability was deemed an issue, 
then I dont think she wouldve been able to obtain a mortgage of £320,000 at age 70 over a 
nine-year term at a fixed monthly cost of £3,335.20 for the first five years. Based on her 
income, she could afford the mortgage, albeit it left minimal disposable income available 
every month. But she retained access to her PPP from which she could draw taxable income 
to meet any unexpected costs.
Would Mrs B have made a different decision?
Mrs B has said that had she been made aware of the LTA issue sooner she wouldve made 
a decision to scale back the renovation to avoid obtaining a mortgage. Im not convinced. Its 
clear it was a large-scale project. And that even by July 2021 the estimated cost of £465,000 
plus VAT exceeded the value her ISA and cash savings by a substantial margin, meaning 
shed need to obtain money from elsewhere. Ive not seen any evidence of how Mrs B may 
have scaled back the project such that she could avoid obtaining a mortgage. 
I think given the scale of the project it was inevitable shed need to borrow money. Mrs B 
may not have wanted to obtain a mortgage at that time, but I think its fair to say that by 
borrowing the money, it enabled her to invest a greater amount into the renovation which 
has likely led to the current value of her home being higher than it otherwise wouldve been 
had the project been scaled back (with less money invested into it). This fact needs to be 
borne in mind. Obtaining the mortgage also enabled Mrs B to retain substantial money in a 
tax-efficient environment in the PPP from which she can withdraw taxable income in the 
future, perhaps when shes stopped working. 
I think its also important to highlight that if repaid within nine years, the total cost of the 
mortgage will be significantly less than the tax Mrs B wouldve incurred had she followed 
CDVs recommendation in April 2022. While Mrs B may not currently see it this way, its 
likely worked out in her best interests (and the best interests of her children) that she didnt 
follow CDVs recommendation by crystallising £665,000 of her PPP fund value at that time. 
Had she done so, she wouldve relinquished about £297,431 of her PPP fund value in tax  
but that money now remains in her PPP for future use. In addition, while the net payment of £367,569 from her PPP wouldve enabled Mrs B to 
complete the renovation and avoid obtaining a mortgage, that money wouldve been brought 
into her estate for inheritance tax purposes and so a part of this money wouldve likely been 
subject to a further tax charge at 40% on her death  given her wider financial situation, its 
likely inheritance tax will be due on her estate on death. But money held in a PPP doesnt 
normally form part of an individuals taxable estate on death which will likely be to the benefit 
of Mrs Bs children. 
I think these factors are relevant in formulating a view on whether Mrs B has suffered a 
financial loss, as shes asserted. Overall, based on what Ive seen, Im not persuaded Mrs B 
has suffered a financial loss by obtaining a mortgage of £320,000 compared to crystallising 
£665,000 of her PPP fund value or scaling back the renovation and investing less money in 
her home.
What impact did CDVs delays and errors have on Mrs B?
While I think Mrs B is broadly in the position she wouldve likely been in had a competent 
business carried out a proper analysis and provided a suitable recommendation to her in late 
summer/early autumn 2021, I think its important to express my view that I think CDV failed 
to act with due skill, care and diligence in its dealings with Mrs B from June 2021 onwards. 
From reading the evidence I think its clear the delays and errors by CDV caused               
Mrs B to suffer a considerable amount of trouble and upset at a very stressful time in her life 
while she was undertaking a significant renovation project on her home which unfortunately 
coincided with her being diagnosed with cancer. I think CDVs mistakes caused Mrs B to 
suffer sustained distress and potentially affected her mental wellbeing when it failed to 
properly explain the income tax and LTA tax charge that would be applied by crystallising 
£665,000 of her PPP fund value. This caused a severe disruption to her life such that she 
had to unexpectedly borrow money from friends and family as a short-term measure to pay 
invoices for her builder before obtaining a mortgage. I can fully appreciate that this caused 
her embarrassment and a significant amount of worry.
As Ive explained above, given the scale of the project, I think it was inevitable shed have to 
obtain a mortgage to complete the renovation. But I think this shouldve been identified 
several months earlier by CDV which wouldve enabled Mrs B to be better informed with 
more time to consider her options while she was using her ISA and cash savings to fund the 
early stages of the renovation  this wouldve likely avoided the pressure to find a quick 
solution in May 2022 when the LTA issue came to light and the resultant stress and worry 
this caused Mrs B. 
Overall, I think its fair to say that CDVs mistakes caused Mrs B to experience pain and 
suffering which couldve been avoided had it acted with due skill, care and diligence from 
June 2021 onwards. As a result, its my view that CDV should pay Mrs B a substantial 
amount of compensation to reflect this. It previously offered to pay her an amount of £1,500. 
Our investigator thought this should be increased to £2,000. But, overall, I think an award of 
£3,000 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
In summary, my provisional decision was that it was fair and reasonable to uphold this
complaint based on the available evidence. I went on to set out what I considered was fair
compensation on the basis that CDV refund the ongoing adviser fees it received from Mrs B 
from June 2021 onwards until she terminated their relationship in 2022 and pay her 
compensation of £3,000 for the significant pain she suffered because of its failure to act with 
due skill, care and diligence.I asked both parties to this complaint to provide any further comments or evidence that they 
wanted me to consider before I made my final decision. 
CDV replied and stated that it didnt have anything further to add. Mrs B replied and stated: 
Thank you for your assessment of my case. I have read through it very many times 
and digested it as best I can. At first, I was disappointed with your opinion.
However, as I looked at it more carefully, I came to understand some of the
complexities a little better. You seem to have greater clarity about LTA, the tax 
situation and pension pot than anyone else to whom I have spoken. I feel that I 
understand it a little better now. I am grateful for this and I am less unhappy about 
current my financial situation than I was. And I accept your judgement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, and in accordance with the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000 and the Dispute Resolution section in the FCAs handbook, I need to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards, 
and codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. 
The findings I made in my provisional decision and set out above form part of this
final decision. Given the responses received, I see no reason to depart from my provisional 
decision of 20 June 2023 to uphold Mrs Bs complaint. And so Ive decided to proceed on 
this basis.
Putting things right
As I explained in my provisional findings, from a financial point of view, I think Mrs B is 
broadly in the position she wouldve likely been in had a competent business carried out a 
proper analysis and provided a suitable recommendation to her in late summer/early autumn 
2021  I think its clear that she needed to obtain a mortgage to complete the renovation. 
And so I dont agree that CDV should pay the interest on Mrs Bs mortgage for the first five 
years as an upfront lump sum, as recommended by our investigator.
I understand that there wasnt an initial advice charge for the Report in April 2022 but that 
Mrs B instead paid an ongoing fee to CDV for its advice.
Overall, to resolve this complaint, I direct CDV to:
refund the ongoing adviser fees it received from Mrs B from 1 June 2021 onwards 
until she terminated their relationship in 2022  this is because I think it provided a 
poor level of service to Mrs B during this period; and
pay compensation of £3,000 for the significant pain and suffering Mrs B suffered 
because of its failure to act with due skill, care and diligence.My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Chase de Vere Independent Financial Advisers limited to 
pay Mrs B the compensation amount as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2023. 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman