DRN-2207828
The complaint
Ms J is unhappy with the annuity she received from her pension plan with HSBC UK Bank 
Plc. She feels she was mis-led and that the pension plan and annuity was mis-sold.
What happened
Ms J took out a pension plan with HSBC in 1993. At the time she was working part-time so 
couldn't join her employer's scheme. Later she changed to full time and joined her employers 
pension scheme. 
Due to the legislation at the time she couldnt contribute to both and therefore Ms J stopped 
contributing towards the HSBC plan. Ms J was told at the time that she could access the 
money when she reached 55 - as that was her retirement age set on the plan.
Ms J took her benefits in 2011, she chose to take the maximum cash lump sum available of 
approximately £6,000. The remainder was used to purchase an annuity. She chose to 
include a five year guarantee and an annuity increasing at 5% per annum. The starting value 
of the annuity was approximately £280 per annum.
Ms J is unhappy as she said she was told shed receive £500/£600 a year but is getting 
much less now. And she said it had never been explained she couldnt cash in the plan.
Ms J complained to HSBC but it didnt uphold her complaint. It explained that Ms J had taken 
out her annuity on a non-advised basis and it had given her all the relevant information to 
make her choices.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but agreed that HSBC hadnt done anything 
wrong. She explained that when Ms J took her benefits, legislation didnt allow for it all to be 
taken as a lump sum. And as Ms J hadnt sought advice, she was responsible for the 
choices made. The investigator also explained that whilst Ms J had received illustrations in 
the years leading up to retirement that quoted higher annuity figures than Ms J ultimately 
received, it was clearly explained that these were estimates and not guaranteed.
Ms J remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsman decision. She explained that she still 
felt misled. Ms J didnt agree that the sale was non-advised. She said she was given advice 
and based on the outcome of the conversation she signed the documents. After this was 
done she wasnt aware that she couldnt cash out the money later. Ms J also said that at no 
point was it explained to her that 9 years later she would only be receiving £400 per year.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I wont be upholding Ms Js complaint, I appreciate this will be disappointing 
for her but Ill explain why.
Im sorry to hear this situation is causing Ms J stress and she is unwell but as a service we 
have to remain impartial. I can only tell a business to do something if I conclude that it has 
made an error or done something wrong.
However, I think whats happened in this situation is unfortunately Ms J hadnt fully 
understood what a pension policy was and the options it would provide her. Pensions can be 
quite hard to understand without any prior knowledge of them. And we do see often that 
customers dont realise that the money theyve saved in their pension plan wouldnt be paid 
as a lump sum at retirement. Since 2011 when Ms J took her benefits, the rules have 
changed but before then generally you had to take an annuity when you came to take your 
benefits. And Ms Js pension value was too large at the time to take advantage of a piece of 
legislation that allowed pensions of a certain value to be paid as a lump sum.
As the pension was sold many years ago, I dont know what Ms J was told but she wouldve 
been given information about the pension product. And this wouldve explained that it was 
designed to provide an income and not a lump sum.
Having to take out an income was the basis of pension legislation from the outset. And this 
had been broadly the same for many years from the start of pension products up until the 
last 5-10 years. This is because personal pensions were designed to provide a replacement 
income, once retired. So customers had to take their pensions as a monthly/yearly income 
paid for life, rather than just have the full fund paid out in one go.
However, I cant hold HSBC responsible for Ms J not knowing or understanding this. The 
evidence and what we know about the industry, demonstrates that Ms J was given 
information explaining how pensions operated. Pension providers had to provide certain 
information as standard. Including illustrations as Ms J received, showing that the benefits 
would be paid as an income. And not as a cash sum.
Ms J believes the sale of her annuity was advised. But again I think this is a mis-
understanding of what that entails. Ms J refers to a conversation with an HSBC member of 
staff before taking her benefits. But this doesnt mean she was provided with advice.
Financial advice would have been something Ms J wouldve had to pay for and the adviser 
wouldve made personal recommendations as to what was most suitable for her. Had Ms J 
received advice, she wouldve had all her options explained to her, including that she 
couldnt have the pension as a lump sum then or at a later date. And at the time HSBC didnt 
provide advice on personal pensions. Ms J wouldve had to go elsewhere to get financial 
advice. HSBC did provide the details of an independent financial adviser that it referred its 
customers to, but Ms J didnt take up this option.
Ive looked at the documentation Ms J completed to take out her annuity and she signed a 
declaration which said she had not received any financial advice. As shown below. (Ive not 
included the signature as it could identify Ms J)Ms J says she wasnt made aware that she couldnt have a lump sum at later date and that 
the pension amount would only amount to £400 today. However, in the above extract, point 
F explains the annuity cannot be cancelled. And Ms J received an illustration of the benefits 
she would receive, which she made her choices upon. Within this it set out the values she 
would receive as an income and not a lump sum. 
Ms J wouldve also been given a pack with all the key information about her options and the 
annuity, this was standardised industry documentation approved by the regulator. Ms J 
signed in the above extract to say that she had read this information. In HSBCs cover letter 
that came with the forms Ms J returned to take out her benefits, it also said Please ensure 
you read the Key Features of the HSBC Life Limited Pension Annuity before completing this 
form. This document wouldve explained all the features of the annuity Ms J took out. 
Including that it couldnt be cashed in at a later date.
Upon completing the forms, Ms J was provided with an illustration of the benefits she would 
receive. Ms J asked for an annuity which included 5% escalation and a five year guarantee. 
The illustration showed the likely benefits to be received. As shown below.
At the top there is a clear warning  that the annuity couldnt be cashed in. And it set out the 
approximate amount of income that Ms J would receive. So I cant agree with Ms J that she 
wasnt ever told what she would receive. It explained she would receive an annuity that 
would increase at 5% per annum. Hence the increase from around £280 in 2011 to value Ms 
J says she is receiving now of approximately £400 a year.
As Ms J chose to take out an annuity that increased in payment by 5% per year. This meant 
the annuity would start at lower value than if she had chosen to just have the same amount 
every year with no increase. And she also chose to include a five year guarantee period. 
This meant it she died within five years of taking out the annuity, it would continue to be paid 
in full for the five year period either to a beneficiary Ms J had selected or to her estate. 
However, choosing this option wasnt free and it reduced the value her annuity yearly 
payments.
Ms J also raised the point that the illustrations she received in the years leading up to her 
55th birthday were much higher than what she is being paid now. Firstly as the investigator 
explained, the illustrations werent guaranteed and it was explained on the illustration that 
the values could go up or down. 
Furthermore, the illustrations appear to have been for the full fund value, not including tax-
free cash. But Ms J took the maximum tax-free cash from her pension. This meant the fund 
used to buy the annuity likely was quite a bit less than the fund used on the illustrations. And 
Ms J chose to take an escalated annuity of 5%, whilst the illustrations were also escalating it 
doesnt say at what %, its quite possible the escalation was a lower % so this would also 
affect the value.  Ultimately the illustrations were just estimates of what Ms J might receive 
and so werent guaranteed. But also as explained above the choices made by Ms J when 
taking out her annuity will have had a big effect on the value she received at the start.
In conclusion, I dont doubt that Ms J had expected to get a lump sum and didnt fully 
understand the pension plan. However, the evidence shows that HSBC did give her the 
relevant information and so I cant hold it responsible for Ms Js choices.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Ms Js complaint and make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2021. 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman