DRN-3034920
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as S, complains that Lloyds Bank PLC led it to believe that its 
Bounce Back Loan had been repaid when it hadnt. 
One of Ss directors, Mrs K, brings the complaint on the companys behalf.
What happened
S held a fixed rate loan and overdraft with Lloyds, both of which were secured by way of a 
charge against the companys business property. S also held a Bounce Back Loan with 
Lloyds, which was unsecured.
S sold its business property in November 2020, with the fixed rate loan and overdraft being 
repaid from the proceeds of sale. 
Following completion of the property sale, Lloyds wrote to Ss directors on 13 November 
2020 and said that all lending was now repaid. But S was subsequently told that this didnt 
include the Bounce Back Loan, which the company would still need to repay.
Mrs K complained. She thought the Bounce Back Loan should no longer be payable and 
was also unhappy that this meant S couldnt close its bank account, with monthly charges 
being incurred.
Lloyds said it shouldve discussed the Bounce Back Loan with S or its solicitor when the 
property was sold and the secured borrowing was repaid. It paid S £100 compensation for 
the inconvenience caused. The bank didnt agree to write off the loan, as it thought the 
company should repay the borrowing that it had benefited from. But it arranged for Ss 
account to be free of service charges and refunded those incurred since the property sale.
Mrs K still thought the Bounce Back Loan should be written off, so she referred the complaint 
to us. One of our investigators looked into things but didnt think Lloyds needed to do 
anything more. She thought it was right that only the secured lending had been settled from 
the proceeds of the property sale and this didnt include the Bounce Back Loan. While she 
agreed that Lloyds couldve made things clearer at the time, she thought it had fairly 
compensated S for any inconvenience caused. 
Mrs K didnt accept our investigators view. She said Lloyds had the directors to believe that 
that all of the companys borrowing would be repaid from the proceeds of sale. And with the 
Bounce Back Loan still outstanding, she said they were unable to wind the company down 
as intended. And so with no resolution, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and while I sympathise with the position S finds itself in as it is attempts to 
wind down its operations, I dont think there is any basis on which I could fairly require 
Lloyds to write off the outstanding Bounce Back Loan. I say this because:
In order to complete the sale of its property, S needed only to settle the borrowing 
that was secured against it (in order for Lloyds to remove its charge). The Bounce 
Back Loan wasnt secured under this charge, so there was no reason for Lloyds to 
include this within any redemption quotations. And for the same reason, it was never 
going to be settled as a matter of course from the proceeds of sale  S wouldve 
needed to specifically request this and Ive not seen that it did so.
I agree that Lloyds made a mistake in its letter of 13 November 2020, in which it said 
that all lending had been repaid. While its intention was to refer to the companys 
secured lending following the property sale, this could and should have been clearer. 
But while this did cause some understandable confusion, it isnt grounds for the 
Bounce Back Loan to be written off  it was an administrative error which didnt 
change the fact the loan remained in place and that S was responsible for its 
repayment. And it occurred after the property sale, so it didnt impact how events 
unfolded  in other words, S is in the same position that it would always have been 
in, and isnt any worse off because of this mistake.
More fundamentally, S has had the benefit of the Bounce Back Loan funds and it is 
fair that it repays them under the terms of the agreement (which remains in place and 
unaffected). 
Lloyds shouldve been clearer in its communications with S about its borrowing and referred 
only to the repayment of secured lending rather than all monies owed by the company. As 
above I dont think thats prejudiced Ss position or caused it a financial loss. But it clearly 
caused some confusion and, in turn, some inconvenience to S in having to chase things up. 
So its right that S is compensated for this, but I think the £100 that Lloyds has already paid 
is fair  and so Im not asking it to do anything more. 
To facilitate the repayment of the Bounce Back Loan, S is required to retain its bank account 
with Lloyds. I dont think it would be fair for it to incur charges for this, so Im pleased to see 
that Lloyds has taken steps to ensure none will apply and refunded those incurred after S 
settled its other liabilities. I dont think it needs to do anything else in this respect either.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman