DRN-4378712
Complaint
Mr S has complained about a personal loan Santander UK Plc (Santander) provided to 
him. He says that Santander lent to him even though it ought to have been apparent he 
would use the funds for gambling.
Background
Mr S has also separately complained about the adequacy of Santanders measures to block 
gambling transactions on his current account. That complaint is being considered separately 
and this decision solely concerns Santanders decision to provide Mr S with a loan.  
Santander provided Mr S with a loan for £15,000.00 in April 2022. 
Mr S loan had an APR of 2.8% and a term of 36 months. This meant that the total amount to 
be repaid of £15,647.76, which included interest, fees and charges of £647.76, was due to 
be repaid in 36 monthly instalments of £434.66. 
One of our investigators reviewed what Mr S and Santander had told us. And she thought 
that Santander hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr S unfairly. So she didnt 
recommend that Mr S complaint be upheld. 
Mr S disagreed with our investigators assessment and asked for an ombudsman to look at 
his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr S complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, Ive not been persuaded to uphold Mr S complaint. 
Ill explain why in a little more detail. 
Santander needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means 
is Santander needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether    
Mr S could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the 
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Santander says it agreed to Mr S application after he provided details of his monthly income 
and some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against information on 
a credit search it carried out. In its view, all of this information showed Mr S could afford to 
make the repayments he was committing to. And as Mr S said that he would use the funds 
from the loan for home improvements it didnt know and had no reason to believe that the 
funds would be used for gambling. 
On the other hand, Mr S has said he should never have been provided with this loan 
because Santander ought to have realised that hed use the funds for gambling.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr S and Santander have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that this wasnt simply a case of Santander accepting an over-
optimistic declaration of monthly disposable income at face value. Santanders credit 
searches did show that Mr S had some existing debts. But its fair to say that these werent 
excessive and that at the time of the application at least, they were being reasonably 
managed. I appreciate that Mr S has disputed the amount he was deemed to be indebted by 
and in particular hes evidenced successfully applying for a number of other loans around 
the time of the application. 
However, given the close proximity of those applications to this application, they didnt 
appear on the credit searches Santander carried out. And this appears to be reflected in the 
APR Mr S received for his loan. In my view, Mr S is likely to have had a different APR on his 
Santander loan  one significantly higher that 2.8% - had Santander been aware of all the 
other successful loan applications he had made.  
Ive also thought about what Mr S has said about Santander being aware that he had a 
gambling addiction as a result of previous complaints. Hes provided a copy of an email 
addressed to Santanders executive communications team dated February 2022  so 
approximately two months before he applied for this loan. This email does refer to Mr S 
having a chronic gambling addiction and querying transactions made to a casino. It also 
refers to a previous complaint, regarding gambling, made around two years previously.
Santander has said that while the copy of the email does appear to be correctly addressed, it 
has no record of receiving or responding to this email in February 2022. And the first 
reference it had to this email was when Mr S complained on 28 April 2022, which was after 
Mr S had already been provided with this loan. Santander has also provided its records on 
all the complaints it says that it has received from Mr S over the past six years. It maintains 
that it never received a complaint referencing chronic or problem gambling until after this 
loan was provided.
Ive considered everything that has been provided. Its unclear why Mr S February 2022 
email wasnt received. Nonetheless, as it references a previous complaint regarding chronic 
gambling, Ive looked through all of the previous complaint correspondence Santander has 
provided. And having reviewed this correspondence while I accept that Mr S has made a 
number of complaints over the year, these have concerned matters such as interest rates, 
what happened when he redeemed his mortgage and his credit card. And I havent seen a 
complaint that references gambling prior to the February 2022 email that wasnt received.  
Weve also asked Mr S to provide the details of the complaint thats referred to in his 
February 2022 email. However, despite telling us hed search for copies of correspondence  
and despite having been given sufficient time to do so, Mr S has not provided a copy of this or anything else showing that a complaint regarding gambling has been made to Santander 
prior to the February 2022 email. 
For the sake of completeness, its also worth me pointing out that even if Mr S had 
complained about gambling in 2017, Mr S has also referred to having done this and made a 
complaint eight years ago too, as anything relating to problem gambling is likely to have 
constituted personal information, Santander is likely to have had to continue obtaining Mr S 
permission that his gambling was a problem, on an ongoing basis, in order to continue 
recording such information on its records. 
I have to make a decision based on the limited information that I have here. But, even if I did 
have enough to say that Mr S complained in 2017 or 2015, I wish to make it clear that I am 
not making this finding here, it is by no means certain that Santander would have been able 
to factor this into its decision making when deciding whether to lend to Mr S in April 2022.  
In any event, and most importantly, having carefully considered the information presented 
before me, Im satisfied that Santanders lending department was not actually aware of Mr S 
gambling at the time it decided to lend to him. Indeed, notwithstanding the position in relation 
to previous complaints there was and remains no specific requirement within the rules to 
consider individual transactions at a granular level when deciding whether to lend to a 
prospective borrower. 
Given what Santanders credit search showed, Mr S income and the headline balance on 
his current account, Im satisfied that there was no obvious reason for it to question the rest 
of the information it had obtained. There didnt appear to be anything that was obviously 
inconsistent or difficult to explain and Ive not seen enough here to be satisfied that the 
decision maker on Mr S loan was aware of any problem gambling. 
So I dont think reviewing Mr S current account transaction history would have been 
proportionate here and Santander was reasonably entitled to believe that Mr S would use 
the proceeds of this loan for home improvements  he was a homeowner  as he committed 
to doing.
I accept that Mr S says he is experiencing difficulty making the payments. And Im sorry to 
hear this. But its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances 
where a respondent firm did something wrong. Santander could only make a decision on the 
basis of the information it had. 
Given the payments appeared here to be affordable and this was a first loan, Im satisfied 
that Santander was not only reasonably entitled to believe that Mr S could make the 
payments, but also that it wouldnt be increasing Mr S existing indebtedness in a way that 
was unsustainable or otherwise harmful. As this is the case, I dont think that Santander did 
anything wrong when deciding to lend to Mr S.
So overall I dont think that Santander treated Mr S unfairly or unreasonably when providing 
him with his loan. And Im not upholding Mr S complaint. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Mr S as he clearly feels strongly about this matter. But I hope hell 
understand the reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been 
listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman