DRN-2921260
The complaint
Ms L complains that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) gave her unsuitable investment advice to 
invest in a Stocks and Shares Individual Savings account (ISA) in 2001.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Lloyds accepted our Investigators opinion, but Ms L and her representative have 
disagreed. They feel the UK Growth and Worldwide Growth Funds were too risky as Ms L 
had no prior investment experience, that a pension product should have been considered, 
and that Ms L was told to invest too much of her capital. The events are not in dispute, so Ill 
focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the Investigator. Ill explain why.
Id expect Lloyds to make a suitable recommendation based on all the information taken 
from discussions with Ms L at the time. Ive considered whether the recommendation was 
suitable for Ms Ls needs based on the information disclosed in 2001.
The documents from the point of sale state that Ms L was 46 years old, working full time with 
no dependants, had savings of £9500 and an outstanding mortgage debt of £20,000. Ms L 
had a spare monthly income of £150 which she wanted to invest in the medium to long term 
for a potential lump sum towards future financial plans. 
The fact find recorded a medium attitude to risk, defined by Lloyds as investments primarily 
in UK stocks and shares, with some fixed interest securities and overseas investments. 
Lloyds recommended the £150 per month be split between the UK Growth and Worldwide 
Growth Funds.
Ms Ls representatives argument in support of the level of risk being unsuitable is largely 
based on her lack of investment experience. However, not having invested in similar 
products before does not automatically preclude the advice from being suitable or indicate 
that Ms L was unable to take some risk with some of her funds. The fact find suggests Ms L 
was willing to take some risk for the potential to build up funds in the medium to long term, 
and had indicated she believed deposit style accounts wouldnt enable her to achieve her 
future financial plans.
Im satisfied Lloyds gathered enough information about Ms L to make an informed 
recommendation. Lloyds suggested her attitude to risk was medium  and whilst Ms Ls 
representative disagrees, I cant see any information on file that would suggest this category 
did not fit for her circumstances and objectives at the time, or any point where Ms L 
challenged this at the time of sale. 
The suitability letter from the time shows that Lloyds did discuss their assessment of Ms Ls 
attitude to risk and the risks involved with the products recommended. Ms L was made 
aware of the risks and confirmed at the point of sale that she was willing to take this level of 
risk to achieve her objectives. 
Ive considered Ms Ls representatives opinion that the funds themselves were too high risk. 
Both funds were categorised in the fund literature as medium risk. Ms L was recorded as 
being a medium risk investor and Ive seen no persuasive evidence she was wrongly 
categorised as such. Ive also seen no evidence that persuades me the funds were 
unsuitable for Ms L as a medium risk investor. The chosen funds were a mixture of UK and 
overseas stocks and shares and are a consistent match with Ms Ls recorded circumstances 
and objectives.
Ive also considered Ms Ls wider financial circumstances, and the affordability of the advice 
given. The point of sale documents dont contain a full record of the affordability discussions 
held at the time, but do note a disposable income available for investment of £150. The only 
debt Ms L held was her mortgage, and she had another £9500 in other savings to rely on 
should her investment fail. The recommendation was to make regular monthly payments, 
rather than pay in a large lump sum of her available capital, and the documentation made it 
clear that Ms L could reduce her payments, pause or stop them altogether at any time, which 
she did on multiple occasions.
Im not satisfied that Ms L was advised to invest too much of her available capital at the time. 
There is no evidence she had any planned short-term spending needs and the amount she 
had available after investment sufficed as an emergency fund to replace any losses without 
a material impact to her standard of living. Im satisfied the monthly amount invested was 
suitable when considering her objectives and overall financial position.
Finally, Ms Ls representative has suggested that Lloyds should have recommended a 
pension product, but I can see from the fact find completed that Ms L had indicated she 
didnt want to discuss pension planning, so I think its reasonable that Lloyds did not discuss 
this any further with Ms L at the time.
I find that Lloyds advice was suitable for Ms Ls circumstances and objectives. I dont uphold 
this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should not be upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Paul Clarke
Ombudsman