DRN-3985093
The complaint
Ms M complains that Metro Bank PLC (Metro) wont refund the money she lost after she 
fell victim to an authorised push payment (APP) scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it all here. 
But briefly, and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to be as follows.
In May 2022, Ms M received messages through an instant messaging service from someone 
claiming to be her son. But unknown to her at the time the messages were actually coming 
from a fraudster.
Unfortunately, the chain of messages with the fraudster is no longer available, as it was lost 
when Ms M blocked the fraudsters number. But Ms M has told us the messages said her son 
had broken his phone and provided her with his new number. The messages went on to say 
that, because of the phone breaking, Ms Ms son was unable to access his online banking, 
and he asked if she could make an urgent payment for him, providing Ms M with the 
payment details.
Ms M said she was aware her son uses his phone for banking payments, so it made sense 
that if his phone was broken, he wouldnt be able to make the payments. Ms M added that 
the messages were in the same tone and style that her son usually uses and that she is in 
contact with her son, through messages, on a daily basis. Ms M says she tried to call the 
new number, but there was no answer. She told us that she also tried to call her sons old 
number, but again received no answer.
Ms M has said because she didnt recognise the name of the payee, on the payment details 
she was given, she searched it online and saw a result that related to a medical profession.  
Seeing this, Ms M said she became really worried, as she concluded that her son may be 
unwell and that the payments were for medical bills. Believing she was speaking to her son, 
Ms M went ahead and made the following payments;
23 May 2022 £1,336.00
23 May 2022 £2,735.00
23 May 2022 £3,500.00
After making the payments, still worried that her son may be unwell, Ms M thought to contact 
her sons girlfriend. It was then that the scam came to light and Ms M realised shed sent 
money to accounts that were controlled by the fraudsters.
Ms M contacted Metro to ask it to stop the payments. Metros fraud detection systems had 
already flagged the second and third payments, so they were able to prevent these 
payments from being sent, so Ms M hadnt lost the money from the last two payments. But 
she had lost the first payment for £1,336.
Metro is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
CRM Code (the CRM Code). The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who 
have been the victims of APP scams in all but a limited number of circumstances. Metro 
looked into Ms Ms complaint and issued its final response on 7 June 2022, not upholding it. 
In summary, it said it gave a scam warning and that Ms M didnt have a reasonable basis for 
believing she was speaking to her son.
Unhappy with Metros response, Ms M brought her complaint to this service. One of our 
Investigators looked into things and thought the complaint should be upheld. In summary 
she didnt think Metro had been able to establish that Ms M didnt have a reasonable basis 
for believing that the messages she received were from her son. It was our Investigators 
view that Metro should refund Ms M the money she lost, along with interest.
Metro disagreed with our Investigators view. In summary, it said Ms M appears to have 
taken at face value that her son was having problems with his phone and that Ms M had 
drawn her own conclusions that the payments were for medical bills, and that this wasnt 
something that was stated by the fraudster.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has now been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered things carefully, Im satisfied that, adhering to the CRM Code, Metro 
should have refunded Ms M the £1,336 she lost. Im not persuaded any of the permitted 
exceptions to reimbursement apply in the circumstances of this payment.
Ive carefully considered all Metros representations about whether Ms M had a reasonable 
basis for believing she was genuinely speaking to her son. Having done so, Im not 
persuaded that Metro has been able to establish that Ms M didnt have a reasonable basis 
for belief when she made the payment. Ill explain why;
- These types of scams are particularly cruel and play on the trust and emotive nature 
of the relationship between a parent and their child. Ms M has said she believed the 
messages were coming from her son and that she was concerned he was in trouble 
and needed her help. Ms M has explained that the tone, language and use of emojis 
in the messages were consistent with messages her son usually sent. So I can 
understand how the familiarity, in the style of the messages, reasonably led her to 
believe they were coming from her son.
- Ms M has said the messages said that her son couldnt get his online banking set up 
on his new phone until a day or so later. I think this is a plausible explanation for why 
her son wouldnt have been able to make the payment himself and why he needed 
Ms Ms help. I say that especially as Ms M has said she was aware that her son does 
do his banking through his phone. Alongside this, Ms M has said the messages also 
promised that Ms Ms son would pay her back when his access to online banking 
was restored, which I think will have been reassuring to her.
- Im also mindful that Ms M has said shed given money to her son before. So Im 
persuaded it wasnt so uncommon for Ms Ms son to ask her for help, that it ought to 
have caused her any course for concern when he reached out to her.- Ive thought carefully about Metros comments that Ms M reached her own 
conclusions about the payments being for medical bills, after checking the payee. 
With the benefit of hindsight and the removal of the pressured environment, its 
easier to identify elements where Ms M may have thought and acted differently. But 
the convincing nature of these scams can often have a negative effect on a persons 
thought process. Especially in the absence of a warning around how these scams 
typically feel and play out. In the individual circumstances of this case, because of 
the situation and in the moment, it is understandable why Ms M was worried about 
her son and came to conclusions that she may not ordinarily have done in the cold 
light of day. 
- From what Ive seen, I dont think Ms M has proceeded here with a disregard for risk.  
She has taken time to check the payee and also made attempts to contact her son, 
before making the payments. In doing so, Ms M has demonstrated that she has 
taken some steps to protect herself from possible risk. And I dont consider that by 
not receiving an answer to her calls, it would automatically follow that she didnt have 
a reasonable basis for belief.
- People dont want or expect to be scammed. There may have been some things 
about the situation which could have caused Ms M some concerns or that she could 
have done differently. But because we can think of additional things Ms M could have 
done (such as calling her sons girlfriend sooner) that does not mean that she did not 
do enough, or that she didnt have a reasonable basis for believing she was 
genuinely speaking to her son.
Overall and on balance, Im not persuaded that Metro has shown that Ms M lacked a 
reasonable basis of belief when she made the payment for £1,336.
For completeness, Metro has shared a number of warnings with us, but not specified which 
warning would have been presented to Ms M. But having looked through all of the warnings 
it has submitted, I dont think the warning Metro would have presented to Ms M would be 
considered as effective under the CRM Code.
While the warnings, in part, intend to warn customers about potential scams they may be at 
risk of. The warnings dont bring to life what the type of scam Ms M was falling victim to 
looked like or highlight the common features of these type of scams (such as being 
contacted on a messaging app by a family member, being told that their phone is broken and 
that an urgent payment is required). They also dont make it clear that any money sent as a 
result of a scam would be lost and likely irrecoverable.
However, having said that, considering I dont think the payment for £1,336, would have 
appeared unusual or suspicious to Metro, in comparison to how she typically ran her account 
(and therefore a lesser indication that Ms M may be a risk of fraud), I dont consider there 
was a requirement on Metros part for an effective warning to be provided for the payment of 
£1,336.
Putting things right
For the reasons outlined above, Metro Bank PLC, should now;
- Refund Ms M the £1,336 she lost as a result of this scam.- Pay 8% simple interest per year on that amount calculated from the date Metro Bank 
PLC originally declined Ms Ms claim until the date of settlement. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Metro Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman