DRN-1932782
 
The complaint
Mr L complains about the settlement offered by Covea Insurance plc trading as Provident 
Insurance, following a successful theft claim under his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
In October 2019, the catalytic converter was stolen from Mr Ls car whilst parked outside his 
home. Mr L raised a claim with Covea which was accepted. 
Covea told Mr L that a catalytic converter has a finite lifespan of roughly 100,000 miles. As 
Mr Ls car had done roughly 62,000 miles, Covea said Mr L would need to make a 50% 
contribution towards the costs of the claim. Covea considered that Mr L would be in a better 
position than he was in prior to the theft if it was to pay the full costs of the claim. 
Covea explained this to Mr L and referred to the terms and conditions of the policy. 
Mr L disagreed with this. He didnt think that by Covea settling his claim in full, without a 
contribution from him, would put him in any better position as the catalytic converter wouldnt 
increase the value or improve the performance of his car. 
Covea maintained its position and said that Mr L would need to make a 50% contribution 
towards the costs in order for the claim to be completed. As Mr L remained unhappy, he 
brought his complaint to our service for consideration. 
Our investigator carefully considered everything and recommended that the complaint 
should be upheld. He didnt think Covea acted fairly by requiring Mr L to make a 50% 
contribution. 
Overall, he didnt think that Covea demonstrated it would be putting Mr L in a better position 
than he was in prior to the theft by paying the full costs. So he recommended Covea covers 
the full costs of the claim. 
Mr L accepted our investigators view, but Covea didnt. It maintained that the policy entitled 
it to require a policyholder to contribute to claim costs in these circumstances. 
As no resolution could be met, the case has now been passed to me to make a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive given a lot of thought to the terms and conditions of the policy that Covea has relied on 
here. For clarity, under Section 1a these state that if the repairs improve the condition of 
your car, we can ask you to pay part of the repair cost. I agree this term in principle is fair 
and reasonable providing the insurer can demonstrate its applied the term in a fair and 
reasonable way. And in this case, I dont think Covea has. 
I do understand Coveas argument here. It said a catalytic converter has a finite lifespan of 
roughly 100,000 miles, and Mr Ls car had already done roughly 62,000 miles. And by 
replacing the stolen part with a brand new part would further increase the lifespan. 
Having said that, Im not in agreement that Covea has reasonably demonstrated that Mr L 
would be put into a better position than the one he was in prior to the theft. I say this 
because Ive seen no evidence from Covea that shows the performance or value of Mr Ls 
car would be enhanced or increased over and above the condition it was prior to the theft. 
To add to this, Mr L had only driven roughly 62,000 miles prior to the catalytic converter 
unfortunately being stolen. Covea say the lifespan of this part is roughly 100,000 miles. With 
that in mind, Im not persuaded on balance Mr L wouldve been required to replace this part 
anytime soon, given the lifespan of the catalytic converter that Covea informed us of. And in 
any event, Ive seen no evidence to suggest Mr Ls stolen catalytic converter required 
replacement sooner than Coveas explanation of its general lifespan due to its condition. 
Putting things right
Overall and to summarise, Im not in agreement with Covea that Mr L should contribute 
towards the cost of the repairs for the reasons set out above. 
On balance, Im not persuaded Covea has demonstrated that its applied the policy term 
cited above fairly and reasonably in this case. And therefore, I require Covea to cover the full 
costs of Mr Ls claim, subject to any policy excesses and the remaining terms and 
conditions. My understanding from the information I have is that Mr L has already paid the 
policy excess. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is I uphold this complaint. I now require 
Covea Insurance plc trading as Provident Insurance to cover the full costs of Mr Ls claim for 
the stolen catalytic converter. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2020.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman