DRN-3958447
The complaint
Mr W, who is represented by a third party, complains that Specialist Motor Finance Limited 
irresponsibly granted them a hire purchase he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In February 2020, Mr W acquired a used car financed by a hire purchase from 
Specialist Motor Finance. Mr W paid a deposit of £1,500. He was required to make 60 
monthly repayments of £267.25, with a final optional payment of £277.25 if he wanted to 
own the car at the end of the agreement. The total repayable under the agreement was 
£17,545.00.
Mr W says that Specialist Motor Finance didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He 
says if it had, it would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Specialist Motor Finance 
didnt agree. It said that it carried out a thorough assessment which included using credit 
check and statistical information.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought Specialist Motor 
Finance didnt act unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Mr W didnt agree and so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Specialist Motor Finance will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry 
practice we consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending. So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information 
about our approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
The checks carried out by Specialist Motor Finances included obtaining details about Mr Ws 
income and estimating his expenditure, which was based on his living at home. It also 
completed a credit check to find out more about his other credit commitments. The credit 
check showed that Mr W had two credit or store card accounts on which he owed around 
£1,300 from total available credit of £1,750. He also had a loan agreement in place on which 
he hadnt missed or fallen behind on monthly payments. The checks didnt show there to be 
any adverse markings on Mr Ws credit records to suggest recent financial difficulty. Ive 
seen that the third party representing Mr W has referred to there being some short term 
borrowing which had previously defaulted. This doesnt appear to have shown up in the 
credit check Specialist Motor Finance carried out and not have I seen any credit report 
evidence about these.
Whilst Specialist Motor Finance calculated that Mr W ought to have had around £350 in 
disposable income available each month, these checks wont have shown what Mr Ws 
monthly living expenses actually were, as well as other regular spending commitments.  
Without knowing what his regular committed expenditure was, I dont think 
Specialist Motor Finance would have gained a good enough understanding of whether the 
agreement was affordable or not. I therefore think it could have done more when carrying out 
checks to ensure the agreement was affordable before completing the agreement with Mr W. 
I cant be certain what Mr W would have told Specialist Motor Finance had it asked about his 
regular expenditure. I dont think Specialist Motor Finance needed to request bank 
statements, but in the absence of anything else, Ive placed significant weight on the 
information contained in Mr Ws statements as an indication of what would most likely have 
been disclosed. 
Ive reviewed bank statements that cover five months leading up to Mr W making his 
application. During this period his monthly income from earnings appeared to be around 
£1,000, although it varied from month to month. The statements also show that Mr W was 
generally managing his daily outgoings well, meeting his existing credit commitments and 
having disposable income available each month to meet day-to-day living expenses, as well 
as being able to spend on various leisure items. Taking a broader view, his total outgoings 
were only slightly exceeding his total income during this period and there was no evidence of 
his overall financial circumstances deteriorating. 
Taking all of this into account, Im satisfied that the agreement appears to have been 
affordable to Mr W. For this reason, Im not persuaded that Specialist Motor Finance acted 
unfairly in approving the finance. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman