DRN-2365610
The complaint
Mr V has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) wont refund him for a failed 
ATM cash withdrawal.
What happened
On 11 September 2019, Mr V says he used his Barclays debit card to withdraw £500 from 
an ATM located at a Post Office.
Mr V says the money didnt come out and his card only partially came out. When Mr V 
attempted to take the card, the machine took back the card. As there was a Barclays branch 
nearby Mr V logged his complaint in-branch and also withdrew £200 over the counter using 
identification. 
Mr V said after this he went back to the Post Office and informed them of what had 
happened, and they put an out of order sign on the ATM.
Barclays investigated the matter obtaining evidence from the ATM provider. The ATM 
provider confirmed its records showed the transaction as successful with the card and PIN 
used and the cash as dispensed. The ATM was also balanced on 11 September 2019  with 
no surplus amounts showing or no retractions. The ATM was also used prior to and after 
Mr Vs transaction. Based on this evidence, Barclays didnt uphold Mr Vs complaint and 
declined to refund the funds Mr V said he never received.
Unhappy, Mr V referred the complaint to our service. One of our investigators looked into the 
complaint and didnt uphold it. 
Mr V disagreed with the investigators opinion. As the matter hasnt been resolved its been 
passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator previously set out, and for much the same reasons. Ill explain why.
Where a consumer complains they didnt receive cash from an ATM, we will ask for various 
data from the business. In particular, we ask for the journal roll, which is an electronic record 
of all the transactions that day. We will also ask for evidence that the ATM balanced that day 
or in that accounting period. If cash wasnt dispensed, then it would show as a surplus. We 
also ask for details of whether there were any reported errors with the ATM or other claims 
raised that day, and any other relevant information to demonstrate whether there was a 
technical fault or any other deficiency. Where the business is not the ATM owner, we expect 
it to get the data from the owner. We may also ask for CCTV footage, but this is usually not 
available after 30 days. We will also consider the consumers description of the physical 
environment and people at the ATM. 
This information helps me to reach a conclusion on what is most likely to have happened.
Mr V says the ATM didnt dispense the cash and it kept his card. 
Ive looked at the evidence Barclays obtained from the ATM provider. According to the ATM 
providers records, Mr V entered his debit card and PIN at 16:52pm and requested £500. The 
transaction was completed at 16:53pm and the journal roll shows the transaction as 
successful, meaning the cash was dispensed. 
The ATM provider hasnt said there were any faults with the ATM and importantly that it also 
balanced correctly on 11 September 2019 and the balancing took place after Mr Vs 
transaction. This means there wasnt any surplus cash or any retracted notes. This suggests 
that the £500 was dispensed and not retracted. 
There is also nothing to suggest Mr Vs card had been retained by the ATM. When a card is 
retained by an ATM, it is recorded on the journal roll and would typically show as card 
retained. And in this case, the journal roll suggests the transaction was successful with the 
cash dispensed and that no card had been retained by the ATM.  
Im also mindful that the ATM was also used by other customers before and after Mr Vs 
transaction. It was used at 16:00pm prior to Mr Vs transaction and then at 16:57pm and 
17:00pm which was shortly after Mr Vs transaction at 16:53pm. 
Had the ATM been tampered with such as a cash trap or fraud device or if there had been 
a mechanical fault then I would have expected other customers who used the ATM later on 
to have also logged a complaint regarding that ATM. But the ATM provider has said there 
were no other complaints or reported faults. So it seems unlikely the ATM had been 
tampered with or had a mechanical fault.
Based on the technical evidence, Im afraid I think its more likely than not, that the ATM
dispensed the cash and there isnt any evidence to suggest the card had been retained. 
Its possible Mr V left the machine before the cash was dispensed and the money was taken 
by a third party. But even if this happened, then it would be treated no differently to any other 
theft or street robbery and the bank wouldnt be liable for the loss.
So, Im afraid I dont think its unreasonable for Barclays to refuse a refund.My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2021. 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman