DRN-1109962
The complaint
Mr K has complained about the service he received when he telephoned UK Insurance Ltd 
(UKI) to renew his car insurance.
What happened
Mr K had a motor insurance policy with UKI. He called them to inform them that he had 
changed his vehicle and requested a renewal quote from them as soon as possible, because 
he would be travelling at the time his policy came up for renewal in a few months time. UKI 
told him that renewal quotes were usually generated 30 to 21 days in advance, but they 
could generate the quote earlier, if they were called 40 days in advance 
More than a month before Mr Ks policy was due to be renewed in April 2019, he called UKI 
to obtain a renewal quote and was quoted £1,021.44. He was told he had nine years no 
claims discount (NCD). Mr K didnt renew his policy on that day.
A few days later, Mr K called again. He said that he hadnt received his renewal documents, 
but hed obtained a cheaper quote from another insurer. He said, as he had been with UKI 
for a long time, he wanted to give them an opportunity to revise their quote.
During this call, UKI told him that his premium would be £1,825.60, the excess had changed, 
and that he had three years NCD. When Mr K questioned this, he was then told that he had 
nine years NCD. And when he queried this the representative denied that she had said he 
had three years. When Mr K challenged her on this point she agreed shed said he had three 
years and apologised for her error. And she confirmed he did have three years NCD due to a 
claim following an accident in November 2018. Mr K queried why the accident had affected 
his NCD when UKI didnt think it was his fault. And the representative explained that this was 
because he didnt have a protected NCD and hed need to speak to the claims department 
about why the claim had been recorded as a fault claim. 
The representative also explained that UKIs system notes showed that the renewal price 
had changed the day after Mr Ks call a few days earlier.
Mr K was unhappy about this and said he would like to lodge a formal complaint. The 
representative agreed to log the complaint and told Mr K hed get an acknowledgement 
within 24 hours. Mr K didnt receive a response in 24 hours and complained to UKI about this 
and being given conflicting information. 
UKI investigated Mr Ks complaint. And in their final response letter they explained the initial 
quote Mr K was offered of £1,021.44 didnt take into account the accident in November 
2018. And they acknowledged that incorrect information had been provided to him and the 
complaint wasnt recorded correctly. And they paid compensation of £50 in recognition of 
these errors.
Mr K wasnt happy with this and brought the complaint to this service. Mr K initially told our 
investigator that he didnt want the £50 compensation, as he would rather UKI received a 
fine to ensure this didnt happen again to other people. He later suggested the compensation 
should be increased and he would make a donation to charity.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. This was because, although she agreed that 
the information UKI provided was inconsistent and confusing and the complaint that Mr K 
had raised hadnt been logged as hed asked, she didnt think hed suffered any financial 
loss. And she felt the amount UKI had paid in compensation for distress and inconvenience 
was appropriate. 
Mr K would like a final decision because he still isnt happy with the way in which UKI 
changed the premium in such a short space of time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I set out my findings, I think, its important to stress that this service doesnt punish or 
fine a business for getting things wrong, but looks at the merits of each individual complaint 
to decide what the fair and reasonable outcome is.
I say this because, I know that when Mr K initially spoke to our investigator to lodge the 
complaint, he said he didnt want anything for himself. And he hadnt wanted the £50 
compensation. He said he wanted UKI to incur a significant fine and he wanted to make sure 
that other people werent treated like he was. 
But when asked what outcome he would like, Mr K said that he would like £500 and would 
donate it to charity. But, as Ive already explained, our service doesnt have the power to fine 
or punish UKI. And the level of compensation I award must reflect any financial loss and the 
level of distress and inconvenience Mr K experienced as a result of anything UKI did wrong.
Ive listened to the calls that Mr K made to UKI. And in the February call, Mr K was asked to 
call back 40 days before the policy was due for renewal to get the renewal premium. Mr K 
said hed need to make a note to call back. And he then called back 36 days before the 
policy was due to be renewed.
During this call, Mr K was told that his policy renewal documents wouldnt generate until the 
following Tuesday, but the representative did provide him with a manual quote. And Mr K 
said he was trying to be organised in advance of a trip and, as most people do, wanted to 
shop around for a competitive quote. 
I think its reasonable that Mr K wanted to find out how much the renewal premium would be, 
so I can imagine his dismay, when he called a few days later and was told that the price had 
gone up to £1,825.60. Mr K was also given conflicting information about his NCD in this call. 
So I dont think he was provided with the appropriate level of customer service in this call 
and I can see why he asked for a formal complaint to be logged.
UKI say that initially they quoted a lower figure because the agent missed the claim from 
November 2018 when he was generating the manual quote. And when Mr K called a few 
days later UKIs system had generated the renewal quote and this took into account the 
claim. So the problem Mr K had was due to human error. At the time this claim was still open 
and UKI had not recovered any of its outlay, so it was correctly recorded on the system as a 
fault claim. UKI have now told us that in the end the matter went to court and Mr K was 
found to be at fault and this means it is permanently recorded as a fault claim and his NCD 
was correctly reduced to three years at renewal in March 2019.  UKI have accepted that incorrect information was provided to Mr K and the complaint that he 
made should have been recorded and they paid him £50 compensation for any distress and 
inconvenience this caused him. And I think this is a fair and reasonable amount. 
I know Mr K doesnt think this is enough to put things right and that UKI shouldnt be allowed 
to formally offer one premium and then four days later refuse to accept the payment. But UKI 
were not legally bound by their original offer. And while it would have been frustrating for Mr 
K, he did get the correct renewal price a few days later and he hadnt committed to anything 
as result of the incorrect figure he was given. So I dont think he actually suffered a financial 
loss. And  as Ive said - he eventually managed to obtain cover elsewhere at a cheaper 
premium.
This means that because I think UKI have done enough to put things right it isnt appropriate 
for me to ask them to do any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2020. 
Robert Short
Ombudsman