The complaint
Mr R complains about the way in which Lloyds Bank PLC dealt with the allocation of a 
payment he made to his credit card account.
What happened
On 17 October 2019 Mr R made a payment of £1,751 against his Lloyds credit card 
statement dated the 13th of that month ('the October statement'). His intention was to clear a 
balance transfer (the balance transfer) for this amount. The promotional rate that applied to 
the balance transfer was 0% which expired on 16 October, increasing to 25.19% on that day. 
However, the November statement showed that the payment Mr R had made was applied to 
other balances, so he complained to Lloyds.
Lloyds didn't uphold Mr R's complaint. It referred to its terms and conditions where it says:
"We use your payments to pay off balances charged at the highest interest rate first and so 
on down to balances with the lowest interest rates. This means the more expensive 
balances are always paid off first."
Lloyds said that to clear the outstanding balance on the balance transfer which expired on 
16 October, Mr R would've needed to wait for his next statement to be produced. And that as 
the payment was allocated correctly, it was unable to reallocate the payment. Lloyds said 
that in order to assist Mr R it would waive interest for three months to give him some 
breathing space to clear the balance transfer.
Unhappy with the bank's response Mr R brought his complaint to our service. He 
maintained that the payment shouldve been allocated differently, noting that Lloyds had 
agreed to reallocate a payment under similar circumstances previously.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didn't think Lloyds had acted unfairly. As Mr R 
didn't agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why.
I understand how strongly Mr R feels, and he's raised a number of points during his contact 
with this service in support of his complaint. Although I may not mention every point he's 
raised, I can reassure him that Ive considered everything he's said, but limited my findings 
to the areas which impact on the outcome of the case. 
DRN-1892285I'll also say at this point that whilst I know Mr R wants me to ask Lloyds to change what it 
says in statements, my role is to resolve individual complaints and to award redress where it 
is appropriate so to do. I don't perform the role of the industry regulator, and nor do I have 
the power to make rules for financial businesses, punish them, or direct that they change 
their processes.
The starting point for this particular complaint is that the terms and conditions of the account 
were notified to Mr R when he opened the account and a summary of these were received in 
his monthly statements. I can see the terms includes an explanation of how payments are 
allocated which Ive set out above. Mr R doesn't dispute being aware of these terms but says 
these were applied incorrectly because by the date of his payment, the balance transfer's 
promotional rate had expired.
I appreciate where Mr R is coming from, but I see that the statement covered the period up 
until 13 October 2019. And it included a 'breakdown of balance' table, which listed all the 
interest rates applicable to each balance as of that date. There were seven separate 
balances listed and the balance transfer that is the subject matter of this complaint, had the 
lowest interest rate at 0% - all other balances had interest rates of 4.94% or higher. So when 
read alongside the terms and conditions, I think the October statement did make it clear how 
Mr R's payment would be allocated  namely, that the highest would be paid first, which as 
at the date of the October statement, wasn't the balance transfer in question.
I know Mr R thinks Lloyds should've made it clearer than this. But by giving a date by which 
the credit card statement ended, listing all the balances with their respective interest rates as 
at that date and by setting out the way payments would be allocated, I'm satisfied the 
October statement was sufficiently clear. 
I understand Lloyds agreed to reallocate a payment under similar circumstances previously. 
Lloyds said that this was a goodwill gesture - Mr R disputes this saying that it was because 
it'd made a mistake, and he thinks it has made the same mistake again here. But for the 
reasons I've outlined above I'm satisfied on this particular occasion, Lloyds hasn't made a 
mistake and/ or hasn't misled Mr R in any way, so I won't be asking it to do anything further.
So whilst I understand Mr R will be disappointed with this outcome, for all the reasons Ive 
set out above, I'm not upholding his complaint.
My final decision
I'm not upholding the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2020.
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman