DRN-1618924
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank PLC (trading at the time as The Woolwich), mis-sold him 
a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy with a mortgage.
What happened
Mr S took out a mortgage through The Woolwich in 2003. At the same time he was sold a 
PPI policy which wouldve covered his mortgage repayments in full if he was made 
redundant, or was too ill to work.
Our adjudicator thought Mr Ss complaint should be upheld because he had a pre-existing 
medical condition (PEMC) at the time of the sale. The adjudicator didnt think the restrictive 
terms relating to PEMCs were adequately drawn to Mr Ss attention. Had they been brought 
to his attention, the adjudicator thought he wouldnt have taken the policy.
Barclays disagreed. It didnt think, in summary, there was enough evidence to conclude 
that Mr Ss PEMC would have put him off taking the policy or that the policy was unsuitable 
for him. It said Mr S hadn't  taken time off work because of his condition and it could only 
make a recommendation based on what it was told at the time by the consumer. It said Mr S 
also would've been sent policy documents after the meeting at the branch explaining the 
terms and conditions in more detail. And he had a 30 day cooling off period to cancel the 
insurance. Finally, it said Mr S had made a claim under the policy when he was made 
redundant.
As agreement couldn't be reached, Mr Ss complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr S's complaint.
Mr S had a pre-existing medical condition diagnosed some time before the policy was taken 
out. He'd taken time off work as a result of it, and was having annual check ups. He was also 
taking medication for it. 
As this was a recommended sale, The Woolwich was under a duty to consider whether the 
policy was suitable for Mr S before recommending it. It also had to provide Mr S with 
information on PPI in a clear, fair and non-misleading way so he could make an informed 
choice about whether or not he wanted to take the policy. To make an informed choice Mr S 
needed to understand the costs and benefits of PPI, as well as the main exclusions and 
limitations of the policy. Had Mr S understood he wouldn't have been covered for this 
condition if he was off work over a prolonged period, I don't think he would've taken out PPI. 
I can't know if Mr S received the policy documents or read them after the PPI was taken out. 
So, this doesn't affect my decision. The Woolwich should've made the main limitations 
clear to him and checked it was suitable at the time that he agreed to take PPI.So, I think Mr S has lost out because of what The Woolwich did wrong.
Putting things right
Barclays should put Mr S in the position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. The policy 
should be cancelled if it hasnt been cancelled already and Barclays should:
Pay Mr S the amount he paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year .
If Mr S made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Barclays can take off what he 
got for the claim from the amount it owes him.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must 
give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I uphold Mr Ss complaint against Barclays Bank PLC  and 
direct it to put things right as described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2020.
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman