DRN-1986512
 
The complaint
Mr T complains that Charter Court Financial Services Limited trading as Charter Savings 
Bank failed to act on his instructions to move money to a higher interest rate account, and 
hes lost out as a result.
What happened
Mr T says that in August 2018, Charter asked him what he wanted to do with the money in 
his fixed term ISA which was maturing in October. He says he told Charter to put the money 
into a new one year fixed rate ISA. But then he discovered that it had been moved to an 
easy access ISA instead, with a much lower interest rate. Mr T says Charter acknowledged 
his instructions at the time but then failed to act on them. And because of this, hes missed 
out on a much better interest rate.
Mr T wanted Charter to pay the interest hed missed out on, and compensation for the time 
hed spent trying to fix its mistakes. 
Charter says Mr T didnt respond to its messages asking what he wanted to do with his 
money once his fixed term ISA matured. So it moved Mr Ts money into an easy access ISA 
on 5 October, which is what it had told him it would do if he didnt do anything else with it. 
Charter showed us the standard form message it sends to customers in this position, which 
sets out a range of options for maturing accounts. One of those options is to open a new 
fixed rate ISA for the money. 
The email sets out that if a customer wants to do this, they have to open the account 
themselves. The money from the old account will be put into an easy access ISA once the 
old account matures. The customer is then supposed to move the money from the easy 
access ISA into the new fixed rate ISA. 
Charter said Mr T then opened a new fixed rate one year ISA on 23 October 2018. (Although 
the first complaint response letter Mr T received said this happened on 23 August 2018.) He 
could have moved his ISA money into this account if he wanted to. But Charter said he 
would have to move that money himself. It wouldnt assume, just because he had opened a 
fresh account, that he wanted to move the money from his old, maturing, ISA into this new 
one. 
Charter says that Mr T just never moved his money into this account. It had prompted him to 
do so, in a letter dated 29 October. But he still didnt move his money, so this new account 
closed about a month after it was opened.
Charter said it had written to Mr T twice to say it didnt think it had got anything wrong with 
closing his old account. It was sorry that there was a mistake in its first letter, but it didnt 
think that alone had any impact on him. Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said Mr T had opened a 
new account after his fixed term ISA had closed. Our investigator said that Charter had sent 
us a sample screen, showing the information which customers are given once the new 
account is open. That explains customers will need to go into an existing account and move 
money across, if they want to fund their new account with money in an existing Charter 
account. 
Our investigator thought this screen was shown to Mr T, so he thought Charter had done 
enough to tell him that the account wouldnt be funded automatically. Charter had then 
shown that it followed up on this opened account, to remind Mr T to put money in. 
Charter had accepted its initial complaint response couldve been clearer, and contained a 
factual error. Our investigator didnt think this had caused Mr T any detriment. He thought 
Charter had done enough to show the transfer wasnt automatic, so it wasnt responsible if 
Mr T had lost out there. Our investigator didnt think Charter had to do any more. 
Mr T didnt agree. He said his online instructions were sent 23 August 2018, those were 
received and acknowledged by Charter. He said he hadnt opened his new ISA on 23 
October, it was opened on 23 August. And he didnt receive any email from Charter saying 
that his money would be put into an easy access ISA if he didnt do anything different. He 
said that the email of 5 October confirms his instructions were received and acted upon. 
He sent our service an email from Charter, dated 5 October 2018, which is titled Weve 
actioned your request. The email says Were pleased to confirm that, following maturity of 
your Fixed Rate Cash ISA, your savings have been transferred.
Mr T didnt think Charter was being honest. He said it was manipulating the dates and 
ignoring evidence to support its own case. 
Our investigator sent Mr T the screenshot from his application for the fixed term ISA, which 
said it was completed on 23 October 2018. He said he accepted that Charters email of 5 
October was confusing, because it said it had actioned Mr Ts request. But our investigator 
thought that all this email did was confirm that Mr Ts money had been moved to an easy 
access ISA after his old fixed term ISA matured.
Our investigator acknowledged the error in Charters first complaint response, where it said 
Mr T had opened a new fixed term ISA on 23 August. Our investigator was sure this was an 
error, because the application reference given in the letter was the same one that was visible 
on Mr Ts October application for the new fixed term ISA. 
Our investigator didnt change his mind. 
Mr Ts friend, a legal professional acting in a personal capacity, replied on his behalf. He 
said the screenshot evidence of Mr Ts online application wasnt signed, it hadnt formed part 
of the original evidence given to Mr T, and it wasnt accepted as genuine. He also said the 
email of 5 October 2018 hadnt been part of the evidence given to Mr T, and he alleged that 
our investigator had misrepresented its content. He strongly objected to our investigators 
conclusion that this email was intended to reflect that the money in Mr Ts fixed rate ISA had 
been moved into an easy access ISA. 
Mr Ts friend insisted that Mr T had made his application for transfer of funds on 23 August 
2018, not 23 October 2018. He said that Charter was unusual in the industry for not having 
an automatic transfer process upon maturity of an investment, and no system for flagging up 
that the money hadnt been transferred. Mr Ts friend appeared to suggest that Mr T had requested that the money be transferred 
after opening this account but it hadnt been transferred as instructed by the 23.10.2018 
screenshot. His friend also said that there was no system in place to highlight this omission. 
Mr Ts friend firmly denied that Mr T had received any email dated 25 September 2018, 
setting out his maturity options. 
Mr Ts friend then wrote again. He said Charter previously moved money in a bond without 
Mr T needing to do this himself, and he asked why this couldnt be done for his ISA. Mr Ts 
friend said Charter had made a mistake when the money was initially transferred in. 
Mr Ts friend said Mr T had completed a transfer request for his existing ISA funds, on 
maturity, on 28 August 2018. (This date hasnt previously been mentioned, the intention may 
have been to refer to 23 August 2018). Mr T denied receiving any further email, after this, 
about his options on maturity of his ISA. He said he had received one sent on 5 October 
stating his instructions had been actioned. 
Mr Ts friend said Mr T received an email saying he had 30 days to fund his account on 23 
October. (Charter says this was sent on 29 October.) Mr T initially ignored that, but then 
went online again to repeat his instructions on 23 October. 
Mr T realised his requests hadnt been actioned when he got statements about a year later, 
in October 2019. (Charters complaint response letters predate this by some time, so this is 
presumably a mistake.) Mr Ts friend said that Mr T had since withdrawn this money to his 
bank account, and thus had lost the tax advantages of holding this money in an ISA. 
Mr T had asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to 
me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
Before I start, I wanted to address the questions that Mr T and his friend have raised 
about whether documents provided to our service are genuine. Mr Ts friend has said 
that some of these documents werent provided to Mr T as part of the original 
evidence given to him. Thats not a routine part of our process here at the service, 
reflecting the informal nature of how we operate, as an alternative to formal legal 
action. It doesnt mean a document isnt genuine. In particular, I have no reason to 
doubt that the email dated 5 October 2018 and the application record dated 23 
October 2018 produced to me are genuine. Ill set out below in more detail why I think 
that Mr Ts online ISA application was done on 23 October. I note that Mr T accepts he 
received the email of 5 October.
This case has been complicated by errors made by both sides about the dates of 
events. I will set out below what I think happened. 
Mr Ts ISA was due to mature in October 2018. Charter says it sent him a number of 
items of correspondence, including a warm up email acknowledging that the ISA was 
about to mature, and a second email which contained options for the maturing money.
Mr T has referred repeatedly to giving maturity instructions, but hasnt been clear on 
what form those took. The actions Charter was expecting him to take if he wanted a new fixed term ISA with 
it were 1) to open a new account, and 2) to move his money into that new account. 
This is set out in the email Charter said it sent Mr T in late September to describe his 
maturity options. It isnt set out in the previous warm up email. 
Its my understanding that Mr T denies receiving the second, maturity options, email. 
But its not clear to me why he would go online and open a new fixed term ISA if he 
hadnt received instructions which set this out as part of the process. I wouldve 
expected, if Mr T hadnt received the email from Charter setting out his options and 
providing advice on how to proceed if he wanted to reinvest, that he wouldve sought 
further advice from Charter on what to do. Hes never suggested he did that.
I think that Charter did send Mr T an email telling him that he needed to open a new 
online account if he wanted his money to be reinvested. And I think its more likely 
than not that Mr T received this.
Mr T says he opened this new account on 23 August. (His friend has also more 
recently mentioned 28 August, but I think that is a mistake). He also now says he went 
online again on 23 October. I think its unlikely that Mr T applied for this account twice. 
I think its more likely that he opened this account after he received an email from 
Charter setting out that he needed to do this to reinvest his money. I think its likely he 
did this on 23 October, as Charters application record suggests. I think an earlier 
reference by Charter to this account being opened on 23 August was just a mistake, 
contained in a complaint letter that Charter has since apologised for.
Mr T accepts that he received an email dated 5 October. That is titled Weve actioned 
your request. The email says Were pleased to confirm that, following maturity of 
your Fixed Rate Cash ISA, your savings have been transferred. Mr T says this was 
confirming his request to move money into his new fixed rate ISA. I dont think thats 
right, because as Ive explained, I dont think his new fixed rate ISA had been opened 
at this time. I think, as our investigator did, that this just noted that Mr Ts money had 
been moved to an easy access ISA. Ill come back to the wording used here, and 
whether this email shouldve been clearer. 
I think when Mr T opened his account on 23 October, he didnt realise that he also 
needed to log into the easy access ISA that Charter had opened for him, and move 
the money from there to his fixed term ISA. As part of the application process, he was 
asked where he intended to move the money from. It seems likely that Mr T then 
assumed that money would be moved from his old account into his new one, by 
Charter. But Ive seen the screens for the application process, and Charter wasnt 
given enough information to move the money for Mr T. It also reminded him after the 
application was completed that he would need to move money into the new account 
himself. 
So I think that if Mr T considers that this application included, or otherwise constituted, 
transfer instructions to fund his new ISA, that was a mistake. And Ive not been able to 
identify any other way that Mr T had asked Charter to move this money.
Mr Ts friend says other movements of money had been done automatically. Just 
because Charter does this automatically for other investments, doesnt mean it has to 
here. Its not automatically unfair to treat different investments differently, especially if 
one may be covered by different rules than the other.
I dont think it was Charters responsibility to move this money for Mr T. And I dont 
think it has to pay him the interest he missed out on now.I understand that Mr T has now moved this money into a bank account. As a result 
hes lost the tax advantages of holding this money in an ISA. I havent currently seen 
anything to make me think Charter had told Mr T that his money held with them was 
no longer within an ISA wrapper, or that it prevented him from transferring this money 
into a different ISA. 
Ive set out a number of issues I dont think Charter is ultimately responsible for, in this 
case. But that doesnt mean I think that Charter hasnt made any mistakes. It clearly 
did make mistakes in its first response to Mr T. And I think that one of those mistakes, 
about the date of opening his new fixed term ISA, has significantly prolonged this 
dispute. 
I also note that Charters communications to Mr T, including the advice it sent on his 
maturity options, and its screenshots telling Mr T he needed to fund a new account 
after opening it, could have been rather clearer. I dont think the mistake that Mr T 
made, when he didnt fund his new fixed term account after opening it, was primarily 
Charters fault. But I think it has missed opportunities to avoid that mistake happening. 
I think Charter should pay Mr T £100, in recognition of the lapses in service involved in 
this case. I understand that Mr T is likely to be disappointed, but I dont think Charter 
has to do more than this. 
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied to disagree. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Mr Ts friend replied on his behalf, to say that Charter was negligent and dismissive of the 
proper protocols in its initial final response, and this created unnecessary ongoing problems 
for Mr T. This resulted in many hours of unnecessary correspondence for Mr T, over many 
months. This was difficult for him, because hes seriously unwell. It was only after many 
responses from Mr T that Charter eventually withdrew its original final response. 
Mr Ts friend said that the £100 compensation adjudicated was in his opinion insufficient, 
and did not reflect the cost of emails and phone calls, not to mention time taken. He said a 
more realistic figure needed to be between the £100 offered and the £1,210 schedule of 
costs incurred. He said a more reasonable settlement of £600 should be considered, and 
Charter remonstrated with for its unprofessional final response that was not compliant with 
industry standards and completely rewritten only after very serious input from Mr T. 
Mr T however said that despite his friends offer to pursue this on his behalf, because of his 
illness he was happy to settle for whatever I decided was fair. I'm sorry to hear that Mr T is 
so unwell. He's not bound to accept my decision, because of what he has said. He'll be able 
to decide if he wishes to pursue this matter or not once he's read this final decision.
We know that Charter sent Mr T a final response on 6 June 2019. In that response, it said Mr 
T opened a new account on 23 August. It then provided a further final response on 5 July, in 
which it said he opened this new ISA on 5 October. I think it was unhelpful that Charter 
initially got this wrong, and I also think it was unhelpful that, when it wrote again and 
apologised for its earlier error, it didnt clearly identify what that earlier error had been. I said 
in my provisional decision that I thought confusion over this had prolonged the issue, and 
Ive commented generally that Charters communications could have been rather clearer. But I dont think this would justify compensation at the level that Mr Ts friend suggests. That 
wouldnt be in line with other awards our service makes. 
Charter also wrote, to say that it hadnt previously seen the submissions by Mr Ts friend, 
and it wished to comment on those. Charter said Mr T now offered the date of 23 August for 
opening his new account. It said this differed from his original complaint, and set out the 
reasons why this date couldnt be right. Charter didnt mention here that it first introduced 
this error. 
Charter said a number of points in Mr Ts friends submissions were wrong. It said that 5 
October wasnt an accidental date, it was the maturity of the 1 Year Fixed Term Cash ISA, 
12 months after it was opened on 5 October 2017. Online applications arent signed, they 
are submitted electronically by the applicant. And Charter does have an automatic transfer 
process. It transfers funds automatically to an easy access cash ISA, when an ISA closes 
and no other instructions are given. And Charter said it wasnt its fault Mr T lost his tax 
advantages. He chose to move the money, and not put it in another ISA. 
Charter also made representations about whether its maturity communication was unclear. It 
said that had to be read in the context of the other emails sent to Mr T during the maturity 
process. Although Charter then seeks to build on this argument, I would like to simply 
disagree with the fundamental premise. I think an email such as this ought to be clear in 
itself, rather than relying on other emails sent at different times to make it clear. I think the 
onus is on Charter to make sure that each of its communications is clear.
Charter also said that when Mr T was sent the email with the phrase Were pleased to 
confirm that, following maturity of your Fixed Rate Cash ISA, your savings have been 
transferred on 5 October, Mr T hadnt yet opened a new fixed rate ISA, so he couldnt have 
presumed at that stage that his money had been transferred into it. 
Charter said Id referred to the inaccurate date (of 23 August) in its initial final response, and 
said this caused issues resulting in delay. It disagreed, and said Mr T had responded to that 
letter at the time saying that hed requested a transfer on 23 October. So Mr T knew then 
when hed opened his new account. Charter didnt think it had caused a delay. 
I said in my provisional decision that I thought that Charter had made a mistake about the 
date of opening Mr Ts new fixed term ISA, and that this had prolonged this dispute. Thats 
not the same as saying that it caused delays. Charter introduced this error in its first letter, 
and then didnt clearly identify it as an error in its second letter. And I think thats why, when 
Mr T and his friend have reviewed this case, they were misled as to the dates. I think that 
has muddled and prolonged this dispute. 
I dont think this mistake changes the overall position on whether Charter has to pay Mr T 
the interest he missed out on. But I continue to think, as I set out in my provisional decision, 
that Charters communications could have been considerably clearer, which may have 
avoided this mistake happening, or allowed matters to be resolved more quickly.
For these reasons, I still think that Charter should pay Mr T £100, in recognition of the lapses 
in service involved in this case.
 
 
 My final decision
My final decision is that Charter Court Financial Services Limited trading as Charter Savings 
Bank must pay Mr T £100 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman