DRN-3448212
Complaint
Ms S has complained about a loan Oakbrook Finance Limited (trading as Likely Loans) 
provided to her. She says the loan was unaffordable.
Background
Likely Loans provided Ms S with a loan for £1,000.00 in January 2021. This loan had an 
APR of 39.9% and was due to be repaid in 18 monthly instalments of £71.71, which meant 
the total amount to be repaid was £1,290.78. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Ms S and Likely Loans had told us. And she thought 
Likely Loans hadnt done anything wrong or treated Ms S unfairly. So she didnt recommend 
that Ms S complaint be upheld. Ms S disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at her 
complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Ms S complaint.
Likely Loans needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Likely Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Ms S could afford to repay before providing this loan. Our website sets out what we 
typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, 
we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much 
information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Likely Loans says it agreed to Ms S application after she provided details of her monthly 
income and some information on her expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on a credit search it carried out and all of this information showed Ms S could 
afford to comfortably make the monthly repayments she was committing to. On the other 
hand, Ms S has said she couldnt afford the payments.
Ive carefully thought about what Ms S and Likely Loans have said. 
I have to start by saying that Likely Loans credit file enquiries are likely to have shown      
Ms S debt total at the time of the application to be reasonable in comparison to her income. 
Its also likely to have shown that her debts appeared to be reasonably managed. Given this 
position, this was a first loan Ms S was taking with Likely Loans and the monthly loan 
repayments were low, I dont think it was unreasonable for Likely Loans not to do anything 
further.
I accept that Ms S actual circumstances may not have been fully reflected either in the 
information she provided, or the information Likely Loans obtained. Equally if Likely Loans 
had carried out further checks  such as obtaining bank statements  it might have 
discovered the reason Ms S would fall into difficulty and potentially have reached a different 
outcome. But the key here is that its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in 
circumstances where a lender did something wrong. 
Given the circumstances here, the lack of obvious inconsistencies as well as the relative 
plausibility of what had already been gathered, I dont think that reasonable and 
proportionate checks would have extended into obtaining bank statements or any such 
equivalent. As this is the case, I think that Likely Loans carried out proportionate checks and 
reasonably relied on what it found out which suggested the repayments were affordable. 
So overall I dont think that Likely Loans treated Ms S unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing her with her loan. And Im not upholding Ms S complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Ms S. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and 
that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
Although Im not upholding Ms S complaint, I would remind Likely Loans of its obligation to 
exercise forbearance and due consideration should Ms S be experiencing difficulty and it 
choose to collect payments from her.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Ms S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman