DRN-4196653
The complaint
Miss W complains about delays by Aviva Insurance Limited in dealing with a claim on her 
home emergency insurance policy.
Where I refer to Aviva, this includes its agents and claims handlers acting on its behalf. 
What happened
Miss W made a claim on her policy following a leak at her property. There were delays 
dealing with the claim and carrying out repairs, and we have considered a previous 
complaint about those delays.
Miss W also complained that when carrying out work, Avivas contractors had broken a soil 
pipe. She said this meant she couldnt use her toilet, so she had to move out of her house 
and stay elsewhere for around four months. She also said that a new pipe laid by the 
contractors didnt comply with regulations and shed had to pay for this to be replaced. She 
sought compensation for the cost of this work and for the expense of her alternative 
accommodation.
Aviva agreed to reimburse the cost of the additional work and paid Miss W £1,879.88 
together with interest on that amount. It also said it would consider the cost of further works 
Miss W said shed had to arrange, if she provided evidence of those costs.
Aviva didnt agree to pay Miss W anything for alternative accommodation as it said her 
property was habitable and she didnt have to move out. 
When Miss W referred the complaint to this service, our investigator didnt think it should be 
upheld because: 
Aviva had made a fair offer to compensate for the works Miss W had arranged and 
agreed to consider further costs if she provided evidence of those.
She didnt think the property had been uninhabitable for the period claimed as the 
toilet had only been removed for one day, and Miss W was having a new bathroom 
put in, so would have been without facilities for a period anyway. But if Miss W could 
show that work had been delayed by Avivas action this could be considered further.
Miss W said she although the toilet had been put back quickly, she couldnt use it because 
this would have led to raw sewage going into the hole outside where the contractors had 
damaged the drain. 
After considering this, the Investigator agreed there should be some compensation. She 
said: 
Miss W couldnt use the toilet if that meant raw sewage would leak out. 
The damage to the pipe was known from November 2021 but not repaired until 
March 2022.
She didnt think the full amount Miss W claimed for this was reasonable as she was 
staying with family. 
Aviva should pay an allowance of £10 per day from 1 November 2021 until 8 March 
2022.
In reply, Miss W says this offer would leave her out of pocket, and hasnt addressed the 
issue of who should get rid of hazardous waste left at the property.
Aviva has also provided further comments, as follows:
It has already paid £620 compensation in the previous complaint for the 
inconvenience of everything that happened.
Miss W was having renovations done to the property and as part of this, the soil pipe 
was being moved  so she would have had no facilities at the property. 
This indicates she wasnt living there at that time anyway
Some of the delay between November 2021 and March 2022 was due to Miss W not 
being available for appointments. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant industry guidance says an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly; 
provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate 
information on its progress; and not unreasonably reject a claim.
Miss Ws policy provides cover for home emergencies such as leaking pipes and blocked 
drains. She made a claim for a leak and as mentioned above, we have dealt with a previous 
complaint about delays in responding to that. This complaint is not about how Aviva initially 
responded to the claim, but about delays in putting right the damage caused by its 
contractors to the soil pipe. 
Theres no dispute about how long it took for this to be repaired  from November 2021 to 
March 2022. The crux of the matter is whether  as Miss W claims  she couldnt live in her 
home during that period as a result of Avivas actions. Aviva says either the house wasnt 
uninhabitable or, if it was, that would have been the case anyway due to other works being 
done at the time.
Aviva has referred to a phone call in which theres a discussion about the damaged soil pipe. 
Ive listened to the call and its correct theres mention that the works Miss W had done in her 
bathroom meant a new pipe would be installed, meaning the damaged soil pipe wouldnt be 
needed any more. But theres no further evidence about other work. And Aviva clearly 
accepted that the damaged soil pipe needed to be repaired, but then took around four 
months to get the repairs done. I appreciate that if Miss W was having other work done in 
her kitchen or bathroom there may have been a period where she couldnt use all the 
facilities in the property. But from the information Ive seen, on balance its likely the 
damaged soil pipe would have meant she couldnt use her toilet. And that would effectively 
make the house uninhabitable. Its unlikely having work done on her bathroom would have 
led to Miss W having to move out for four months.
Miss W didnt stay in a hotel but lived with relatives. She had previously received some 
compensation for the inconvenience caused by the situation. Taking these factors into 
account, I think a payment of £10 per day would be reasonable. Its in line with usual 
industry practice for a disturbance allowance in these circumstances.
Aviva says there were times when appointments were missed by Miss W. But she wasnt 
living at the property all the time. And she had difficulty taking time off work as she had used up so much annual leave due to the number of appointments that had been necessary 
during the course of the claim. So I dont think it would be fair to hold her responsible for any 
of the delays.
In addition to the payment of £1,879.88, Aviva also said it would consider the cost of further 
works Miss W said shed had to arrange, if she provided evidence of those costs. I think that 
was reasonable and if she provides any further details Id expect Aviva to consider them.
Finally, Miss W has asked about costs for removing hazardous waste. But according to both 
Avivas records and Miss Ws notes, arrangements were made for hazardous waste to be 
removed in May 2022. I dont think any further payment would be appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and direct Aviva Insurance Limited pay Miss W an allowance of £10 
per day for the period from 1 November 2021 until 8 March 2022.
Aviva Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Miss W accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on 
the compensation from the deadline date for settlement to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple. 
If Aviva Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss W how much its taken off. It should also give 
Miss W a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 August 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman