DRN-3013418
The complaint
This is a complaint that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold Mrs B payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out to cover a mortgage. The 
mortgage started in 1991, and Bank of Scotland has assumed this is when the PPI started 
too.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs B disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
In reviewing this complaint, Ive checked the possible ways in which the PPI might have 
been mis-sold. Ive also taken full account of the comments made in support of the 
complaint. 
The sale of the PPI took place very many years ago and, not surprisingly, none of the 
original documents from the time are now available. Also, I wouldnt expect someone to 
recall in detail everything that happened so long ago. This means it can be difficult to know 
whether its fair to rely fully on everything they remember.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case. As with all 
cases, Ive still had to decide whats most likely to have happened, based on what evidence 
there is. 
I dont have strong evidence to show that Bank of Scotland didnt make clear the PPI was 
optional; or that it didnt ensure that Mrs B freely chose to take it. Without stronger evidence, 
it wouldnt be fair for me to say that Bank of Scotland acted wrongly in that way.
I think Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mrs B, and this means we would judge its 
sales process by a higher standard  it had to make sure the PPI was suitable for Mrs Bs 
circumstances. However, it looks to me as though a recommendation would have been a 
suitable one, based on what Ive seen of Mrs Bs situation at the time: 
Its true that PPI was of questionable value for many people with certain types of 
borrowing. But finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage can lead to significant 
difficulties, and it was often sensible to consider covering yourself with PPI for this.
Its likely Mrs B was eligible for the policy, so would have been entitled to make a 
claim if needed. 
The PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as Mrs B received any employer 
sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would have paid unemployment benefits in 
addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have put off the time when Mrs B would 
need to fall back on any savings or other means she may have had for paying the 
mortgage and other living costs. This all would have put Mrs B in a more secure 
position, if shed eventually lost income due to long term sickness or unemployment. 
Ive not been told anything to suggest Mrs B couldnt afford the PPI when she took it 
out; so it wasnt unsuitable in that way. And  she could have cancelled the policy if 
this changed later on. 
There are some things the PPI didnt cover (exclusions). But its unlikely Mrs B would 
have been affected by any of these.
So I think the PPI would have been potentially useful, and so a recommendation was 
suitable. It would then have been up to Mrs B to decide whether she wanted to accept the 
recommendation and agree to buy the PPI.
Its hard to know how well Bank of Scotland explained the costs and benefits of the policy. 
But I dont anyway think its likely that full and clear information about this would have made 
a difference to whether or not Mrs B took the PPI. I say this because, in her circumstances, 
its unlikely this would have made the PPI seem less useful.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman