DRN-4005777
The complaint
Mr S complains that West Bay Insurance Plc (West Bay) is responsible for poor work and 
damage during his claim on the windscreen section of his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a convertible car, first registered in 
2006.
Mr S had the car insured on a comprehensive policy with West Bay. That included a section 
covering damage to windscreen glass. Any claim under that section was subject to an 
excess of £75.00.
Much of this complaint concerns the acts or omissions of West Bays appointed glass 
company. As West Bay was responsible for meeting the claim, I hold it responsible for the 
acts or omissions of the glass company.
In mid-August 2022, Mr S reported that he had damage to the windscreen of his car. The 
glass company replaced the windscreen. 
In early September 2022, Mr S complained to the company about wind noise and damage to 
trims. He took the car to a depot of the glass company. The glass company tried to remove 
the recently fitted windscreen, but it shattered, causing a chip to the paintwork. The 
technician used a touch-up pen to cover the chip.
Mr S complained to the glass company that its repair still wasnt right, and it had caused 
other damage.
By a final response dated mid-September 2022, the glass company offered to source and 
replace an A-pillar trim and a top trim and to pay £150.00 compensation.
By a final response dated mid-November 2022, West Bay upheld the complaint in part. It 
accepted responsibility for the need for re-fitting and for the chip. It said it was sending Mr S 
a cheque for the £150.00. But West Bay said that there was no evidence that the glass 
company caused any other issues with the car.
Unhappy with that, Mr S brought his complaint to us in late November 2022.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. He thought that 
Mr S had lost holiday time as a result of the glass companys service failings. He 
recommended that West Bay should pay Mr S an additional £75.00 in recognition of the 
leisure time he had lost.
West Bay agreed with the investigators opinion.
Mr S disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
The glass company damaged the trims that now no longer sit properly around the 
windscreen inside and out. 
The glass company damaged the paintwork. 
£150.00 plus the £75.00 wont cover the cost of repairs now required to get his car 
back to the standard it was at before.
In an email, the company stated they are sorry for the damage caused and offered to 
replace the parts and apologised for using a touch up pen on the paintwork they 
damaged.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I consider that Mr S was entitled to expect that the glass company would, at the first time, 
replace his windscreen correctly and without damage. 
Instead, the windscreen required removal and replacement. Mr S had to take time off work to 
take the car to the depot. 
The removal caused the windscreen to shatter, causing a paintwork chip and a delay at the 
depot. The glass company touched up the chip but didnt immediately tell Mr S about that.
So I consider that the glass company or the insurer should pay Mr S some compensation.
The glass company offered to replace two trims. However, West Bays final response didnt 
accept that it was responsible for any outstanding issues with the car.
So Ive looked carefully at the photographs and considered the nature and location of the 
outstanding issues. I consider that they are consistent with wear and tear in a vehicle over 
fifteen years old. 
I find that Mr S has fallen short of showing that the glass company or West Bay was 
responsible for these issues. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct West Bay to 
arrange or to pay for further repairs. 
Putting things right
I dont underestimate the impact on Mr S of the need to take his car in to the depot in 
September 2022. Overall, I conclude that  in addition to its cheque for £150.00  a further 
£75.00 is fair and reasonable compensation for distress and inconvenience in Mr Ss case.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct West 
Bay Insurance Plc to pay Mr S  in addition to its cheque for £150.00  a further £75.00 for 
distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman