DRN-3958709
The complaint
Mr D complains My Policy Ltd have unfairly cancelled his Motor Insurance Policy.
Mr D is being represented by Mrs D, who I will refer to below.
All references to My Policy also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The policy sets out that if a signal is not being received from the Black Box for more 
than seven days, My Policy may provide a seven days notice of cancellation of the 
policy.
In November 2022, as no signal was being received, a notice of cancellation was 
sent to Mr D. 
Mrs D called My Policy in November to inform it the car was being repaired and 
would be in the garage for around five more days. Ive listened to this call.
My Policy said the policy wouldnt cancel until two days after the date Mrs D had 
given. So, if she was certain the car would be back when she said, no further action 
would be taken, as long as the box was plugged back in, and it provided a signal 
before the proposed cancellation date.
My Policy told Mrs D if there was any doubt the car wouldnt be back in time for them 
to plug the black box back in, she should get the garage to provide confirmation to it 
the car wasnt being used and was being repaired. It also provided a specific time 
and date she would need to do this by during the call. 
The black box wasnt plugged back into the vehicle until the day after deadline given 
by My Policy, so My Policy cancelled the policy.
Mrs D said she was away at the time the car was delivered back from the Garage, 
but I cant see that she tried to inform My Policy or to explore alternative means to do 
so.
I understand having a policy cancelled would have a potential impact on Mr D 
obtaining future cover. But considering everything Ive set above I think My Policy 
have acted fairly. It made it clear to Mrs D what would happen if the black box was 
not plugged back in on time  and it also provided clear instruction alternatively on 
how to prevent cancellation of the policy happening. The black box wasnt plugged 
back in on time, and I cant see anything that persuades me Mrs D tried to mitigate 
matters in any way.
So, for these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman