DRN-2810472
The complaint
Mr H complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua (Aqua) lent to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
Mr H opened his Aqua card account in 2012. Aqua increased his credit limits as follows: 
Date Old Limit New Limit
June 2012 - £500
November 2012 £500 £750
April 2013 £750 £1250
May 2014 £1250 £2200
October 2014 £2200 £3300
March 2015 £3300 £4300
August 2015 £4300 £5050
January 2016 £5050 £5800
In June 2020, Mr Hs account was closed  so purchases couldnt be made. Between June
2019 and November 2020, several payment plans were agreed:
In February 2020, Mr H paid £300 into the account. Mr Hs credit file was marked with late 
payment information.
In September 2019, Mr H complained that Aqua didnt do proper checks when they offered 
to increase his credit limits. He only paid the minimum amount each month. He had financial 
problems and was struggling to pay his debts. He didnt get any notice that his account was 
to be closed  if Aqua were once happy to lend him more money, why did they suspend his 
account? Aqua then agreed to reduce or suspend repayments. He then paid in £300 as part 
of this agreement and the account was stopped  so he couldnt use the £300 to spend. 
Aqua agreed payment plans but put late payment information on his credit file. Mr H also 
complained that hes been issued with a marbles card by New Day  and this was 
irresponsible.
In March 2020, Aqua said Mr H passed their risk criteria at each increase. The increases in 
November 2012 and April 2013 were requested by Mr H. The increases between May 2014 
and January 2016 were all offered proactively by Aqua  he couldve opted out of them, but 
Mr H accepted the offers each time. They knew he was making minimum repayments but 
that didnt mean they wouldnt lend him more money. In January 2014, his annual income 
was £26,650, with other income of £7,000 and unsecured debt of £13,400. At that time, 
there were no arrears or payday loans showing on Mr Hs credit file. Due to some confusion 
about information that Mr H was given on a call, they refunded interest of £223.37 in January 
2020. But they said that his Aqua account was closed and was open to repayments only. On 
the marbles card, Aqua agreed that this shouldnt have been given to Mr H and they 
refunded all interest and fees on the card and cancelled the outstanding debit balance.
Mr H brought his complaint to this service. Out investigator looked at what had happened. 
She said the original issue of the card wouldnt be looked at as it was more than six years 
before Mr H complained. Aqua had shown their risk data to us - which included external 
and internal information. There were no arrears or indicators of financial difficulty. Theyd 
said that making minimum repayments wouldnt mean that Mr H was struggling. They said 
their risk analysis showed that they were right to increase Mr Hs credit limits. She looked at 
Mr Hs bank statements. These showed that in the three months before each increase, 
there were loans from high cost credit firms, plus other credit card debts. There were 
payments to gambling firms. Mr Hs overdraft was around £3,000. She looked at the 
payment plans put in place between 2019 and 2020. These were appropriate  and Aqua 
had stopped charging interest during this time. They were justified in advising credit 
reference agencies about the plans. She could see that the payment of £300 was part of Date Payment Plan
June 2019 £90 per month for 12 months, 
letter sent. Zero interest.
January 2020 3-month payment holiday, letter 
sent
March 2020 £1 per month for 12 months, 
letter sent. Zero interest.
September 2020 £55 per month, 2 months 
review. Zero interest.
November 2020 Payment holiday to February 
2021the agreement to put a payment plan in place  and therefore it couldnt be refunded. But  
because of what the bank statements showed - she concluded that Aqua shouldve 
completed more checks to ensure Mr H could afford to borrow more money  he was in 
financial difficulty. Aqua should refund all interest and charges from May 2014  that is, the 
first proactive increase offered by Aqua. She didnt look at the marbles card as Mr H had 
told us that he was satisfied with the outcome on that.
Aqua disagreed. They said their risk assessment  based on their own data - showed that 
Mr H could afford the increased debt. They werent required to look at bank statements. 
So, they asked that an ombudsman review Mr Hs complaint.
I then reached a first provisional decision where I said:
As our investigator as said  this service can only look at things that happened within six 
years of Mr Hs complaint. Mr H complained to Aqua in September 2019. So, I wont look at 
the issue of the card in 2012, or the limit increases before September 2013.
The key issue here is  did Aqua lend to Mr H responsibly? Our investigator showed that 
Mr H had significant debts with high cost lenders  because he was making payments from 
his bank account to them and also appeared to be paying money to gambling firms. She 
got this information from Mr Hs bank statements. Aqua say  they didnt see Mr Hs bank 
statements, nor did they need to ask for them  as Mr H passed all their credit assessment 
tests at each increase in the credit limits. They say they were therefore correct to lend 
more money to Mr H. Because they saw no signs of difficulties  they didnt need to make 
other inquiries about his circumstances (such as asking for his bank statements).
I take a different view of our investigator. Ive looked at Aquas credit assessments and at 
Mr Hs Aqua statements between 2014 and 2020. I dont think they show that Aqua 
couldve seen that Mr H was in difficulty  and therefore I can see why they didnt ask for 
more information from him.
Looking at Aquas credit assessments. They show that Mr H paid on time  there were no 
late payment fees. There were no arrears. There were only two occasions when he went 
over his limit. I can see that he borrowed up to his limit consistently  but I dont see that 
as necessarily a bad thing. There were few cash withdrawals made with the card  
although these did increase from 2015 onwards.
Looking at Mr Hs Aqua statements  these show normal retail spending throughout. In 
April 2015 and August 2015, I could see a small number of low value gambling 
transactions  a total of 16 in those two months  and each for around £5 to £10 each time. 
So  these werent very significant. He did only make the minimum payments each month 
 but of itself, that wouldnt mean there were problems.
So, on balance, I can see why Aqua was OK with its lending to Mr H  given what the Aqua
information showed.
Looking at the increases in credit limits, I can see that Mr H was given the option of 
declining the offers from Aqua  but he accepted them each time. And when Mr H did 
advise Aqua payment plans, at reduced rates of interest, or zero interest. So, they were 
trying to help. I can see that that he paid in £300 to the account in February 2020. This was 
part of the payment holiday agreement and it seems that Aqua acted OK here. Where a 
payment plan is agreed, Aqua must report this to credit reference agencies  they must do 
this.So  on balance, I dont think I can say that Aqua acted irresponsibly in this case. So, while I 
know this will be disappointing to Mr H, I wont be asking them to do anymore here. I 
understand that Mr H is now on another payment holiday with should continue to deal with 
them positively about his debt with them.
Responses to my first provisional decision:
Aqua didnt respond to my provisional decision. Thats not surprising because it found in 
their favour.
But Mr H did. And he didnt agree with what Id said. Again, thats not surprising. But it was 
clear to me that Mr H felt very strongly about what had happened and raised a number of 
specific points around whether the lending was affordable or responsible. He didnt think 
Id properly explained how Id come to a very different conclusion to that of the 
investigator. In summary, he thought Aqua should have done more to make sure that he 
could afford to borrow the money at the time. So, Ive gone back and looked at all the 
information on this case again. And I can see why Mr H feels Aqua as they should have
done. I find what he now says very persuasive.
I issued a second provisional decision where I said:
Like all lenders, Aqua was bound by the guidelines (set down by the Financial Conduct 
Authority) at the time. Those guidelines said Aqua should carry out reasonable and 
proportionate checks to make sure that Mr H could afford to repay the additional 
borrowing. Neither reasonable or proportionate are defined  as such. But  having 
considered the matter again  Im now minded to agree with Mr H that the checks carried 
out by Aqua werent enough to meet what these terms might reasonably be intended to 
mean.
Aqua has given us details of the data that it had available to it at the time of each increase. 
What data Aqua chooses to use is a matter for it. But it does have to accept that only 
getting limited information may expose it to not meeting the required threshold. So  to be 
clear  Im not telling Aqua how it should have run its business  Im simply saying that I 
think the application of its normal processes had led to an unfair outcome for Mr H. That 
doesnt mean the same would be true of any or all other cases this service might look at. 
Im only considering the particular circumstances of Mr Hs case.
I think its helpful to look in particular at the first three increases were able to deal with  
those from May 2014 to March 2015. There were increases of around 80% (from £1,250 -
£2,200), 50% (from £2,200 - £3,300) and 30% (from £3,300 - £4,300) in the space of less 
than 12 months. Thats an increase of over three times the level of credit. And  the 
increases from £4,300 to £5,800 between March 2015 and January 2016 amounted to an 
increase of 33% in 10 months. So, I think reasonable and proportionate checks would 
have included some further direct interaction with Mr H to make sure this significant 
increase was affordable. That would probably have included getting some evidence of his 
situation and/or ability to repay the increased debt.
Its only much later  March 2016  that Aqua seem to have become aware of Mr Hs real 
indebtedness and, in particular, a history/large number of payday loans. And from that 
point onwards, it didnt increase his credit limit. So, it seems quite likely that had Aqua 
carried out more detailed checks at the times of the earlier increases, Im not sure they 
would have continued to lend to Mr H. For example, they couldve asked Mr H more about 
his circumstances and asked for an income and expenditure analysis. This would have 
likely shown his other debts and the other payments he was making.I havent seen any evidence to show Aqua had anything other than the limited data. And 
that limited data doesnt seem to me to enable it to say it carried out reasonable and 
proportionate checks when giving a more than three-fold increase in credit. I accept Mr H 
made the minimum payments each month. But I can also see that for most of the period in 
question, Mr H borrowed up to the limit in a hard core way. And then - almost as soon as 
an increased credit limit was given, Mr H spent up to it and the borrowing simply stayed at 
or just below the new limit. So  it became hard core (or long-term) debt. That should also 
have alerted Aqua to make further enquiries of Mr H.
Having now reconsidered all of the evidence and what Mr H has said in response to my 
provisional decision, Im minded to uphold his complaint. So, Ill be asking Aqua to:
Refund all interest and charges from the increase in the limit in May 2014 to the 
date of any final decision. To the extent that Mr H has paid the interest and 
charges through minimum monthly payments, 8% per annum simple should be 
applied to the amounts paid and paid to Mr H.
If theres a debt remaining, then Aqua and Mr H should agree a mutually agreeable 
payment plan.
Remove any adverse entries on Mr Hs credit file. These would not have been 
needed if Aqua hadnt lent the money to Mr H in the first place.
Im only likely to depart from my revised view if Aqua is now able to demonstrate clearly 
how its approach to checking Mr H could afford to borrow the increased sums met the 
FCAs guidelines at the times concerned. In doing so, itd need to persuade me that the 
increases to above could reasonably be said to be affordable without any further checks 
carried out.
Mr H didnt make any comments. But Aqua did. They said (in summary):
Theres no definition of what is reasonable and proportionate and therefore  how 
can I say that Aqua failed to undertake such checks to this standard?
They adhered to lending guidelines as set down by the FCA at the time.
To look at percentage increases in the limits isnt fair.
There wasnt any adverse data showing in Mr Hs records at the time  arrears or 
affordability data. He managed his Aqua account well.
High utilisation of a credit limit doesnt necessarily mean a limit shouldnt be 
increased  Mr Hs debt wasnt hard-core. 
Mr H couldve declined the increases in limits, but he didnt. And he didnt have to 
use the increased limit if he didnt want to  he must take some responsibility for his 
debt.
Its only fair to refund interest and fees over £1250  the limit in May 2014. They 
disagreed that Mr H should be awarded 8% simple on his payments  as he was 
paying for goods. And Mr H is already on a Covid19 payment arrangement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Aqua have said in response to the second provisional decision, but Im 
not going to substantially change my mind. 
Aqua are correct in saying that reasonable and proportionate are defined  but the dispute 
resolution scheme requires me to determine a complaint by reference to what in my opinion 
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the case. I dont say that Aqua havent 
followed their processes, or that theyre wrong  but in Mr Hs case, they havent led to a fair 
outcome for Mr H.
I do consider that the percentage increases are relevant  but even if theyre not, the actual 
increases in limits were significant in any case  from £1,250 to £5,800 in under two years. 
And the level of those increases shouldve meant that Aqua carried out more checks.
Aqua say that borrowing more and not repaying the capital balance isnt hard core debt. I 
disagree. Aqua increased Mr Hs limits and hence his debts by almost five times in 20 
months  with no sign of Mr H being able to make reductions in his debt with them. I think 
thats hard-core borrowing. And where thats seen, lenders should interpret that as a sign of 
potential problems.
I accept Aquas comments about the amount of interest refund that should be made, and the 
calculation of any additional award of 8% simple  I will amend this in my final decision.
Its good to learn that Mr H is on a payment plan due to the Covid19 pandemic. But this is 
time limited and I believe is due to be reviewed by Aqua soon. The payment plan that Id like 
to see should be an arrangement that Mr H can maintain in the longer term.
Putting things right
Having considered everything that both Aqua and (previously) Mr H have said, I think a fair 
outcome is:
Weve agreed that Aquas lending up to £1,250 in May 2014 was OK. Aqua can 
charge Mr H interest on the original amount borrowed as that is not something 
covered by my decision. So  they should refund all interest and charges on 
balances over £1,250 with effect from May 2014 to the date of this decision. 
Where the adjustment made results in a credit balance  this is money Mr H 
shouldve had and had been without  Aqua should pay interest at 8% per annum 
simple on this. I suspect a credit balance wont occur in this case  given that Mr H 
had the benefit of several zero interest periods.
Aqua and Mr H should agree a mutually acceptable and sustainable repayment plan 
for the remaining debt.
Aqua should remove any adverse credit entries from Mr Hs credit file. These 
wouldnt have occurred if Aqua hadnt lent the money.
(contined)My final decision
I uphold this complaint. 
NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua must:
Refund all interest and charges on balances over £1,250 with effect from May 2014 
to the date of this decision. 
Where the adjustment made results in a credit balance - pay interest at 8% per 
annum simple on this.
Agree with Mr H a mutually acceptable and sustainable repayment plan for the 
remaining debt.
Remove any adverse credit entries from Mr Hs credit file. These wouldnt have 
occurred if Aqua hadnt lent the money.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman