DRN-4284307
The complaint
Mr I has complained that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) has not yet paid his claim.
All references to IPA include any agents acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mr I bought a travel insurance policy, underwritten by IPA.
He travelled abroad but unfortunately became unwell and sought treatment from a hospital. 
He also upgraded his return flights and booked a stop-over to rest. He then made a claim to 
IPA for his costs and is unhappy with the length of time IPA is taking to make its decision. 
Mr I complained to IPA and it apologised for the time it was taking to assess his claim and 
paid him £50 compensation. 
Unhappy, Mr I referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and found that IPA had fairly compensated Mr I for 
its initial delay. She also found it was entitled to verify the claim and request the information 
it needed.
Mr I disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. 
And so the case has been passed to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer should handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
IPA responded to Mr Is complaint in March 2023 and paid him £50 for its delay along 
with an apology. It said its investigation into his claim was still ongoing.  
Mr I remained unhappy with the delays and our investigator found that IPAs actions 
up to June 2023 were reasonable as it was entitled to verify a claim.
I agree IPAs actions in verifying the claim up to June 2023 have been reasonable. 
An insurer is entitled to verify and investigate the circumstances of a claim. IPA had 
been trying to contact the hospital Mr I was treated at before it made a claim 
decision. That isnt unreasonable. 
My decision is limited to the period to end of June 2023. 
IPA has a responsibility to handle the claim promptly and fairly and provide 
appropriate advice and guidance to Mr I. If Mr I remains unhappy with IPAs actions 
from July 2023 onwards, he would be able to raise a new complaint with IPA in the 
first instance. But I would expect IPA to keep him regularly updated. 
Overall, I am satisfied that IPAs apology and payment of £50 compensation was 
reasonable. And that it is has acted reasonably in verifying the claim, up to June 
2023. Anything after this date has not been investigated and does not form part of my 
decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman