DRN-2067761
The complaint
Mr M complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold him a monthly 
premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in 2002 when he applied for a credit 
card.
What happened
Mr M complained to this Service. He bought a PPI policy in 2002 on a postal application 
form. He said PPI no-one explained anything to him; the costs were not made clear to 
him as he didnt see anything on the postal form about the PPI cost. He adds that he had 
sick pay and savings, so he didnt need PPI.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should not be upheld. Mr M disagreed with our 
adjudicator's view and asked for the matter to be looked at again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr M's case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mr M's complaint. I know this will be a 
disappointing result for him, so Ill explain why.
I first looked at whether NatWest made it clear the policy was an optional product. 
NatWest produced a copy of Mr M's credit card application. I can see there was a tick box 
headed Credit Card Repayment Protector stating For cover tick this box This box is 
ticked on Mr Ms application, but I noted he declined other offers on the form - so I think 
the form was diligently completed with the things he wanted and didnt want. And he could 
have declined the PPI by not ticking the box. As he also signed the credit card application, 
I can reasonably assume he checked all the details were correct. So I think his signature 
means NatWest probably made it clear enough that Mr M didnt have to take out the PPI 
and yet he chose to take it out  although I can understand why he may not be able to 
remember this.
I noted Mr M was eligible to buy PPI. The policy wasn't recommended so NatWest had to 
make sure Mr M received enough information which was clear, fair and not misleading so 
he could make an informed decision.
Mr M says nobody explained anything to him, which does not surprise me as this was a 
postal sale. So Mr M didnt speak to any NatWest staff members. Its possible the 
information given to Mr M about the cost and benefits wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. But as I think he chose to take it out, it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And 
it seems like it would have been useful for him if something went wrong because he told 
us he had some savings and statutory sick pay. So I think the PPI could have lasted for 
longer than and in addition to his sick pay if he wasnt able to work or had lost his job. 
This would leave his savings for other expenses.
NatWest should also have pointed out the things the policy did not cover (the 
exclusions). The form says the terms are on the other side of the credit card application 
form, so he probably had access to them. However, it does not appear that Mr M was 
affected by the main exclusions. So - even if hed been given a full list of the exclusions - 
I dont think it would have put him off from buying the PPI.
Taking everything into account, I think the policy was shown as optional and Mr M was 
probably given enough information to make an informed decision. So I am not going to 
uphold this complaint.
All of the above means NatWest doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But NatWest has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because: 
NatWest got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr M about that. Because NatWest didnt tell Mr M, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, NatWest has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr M has said - including what he said about his sick pay, 
savings and not being given any information about the PPI. But these points dont change 
my decision.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so National Westminster Bank Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But National Westminster Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mr M any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already 
done this and Mr M has accepted the payment, so I dont award any further compensation. 
I do not uphold the PPI mis-sale complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2020.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman