DRN-3398904
The complaint
Ms L complains that Topaz Finance Limited trading as Heliodor Mortgages has reported to 
the credit reference agencies that she has missed payments on her mortgage.
What happened
Ms L has a mortgage which is now with Topaz. It was originally with Northern Rock, and 
when Northern Rock collapsed it moved to the successor firm, and then more recently was 
sold on to Topaz in 2019.
In 2005, Ms L took a fifteen year fixed interest rate, which expired in 2020. At the expiry of 
her rate, she asked Topaz for another, but it doesnt offer new interest rates to its customers. 
So Ms L decided to move her mortgage to another lender.
It was then that she discovered that Topaz had been recording to her credit file that she had 
been making her monthly payments late. This meant that she wasnt able to move her 
mortgage as new lenders were unwilling to consider lending to her.
Ms L asked Topaz to remove the markers from her credit file. She said she had never been 
in arrears or missed a payment. But she said that the date her mortgage payment was due  
the end of each month  was the same date she was paid by her employer. She said she 
manually paid her mortgage that day, though sometimes in the late afternoon or evening if 
she didnt receive her wages until late on in the day.
Topaz said that it was Ms Ls responsibility to pay her mortgage on time. Where it did not 
receive payment on the due date, the mortgage would be in arrears and it had an obligation 
to record that to the credit reference agencies.
Ms L complained. She said she didnt choose for her mortgage to be moved to Topaz, a 
lender that did not offer its customers new rates. She wanted to be able to move her 
mortgage to a new lender that did offer new fixed rates and wanted Topaz to help her move. 
Topaz said it couldnt send a mortgage prisoner letter  which would enable a new lender 
to apply a modified affordability assessment to Ms Ls application  because she was not 
eligible. This was because she had not been arrears free for the last twelve months.
I issued a provisional decision setting out my view of the complaint.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ms L complains that her mortgage was moved to Topaz, and that she was not consulted 
about this, and wouldnt have agreed to it. She would have wanted her mortgage to be 
moved to a lender that offers new interest rates.
I cant uphold this part of her complaint. Its in the terms and conditions of her mortgage that 
her existing lender can transfer the mortgage on to a new lender  this happened in 2008 
when Northern Rock collapsed, and again in 2019 when the loan was part of a group sold on 
to Topaz. Theres no requirement for customers to be consulted about this, and theres no 
breach of contract. Nor is it unfair for her mortgage to have operated in this way.
Topaz does not offer new interest rates to any of its customers, and isnt obliged to do so. 
Ms L has not been treated less fairly than other Topaz customers in this respect. 
However, as a closed book lender, Topaz should not stand in the way of customers moving 
to another lender. And it should issue Ms L a mortgage prisoner letter, if shes eligible for 
one, to help her do so.
Ms L says that Topaz should do more. It should find her a new lender itself. She says it 
wrote to her committing to do everything in its power to help her find a new lender. 
But I dont think this means that Topaz has to find her a new lender, or try to find another 
firm to transfer the mortgage to. What it means is that Topaz should not put barriers  such 
as additional charges  in her way. It should direct her to sources of mortgage advice. And it 
should issue the letter the regulator has required if Ms L is eligible. This is the mortgage 
prisoner letter  if she has one of these, a new lender may apply a lower affordability 
standard, making it easier for Ms L to pass a new lenders assessment.
But Topaz cannot find a lender for Ms L, or advise her about who to apply to. She will have 
to do that for herself, or consult a mortgage broker to assist her in finding a new lender. A list 
of mortgage brokers committed to helping mortgage prisoners move to new lenders if 
possible may be found at 
https://www.moneyhelper.org.uk/content/dam/maps/en/homes/moneyhelper-
intermediariesfor-mortgage-prisoners.pdf and Ms L may want to consult a broker on this list.
However, while Ms Ls credit file shows a history of arrears its much harder for her to move 
her mortgage. Topaz cant give her a mortgage prisoner letter, and new lenders are much 
less likely to be willing to offer her a mortgage. So Ive thought about whether it was fair for 
Topaz to record the mortgage as being in arrears.
Topaz has explained that it requires mortgage payments to be made before the contractual 
due date. And where payment is not made by the due date, and also not received before 
4pm on the last working day of the month, it considers the mortgage to be in arrears and 
reports it to the credit reference agencies as such.
That means that, in theory, its possible for a mortgage payment to be made up to around 30 
days late before Topaz records it as being in arrears  if a borrowers due date is the first of 
the month but no payment is made until the 30th, that would not be treated as being in 
arrears because it was received before the end of the month.
But in Ms Ls case, because her due date is at the end of the month, she doesnt get the 
same leeway. Her due date is the 31st of each month (or the last day if there are not 31 days 
in the month).
Ms L says she doesnt want to have direct debits on her bank account; she prefers to make 
manual payments so she is in control of her spending. She says she always pays on the due 
date, but Topaz had never made her aware of the cut off time of 4pm, so wasnt aware that 
sometimes it wouldnt receive her payment until the following day.The previous lender allowed borrowers until the fifth of the following month before 
considering there to be arrears. Topaz changed this to the end of the current month when it 
took over the mortgage in 2019.
Topaz has shown us the welcome letter it sent Ms L in 2019, saying the letter explains this 
change. And it does.
But as Ms L points out, the letter does not say that there is a 4pm cut off. It simply says it will 
notify the credit reference agencies if Ms L doesnt make her payment until the beginning of 
the following month.
As far as Ms L is concerned, she was not in arrears, because she made her payment on the 
last working day of each month. But as far as Topaz is concerned she was  because it 
often did not receive the payment until the first working day of the next month.
I dont think this was fair. This was a change to the way her mortgage was managed that 
directly impacted Ms L. And the notification Topaz sent her was not sufficiently clear to let 
Ms L know that she had to make her payments not just by the end of the month, but before 
the end of business hours on the last working day of the month.
Topaz is required to communicate in a way thats clear fair and not misleading, having due 
regard to the information needs of its customers. In this particular case, I dont think Ms L 
was given enough information, clearly and fairly, to understand that the way she made her 
payments would not be acceptable in future. For that reason, I dont think Topaz treated her 
fairly.
Secondly, I bear in mind the purpose of the credit reference agencies and credit files. Its to 
accurately report the position of credit agreements so that other lenders can understand a 
potential applicant for credits true financial position, including whether they are managing 
their existing commitments.
In other words, it would be fair  and accurate  to record that Ms L had missed her 
payments. Or that she was regularly paying late. But only if that was in fact the case.
But in this case, I dont think she was paying late. She was paying on time, as far as she was 
concerned and as far as she had been led to believe by Topaz. She didnt know, and 
couldnt have known from what Topaz had told her, that a payment made after close of 
business on the last day of the month would be received on the first working day of the next 
month. And she didnt know, and couldnt have known, that such a payment would be 
treated as being late.
In those circumstances, I dont think its fair or accurate to record that Ms L was missing 
payments or paying late. She wasnt in financial difficulty; she wasnt wilfully or negligently 
mis-managing her commitments. She was doing what she had always done, and didnt know 
that Topaz had decided to treat that differently.
In the circumstances, I think a fair resolution to this complaint would be for Topaz to remove 
any late payment markers from Ms Ls credit file where it has received her payment on the 
first working day of the month following the due date. If, having done that, Ms L is now 
eligible for a mortgage prisoner letter, it should issue her with one.
Topaz should also pay her £350 compensation for the upset and worry this situation has 
caused her.But I dont think Topaz can fairly be required to offer her a new interest rate, since it doesnt 
offer them to any customers. Nor do I think I can fairly require it to pay Ms L the difference in 
the amount shes paid in interest to Topaz and the amount she would have had to pay to 
another lender. Topazs mistake here has prevented Ms L from applying to another lender.
But theres no guarantee that if she been able to apply another lender would have granted 
her a mortgage  there are many hurdles that have to be crossed before that can happen. 
Another lender would have to assess her affordability, whether her property is adequate 
security, and whether she has a suitable repayment strategy for her mortgage at the end of 
the interest only term, among other things. So I cant say that its more likely than not that 
Ms L would have been able to move her mortgage any sooner had nothing gone wrong. But 
by putting things right, Topaz will put Ms L back in the position she should have been in  
being able to look at the rest of the mortgage market without a credit file unfairly showing her 
as having missed payments.
The responses to my provisional decision
Neither party accepted my provisional decision.
Ms L didnt think £350 compensation was enough. She said her credit file had been 
impacted for two years, and this was preventing her re-mortgaging to a cheaper rate. She 
said £3,500 would be a more reasonable amount to take account of what she had overpaid. 
And she said that Topaz should be required to find her another lender  as it had offered to 
do. 
Topaz said that it was Ms Ls choice to pay other than by direct debit. And in doing so, it was 
her responsibility to make sure she understood the requirements and implications of that. It 
said it had made clear on its website that payments made on the last day of the month 
needed to be made by 4pm, and that if they were not that might lead to a credit file record  
as had happened in this case. It said that on each occasion it had received a late payment it 
had written to Ms L and she had not taken further action.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what both parties said in response to my provisional decision, but I havent 
changed my mind.
As I noted in my provisional decision, Topaz has an obligation to pay due regard to the 
information needs of its customers and communicate with them in a way thats clear, fair and 
not misleading.
Im not persuaded it did that. The welcome letter when the loan moved to Topaz did not tell 
Ms L that things had changed or that she needed to make her payment earlier on the last 
day of the month. I dont think that by putting this information on its website but not drawing 
Ms Ls attention to it Topaz did enough to communicate clearly and fairly with Ms L or paid 
sufficient regard to her information needs. The fact was that Ms L was doing what she had 
always done, and had always done without problems. In my view, Topaz should have made 
clear to her that it had changed the process and that what she had always done would no 
longer work  but it didnt do that. It wrote to her tell her she was in arrears, but it didnt tell 
her why, or that she needed to do something different. And by the time she received those 
letters, triggered automatically at the start of each month, her payment had been received and she wasnt in arrears.
However, Im not persuaded that £3,500 would be fair compensation. As I said in my 
provisional decision, I appreciate that the late payment markers on her credit file prevented 
Ms L from applying to another lender. But theres no certainty that had she made an 
application it would have been granted, or whether  or to what extent  she would have 
been able to lower her interest rate if so. Im not therefore persuaded that theres clear 
evidence of financial loss. And Im satisfied that £350 compensation is fair for the worry 
involved in finding the markers on her credit file, and the lost opportunity to at least apply.
I cant direct Topaz to find Ms L another lender. Thats not how things work, and  while I 
know Ms L doesnt agree  I dont think thats what it offered either. I think doing everything 
in its power to help her move means not putting barriers in her way and ensuring she can 
apply to other lenders  not arranging a new mortgage for her. Thats something Ms L will 
need to do herself. I can see she is in touch with a mortgage adviser who will be able to 
assist her.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Topaz 
Finance Limited trading as Heliodor Mortgages to:
Remove any late payment markers recorded to Ms Ls credit file where it has 
received payment on the first working day of the month following the payment due 
date;
If having done so Ms L is eligible, issue her a mortgage prisoner letter;
Pay Ms L £350 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman