DRN-2878624
Complaint
Mr B says Bradford & Bingley Plc mis-sold him a mortgage payment protection insurance 
(MPPI) policy. 
Background
This complaint is about a regular premium MPPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1996. 
Mr B applied for the MPPI during a meeting. The policy covered Mr B for accident, sickness 
and unemployment.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. Bradford & Bingley disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
On 28 April 2021, I issued my provisional decision. In my provisional decision, I explained 
why I disagreed with the outcome reached by the adjudicator. And I gave Mr B and    
Bradford & Bingley an opportunity to respond. Below is an extract of what I said: 
Mr B has said that he if was given the option and provided with all of the relevant 
information about the MPPI, he would not have taken it.
In order to apply the MPPI to Mr Bs account, Bradford & Bingley would have needed to give 
Mr B a choice about the MPPI and gained his consent being adding it to his mortgage. It has 
sent us copy of Mr Bs completed mortgage application form from the time he took out the 
mortgage and the MPPI was sold to him. It has also sent us a copy of the mortgage offer 
letter. 
Looking at the paperwork completed at the time of the sale, I couldnt find any reference to 
the MPPI being a condition of the mortgage. On the mortgage application form under the 
section titled Mortgage Repayment Insurance for Injury, Illness and Unemployment, it asks 
Do you wish to take advantage of the security and protection offered by the Societys 
Payment Protection Insurance Policy to cover your mortgage repayment? (Yes or No). In 
the applicable space, YES was written. Under the same section of the application form, it 
asks other questions relating to Mr Bs circumstances and allows the amount of cover 
required to be input. In addition, there are two types of cover available and a tick has been 
placed next to the Injury, Illness and Unemployment option.
Taking everything into account, including the available paperwork from the time of sale, I 
think its more likely than not that there was a discussion about the PPI and that Mr B 
consented to MPPI being taken out. I also havent seen any persuasive evidence to suggest 
Mr B wasnt given a choice about the MPPI. So, I think its more likely than not that Mr B 
agreed to take out the MPPI knowing he had a choice.
Both parties agree that Bradford & Bingley didnt recommend the MPPI to Mr B. So it didnt 
have to check if the policy was right for him. But it did have to make sure Mr B got the 
information he needed to decide if it was right for him.
Its possible the information Bradford & Bingley gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been, - particularly about the things it didnt cover. But Mr B chose to take out 
the PPI, so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time it looks like he was eligible for the cover and it doesnt look like he 
was affected by some of the main things the policy didnt cover- so it would have been useful 
for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. 
The adjudicator considered that as Mr B suffered from a medical condition at the time of the 
sale, it was possible that he would have been affected by the exclusions relating to pre-
existing medical conditions. The adjudicator considered that had Mr B been made sufficiently 
aware of this, then he might not have taken out the policy. 
Having thought about this and what I currently know about Mr Bs medical condition, I 
disagree with our adjudicators findings. I say this because whilst Mr B told us he had a 
medical condition at the time of the sale, he has told us it was controlled with medication. He 
has also not provided us with any information to suggest that he had prolonged periods off of 
work because of it. 
In addition, I note that when asked at the time of application, Have you or any person 
connected with this policy ever had a serious illness or are currently suffering with a medical 
condition ? (Yes or No), he answered NO. Whilst Mr B may not have been able to claim 
for his condition, the evidence suggests his condition wasnt something he thought was 
serious enough to declare - so I dont think he would have declined the PPI had he known 
about the exclusion for pre-existing medical conditions. As a result, I dont think having more 
information about the policy exclusions and limitations would have made any difference to 
Mr Bs decision to take out PPI.
Mr B has told us he would have received £60.50 per week for a maximum of ten weeks per 
annum from his employer in addition to statutory sick pay if he was off work due to illness. 
He has also told us he had £1,000 in savings.
Having thought about what Mr B has said about his sick pay and savings, I dont think this 
means he wouldnt have found the policy useful. I say this because the MPPI would have 
paid out in addition to any sick pay Mr B would have received from his employer and would 
potentially have paid out for longer than he would have received full pay  up to twelve 
months. The MPPI would also have paid a benefit if Mr B was ever made redundant for up to 
twelve months. And it would have enabled Mr B to use his savings to cover any other 
financial commitment he may have had at what could be a difficult time. 
So overall I think Mr B could have found the policy useful if he ever fell on hard times and I 
dont think better information would have put him off from taking out the policy.
I asked everyone to send me any further comments and information before I reached a final 
decision. I have not received a response from Bradford & Bingley and Mr Bs representative 
confirmed they agree with the outcome.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken that into account in deciding this case. 
As neither Mr B nor Bradford & Bingley provided any further evidence for me to look at, Ive 
reached the same conclusions I came to in my provisional decision, for the same reasons. 
So I dont uphold the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and within my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr Bs 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Donna Parsons
Ombudsman