DRN-2247556
The complaint
Mr M doesnt think its fair for The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) to use his payment 
protection insurance (PPI) compensation to repay a debt from which he was discharged 
when his protected trust deed came to an end.
What happened
RBS sold Mr M PPI with a loan he took out on his own in 2001 and with two loans he took 
out with Mrs M in 1998 and 1999. Recently, Mr and Mrs M contacted RBS to complain that 
the PPI polices were mis-sold. On 13 July 2020, RBS wrote to Mr M about the policy sold in 
2001 and Mr and Mrs M about the policies sold in 1998 and 1999  it sent separate letters 
for each policy  to say all three policies were mis-sold. It offered to refund the money theyd 
paid for PPI with simple interest at 8% per year.
Below, Ive shown how much compensation was payable for each policy (after tax):
Loan ending 3378 (2001): £4,335.37
Loan ending 9160 (1999): £2,494.18
Loan ending 6174 (1998): £823.42
The compensation for the policies sold in 1998 and 1999 was divided equally between 
Mr and Mrs M  and RBS paid Mrs M her share.
However, Mr M granted a trust deed  which I assume became a protected trust deed  for 
his creditors in May 2003.
A protected trust deed is an alternative to bankruptcy (which is called sequestration in 
Scotland). It is a legally binding agreement between a consumer and his creditors, which is 
administered by a trustee. The consumer transfers his property to the trustee, who has the 
power to collect and realise assets, and distribute the estate among the creditors according 
to their respective rights and preferences. The right to compensation for a mis-sold PPI 
policy is, as an asset, usually vested in  or transferred to  the trustee for the benefit of the 
creditors. A trust deed will invariably include provisions relating to the discharge of the 
consumer from his debts, the restoration to him of any surplus, and the discharge of the 
trustee.
Mr M still owed RBS £8,022.88 when he was discharged from his trust deed.
RBS has kept Mr Ms share of the PPI compensation for the policies sold in 1998 and 1999 
(which, when the simple interest was updated, came to £412.71 and £1,250.23 respectively) 
and the compensation for the policy sold in 2001 (which, when the simple interest was 
updated, came to £4,356.78) to repay this. Its also removed an extra £2,022.49, which Mr M 
borrowed to pay for PPI with the 2001 loan but didnt repay. As the three payments and the 
adjustment came to £8,042.21, RBS sent Mr M a cheque for £19.33.
Mr M doesnt think its fair for RBS to keep any of his PPI compensation.
I issued a provisional decision on 27 July 2021, which explained why I thought it was fair for 
RBS to use Mr Ms PPI compensation to repay money owed and left unpaid when his trust 
deed came to an end. It included the following provisional findings:
Mr M says RBS lost a court case, which was similar to his complaint, and was told it couldnt 
keep a consumers PPI compensation to reduce a debt from which he was discharged when 
his trust deed came to end. Mr M has also referred me to a judgment of the Supreme Court: 
Dooneen Ltd (t/a/ McGinness Associates) v Mond [2018] UKSC 54 (Dooneen). He says if 
Im to depart from a judgment of the Supreme Court, I should have a very good reason and 
explain why Ive done so clearly.
Ive explained that I must take into account the relevant law  which is not to say that I 
must determine this complaint in accordance with the law. Instead, I must determine this 
complaint by reference to what I think is fair and reasonable. I can therefore depart from the 
law  but if I do so, I must (as Mr M correctly notes) make this clear and explain why.
The relevant law in this case is Scots law.
In 2018, the Supreme Court clarified the effect of a trust deeds termination when terminated 
on the final distribution of the estate.
In Dooneen, the Supreme Court unanimously held that the consumer, not his former trustee, 
was entitled to the PPI compensation because his standard form trust deed had been 
terminated on the final distribution of the estate, which took place before either knew of the 
potential PPI claim. This case didnt involve RBS in any way  and it wasnt about the right of 
set off.
However, in a case very similar to this complaint, the Inner House of the Court of Session 
held that a business couldnt rely on insolvency set-off to answer a claim from a consumer 
for payment of her PPI compensation.
In Donnelly v Royal Bank of Scotland Plc [2019] CSIH 56, the consumers trust deed was 
terminated in 2013 when her trustee paid a final dividend. The business received about 
20 pence for every pound it was owed  which left unpaid more than £20,000. In early 2014, 
the business upheld the consumers PPI complaint, and the consumer accepted an offer of 
just under £12,000. While the consumer received a part-payment of just over £1,000  its 
not clear why  the business kept the rest to reduce the unpaid debt. The Inner House  
affirming a decision of the Sheriff Appeal Court  concluded that as the consumer had been 
discharged from her debts, there was no debt to set-off. In other words, it said the business 
couldnt use the consumers PPI compensation to reduce a debt from which she was 
discharged when her trust deed came to an end. And the Supreme Court refused permission 
to appeal.
This was not, however, the end of the matter.
When the business learned it had lost its appeal, it asked the Outer House of the Court of 
Session  in Royal Bank of Scotland Plc v Donnelly [2020] CSOH 106  to reduce (which 
means, in this context, to set aside or undo) the consumers discharge so as to reopen the 
trust proceedings and allow it to assert its right of set-off in the insolvency.
Below, Ive summarised the parts of the judgment that are relevant to this complaint:
If the trustee made a mistake (a material or substantial error), even if it wasnt the 
consumers fault, a court can set aside (reduce) the consumers discharge.As the trustees failure to pursue the PPI claims for the benefit of the consumers 
creditors was clearly a mistake, the remedy sought by the business  reduction of 
the consumers discharge  would usually be granted by the court as a matter of 
course.
However, reduction is an equitable remedy. Its discretionary. And the court may 
withhold the remedy in exceptional circumstances  where there is some very 
cogent reason for doing so which would make it inconvenient and unjust to grant 
reduction.
In this case, the court concluded that there were exceptional circumstances and 
refused to reverse the consumers discharge.
The court noted the real practical and procedural difficulties that would arise as a 
result of partial reduction of the consumers discharge. One of which is that the 
consumer would be returned to a state of insolvency as the undischarged granter of 
the trust deed. This could adversely affect her credit rating and other financial 
commitments. Whats more, shed remain liable for the unpaid balance remaining 
after set-off, which in this case was a lot. Strictly speaking, any asset she acquired 
after she granted the trust deed could be applied to satisfy this sum  and if the 
trustees discharge wasnt also reduced, thered be no one to discharge the 
consumer from the unpaid balance for which shed remain liable.
The court said that, if the case merited it, a means could be found to overcome these 
procedural difficulties.
But in this case, the court concluded that it would be unduly harsh on the consumer 
(unjust and inconvenient) to grant partial reduction of her discharge. It took into 
account a number of factors, including: the time that had passed since the 
consumers discharge; the duration of, and misery caused by, the protracted 
litigation; the fact that the outstanding sum was paltry from the business perspective 
(and in proportion to the legal fees likely to have been incurred) but not an 
insignificant sum for the consumer; and, that thered be adverse consequences for 
the consumer with no obvious means to alleviate them.
What does all this mean for Mr M?
Simply put, on the assumption that the relevant terms of the trust deed in Donnelly are the 
same as those in this case, RBS couldnt plead set off in court unless the court first 
reduced (set aside) his discharge. And, of course, the court may decide not to grant 
reduction.
That said, I must apply an over-arching test of whats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this case.
And I think its fair for RBS to use Mr Ms PPI compensation to repay the money owed and 
left unpaid when his trust deed came to an end.
When two people  or a person and a business  owe each other money, it seems only fair
that they each pay what they owe.
Fortunately, I dont need to worry about the practical and procedural difficulties of reversing 
Mr Ms discharge. Hes been discharged from his trust deed  nothing I say will change that.
When his trust deed was terminated, Mr M owed RBS around £6,000 (when amended to 
take into account the unpaid PPI). His discharge relieved him of liability, it didnt extinguish 
the underlying debt. Notwithstanding the fact that a court may reduce his discharge to 
re-open his trust proceedings and allow RBS to assert its right of set off, I simply dont see how it would be fair to tell RBS to pay Mr M just over £6,000 when he owed and didnt repay 
the same amount.
Testing this another way, if the trust had been administered without error  if Mr Ms trustee 
hadnt made the mistake of discharging him without first pursuing the PPI claims  RBS 
would have been able to assert its right of set off. And the trustee would have kept the small 
surplus to pay off any other debts.
RBS has confirmed that its received my provisional decision and says it has nothing to add.
Mr M has also confirmed that hes received my provisional decision and says he has nothing 
to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case, Im required by DISP 3.6.4R of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook to 
take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) ([when] appropriate) what [I consider] to have been good industry practice at the 
relevant time.
When the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, Ive made my decision on 
the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have happened given the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances.
As I havent received any new information, I remain of the opinion that its fair for RBS to use 
Mr Ms PPI compensation to repay money owed and left unpaid when his trust deed came to 
an end. My reasons remain the same.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I think its fair for The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to use Mr Ms 
PPI compensation to repay the money owed and left unpaid when his trust deed came to an 
end.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 October 2021.
 
Christopher Reeves
Ombudsman