DRN-4371743
The complaint
Ms P complains First Complete Ltd trading as PRIMIS Mortgage Network offered to help her 
get additional borrowing, when she was remortgaging. But the application was eventually 
refused, then she had to remortgage with her existing lender, whose rates had gone up.
What happened
Ms P said she was contacted by a broker working under the umbrella of PRIMIS, around the 
time that her existing fixed interest rate mortgage was ending, and she was due to 
remortgage. She said the broker seemed to have all the details of her original application, 
although it wasnt the same broker shed made that earlier application with. 
The broker recommended a ten year fixed rate, at 2.55%, with a particular lender, which I
wont name here. The broker made that application for Ms P on 17 May 2022. Ms P planned
at the time to take some additional lending, as rates were so advantageous. She said she
was thinking about some home improvements.
Ms P said she started to be concerned at the beginning of August, because she still didnt
have a mortgage offer. But she said her broker told her not to worry, as the product had a
long drawdown deadline.
Ms P said she then discovered that her preferred lender wouldnt offer her a mortgage, as it
doesnt lend on the particular property type she owns. Ms P said shed since been advised
elsewhere that most lenders wouldnt offer a mortgage on her home.
Ms P said shed ended up having to stay with her existing lender, and didnt get the extra
borrowing she wanted. Also, rates had gone up in the meantime. She thought she could
have secured a rate of around 3% with her existing lender, but said the delay meant she was
only able to get a ten year fixed rate at 3.69%. So Ms P she said she was paying much more
each month on her mortgage now than she would have been if shed remortgaged earlier.
Ms P complained, and PRIMIS had offered to pay back the broker fee of £250. But Ms P
wanted PRIMIS to pay the additional money she was being charged on her mortgage.
PRIMIS said its data showed Ms Ps property type had been incorrectly recorded. It said her
preferred lender wouldnt have offered her a mortgage, it doesnt lend on her type of
property. So PRIMIS said this application should never have been submitted to this lender.
Thats why it proposed to refund the broker fee of £250 shed paid.
But PRIMIS said that when Ms Ps application was made to this lender, she wasnt eligible to
apply to her existing lender for a product transfer. PRIMIS thought what would have
happened, if it had realised the type of property Ms P had, was that shed have explored
other lenders, so she could get the additional borrowing she wanted. And it said that if other
avenues failed then she would have been in the position she was in now, a product transfer
with her pre-existing lender at the same rate.
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld. She said that Ms P discussed
remortgaging with PRIMIS broker in early May. And her application was submitted in the
second half of May. But when her preferred lender carried out its valuation, it realised that
Ms Ps property type didnt match the application, and it was a type that this lender doesnt
offer mortgages on.
Our investigator said some things in this case werent clear. PRIMIS hadnt explained how
the mistake about Ms Ps property type was made. And the investigator said she couldnt tell
why the lender said it wouldnt lend on this property type on 12 July, but then asked for
confirmation of the property type Ms P had. Our investigator said PRIMIS had appealed this
decision, but she didnt know why it did this. This lender wouldnt lend on this property.
Our investigator accepted that Ms P was unhappy she didnt get the rate she applied for with
her preferred lender, but our investigator said Ms P would never have secured that rate from
this lender, because of her property type. However, if the correct information had been
collected by her broker, then this would all have come to light much sooner. Our investigator
also noted that PRIMIS was aware of the position from early July, but Ms P didnt find out
there was a problem until the end of August.
Our investigator said PRIMIS should pay Ms P back the £250 broker fee it had charged, and
it should pay her £250 in compensation. But she didnt think PRIMIS should have to pay the
difference between the rate Ms P was paying on her mortgage now, and the one she thought
she could have got. Our investigator said we just couldnt tell whether any other applications
by Ms P would have been successful.
PRIMIS agreed with our investigator, but Ms P didnt. She didnt think this made up for the
extra money she would be paying in interest over the next ten years, or for losing out on the
additional borrowing she wanted.
Our investigator said it wasnt PRIMIS fault that interest rates increased during this time. But
Ms P said she had originally applied for a lower rate with her preferred lender. And she said
it was PRIMIS fault that she didnt look elsewhere during this time. She was misled by
PRIMIS into believing she could get this rate. 
Because no agreement was reached, this case then came to me for a final decision. I then 
reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
I dont know how the key mistake in this case  about Ms Ps property type  was 
originally made. Its possible that the data passed to PRIMIS about Ms Ps remortgage 
needs contained this error. But I think it would have been prudent here for PRIMIS to 
confirm those details with Ms P, before making a mortgage application for her. So even 
if PRIMIS didnt make the mistake in the first place, I would still say that PRIMIS carries 
responsibility for this mistake having been included in Ms Ps mortgage application.
All sides agree that, because of this mistake, a mortgage application was made which 
was never going to be suitable for Ms P. So I have to think about what ought to have 
happened in this case.
PRIMIS said it thought Ms P would have applied elsewhere, through a process which 
would have taken as long as this one did. It thought she would then have failed to get 
additional lending, and so would always have taken out the same remortgage with her existing lender, in August. But this application seems to me to have taken some time, 
and our investigator noted periods of delay, which she said werent clearly explained. I 
agree. I dont think its reasonable to make the assumptions that PRIMIS has made 
here.
Ms P was interested in taking out some additional borrowing, and her application to her
preferred lender included this. It does appear though as if Ms P wasnt completely 
wedded to this, as she then went ahead with a remortgage without extending her 
borrowing.
Mortgages for the type of property that Ms P lives in, are more difficult to secure. So I 
think that Ms P should have been told by PRIMIS that it was quite likely shed need to 
source borrowing from a specialist lender. And that might well mean that rates might not 
be as competitive as she expected.
Ms P said the reason she was intending to borrow more money for home improvements,
was that the rates were so advantageous. If shed been offered somewhat higher rates, 
its by no means clear that she would have gone ahead with this plan.
Ms P had the option to remortgage with her existing lender. Ive asked her existing 
lender what it could have offered her, and when. That lender told us that Ms P could 
have taken out a ten year fixed rate of 2.99% (with no fee) on 25 May 2022, which 
would have started at the same time, on 1 September 2022.
I think Ms P was wrongly advised at the outset, because PRIMIS doesnt appear to have
checked her property type when either taking details from her or confirming the details it
already held. I think for that reason, Ms P feels that she lost the chance of some 
additional borrowing. And she has clearly ended up on a higher rate now.
But what I think ought to have happened here, is Ms P ought to have been told that she
would be unlikely to secure a rate as low as that offered by her preferred lender, for a
property such as hers. And if shed been told about the difficulties securing a mortgage 
for her property, I think its most likely she would have chosen then to go ahead with a
remortgage with her existing lender, at the rate then on offer, of 2.99% for ten years.
Because of that, I think PRIMIS should work out now the difference between the 
monthly payments on the mortgage Ms P secured in August 2022, at a rate of 3.69% 
fixed from 1 September 2022 until 30 November 2032, and what she would have paid if 
this same lending was at a fixed rate of 2.99% throughout that period. And PRIMIS 
should then pay her that difference, as a lump sum.
I think PRIMIS should also refund the brokers fee of £250 that Ms P paid. But I note that
there are advantages to receiving a lump sum payment such as this, upfront. So I dont 
think PRIMIS also has to pay additional compensation, on top of this.
I think that would provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.First complete said it would accept my decision. It said it thought Ms P would be paying 
£637.74 per month on her current fixed rate deal, but would have been paying £633 if shed 
secured a rate of 2.99%. So it said if it had to cover that difference, for the 122 months 
between 1 September 2022 and the end of November 2032, then it should make a payment 
of £578.20, plus a refund of the brokers fee of £250. 
Ms P replied, to say there were further points she wanted to be considered. She said she 
accepted the 2.55% rate shouldnt have been offered to her. But she said the delays and the 
wrong advice stopped her seeking out an alternative lender. Ms P named an alternative 
lender, who she said she would have asked about their rates at the time. 
Ms P said because she couldnt secure the rate she was initially offered, that did mean she 
didnt borrow extra money for her home renovations, so she was now having to fund those 
from income and savings, on an ongoing basis. 
Ms P said Primis had suggested she might not actually have been able to borrow the extra 
money from another lender. But Ms P thought that wasnt consistent with Primis assessment 
of her income for the extra lending. She said that Primis was happy to lend her the original 
amount shed applied for. 
Ms P said due to the time Primis took, and not having had the chance to research other 
lenders, at a time when rates were rising rapidly, she took the decision to remortgage with 
her existing lender, as that was a quick process not needing a full application. 
Ms P said that Primis used a secure messaging system, shed tried to get a copy of the 
relevant messages for our service, but she said she wasnt able to access them now.
Ms P said she thought Primis should be asked to pay the difference between the rate of 
2.55% she was wrongly told she might get, and the rate she then secured. And she said this 
should be worked out on the whole of the larger amount she was looking to borrow, because 
she would have taken the larger loan if she hadnt been wrongly advised. 
Ms P then wrote again. She said shed spoken with the lender that Primis approached on her 
behalf. That lender had confirmed the application Primis made was for entirely the wrong 
property type. Ms P said that proved she hadnt been lying, and it was no longer Primis word 
against hers. 
Id like to start with Ms Ps last point. I said in my provisional decision, that I didnt know how 
this mistake about Ms Ps property type was made. I dont know that for sure. But I would 
like to reassure Ms P that I just dont think its likely that she was the source of this mistake. 
Theres nothing at all here to make me think she gave Primis incorrect information. And it 
doesnt seem likely to me that she would make a mistake like this about the type of property 
she owns.
But, more importantly, I said in my provisional decision that even if this mistake didnt 
originate with Primis (which I said in my provisional decision was possible  it may have 
been a mistake in the data Primis received from elsewhere) I would still say that its most 
likely Primis was responsible for this incorrect information being passed to the lender.
Ms P said she would, if shed not been wrongly advised, have explored other lending 
options. I appreciate that Ms P has lost the opportunity of securing lending elsewhere, 
including perhaps an increased amount. But I also think its likely that Primis recommended 
the lowest rate it thought it could secure for Ms P. I dont think its likely Primis would have 
recommended the lender it actually applied to, if the other lender that Ms P has mentioned 
now had a lower rate available. So Ive considered what Ms P has told us now, about another lender she could have 
approached at the time. But I still think its most likely that Ms P could not have secured a 
rate as low as the one Primis tried to get for her, which she unfortunately never qualified for, 
because of the type of property she lives in. 
Ms P wanted me to calculate her losses on a different basis. She wanted me to base any 
award on that lower interest rate which she was wrongly offered, as well as the higher 
borrowing amount she initially wanted. But when our service works out the impact of a 
mistake, we look at what would have happened if that mistake wasnt made. Here, if Primis 
hadnt made a mistake, Ms P still wouldnt have got a rate as low as 2.55%. She just never 
qualified for that. 
I did consider carefully what I thought was most likely to have happened in this case, if Ms P 
hadnt been wrongly advised, and given false hope that she might secure a rate as low as 
2.55%. Importantly, my decision wasnt that Ms P couldnt have got this extra lending, as 
Primis suggested. Rather, I thought that Ms P would have been likely not to pursue extra 
borrowing (which shes told us she was only interested in because of the 2.55% rate, which 
she described as extremely favourable). In short, if she couldnt get that low rate (which we 
now know she couldnt) I dont think shed have borrowed the extra money. 
What I thought was most likely to have happened, if Ms P hadnt been misadvised, was that 
she would have been most likely to remortgage with her existing lender. But, crucially, I 
thought she would have done this rather sooner, and thus got a lower rate. So thats why I 
asked Primis to make a payment based on the difference between the rate Ms P did secure 
with her pre-existing lender, of 3.69%, and the one she could have secured with that lender 
earlier, of 2.99%. 
I still think that payment, plus a refund of the brokers fee charged, provides a fair and 
reasonable outcome to this complaint. For the reasons set out above, I havent changed my 
mind. Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that First Complete Ltd trading as PRIMIS Mortgage Network must work 
out the difference between the monthly payments on the mortgage Ms P secured in August 
2022, at a rate of 3.69% fixed from 1 September 2022 until 30 November 2032, and what 
she would have paid if this same lending was at a fixed rate of 2.99% throughout that period. 
And First Complete Ltd trading as PRIMIS Mortgage Network should then pay her that 
difference, as a lump sum.
First Complete Ltd trading as PRIMIS Mortgage Network must also refund the brokers fee of 
£250 that Ms P paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman