DRN-1284441
 
The complaint
This complaints about a store card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy sold in 2001. 
AXA France IARD (AXA), the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for this sale. So, in my 
decision, Ill just refer to AXA as the PPI seller. Mrs B says AXA mis-sold her the PPI.
What happened
The PPI was added to Mrs Bs store card account and was intended to help protect her 
monthly repayments if she couldnt work due to disability or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. As Mrs B didnt agree, the 
complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Bs case.
Having done so, I dont consider that the PPI was mis-sold because:
Im satisfied, from what Ive seen, that AXA sold the PPI over the phone in 2001  
several years after Mrs Bs store card account started. No recording of the sales 
calls still available, which is understandable given the time thats passed. And I note 
what Mrs B says about not agreeing to the PPI. But, in the absence of enough 
evidence to suggest otherwise, I think it just as likely as anything else that Mrs B was 
aware she had a choice about buying the PPI and that she chose to take it before it 
was added. I appreciate that the lack of informations frustrating for Mrs B, but I can 
understand if she doesnt remember the sale now, after all this time.
I dont think AXA recommended the PPI to Mrs B. So, it didnt have to check if the 
PPI was right for her. But AXA should have given her the information she needed to 
decide for herself if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But I think she probably chose to take out the PPI  so it looks like 
she wanted this type of cover. And I can see why as the PPI benefits were 
considerable and would have paid out for a significant time. Theyd have been paid in 
addition to the enhanced sick pay shed have received and any redundancy payment 
shed have got. I also think its likely Mrs B realised there was a cost for the cover.
Based on what I know of Mrs Bs circumstances at the time, and on what I know of 
the policies AXA typically sold, it doesnt look like shed have been significantly 
affected by any of the exclusions to, or limits on, the PPI cover  so it would have 
been useful to her if something went wrong. 
 Overall, I dont find that Mrs Bs lost out because of how AXA sold her the PPI. I realise how 
strongly Mrs B feels about her complaint and Im sorry to disappoint her. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman