DRN-3049658
The complaint
The estate of Mrs P (The estate) complained that Lloyds Bank PLC acted incorrectly when 
they applied funds to a joint account that Mrs P was a party to and, upon her death, 
transferred the funds to the other party to that account.
What happened
A joint savings account was opened with Lloyds in January 2017 in the names of Mrs P and 
another party.
In March 2018, Mrs Ps accounts with another bank were closed. Two new accounts were 
opened with Lloyds in Mrs Ps name. An amount of £44,350, from the other bank, was then 
paid into the joint savings account held by Mrs P and another party.
Mrs P sadly passed away in October 2018. So, the estate took the necessary steps to 
identify Mrs Ps assets and liabilities in order to apply to the court for Grant of Probate. This 
would enable the estate to distribute the assets in accordance with Mrs Ps will.
The estate then found that there was a joint savings account held with Lloyds. They 
discovered that the joint account had reverted to the sole name of the joint account holder. 
The estate didnt think that Lloyds had acted correctly when they transferred that account 
into the surviving account holders name. They believed that the funds belonged to Mrs Ps 
estate.
The estate contacted Lloyds to seek an explanation of what had happened. They believed 
that arrangements had been made in 2018 to transfer Mrs Ps accounts from another bank. 
They said that the new Lloyds accounts shouldve mirrored the accounts held with the 
previous bank. So, funds transferred from the other bank in March 2018 shouldnt have been 
deposited into the joint savings account.
The estate decided to complain to Lloyds. They thought that Lloyds had made mistakes. 
They didnt think that Lloyds were right to transfer the joint savings account into the sole 
name of the surviving party. They said that this wasnt appropriate as the joint party wasnt 
Mrs Ps spouse or partner and this wasnt what Mrs P wouldve wanted.
Lloyds responded to the estates complaint and said that Mrs Ps accounts had been set up 
correctly. They didnt agree theyd done anything wrong. The estate continued to challenge 
Lloyds response to the complaint. They also decided to refer matters to this service.
The estate continued to challenge the outcome of their complaint with Lloyds. So, Lloyds 
wrote to the estate again. They said they werent changing their decision.
One of investigators looked into the circumstances of the estates complaint. He didnt agree 
that Lloyds had done anything wrong here and didnt need to take any further action. The 
estate disagreed with out investigators findings. So, asked for the complaint to be referred to 
an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should first acknowledge that Lloyds received a Letter Before Action on behalf of the 
estate in January 2021. This served as advance notice that the estate intended to pursue 
Lloyds using legal processes in the event that a satisfactory conclusion couldnt be reached. 
Lloyds legal advisors responded to confirm Lloyds position. 
Its since been confirmed to this service, by the estate, that any legal proceedings are on 
hold. Lloyds have confirmed the same enabling this service to consider the estates 
complaint.
Its also worth explaining that my role here is to look at the estates complaint against Lloyds. 
The underlying dispute about who is entitled to the funds here is something that would need 
to be decided between the relevant parties, perhaps through legal channels. As a free to use 
alternative to the courts for complaints against financial businesses, its not something this 
service can decide. 
The complaint suggests that arrangements were made in March 2018 to transfer Mrs Ps 
accounts from another bank to Lloyds. The estate advised that the intention was for the new 
Lloyds accounts to mirror those held with the previous bank. 
From the information Ive seen, it appears that the joint account in question had already 
been opened more than 12 months before this. Lloyds hold a signed joint account mandate 
relating to that account. It also appears the estate werent aware of the existence of this joint 
account until they approached Lloyds following the passing of Mrs P.
Lloyds Personal Banking terms and conditions are available from their website. Section H 
headed How we manage joint accounts says under part 15.1, If two or more of you are 
joint account holders, you can each give us instructions on your ownor do anything else if 
we are asked to do so by any one of you. They provide Examples of things any joint 
account holder can do without the knowledge of the other(s). These include:
Take all the money in an account.
Close an account.
End a service..
Part 16.4 says, If one of you dies, we may continue to act on the instructions of the 
remaining account holder(s), but we do not have to do so in all cases.
In the UK, bank accounts are generally held by the joint account holders as joint tenants, so 
that on the death of one account holder the funds in the account pass to the surviving 
account holder by the principle of survivorship. 
This normally happens automatically, regardless of the terms of a will and there is usually no 
requirement to see grant of probate to transfer the funds. The surviving account holder can 
usually provide a bank with the deceased joint account holders death certificate and the 
account is transferred into the survivors name - thats what Lloyds did here. This may not 
necessarily be the case if the account holders had agreed otherwise. But Ive not been 
provided with anything that evidences that was the case here.
The estate said that Mrs Ps will makes no reference to any funds held in a joint account. 
Theyve also confirmed that the will dates back to 2007. The joint account was opened with 
Lloyds around 10 years after the will was dated. So, I wouldnt have expected it to refer to it 
or any other joint account opened after that date. The estate said that any accounts held in joint names between Mrs P and the other party 
were for purposes of convenience only and could not be used for personal use of the 
other party. While I acknowledge this, I havent been provided with anything that shows 
Lloyds were aware of this before this dispute was raised.
The estate also suggested that rules relating to the distribution of funds in a joint account 
differ dependent upon the relationship between the parties to that account. While this may 
be relevant where a dispute arises, Ive not been presented with any evidence to  suggest 
there was a dispute prior to Mrs P passing away.
The estate challenged the joint partys rights to the funds held in the joint account with Mrs 
P. Theyve informed Lloyds of these concerns. In response, Lloyds have put a block on the 
account to ensure that funds are not withdrawn ahead of a resolution being achieved. I think 
this is a reasonable response by Lloyds in these circumstances.
Lloyds have explained that their records indicate that Mrs Ps other accounts were opened in 
March 2018 at a Lloyds branch. Theyve also confirmed that the funds sent by Mrs Ps 
previous bank were sent in the form of a bankers draft. The estate say that the previous 
bank stated the funds were transferred as a faster payment. Lloyds have provided a copy of 
the bankers draft dated 9 March 2018 which is date stamped 14 March 2018  this was the 
date the funds were deposited. So, based upon this evidence, it appears that payment was 
indeed by bankers draft.
The estate raised a question about the legitimacy of the bankers draft. A bankers draft can 
only be issued by a bank and a record of its issue is held by them. The copy provided to this 
service appears authentic and the issuing bank made payment against it without challenge. 
The draft was payable to Mrs P and deposited into an account she was party to. So, on the 
balance of probabilities, Im persuaded that its more likely than not that this bankers draft is 
genuine and was legitimately issued.
Ive not been provided with copies of any instructions relating to how this payment shouldve 
been processed. On the basis that the joint account was a designated savings account and 
Mrs P was party to it, I believe its not unreasonable for the funds to have been paid into that 
account.
I think its also relevant that Mrs P did, at all times, have access to the joint account from 
when the funds were deposited to when she sadly passed away in October 2018. So, on 
balance, I think its reasonable to conclude that if Mrs P had, in actual fact, intended these 
funds to be held elsewhere, she wouldve had the ability and opportunity to move them. Ive 
not been provided with anything to suggest otherwise.
The estate suggested that in considering the circumstances of the complaint, Lloyds have 
falsified documentsin an attempt of hiding what appears to be criminal activity. I would 
like to reassure the estate that I havent seen any evidence to support this claim.
I do appreciate that the estate will be disappointed with my decision here. But taking all of 
the above into consideration, its clear that the estate believe that the funds held in the joint 
account with Lloyds belonged to Mrs P and that the other party has no rights to them. But I 
cant reasonably say that Lloyds have acted incorrectly under the terms of the joint account 
held with them. The funds reverted to the other party to that account here, in line with the 
terms of this account. And Ive found no other reason that Lloyds should have acted 
differently here.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold the estates complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs P 
to accept or reject my decision before 2 November 2021.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman