DRN-3715317
The complaint
This complaints about mortgage advice that Mr and Mrs H received from Mortgage 
Required Limited (MRL) when buying a new home. They say MRLs advisor sold them a 
bridging loan that was a more expensive option than the available alternative, and therefore 
unsuitable.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mr and Mrs H and MRL. So I dont 
need to repeat all of the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mr and Mrs H being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary of the main points, 
rounding figures where appropriate, and then focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If 
I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs H owned a property Ill refer to as 127B; it had been their residential home but 
some years ago they relocated to a different part of the country. Initially, they rented a home 
in the new location and rented 127B out. In 2019, they found a property to buy in the new 
location; Ill call that property 99B. They ended the tenancy on 127B and put it up for sale. To 
finance the transaction, Mr and Mrs H sought advice from MRL; this was in November 2019.
MRLs advisor set out a variety of different mortgage permutations, some involving the 
retention of 127B, some based on selling it. Mr and Mrs H were under a certain amount of 
pressure from the seller of 99B, and MRLs advisor proposed that they secure the purchase 
by way of a bridging loan, combined with a personal gift of funds from Mr Hs parents. Once 
that had gone through, they could then repay the bridging loan from the sale of 127B, 
leaving them mortgage-free or keep 127B and re-mortgage both properties.
Mr and Mrs H went ahead and purchased 99B, with the bridging loan and parental gift; 
completion took place in early March 2020. Later that month, they and MRL had a brief 
exchange about sourcing mortgages to repay the bridging, but nothing came of that. 
Mr and Mrs H subsequently arranged the finance to clear the bridging via another broker 
firm, and then complained to MRL that the bridging loan had been mis-sold, and that Mr Hs 
parent had felt compelled to make a gift rather than a loan, in order not to let them down.
MRL rejected the complaint, and when it was referred to this service, our investigator didnt 
recommend it be upheld. Mr and Mrs H asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the available evidence is incomplete, contradictory or missing, our rules require me to 
reach my conclusions on the basis of what I consider is most likely to have happened on the 
balance of probabilities. Thats broadly the same test that the courts use in civil cases. 
The investigator reached his view after considering all of the arguments and evidence from 
both parties. Ive done the same, and in doing so, note that in asking for their case to be 
reviewed Mr and Mrs H havent rebutted any of the investigators findings or given us 
anything new to consider. Having considered everything that both parties have said and 
provided, Ive reached the following conclusions.
As early as 27 November 2019, MRLs advisor provided Mr and Mrs H with plenty of 
alternatives ways to achieve their goal of acquiring what Ive seen them refer to as their 
dream home. He also explained that a conventional mortgager would take longer to arrange 
than a bridging loan, and for that reason, the bridging route was his recommendation.
It would be hard for me to reach any conclusion other than that Mr and Mrs Hs priority was 
to secure the purchase of 99B by whatever means necessary. On 23 January 2020, they 
emailed MRL to say:
Hi [name redacted],
I want to share a 'snippet' of the email (below) from the estate agents. In particular, the final 
paragraph which refers to exchanging contracts during the 1st week of Feb, or run the risk of 
the vendors 'unrest' returning.
I know you are on the case, but can you please discuss the date of exchange with the lender 
so we are all clear what date we need to work towards to avoid further stress and the risk of 
losing the property.
Many thanks for your continued efforts!
[name redacted]
Given how much Mr and Mrs H had set their heart on securing 99B, the bridging loan seems 
to me to have been an entirely reasonable and suitable recommendation, given all the 
circumstances. Any alternative would have taken longer, thus raising considerably the 
prospect of the fears Mr and Mrs H expressed on 23 January 2020 becoming a reality. I 
appreciate thats not how Mr and Mrs H see things now, but I cant take hindsight into 
account when assessing the suitability of the recommendation. I have to go on what the 
parties knew at the time the recommendation was made. 
The proposed exit strategies ranged from completing the sale of 127B, or keeping and 
re-financing it and/or 99B. Theres nothing untoward in any of those options. The most 
common reason for taking out bridging finance when purchasing a residential property is 
because the timing of the sale and purchase transactions cant be aligned simultaneously.
 
In reply to a question from our investigator, Mr and Mrs H have said a better option would 
have been:
A mortgage/remortgage in which we and [name redacted] received confirmation that the 
£230k gift would have been accepted as a deposit and allowed us to obtain a mortgage/remortgage which would have been far cheaper and far less riskier(sic) than a 
bridging loan.
But as far back as 27 November 2019, MRLs advisor had explained why none of the 
possible permutations for acquiring 99B could be achieved without the contribution from 
Mr Hs parent being anything other than a gift. 
Finally on this point, Mr and Mrs H say his parents felt compelled by MRL to provide the 
contribution as a gift rather than let their family down. Without wishing to be unkind, if 
Mr and Mrs H knew his parents didnt want to gift them money but felt compelled to do so, it 
was always open to them to remove that compulsion by aborting the purchase of 99B and 
looking for an alternative property that they could buy simultaneously on selling 127B. That 
would have removed the need for either a parental gift or indeed a bridging loan. 
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. I have, 
as I said I would, confined myself to those matters that I consider have a material effect on 
the outcome. I can see from Mr and Mrs Hs submissions how important this is to them. 
Thats a natural, subjective reaction, and entirely understandable when youre as close to a 
situation as Mr and Mrs H have been here. 
But I have a different remit. I have to be objective, and impartial, and sometimes that means 
stepping back from the fine detail, taking an overview and deciding what is fair, reasonable 
and pragmatic in the overall circumstances of the case. It also means that Im not required to 
provide answers to every specific question that comes up if I dont consider doing so will 
affect the overall outcome.
Mr and Mrs H dont have to accept my conclusions, and if they dont, then neither they nor 
MRL will be bound by my final decision. Subject to any time limits or other restrictions a court 
might impose, Mr and Mrs Hs right to take legal action against MRL over the subject matter 
of this complaint wont have been prejudiced by our consideration of it.
 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 November 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman