DRN-3327498
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as M has complained through its representative about Society of 
Lloyds decision to turn down its claim for damage to a tractor under its Farmers Insurance 
policy.
For the sake of ease Ive referred to Lloyds throughout this decision, even though in the 
main I am referring to the Lloyds syndicate which underwrites Ms policy. 
What happened
M submitted a claim after its tractor broke down. It said this was because of damage caused 
by contaminated fuel as a result of soil, sediment, or slurry (soil etc) being put in the fuel 
tanks maliciously. Its representative provided detailed information from its repairer (R) of 
what it considered to be the cause of the problem and the work it had carried out to fix it. 
Lloyds sent an engineer to inspect the tractor and Ms representative has said that at the 
meeting which took place after the engineers inspection he discussed the possibility of 
writing the tractor off. The report provided by the engineer suggested further investigations 
were needed. Lloyds appointed another engineer to review the evidence, who Ill refer to as 
B. B obtained the fuel injectors from R and had them tested. Having considered all the other 
evidence and the results of the test, he concluded that there was no evidence that would 
indicate Ms tractor had been damaged by fuel contamination or any outside influence that 
would be covered by its policy. 
Having considered Bs report Lloyds rejected Ms claim on the basis that the damage to its 
tractor had not been caused by one of the events listed as insured by the policy. 
M complained to Lloyds through its representative, but Lloyds didnt alter its stance. So Ms 
representative asked us to consider Ms complaint. One of our investigators did this and said 
he thought Lloyds decision to turn down Ms claim was reasonable based on the expert 
evidence available. 
M's representative doesnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. He thinks hes fallen into the same trap as Lloyds and ignored the strongest 
evidence, which is that it is clear soil etc was put in the fuel tanks. He thinks this and the 
views of R that this caused the damage to Ms tractor are the most compelling pieces of 
evidence and show that the tractor suffered accidental damage as a consequence of a 
malicious act. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms policy covers accidental damage or malicious damage, flood damage and vandalism, 
amongst other things, to the vehicles listed on the policy schedule. These vehicles include 
the tractor M has claimed for. The policy exceptions include failures, breakdowns, or 
breakages of mechanical, electrical, electronic or computer equipment. Lloyds doesnt think 
the problem with Ms tractor was accidental, malicious or vandalism. Ms representative 
thinks it was accidental damage, as a consequence of a malicious act or vandalism. And if 
the damage to the tractor was as a direct result of someone maliciously putting soil etc in the 
fuel tanks, I agree it would be considered either accidental damage or malicious damage 
and it would be covered by Ms policy. 
The crux of the issue is that Lloyds doesnt think the evidence it has from all the parties 
involved shows it is more likely than not that the tractor was damaged as a result of particles 
getting into to the fuel system and causing damage. This is largely because of what B said in 
his report. And, whilst I appreciate that B was appointed by Lloyds, Ive reviewed his report 
and I find his view that fuel contamination or any other outside event covered by the policy 
didnt cause the problem with Ms tractor the most compelling.
This is not to say I havent considered Rs comments and the results of their investigations. 
They clearly do think soil etc was placed in the fuel tanks and this caused a problem with the 
tractor. But the results of their investigations and comments arent enough to persuade me 
this is what happened. 
I think Bs observation that the fact there were no images taken of the fuel filters and no 
mention by Rs technician of their contamination suggest the technician didnt find any visual 
evidence of fuel contamination is significant. I appreciate R may not have appreciated the 
need to take images and that theyve said they did find soil etc in the fuel tanks. But if this 
was the case Id expect some mention or evidence of the fact that particles were found in the 
filters and that it was clear some had got through them. I also find Bs comment that the fuel 
filtration system would filter out most contaminants persuasive. And this seems to suggest 
that  even if there was soil etc in the fuel tanks, which had been put in by someone 
maliciously, the filters would have done their job and filtered out any particles that could 
cause a problem. I think this is backed up by the results of the tests on the fuel injectors. 
These suggest all the filters bar one were worn, but in serviceable condition and that there 
were no particles or contaminants in the one that was seized. Finally, I think it is significant 
that B mentioned that he established Ms tractor had broken down twice in the Christmas 
and New Year period at the end of 2020 and the start of 2021. This suggests to me there is 
some sort of underlying mechanical fault with the tractor, which hasnt been addressed by all 
the actions taken by R. And it reinforces my view that the problem with the tractor does not 
result from an insured event.    
Ive noted Ms representatives point about the reason why the first sign of problems with Ms 
tractor didnt occur until August 2019. This is that the tractor wasnt used extensively in the 
period between when the soil etc was likely to have been added in March 2019 and August 
2019. And that it was always kept topped up with fuel. I accept this as an explanation of why 
the damage could have taken longer to manifest. But I dont think this in itself proves that it 
was particles from the soil etc that caused the damage. This links to the suggestion by B that 
what R described as sediment in the fuel tank may have been due to natural build up, as 
opposed to being maliciously placed there. However, I dont consider this to be the main 
consideration, as  whether the soil etc or sediment was placed there maliciously or not, 
there isnt sufficient evidence to persuade me that it was this that led to the damage to the 
tractor. 
Ive also noted Ms representatives point that hes astonished the investigator was 
persuaded that the likely reason for the tractor breaking down was contaminated fuel 
because the R carried out around £18,000 of work on fuel related issues. But I dont agree 
the fact R carried out around £18,000 of work in itself shows the problems with the tractor  
were due to contaminated fuel. I think it is fair to say that vehicles, including their fuel 
systems, go wrong for many reasons other than contaminated fuel. So it seems to me M 
could just have easily spent over £18,000 to fix something that had nothing to do with contaminated fuel and was due to an underlying mechanical fault. In fact, this is exactly what 
B, who is an expert in his field, seems to have suggested.  
I also appreciate Ms representatives view that B was appointed by Lloyds many months 
after the work carried out by R and only did a desktop review, so his findings cant be 
accurate. And that the only party who can speak with any authority is R, as it pulled soil etc 
out of the fuel tanks. But I dont agree with this point either. Both the engineers appointed by 
Lloyds are highly qualified experts and B carried out what I consider to be a comprehensive 
review and provided what I consider to be a compelling report. And I dont think the fact he 
reviewed the evidence much later changes this and means his expert opinion should carry 
any less weight. 
In summary, whilst I appreciate both M and its representative will be very disappointed to 
hear this, Im satisfied that Lloyds decision to turn down Ms claim was reasonable. 
Therefore, Ive decided not to uphold Ms complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Ms complaint about 
Society of Lloyds.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman