DRN-3320609
The complaint
Mr B complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) has failed to refund money he 
says he lost as part of a scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. In summary, Mr B says he fell victim to an investment scam in August 2020 
where he paid the following amounts using his Halifax debit card to a company called 
Way2Finance, which he suspects to be fraudulent:.
Date Merchant Amount
10/08/2020 Way2finance.com £226.17
12/08/2020 Way2finance.com £1,126.21
19/08/2020 Way2finance.com £680.22
21/08/2020 Way2finance.com £906.84
He asked the bank to raise a chargeback for goods/services not received, but it was 
successfully defended by the merchant on the basis hed received the services he paid for. 
Halifax therefore declined to refund the money Mr B said hed lost, and he referred his 
complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint, as she wasnt persuaded that Way2Finance 
were operating fraudulently as there had been no adverse information published about them 
online by the regulator, and she didnt think Halifax ought have done anything more with the 
chargeback claim given that it had been robustly defended by the merchant. Mr B disagreed, 
so the matter has been escalated to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it for these reasons:
Mr B submits that Way2Finance are a fraudulent company that is scamming its 
customers. However, while customers who lose out on an investment may 
sometimes understandably claim they have been scammed, the acts of the merchant 
do not necessarily meet the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud in line 
with the Fraud Act 2006 (i.e. dishonestly making a false representation and/or failing 
to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for themselves, or of 
causing a loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss).
Way2Finance offer online courses for investors to learn about Fintech and investing. 
It isnt exactly clear if it is engaged in fraudulent and dishonest activity though. Ive 
considered the information Mr B has provided, as well as various other sources 
online. And for arguments sake, Im prepared to accept that Way2Finance may be 
operating a scam, as a warning about this company has recently been published on 
the International Organisation of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) investor alerts 
portal. 
However, even if I were to accept that Way2Finance may be involved in fraudulent 
activity, I still dont consider that Halifax wouldve been under any obligation to 
prevent the payments he made in August 2020. The IOSCO warning had not been 
published until 17 January 2022 and was therefore not in place at the time Mr B 
made the payments. So, I would not have expected Halifax to have automatically 
blocked them pending further enquiry given there were no other warnings in place at 
the time.
Ive also considered whether there were any other fraud triggers that meant Halifax 
shouldve done more to prevent Mr B from losing his money. There are some 
situations in which a bank should reasonably have had a closer look at the 
circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. For example, if it was particularly out 
of character. However, having considered Mr Bs account activity, I do not think the 
payments he is disputing were particularly unusual for him at the time.
The payments were not of such a large amount that they would appear unusual in 
comparison with his spending history, for example, such that they ought to have been 
regarded as suspicious or indicating that he might have been at risk of falling for a 
scam. There was also nothing else to indicate that Mr B was in the process of being 
scammed. So, I dont think Halifax can fairly be held liable for Mr Bs loss here as Im 
not persuaded there was any obligation on them to intervene or prevent the 
payments in these circumstances.
Ive also considered whether Halifax acted reasonably in its handling of Mr Bs 
chargeback claim. When Mr B disputed the payments, Halifax raised a chargeback 
claim, which was defended by the merchant. Way2Finance purport to be an online 
based academy offering virtual courses to investors, and they provided Halifax with 
evidence to show that Mr B had purchased and viewed their courses, demonstrating 
that he had therefore received the services he had paid for. I understand that Mr B 
may dispute this. But in the circumstances, I dont think Halifax ought to have done 
anything further in relation to the chargeback dispute in light of the evidence sent by 
the merchant to defend the claim.
Mr B has also raised concerns about another company he invested money with 
(Marketrip) where he has since been unable to withdraw his cash. But the company 
appearing on Mr Bs statements is Way2Finance, not Marketrip. So, this is who 
Halifax raised a chargeback against, and I cannot comment on any other 
transactions that have not formed part of this dispute, which Mr B will need to raise 
with the relevant bank in the first instance. 
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr B. But Im not persuaded that 
Halifax has done anything substantially wrong in these circumstances, so I will not be asking 
it to take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman