DRN-3159533
The complaint
Miss T had motor insurance with Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral). She 
complains about the value Admiral put on her car when it was deemed a total loss or write 
off.
What happened
Miss Ts car was written off following an accident. Admiral valued the car at £21,450. Miss T 
thought the car was worth more than this, so she complained to Admiral. Admiral said it 
aimed to put Miss T back in the same position in monetary terms as she was in before the 
accident, by paying her the market value of her car. Admiral said it defined market value as 
the price Miss T could reasonably expect to pay on the open market on the date of the 
incident to replace the car with one of a similar make, model, mileage and condition. Admiral 
said it used the appropriate industry guides to come up with the market value of £21,450.
Miss T wasnt happy with Admirals response and so she complained to this service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold her complaint as she was satisfied Admirals valuation was fair. 
Miss T wasnt happy with the investigators response, so her complaint has been passed to 
me. Miss T wants Admiral to pay her a fair market value for the car - which she suggests 
would be £22,990 - and acknowledge the stress it has caused her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I uphold Miss Ts complaint. Ill explain why. 
On 3 November I issued a provisional decision. My provisional decision said
Miss Ts car insurance guide from Admiral said in the event of a claim, Admiral would decide 
whether to repair the car or pay a cash sum to replace it. Admiral said if it decided to pay a 
cash sum, the most it would pay would be the market value. Admiral defined market value as 
The cost of replacing your car with one of a similar make, model, year, mileage and 
condition based on market prices at the time of the loss.
Our service has a standard approach to this type of complaint. In most cases, we assess the 
market value as the price which the consumer would have had to pay for a comparable 
vehicle across the various markets, immediately before the time of the damage or loss.
Assessing the value of a used vehicle isnt an exact science. We generally find the 
valuations given in motor-trade guides the most persuasive. These guides are based on 
extensive nationwide research of likely selling prices, using advertised and auction prices.
Miss Ts car had some optional extras fitted at the factory including alloy wheels and an 
audio system. These optional extras will usually cost more, but this extra cost may not be 
fully reflected in the vehicles market value. So this service and businesses like Admiral can 
request bespoke valuations from a guides editorial team where there are optional extras.
Admiral provided the valuations it obtained for the date of the accident as follows 
1 - £19,750 including an extra £200 for the alloy wheels.                                                         
2 - £19,500 with nothing extra for the alloy wheels.                                                                  
3 - Bespoke - £21,250 plus Admiral added £200 for the alloy wheels.
So Admiral put the market value of Miss Ts car at £21,450.
Our investigator quoted the following valuations 
1 - £20,988.                                                                                                                               
2 - £21,450.                                                                                                                               
3 - £19,500.
Finally, I obtained these valuations for the date of the accident 
1 - returned an error so no valuation could be obtained.                                                          
2 - £19,550.                                                                                                                               
3 - £20,050.                                                                                                                               
4 - Bespoke - £21,600.
This service would generally take a bespoke valuation as being the most accurate. 
Miss T has provided a number of adverts for the same make and model of car, which she 
says are from around the time of the accident. We dont usually find advertisements for 
similar vehicles on their own very persuasive, but we do consider them, as they could 
indicate a problem with the guide values. A vehicle may often be sold for less than the 
advertised price, especially with private sales. And differences in things like mileage, year of 
registration, model and type can significantly affect the value. 
The ten examples Miss T provided ranged in price from £21,795 to £24,494 with alloy 
wheels (average £22,520) and from £21,495 to £21,990 (average £21,745) without. None 
had the audio system, but I dont think this made a difference as the trade guide that 
provided the bespoke valuation doesnt consider it would have added to the market value of 
the car. All the cars were roughly the same age as Miss Ts.  Seven of the example cars had 
higher mileage than Miss Ts car and three had slightly lower mileage. Miss T contacted 
some of the dealers selling the cars, and they confirmed that their prices are generally not 
negotiable.
Miss T says that the most similar car to hers was valued at £21,990 and the dealer 
confirmed the price was fixed. This car had about 4,500 more miles on the clock than Miss 
Ts, alloy wheels and didnt have the audio system. Miss T says that, taking this into account, 
she would have expected her car to be advertised at £22,990.
I think Miss T has provided a fair sample of broadly comparable cars, and I think that the 
adverts do show that the guide values are likely to be too low. I dont agree with Miss T that 
the audio system would have made a difference to her cars value, but I agree the alloy 
wheels would. 
So taking all this into account, I dont think that Admirals market valuation was fair and 
reasonable. I think that a market value of £22,500 would have enabled Miss T to replace her 
car with a similar one at the time of the accident.My provisional decision
I intend to uphold Miss Ts complaint. I intend to require Admiral Insurance Company Limited 
to pay Miss T £1,050 (plus interest), which is the difference between Admirals valuation and 
what I think a fair and reasonable valuation would have been. Miss T has gone to a 
considerable amount of time and inconvenience in gathering information about comparable 
cars. So I intend to require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to pay her £150 in 
recognition of this inconvenience.
Responses to my provisional decision
Miss T said 
The decision looks fair and reasonable and I do not wish to add any further points. 
Admiral said
unfortunately we are unable to agree increasing the valuation on the basis of advertised 
prices is reasonable. We have valued the car in line with Ombudsman Service published 
guidance and obtained bespoke valuations, and this is not a classic car or rare vehicle, 
satisfied using the guide values is correct, advertised prices are asking prices not selling 
prices, therefore are not indicative of what the cars sell for.
This service issues guidance to businesses on our approach to complaints. The guidance on 
our approach to complaints about vehicle write-offs and valuations, updated June 2020, says 
Advertisements
Customers sometimes say the amount theyve been paid is unfair because theyve seen 
similar vehicles advertised at higher prices.
We wouldnt normally place much weight on adverts to decide whether a valuation is fair. 
Differences in mileage or year of registration can significantly affect value, and sometimes 
the vehicle actually ends up selling for a lower price than advertised.
Although, you should be aware that more recently, weve been told by some trade guides 
that generally cars are selling at or close to advertised prices.
Adverts may be helpful if the complaint involves a classic or rare model. Or if they strongly 
indicate that the guides could be wrong.
I have considered Admirals comments very carefully. However looking at the 
comprehensive information provided by Miss T, I think in this case the adverts do indicate 
that the guides could be wrong. So I wont be changing my provisional decision. But Im not 
making a new rule on valuations, Im reacting to the individual circumstances of this case.
My final decision
I require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to pay Miss T £1,050 plus interest at 8% a 
year simple from the date the original payment was made on this claim to the date of this 
payment. This is the difference between Admirals valuation and what I think a fair and 
reasonable valuation would have been.  
If Admiral Insurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss T how much its taken off. It should also give Miss T a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Miss T has gone to a considerable amount of time and inconvenience in gathering 
information about comparable cars. So I require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to pay 
her £150 in recognition of this inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2021.
 
Sarah Baalham
Ombudsman