DRN-2539691
The complaint
Mrs M complains that due to delays caused by Cowley & Miller Independent Financial 
Services Limited (Cowley & Miller) she received a lower transfer value for her 
occupational pension scheme benefits than she would otherwise have done.
What happened
It appears that Mrs M had previously discussed transferring her deferred defined benefits 
(DB) pension benefits with Cowley & Miller. I understand the Mrs M wanted to raise a lump 
sum of around £40,000 to fund an extension and adaptions to her home. In order to fund the 
building work Mrs M was advised by Cowley & Miller to transfer her DB benefits to a 
personal pension plan and take the tax-free cash from this pension pot.
Our investigator set out the following timeline:
- 17 October 2019, Mrs Ms DB pension scheme administrator sent a Statement of 
entitlement to a guaranteed cash equivalent for Mrs M, directly to Cowley & Miller. 
The transfer value was £155,640.53. The statement said the transfer value was 
guaranteed to 17 January 2020.
- 18 October 2019, Mrs M signed Cowley & Millers client agreement, and its adviser 
updated an existing fact find document. 
- 5 November 2019, a pension transfer report, including a transfer value analysis was 
issued to Mrs M.
- 12 November 2019, Mrs Ms DB pension scheme administrator sent an immediate 
retirement benefits quotation to Mrs M.
- 22 December 2019, Cowley & Miller sent an application form to Mrs M to transfer her 
DB pension benefits to a personal pension plan.
- 22 December 2019, Cowley & Miller recorded that it had told Mrs M that a 
compliance check would be required, and this might mean the 17 January 2020 
deadline for the guaranteed transfer value was missed.
- 24 December 2019, Cowley & Miller issued its recommendation report to Mrs M.
- 11 February 2020, Mrs Ms DB pension scheme administrator emailed Cowley & 
Miller, referring to an earlier email of 27 January 2020. It said the financial advice 
declaration hadnt been fully completed and it required confirmation of its FCA 
registration.
- 12 February 2020, the pension transfer was completed. However, the transfer value 
issued on 17 October 2019 had expired and the revised transfer value was 
£145,175.27 (£10,465.26 less than the previous transfer value).
- 18 February 2020, the personal pension plan provider confirmed to Mrs M that a tax-
free lump sum of £36,293.81 would be paid within five working days and the residual 
amount of £108,881.46 (before the adviser fee was deducted) would be invested.
Mrs M complained to Cowley & Miller on 18 February 2020. She said that, due to delays it 
had caused, her pension transfer had not been completed before her transfer value expired. 
She said the revised transfer value was nearly £10,500 less than it would have been if the 
pension transfer had been completed more promptly.
It appears that Cowley & Miller did not respond to Mrs Ms complaint. As she did not receive 
a response from the business Mrs M referred the matter to this service.
Having carefully considered Mrs Ms complaint our investigator said he felt it should be 
upheld. In summary, he said that Cowley & Miller knew when it received the transfer value 
on 17 October 2019 that it was only guaranteed until 17 January 2020. This meant it had 
three months to complete the advice process and arrange the transfer.
Despite being aware of the date the transfer value expired, he noted that six weeks elapsed 
between the date the business received all the information it needed to provide its advice (12 
November 2019) and the date it issued its advice to Mrs M (24 December 2019).
Cowley & Miller didnt offer any explanation as to why there was such a long gap between 
receiving all the information required to provide its recommendation, and the 
recommendation being issued. 
Our investigator said that given Cowley & Miller knew that the transfer value was only 
guaranteed until 17 January 2020 it would have been aware that it was important to avoid 
any unnecessary delays.
He said he felt Cowley & Miller ought reasonably to have been able to issue its 
recommendation to Mrs M up to four weeks earlier than it actually did. Had it done so he 
said he felt it would have had ample time to submit the personal pension plan application 
and for the DB pension transfer to have been processed before the transfer value expired on 
17 January 2020.
He also noted that it appeared Cowley & Miller had caused further delays even after the 
transfer value had expired. In particular, he noted that on 27 January 2020 the DB scheme 
administrator asked the business to confirm its details, but Cowley & Miller didnt respond 
until 11 February 2020 when the scheme administrator chased it. Our investigator noted that 
this failure to respond caused a further avoidable delay.
In order to put matters right he said Cowley & Miller should put Mrs M in the position she 
would now be in, but for the delays it caused.
Cowley & Miller responded to say it did not accept our investigators view. It said it would 
provide a response setting out why it felt the complaint shouldnt be upheld. However, no 
further response has been received from the business.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and in the absence of anything from the business to explain why it feels it 
did not cause unnecessary delays when dealing with Mrs Ms pension transfer, I think this 
complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
The covering letter sent with the Statement of entitlement to a guaranteed cash equivalent 
sent to Cowley & Miller on 17 October 2019 by Mrs Ms DB scheme administrator set out:
If we receive the Transfer agreement and financial advice confirmation after the guarantee 
expiry date of 17 January 2020, we will work out the transfer value again as it may be higher 
or lower than the value quoted on the enclosed statement of entitlement. In view of this I am satisfied that Cowley & Miller knew that if the transfer was completed 
after 17 January 2020 there was a risk that the transfer value would be reduced.
Despite this it appears that it took the business six weeks to provide its recommendation to 
Mrs M after it had all the necessary information to make a recommendation.
It is not clear to me why Cowley & Miller took so long to issue its recommendation. Given 
that it was aware of the tight timescale to complete the transfer  and it felt the transfer was 
suitable for Mrs Ms personal and financial circumstances  I think it should have prioritised 
Mrs Ms advice. I see no reason why the recommendation couldnt have been prepared 
within two weeks of Cowley & Miller having received all the necessary information. 
Based on the information that has been provided, and in the absence of anything from 
Cowley & Miller to show that it was prevented from issuing its advice before 24 December 
2019, I think it had all the necessary information to provide a recommendation by 12 
November 2019, when Mrs M received details of the immediate retirement benefits available 
to her from the DB scheme. 
Like our investigator I think it would have been reasonable to expect that Cowley & Miller 
could have provided its recommendation to Mrs M by 26 November 2019, two weeks after it 
had received all the information it might require to make its recommendation.
However, it was six weeks before Cowley & Miller issued its advice to Mrs M.
If the recommendation had been provided to Mrs M by 26 November 2019, on the balance of 
probabilities, I think the DB transfer would have been completed before the transfer value 
expired on 17 January 2020.
In the absence of anything to show otherwise, I am satisfied that the delays caused by 
Cowley & Miller led to the transfer not being completed by the date the transfer value 
expired. As this is the case, I think Cowley & Miller should compensate Mrs M for the 
financial loss she has suffered as a result of its poor service.
I am mindful that Cowley & Miller charged fees of around £4,500 for the advice it provided to 
Mrs M. I think Mrs M was entitled to expect efficient, timely service in return for an initial fee 
of 3% of the transfer value of her DB pension benefits.
I have also taken into account that there is a file note in the records Cowley & Miller has 
provided to this service, dated 22 December 2019, that says:
I spoke to [Mrs M] about our third-party check procedure and explained that her transfer 
would have to be checked by our Compliance Consultant. and it may not be possible to 
submit her paperwork in time to meet the guarantee date of 17 January 2020 unless pre-
approval is received in time to meet the deadline
[Mrs M] confirmed that she wished to proceed regardless of any potential delay [and] 
would be happy to accept a lower value if this resulted in a recalculation of the transfer value 
provided this was not more than 10% lower. I explained that this was detailed in the transfer 
paperwork I would require her to sign and would post it for her signature today and she 
should only complete this provided she fully understands and accepts the risk of any 
potential delay.
Having carefully considered this file note, I think it highlights that Mrs M was focused on her 
need to fund the necessary alterations to her home. And I note that the reason Cowley & Miller had to warn Mrs M that her pension transfer might not be completed in time was due 
to the avoidable delays it had caused. 
There is nothing in the file note to suggest that it told Mrs M that, despite having had the 
necessary information to make a recommendation since 12 November 2019, it still hadnt 
provided its recommendation  and therefore it hadnt been submitted for a compliance 
review.
I am also mindful that even after the deadline for the DB transfer value had passed Cowley & 
Miller continued to cause further delays. On 27 January 2020 the DB scheme administrator 
asked Cowley and Miller to confirm its details, but it didnt respond until 11 February 2020 
when the scheme administrator chased it.
Having carefully considered this matter I think Cowley & Miller should compensate Mrs M for 
the financial loss she has suffered as a result of the delays it caused. It should also pay 
Mrs M £250 for the trouble and upset this matter has caused her.
Putting things right
As I have set out above, I think Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld. My aim is to put Mrs M 
in the position she would be in now, but for the delays caused by Cowley & Miller. 
I think it is reasonable to assume that, without the unnecessary delays, Mrs Ms cash 
equivalent transfer value could have been transferred 43 days earlier than it was actually 
transferred. As I set out above, I am of the view that Cowley & Miller was in a position to 
provide its recommendation to Mrs M by 26 November 2019. I think its poor service led to a 
28-day delay when providing its recommendation. And I think it then caused a further 15-day 
delay when it failed to respond to Mrs Ms DB pension scheme administrator promptly.
Had Cowley & Miller not delayed providing its advice and responding to the DB scheme 
administrator I think the transfer value would have been paid to Mrs Ms personal pension 
plan provider by 31 December 2019.
In order to resolve this matter, Cowley & Miller should pay Mrs M:
Tax-free cash
A = the notional tax-free cash that would have been payable on the higher transfer value 
within five working days of 6 January 2020 (43 days prior to the personal pension providers 
letter of 18 February 2020);
plus
B = interest on A at 8% simple from the date tax-free cash would have been paid to the date 
tax-free cash was paid;
minus
C = the actual tax-free cash Mrs M received;
plus
D = interest on A  C at 8% simple from the date tax-free cash was paid to the date of 
payment of compensation.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Cowley & Miller considers that it is 
required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from the interest, it should tell 
Mrs M how much it has taken off. Cowley & Miller should also give Mrs M a tax deduction 
certificate if she asks for one, so that she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs 
if appropriate.Loss to pension
A sum sufficient to augment the value of the receiving scheme to its notional current value, 
had the higher cash equivalent transfer value been transferred at the earlier point. 
The notional value will presumably need to be confirmed by the receiving personal pension 
plan provider. 
The payment should take account of any available tax relief. If the personal pension provider 
will not accept the payment, or if it would conflict with any protection or allowance, the gross 
loss to the plan should be paid to Mrs M, less tax at her marginal rate. This is assumed to be 
the basic rate of income tax.
Cowley & Miller should provide details of its calculations to Mrs M.
In addition, Cowley & Miller should pay Mrs M £250 to compensate her for the distress and 
inconvenience this matter has caused. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In order to put matters right Cowley & Miller 
Independent Financial Services Limited should calculate and pay the redress as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2022.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman