DRN-2431371
The complaint
Company S has complained about Brightside Insurance Services Limited. It wasnt happy 
about the way they dealt with its insurance policy and the costs incurred when the cover 
changed due to a driving licence offence.
What happened
S took out its commercial motor insurance through Brightside and its cover was placed with 
a number of insurers over a number of years. Around the time of renewal, the insurer asked 
for a copy of a named drivers driving licence and it was discovered that there was a TT99  
driving offence. And so, the insurer increased the premium for Company S policy because 
the risk had increased.
There was an error in the date the TT99 applied and S went on to complain to Brightside as 
it felt that it hadnt done anything wrong; that it had disclosed the TT99; that it was spent a 
short while later; and that it was overcharged and forced to stay with Brightside Insurance 
because of the effect of the TT99.
Brightside explained that there was an error caused by the incorrect date for the TT99 being 
input for which it apologised. It ensured S got a full refund for the amount it was overcharged 
because of the error, paid interest on the amount and paid £20 compensation. But as S 
remained unhappy it complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for S but didnt uphold its complaint. He was of the view 
that Brightside hadnt acted unreasonably. Although he thought that there was an error and 
the correct date for the TT99 wasnt input he thought that it was clear that S hadnt disclosed 
the TT99 as it shouldve done. And that it hadnt had to pay the previous years additional 
premium and so he thought Brightside had acted reasonably.
Company S didnt agree. It thought that Brightside should pay it £1500 in compensation as it 
had been tied to Brightside and because of the error. So the matter has been passed to me 
for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think the complaint should be upheld. I know S wont be happy about 
this, but Ill explain why.
I know S feels that it was forced to reinsure through Brightside because it faced increased 
premiums because of the TT99 issue, but it would always have faced increased premiums if 
the TT99 was applied correctly. Im satisfied, from the call and the documentation provided 
to S explaining that the TT99 wasnt highlighted, that S shouldve told Brightside and the 
insurer about the TT99 conviction, but it didnt. If it had of done it would have been charged a 
higher premium because of the additional risk they posed from having a driver who had been 
banned from driving. 
As such it was only fair that the insurer charged an additional premium for this (which 
Brightside wasnt responsible for) when it realised. Indeed, I note that S shouldve been 
charged a higher premium the year before (as it hadnt disclosed the TT99 when it should 
have done) so it was fortunate here.
It is a pity that there was an error in marking the correct date for the TT99 driving offence. 
But Im satisfied that the error was corrected, and that S has been refunded part of the 
additional premiums it paid because of this which feels fair. And Brightside has paid interest 
on this amount and a small amount of compensation for the error. I can understand why S 
wants more but I think this feels fair in the circumstances.
Finally, I know S feels that it has had to renew through Brightside and has paid more 
because of the TT99 error. But it was always going to have to pay more had it have told 
Brightside (or any other broker or insurer) about the TT99 and this has clearly had an affect 
here. S was always free to shop around and gain as competitive a quote as it could find and 
there was nothing that tied them to Brightside.
Given all of this, I agree that Brightside has acted in a fair and reasonable way by refunding 
the additional premium paid because of the incorrect date used and paying a small amount 
of compensation.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2021.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman