DRN-3641034
The complaint
Mr M believes Bank of Scotland Plc (BOS) acted irresponsibly by agreeing an overdraft 
hed applied for, and by not closing his account in 2017.
What happened
Mr M was provided with an overdraft on his BOS account in 2014. He got into financial 
difficulties and, in 2017, BOS said they were going to close his account. But they didnt do 
this, and instead made payment arrangements with Mr M to repay the outstanding overdraft. 
And, in 2019, BOS gave Mr M a temporary increase in his overdraft limit  from £3,500 to 
£3,900.
Mr M complained to BOS and they agreed to refund all the charges and interest that had 
been applied to Mr Ms account from when it shouldve been closed in 2017. They also said 
that their reporting to the credit reference agencies about Mr Ms account had been 
inconsistent  negative markers were not reported when they shouldve been. However, 
because this error was in Mr Ms favour, BOS said they wouldnt respectively correct this. 
BOS also paid Mr M £150 for the inconsistencies and failings in their service.
Mr M wasnt happy with this, and he brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator explained that we are only able to consider complaints within six years of 
the event being complained about or, if the complaint is brought to us after six years, then it 
must be within three years of when the complainant reasonably ought to have known that 
they had cause for complaint.
Because Mr M was complaining about an overdraft that was approved in September 2014, 
and because he reasonably ought to have known he had cause for complaint when BOS 
failed to close the account in 2017 after a prolonged period of financial difficulties, the 
investigator said Mr M shouldve brought his complaint to us by no later than September 
2020. But he didnt do so until August 2021. As such, the investigator didnt think Mr Ms 
complaint was one that we could look into.
However, the investigator also said that if this had been something we couldve looked into, 
and we thought that BOS hadnt acted reasonably, then we wouldve asked them to refund 
interest and charges. Which is what they did. So, given these circumstances, the investigator 
said that BOS had acted reasonably.
The investigator also said that Mr M had benefitted from BOSs error in not placing adverse 
markers on his credit file and by not closing his account in 2017, as this wouldve resulted in 
a default being registered, which wouldve had a greater impact on Mr Ms credit file. And he 
thought that the £150 BOS had offered for their general service was reasonable. So, he 
didnt think BOS needed to take any further action.
Mr M has said that he disagreed with all the investigators comments and reasonings but 
didnt set out why. And he asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The types of complaint we can look into are set out in our rules which can be found in the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook under DISP. These include time limits on how long 
a person can wait before bringing their complaint to us. DISP 2.8.2 says:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service:
1) more than six months after the date on which the respondent sent the complainant its 
final response, redress determination or summary resolution communication; or
2) more than:
a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware of (or 
ought reasonably to become aware) that he had cause for complaint.
Mr M is complaining about a £3,500 overdraft that was granted to him in November 2014, 
and he believes that BOS acted irresponsibly when approving it, as it was unaffordable at 
the time. Mr M had financial difficulties which started in February 2016, and by June 2017 
BOS advised him they were closing his account as a result. While this closure didnt happen, 
Mr M would reasonably have been aware by June 2017 at the latest that he had cause for 
complaint that the overdraft was unaffordable for him.
DISP 2.8.2 (2)(a) says that Mr M should bring his complaint to us within six years of the 
overdraft being granted. Which would be by no later than November 2020. And, if he didnt, 
then he has three years from the date he reasonably knew he had cause for complaint, to 
bring that complaint to us. For the reasons stated above, this was June 2017. So, under 
DISP 2.8.2 (2)(b) Mr M had until June 2020 to bring has complaint to us.
As Mr M didnt contact us until September 2021, his complaint about the approval of the 
overdraft isnt something we can consider under DISP 2.8.2. As such, I wont comment 
further on this.
Its not disputed that Mr Ms account shouldve been closed in 2017, and BOS failed to do 
this. It therefore follows that, had the account been closed when it shouldve been, then no 
further increases to the overdraft wouldve been approved, temporary or otherwise.
In situations like this, Id expect BOS to, as far as is possible, put Mr M back in the same 
situation he wouldve been in had the account been closed. But I also need to consider that 
Mr M had the use of any money lent to him through the overdraft, and that this should be 
repaid. So, Id expect BOS to refund all charges and interest from the date the account 
shouldve been closed and deduct this refund from any amount Mr M still owes. And this is 
what BOS have done. 
Id also expect BOS to correct Mr Ms credit file. BOS have explained that they havent been 
recording missed payments to the overdraft on Mr Ms credit record and, if they were to do 
what they shouldve done in 2016, this would mean recording a default. Which would impact 
Mr Ms credit file for six years i.e. until June 2023. Because of this, BOS have said they dont 
propose to amend Mr Ms credit file, but they have recorded the account as being closed in 
2017. Which, given the circumstances, I think is reasonable.Finally, BOS have paid Mr M £150 for the failing in their service. I think this is a fair offer, in 
line with our services usual approach, and what I would direct if no offer had been made. 
So, for the reasons stated above, I wont be asking BOS to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint about Bank of Scotland 
Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman