DRN-3860103
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as first direct) applied an Early 
Repayment Charge (ERC) when they redeemed their mortgage.
What happened
In early 2019 HSBC offered Mr and Mrs C a five-year fixed rate mortgage product. The 
interest rate was fixed at 1.99%. Included in the terms and conditions of the contract 
covering the mortgage product were details of the ERC that HSBC would charge if Mr and 
Mrs C redeemed their mortgage within the five-year term.
Mr and Mrs C agreed to the product switch on 12 March 2019. That meant that HSBC could 
charge the ERC if Mr and Mrs C redeemed their mortgage before 8 March 2024.
On 6 October 2020 Mr C contacted HSBC to discuss plans to relocate. He wanted to 
understand what would happen if he and Mrs C sold their property and ported their mortgage 
to a new property in Scotland. Mr and Mrs C owed around £85,000 on their existing 
mortgage. So they wanted to see if they could get a new mortgage for £135,000. That would 
cover the amount they owed under their existing mortgage and an additional £50,000.
HSBC said Mr and Mrs Cs existing mortgage allowed for a porting gap. That meant that if 
their existing mortgage closed and they got another one with HSBC in six-months, any ERC 
that was applied to their account would be refunded. However, the porting gap was subject 
to an assessment and verification of Mr and Mrs Cs income and expenditure. It would only 
apply if HSBC thought Mr and Mrs C could afford to port their mortgage.
HSBC went on to take income and expenditure information from Mr C. It completed a 
decision in principle (DIP) and said it wouldnt be able to lend Mr C the money he wanted as 
it didnt think it was affordable.
Mr C contacted HSBC again in December 2020. He said some information had changed 
since hed last spoken with HSBC, but he didnt have the time to complete a new DIP. Mr C 
said hed phone back to do this at another time. However, he didnt phone back until late 
February 2021  just after his HSBC mortgage had been redeemed and it applied an ERC of 
£2,029.82. Mr C updated his home address. The HSBC agent he spoke to offered to transfer 
Mr C to the mortgage team to discuss the DIP and porting gap, but Mr C declined saying he 
understood the porting gap to be around six-months.
Mr C phoned HSBC to discuss a new mortgage on 21 March 2021. He said he wanted to 
borrow £150,000 - around £87,000 ported from his previous fixed rate at 1.99% and £63,000 
on whatever new rates were available. HSBC said Mr Cs old mortgage had closed on 2 
March 2021 so any new mortgage needed to be opened and completed on or before 2 
September 2021. The conversation moved on to cover Mr Cs income and expenditure. It 
became clear that Mrs C hadnt yet obtained employment since moving to Scotland and that 
Mr C hadnt worked between February 2020 until January 2021, so his net profit for the 
relevant tax year was zero. The agent said that HSBC was an income-based lender, so it 
was unable to agree to lend Mr and Mrs C the money they wanted.
Mr and Mrs C complained in March 2021. Mr C said his business had been severely 
impacted by the covid-19 pandemic and he thought that as long-standing customers of 
HSBC it should have done more to help. He thought that as HSBC couldnt lend to him and 
Mrs C it was unfair for HSBC to apply the ERC.
HSBC said it hadnt done anything wrong, so Mr and Mrs C raised a complaint with the 
Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator looked into the matter. He didnt think HSBC had made a mistake when it 
applied the ERC. He was satisfied that Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage offer said that an ERC of 
3% of the outstanding balance would apply if the mortgage was redeemed within a year of 
the mortgage opening. An ERC of 2% of the outstanding balance would apply if the 
mortgage was redeemed after this, before the end of the mortgage.
Our investigator also thought that Mr C ought to have been aware from the discussion with 
HSBC in October 2020 that it was unable to lend more money to Mr and Mrs C in a new 
mortgage. He said it was Mr and Mrs Cs decision to continue with the sale of their property 
and their relocation to Scotland without confirmation that HSBC would lend more money to 
them. So he didnt think HSBC made a mistake that resulted in Mr and Mrs C being unable 
to port their mortgage within six months of redeeming their 2019 mortgage and the ERC 
being refunded.
Mr and Mrs C remained unhappy and asked for their complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to decide. Mr C made a number of points that Ive 
considered below. Amongst other things he said that he doesnt think HSBC has provided all 
the records he thinks are relevant to this complaint, and that its contact notes arent correct. 
In particular he says there are phone calls that were made before October 2020 that havent 
been provided and he thinks the duration of some phone calls listed in HSBCs contact notes 
is incorrect.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Ill begin by saying that the ERC was clearly documented in the 2019 mortgage offer that 
was sent to Mr and Mrs C before they took out the mortgage product. Im satisfied that they 
accepted that offer and the ERC associated with it. So when Mr and Mrs C redeemed their 
mortgage, it wasnt unreasonable for HSBC to charge the ERC that theyd accepted as part 
of the contract theyd entered into. 
Mr and Mrs C told us how their incomes were adversely affected by the covid-19 pandemic. 
Im sorry to hear about this and no doubt that they went through a very stressful time. Its 
clear that they think that as long-standing HSBC customers HSBC shouldve done more to 
help them get the money they needed to relocate to a property they wanted in Scotland.
Mr C says that he thought that the way that HSBC considered his and Mrs Cs income and 
expenditure was unfair as it took a worse-case scenario that didnt address the reality of their 
situation. I appreciate Mr Cs strength of feeling about that. However, I think its helpful to say 
here that its up to HSBC to set its own lending policy, and to decide to who lend to, how 
much, and on what terms. HSBC is allowed to use its commercial judgement to put in place 
a policy in relation to mortgages which reflects its regulatory obligations, as well as its 
attitude to risk. Where a complaint is about the exercise by a lender of its commercial judgement (as it is 
here) my role is to decide whether that judgement has been exercised fairly and reasonably; 
it isnt to substitute my own judgement for that of HSBC. It is only if I thought no lender could 
reasonably have made the decisions HSBC made in this case that there would be any basis 
for intervention on my part. The Financial Ombudsman Service has no power to set lending 
policy for HSBC.
In this case Im satisfied that HSBC applied its lending criteria as I would expect it to do 
when Mr C asked for a DIP for a new mortgage in October 2020, March 2021, and May 
2021. I say that in light of HSBCs lending policy in relation to self-employed income and Mr 
and Mrs Cs circumstances. Its clear that in the relevant tax year Mr C had no net profit from 
his business. HSBC considered that Mrs C didnt have any income after leaving her job to 
relocate, and HSBC was only able to consider some of the income Mr and Mrs C received 
from other sources. So while I appreciate that Mr C thinks that HSBC should have assessed 
their income and expenditure differently. I dont think it did anything wrong when it declined 
Mr and Mrs Cs request to borrow more money. 
Mr C says HSBC hasnt provided all the evidence applicable to this complaint. He says 
HSBCs contact notes are incorrect as there were phone calls that happened before October 
2020 that are relevant to his complaint. He says HSBC effectively said it would lend to him 
and Mrs C if he paid off their credit-card balances. He did this - even though he was paying 
0% interest on those balances - so he was very annoyed that HSBC effectively changed its 
mind later. I appreciate Mr Cs frustration about this. Its not clear to me why HSBCs contact 
notes are incomplete but Ive seen nothing to suggest that it has deliberately withheld 
evidence as Mr C has suggested. Mr C has provided a partial recording of a phone call from 
September 2020 (not included in HSBCs notes) where the valuation of Mr and Mrs Cs 
English property was considered. However, my role isnt to punish HSBC for this mistake. It 
is to try and resolve this complaint in a fair and reasonable way. Mr C hasnt been able to 
provide details of relevant phone calls he says were made before October 2020. So I cant 
be sure what was said in them. 
In any case, Im satisfied that by the end of the October 2020 phone call HSBCs position 
was clear. Ive listened to a recording of that phone call and Im in no doubt that HSBC said it 
wouldnt lend Mr and Mrs C the money they wanted in connection with their relocation to 
Scotland and that Mr C acknowledged that at the time. HSBCs position didnt change after 
this. I think HSBC could reasonably expect Mr C to take on board what it had said even if he 
was unhappy about the outcome. 
Amongst other things Mr C says he wants HSBC to reimburse him for the ERC and 
compensate him for having to get a mortgage with another lender (on a higher interest rate) 
when they bought their new property in Scotland. I dont think that would be fair or 
reasonable for the reasons set out above. Ultimately Mr and Mrs C chose to move forward 
with their relocation to Scotland using a mortgage from another lender. They knew the terms 
of that mortgage before they entered into it. 
Finally I can see that Mr C is unhappy that in the investigation of this complaint the Financial 
Ombudsman Service hasnt approached his old mobile phone provider to get evidence of his 
phone calls to HSBC between July and September 2020. Mr C says he cant get the 
information himself. I appreciate Mr Cs strength of feeling about that. But I dont think that 
information would change the outcome of this complaint because Ive considered the phone 
calls between Mr C and HSBC between October 2020 and May 2021. Even if HSBC did say 
it would lend Mr and Mrs C all the money they wanted for the relocation before this (which 
isnt clear to me) that stance was superseded by what HSBC said to Mr and Mrs C from 
October 2020 onwards. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Laura Forster
Ombudsman