DRN-4431814
The complaint
Mrs L complains that the amount Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) offered to 
settle her motor insurance claim is too low.
What happened
Mrs L has a fully comprehensive motor insurance policy with Admiral. On 31 March 2023, 
her vehicle was damaged and Admiral decided it was not economical to repair it. After 
receiving an independent assessors report, Admiral said it thought Mrs Ls car was worth 
£25,500 on the day it was damaged.
Mrs L did not accept this valuation and she complained to Admiral. Admiral did not uphold 
the complaint and said its valuation was fair. Mrs L then brought her complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator considered the matter and didnt think Admirals offer was fair. She looked 
at four valuation guides and found the following valuations: Guide 1 - £23,420;
Guide 2 - £24,500; Guide 3 - £28,212; and Guide 4 - £28,922. 
Our investigator compared these valuations to some adverts for similar cars as Mrs Ls. She 
thought the valuations suggested by Guide 1 and Guide 2 were too low. So, she said a fair 
way to calculate the value of the car was to average the valuations for Guides 3 and 4. She 
said a fair value of the car was £28,567. Our investigator said that Admiral should pay £100 
for distress and inconvenience that had been caused to Mrs L.
Admiral did not accept our investigators view. It said it didnt think it was fair to disregard 
Guide 1 and Guide 2. It offered to increase its valuation of Mrs Ls car to an average of the 
value of all four guides. On that basis, the car would have been worth £26,263.50 on the day
it was damaged.
Our investigator looked at all of this again. She said she thought Admirals offer to value the
vehicle at £26,263.50 was fair and that it should pay £100 for distress and inconvenience
caused to Mrs L.
Admiral accepted this, but Mrs L did not. She said Admiral should exclude the value of
Guides 1 and 2 in calculating an average valuation. As Mrs L did not agree with our 
investigator, the matter was passed to me for a ombudsmans decision.
I issued a provisional decision because I thought our investigators initial view was correct. I 
said: 
I intend to uphold the complaint and find that a fair valuation of Mrs Ls car
on the date it was damaged to be £28,567. Ill explain why.
In circumstances like this where it has been decided it is not economical to repair the 
car, Mrs Ls policy says Admiral will pay the market value of the car less the policys 
excess. The policy defines market value and says that it is based on research from 
industry recognised motor trade guides.
Assessing the value of a car isnt an exact science. Like most insurers, this service 
often finds motor trade guides persuasive. Thats because their valuations are based 
on nationwide research and they show likely selling prices at the month of loss.
In this case, Admiral didnt appear to consider the motor trade guides. Instead, it 
relied on the report it obtained from an independent assessor. That said, in arriving at 
his valuation, the independent assessor appears to have consulted at least one 
motor trade guide, but no evidence has been provided to show which guide was 
consulted or when. Without that evidence, I dont think it would be fair to rely on 
Admirals valuation.
Our investigator ultimately said that a fair valuation of Mrs Ls car would be to take an
average figure from the four valuation guides she consulted which would have 
meant the  value of Mrs Ls car was £26,263.50.
However, in this case, Mrs L has provided some adverts obtained at around the time 
the vehicle was damaged. Those adverts are all for cars of the same make, model 
and age as Mrs Ls. I can see that they all have higher mileage than her car. The 
lowest priced car is £29,150 with 64,800 miles and the highest priced car is £30,090 
with 62,950 miles. Mrs Ls car had around 51,000 miles on the clock on the day it 
was damaged.
With that in mind and putting all the evidence together, I am provisionally satisfied 
that the adverts suggest the higher valuations as shown in Guides 3 and 4 are more 
likely to be correct. It follows then that a fair valuation of Mrs Ls car would be to 
discount Guides 1 and 2 and take an average of Guides 3 and 4 instead. That means 
my provisional decision is that Admiral will need to settle Mrs Ls claim on the basis 
that her car was worth £28,567 on the day it was damaged.
Our investigator recommended Admiral pay £100 to Mrs L to compensate her for the
distress and inconvenience caused to her from its handling of the complaint. Admiral 
agreed it would pay that amount to Mrs L.
I asked the parties to provide me with any further information or evidence they wanted me to 
consider before I issued a final decision. Mrs L said she agreed with my decision. Admiral 
did not. It maintained its view that an average of all four valuations was fair in this case. It 
said adverts were not a fair reflection of the actual selling price and that it was not fair for me 
to disregard Guides 1 and 2. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have thought carefully about the further representations made by Admiral, but I am not 
persuaded to depart from my provisional view. Ill explain why. 
When considering a case such as this, I must consider all the evidence before me. That 
evidence includes the valuation guides Admiral referred to - but Im not bound by or 
restricted to only taking account of those valuation guides. I have looked at all the evidence 
in the round, and that includes the adverts sent to us by Mrs L. Upon doing so, I accept that adverts do not reflect the actual selling price of a vehicle and 
there may be room for negotiation. But the adverts are not the sole reason I came to my 
provisional view. There is a significant difference of approximately £4,000 to £5,000 between 
Guides 1 and 2 and then Guides 3 and 4. The adverts are consistent with the values set out 
in Guides 3 and 4. 
I remain of the view that when considering the evidence as a whole, the adverts provided by 
Mrs L suggest that a fairer market valuation of her vehicle would be closer to that set out in 
Guides 3 and 4. On that basis, it is fair to take an average of those figures, which means that 
a fairer valuation of Mrs Ls vehicle on the day it was damaged is £28,567. 
I uphold the complaint on that basis and require Admiral to take action to put things right as I 
have set out below. 
Putting things right
I require Admiral to:
Settle Mrs Ls claim based on a valuation of £28,567.
Pay simple interest on the difference between the initial settlement of £25,550 and 
£28,567. This interest is to be paid from the date the initial settlement was paid until 
the date the claim is finally settled. The rate of interest is to be 8% per year.
Pay £100 to Mrs L for the distress and inconvenience identified above.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to put things right 
as I have set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman