DRN-3543668
The complaint
Mr C complains that TSB Bank Plc didnt do enough to protect him when he fell victim to an
investment scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Between 17 October 2018 and 4 March 2019 Mr C made a series of payments, totalling
£191,431.42 to a number of different beneficiaries. He believed they were going to a
company based in Hong Kong (Ill refer to as Company G) that offered investment trading
platforms, trading in gold and other commodities.
Date Type of Transaction Beneficiary Amount
17/10/2018 Online International Bank Transfer Beneficiary A £23,430.63
23/10/2018 In-branch Transfer Beneficiary B £71,165.74
24/10/2018 Online International Bank Transfer Beneficiary B £15,866.80
14/11/2018 Online International Bank Transfer Beneficiary C £15,845.99
26/11/2018 Online International Bank Transfer Beneficiary D £23,968.88
27/11/2018 Online International Bank Transfer Beneficiary D £16,080.01
29/1/2019 Online International Bank Transfer Beneficiary E £7,803.88
28/2/2019 Online International Bank Transfer Beneficiary F £1,697.99
04/03/2019 Online International Bank Transfer Beneficiary G £15,571.50
Total £191,431.42
Mr C has explained that hed been made aware of an investment opportunity by a friend he
met during a social networking event. Mr C has said his friend advised him that her brother
worked for Company G. Records of messages from the time show he was told the
scammers brother worked for the Hong Kong Stock Exchange and had information on the
global gold trade. The friend also said shed already invested with Company G and made
good profits.
Mr C said he set up an account, having provided personal identification documents, and was
able to see the funds in his account. He said he saw his investments making good returns
and he was encouraged to keep investing, as hed receive higher profits and be charged
less commission if he increased his holding.
At some point after his initial investment Mr C was told that his account was going to be
moved to an elite team to manage his funds. His funds were then transferred to a new
account and he started dealing with another company (Ill refer to as Company A). Later he
was told there were going to be upgrades to the system and products on offer, and his funds
were again transferred, this time to a third company (Ill refer to as Company Z). Mr C was
under the impression that all three companies were connected, and he continued to
correspond with the same individual via an instant messaging service.
When Mr C tried to withdraw funds from his account his available balance decreased, and
he stopped receiving replies from the company. Soon after he was blocked from his online
account and his friend stopped replying to his messages. Mr C realised hed been the victim
of a scam. He contacted TSB to seek its help to recover the funds hed lost.
TSB contacted the beneficiary banks but they advised that no funds remained in the
receiving accounts. TSB confirmed to Mr C that it wouldnt refund the money hed lost as
hed authorised the transactions and it had processed them correctly. It also noted that when
Mr C made his transaction in branch on 23 October 2018, due to its high value, bank staff
asked him why the payment was being made and Mr C said he was sending money to
relatives. When TSB queried this with Mr C after he notified it of the scam, he said the
scammers had told him to say it was for relatives as the transaction would be processed
quicker than if hed said it was for an investment. Mr C told TSB he didnt think it was strange
that hed been asked to lie to his bank.
Mr C complained to our service. He said TSB hadnt done enough to protect him from the
financial risks of fraud. He said it had failed to carry out any due diligence before processing
his transactions and it provided him with no warnings that it could be a scam.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think any intervention from TSB could
have prevented Mr Cs loss. He noted that when Mr C had been asked about his transaction
hed lied and said it was for relatives. But he thought that even if Mr C had told the truth
when he made the first transaction, there wasnt enough information available about the
relevant companies to know it was a scam.
Mr C disagreed and asked for the case to be referred to an Ombudsman for a final decision.
He disputed that hed have lied had his first transaction been questioned by TSB. He said
the scammers had only coached him to say he was sending money to relatives when he
made the second transaction in branch. He explained hed been led to believe that he
needed to make the transfer by a certain date to be included in a particular investment
opportunity and had been told his transaction would be delayed if he said it was for an
investment.
I issued provisional findings on 24 May 2022 so that all parties had the opportunity to provide 
any additional comments before a final decision was reached. 
In brief, I thought TSB ought to have intervened when Mr C gave his first payment 
instructions on 17 October 2018. I considered the payment instruction was out of keeping 
with his usual account usage and should have stood out to TSB as unusual or 
uncharacteristic. Had TSB intervened at this stage, and provided Mr C with appropriate 
scam warnings and encouraged him to carry out his own research, I thought it was more 
likely than not Mr C would have cancelled the payment instruction as he would have thought 
the risk was too high to accept. As a result, I thought his losses would most likely have been 
prevented. 
But I thought Mr C should bear some responsibility for his loss. I considered Mr C had 
carried out inadequate checks before investing large sums in high risk trading. Hed also 
lied, albeit following coaching from the scammers, to TSB about the nature of his transfer. 
Had he not done, some of his losses may have been prevented. As such, I thought he was 
responsible for 50% of his loss, and so directed TSB to refund 50% of his lost funds. 
TSB initially disagreed that any intervention would have prevented the scam. It thought that 
had it intervened with Mr Cs first transaction, Mr C would likely have sought guidance from 
the scammers before contacting TSB. It thought it was most likely that he would again have been coached to lie about the nature of the transaction (saying it was for relatives rather 
than an investment). 
TSB argued that it wouldnt have been proportionate to the fraud risk for it to have intervened 
in the first transaction. It pointed to data that showed the majority of similarly sized 
international payments were not fraudulent.  
TSB also thought it was unfair to include Mr Cs second transaction in the proposed 
settlement, as TSB had intervened but Mr C had lied about the nature of the transaction.    
After further discussion, both Mr C and TSB accepted my provisional findings. So, Im now in 
a position to issue a final decision on this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear Mr C was the victim of a sophisticated and targeted scam and lost a
considerable sum of money as a result. I understand this loss had a significant impact on his
life and finances. In the circumstances, I can appreciate why he wants to do all he can to
recover the money he lost. But I need to decide whether TSB can fairly and reasonably be
held responsible for the loss.
Its accepted that Mr C authorised the scam payments which totalled £191,431.42. He
provided valid instructions through his online account and in branch. So, although he didnt
intend the money to go to the scammers, under the relevant Payment Services
Regulations and the terms and conditions of his account, Mr C is presumed liable for the
loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of
practice and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate
for a bank to take additional steps or make additional checks before processing a payment in
order to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
This service has referenced the relevant rules, codes of practice and good industry practice
at the time in many previous decisions published on our website.
TSBs first obligation is to follow the instructions that Mr C provides. But if an instruction is
sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic for the account, Id reasonably expect TSB to
intervene and to ask more about the payment instruction before processing it. Id also expect
it to provide suitable warnings about common scams to help its customers make an informed
decision whether to continue with the payment. There might also be cases where its
appropriate for a bank to refuse to follow the instruction if there are good grounds to believe
it is being made as a result of a fraud or scam.
Did TSB do enough to identify the risk of financial harm from fraud?
So, the starting point here is whether any of the payment instructions Mr C gave TSB
between 17 October 2018 and 4 March 2019  taken singularly or collectively  were
sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic in relation to his typical account activity to say TSB
reasonably ought to have intervened, or have done more than it did, before processing the
payment instruction.
The first payment Mr C made as a result of the scam on 17 October 2018 was for£23,430.63. This was an international payment made to a new payee. It was unusual for
Mr C to send this amount of money and particularly so as it was an international payment
(something he doesnt appear to have done before). Given Mr Cs usual account usage Id
have reasonably expected this to stand out as unusual and uncharacteristic to TSB. The
account was typically used for day-to-day spending with card payments, direct debits and bill
payments  and most transactions were for up to a few thousand pounds only. 
While Ive considered TSBs concerns regarding the proportionality of additional checks 
when viewed against certain fraud statistics, the key here is that banks have obligations to 
be alert to suspicions of fraudulent activity and to look out for unusual transactions or 
anything that might indicate one of their customers is in the process of being defrauded or at 
risk of financial loss. Having considered all the circumstances, I consider the transaction on 
17 October 2018 was wholly unusual and uncharacteristic for Mr C and had enough red 
flags to highlight to TSB that he may have been at risk of financial harm. TSB was therefore 
obliged to intervene. 
Would appropriate intervention have affected Mr Cs loss?
If this first payment instruction transaction had flagged up as being unusual and 
uncharacteristic with TSB  as I think it reasonably ought to have done  Id have expected 
TSB to have contacted Mr C before processing his instructions. At that point, questions 
should have been asked about the nature and purpose of the payment he was making.
TSB has assumed that as Mr C lied about the purpose of his transaction on 
23 October 2018, that hed also have lied about the earlier transaction. But I dont agree the
evidence supports this position.
Mr C has provided us with copies of messages he exchanged with the scammers between
11 October 2018 and 1 February 2019. A message dated 23 October 2018 shows Mr C
being coached by the scammer before making the in-branch payment, to say it was for a 
relative if he was asked by the bank. This suggests the scammers were aware Mr Cs bank 
was likely to make additional checks before processing the payment. There is no evidence of 
such prior coaching in relation to the initial online transaction.
Earlier messages between Mr C and the scammer talk about how and where the 
transactions should be made and whether the transactions could be expedited but theres no 
suggestion of coaching on the reason for the transaction. I also cant see an immediacy of 
messaging that suggests to me the scammers could have coached Mr C in the moment had 
TSB called him.
TSB suggested that had the first payment triggered, Mr C would most likely have contacted 
the scammers before contacting TSB to discuss his transaction. But I dont agree this was 
the most likely outcome. Its clear Mr C believed he was making a legitimate investment. So 
had TSB contacted him, or prompted him to contact it, I think its most likely he would have 
done so. I cant see there would have been any reason for him to contact the scammers 
before speaking with TSB.
While its clear Mr C was susceptible to coaching - which is a common feature of these 
sophisticated scams and part of the social engineering involved in making them successful - 
I dont think that means he would have sought out a cover story from the scammers before 
contacting TSB. To do so would suggest he knew something was wrong with his proposed 
investment, which I dont think is supported by the evidence.
As such I think its reasonable to say that had TSB asked Mr C about his payment instruction
on 17 October 2018 its most likely that hed have answered honestly and explained he wasseeking to make a transfer as part of an investment. Given the prevalence of investment
scams, particularly those perpetrated from overseas, and given his transfer was going to
Hong Kong, TSB reasonably ought to have asked Mr C meaningful, probing questions about
the transaction and his intended investment, to protect him against the possibility of financial
harm. For example, I think TSB should reasonably have asked Mr C how he was introduced
to the investment, what he was investing in and what checks hed already carried out to
confirm its authenticity. I think its likely Mr C would have revealed some or all of the
following details:
Hed been introduced to the investment by someone hed met recently through a 
social networking event.
The company was based in Hong Kong, and hed looked up reviews online but hadnt 
found much information.
He was intending to trade in gold and other commodities.
Hed been promised 15% profits, but that these would increase if he invested more.
I think had Mr C revealed any of these details it would have been a strong indicator that he
may potentially be falling victim to an investment scam. Turning to the transaction in
question, I think TSB should also have been alerted to the fact that Mr C was attempting to
transfer a significant sum of money to a named individual, rather than Company G, who
Mr C believed he was dealing with. This again would have been a red flag that Mr C was
potentially falling victim to a scam.
While its impossible to know with any certainty what would have happened had TSB
intervened, I think its most likely Mr Cs losses could have been prevented.
Having asked Mr C information about his proposed transaction I think TSB should
reasonably have offered Mr C clear scam warnings and encouraged him to carry out his own
checks into Company G before carrying out his payment instruction. While it doesnt appear
there were specific scam warnings about Company G at the time, I think being advised that it
was a potential scam would have given Mr C good reason to pause and complete additional
checks or seek further advice before proceeding with his transaction. At this stage the fact
hed been unable to find much information about Company G or evidence that it was
appropriately registered either in the UK or Hong Kong would likely have given him cause for
concern. And I think at this point its likely Mr C would have thought the risk was too high to
accept  so he wouldnt have proceeded, and his losses would have been prevented.
Should Mr C bear some responsibility for his loss?
I have thought carefully about whether Mr C should bear some responsibility by way of
contributory negligence (which might justify a reduction in compensation). And I think he
should.
Its clear the material cause of Mr Cs loss came from being tricked by a sophisticated scam
in circumstances where appropriate intervention from TSB could probably have avoided this.
But I dont think its unfair to say Mr C wasnt always as careful as I reasonably think he
ought to have been before transferring a considerable sum of money to a company he knew
little about.
Mr C has told us that before investing hed looked at the website of Company G and
believed it looked genuine. Hed also carried out a search online and hadnt found anything
suspicious. But hes explained that hes since realised the names used by the scammers
were similar to names of genuine companies and he may have confused them. The website
Mr C initially used to sign up to an account no longer exists so its not possible to see whatinformation he was presented with at the time. Mr C has also said hed trusted the scammer
and believed what she told him about the investment and her own returns.
While I appreciate Mr C carried out some checks before investing, he seemingly didnt
question anything further when things appeared suspicious or the scammers made
implausible claims. For example, throughout the scam Mr C was instructed to pay seven
different named individuals, each registered at a different address. Some of the addresses
provided appear residential and others appear to be connected with businesses that had no
connection with the proposed investment. When Mr C asked about this, he was advised that
the company operated a number of different bank accounts because it was easier to
manage his money. He also told TSB that hed been told this prevented trafficking. Mr C
also seemingly didnt question why the name of the company he was using kept changing,
and instead accepted that this was an upgrade to the system or to move him on to a better
fund.
Its also significant that when TSB did try to intervene and asked Mr C about his second
transaction he lied and said he was transferring money to relatives. While I accept that Mr C
was coached to say this, as he was told it would speed up the transfer, I think he really ought
to have questioned why he was being advised to lie to his bank in order to circumvent the
processes put in place to protect him.
Overall, while I appreciate Mr C carried out some checks before investing, I dont think he
carried out sufficiently thorough checks to enable him to establish the legitimacy of the
companies he was dealing with before investing very large sums in high risk trading. I think
he ought reasonably to have done more. In the circumstances I think its fair that he bears
50% of the responsibility of the losses he incurred.
Putting things right
To put things right, TSB should pay Mr C £95,715.71 (50% of his total £191,431.42 loss).
To compensate Mr C for being deprived of this money, TSB should also pay him interest on
this amount from the date he made each payment to the date of settlement. As Mr C
appears to have transferred funds from a savings account before transferring it to the
scammers, I consider it would be appropriate for TSB to add the interest that would have
applied to those accounts.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct TSB Bank Plc to pay Mr C: 
£95,715.71 (50% of his total £191,431.42 loss).
The interest that would have been applied to the accounts Mr C transferred his funds 
from.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 
Lisa De Noronha
Ombudsman