DRN-1267335
 
The complaint
Mr M complains that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner. 
What happened
Mr M was given 14 loans by Sunny between October 2017 and May 2018. Each of the loans 
was due to be repaid in six monthly instalments but Mr M generally repaid the loans within a 
few weeks of taking them out. At times Mr M had up to four loans outstanding at the same 
time. Eleven of Mr Ms loans have been fully repaid but a balance remained on three of the 
loans at the time he made his complaint. A summary of Mr M's borrowing from Sunny is as 
follows;
Loan 
NumberBorrowing 
DateRepayment 
DateLoan 
Amount 
1 18/10/2017 25/10/2017 £  100
2 23/10/2017 25/10/2017 £  50
3 06/11/2017 10/01/2018 £  200
4 24/11/2017 18/04/2018 £  250
5 12/12/2017 17/01/2018 £  100
6 17/12/2017 20/12/2017 £  50
7 27/12/2017 21/05/2018 £  300
8 11/01/2018 14/03/2018 £  100
9 25/01/2018 04/07/2018 £  300
10 26/03/2018 - £  300
11 23/04/2018 23/04/2018 £  150
12 25/04/2018 28/04/2018 £  100
13 28/04/2018 - £  400
14 22/05/2018 - £  200
Mr Ms complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He didn't think Sunny had 
been wrong to give the first five loans to Mr M. But he didn't think Sunny should have agreed 
to lend the remaining loans. So he asked Sunny to pay Mr M some compensation.
In response Sunny agreed that it should have done more checks from loan 8 onwards so it 
offered Mr M some compensation in respect of those loans. But Sunny didn't agree that it 
shouldn't have given loans 6 and 7 to Mr M. Mr M didn't accept Sunny's offer. So, as the 
complaint hasn't been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process. If Mr M accepts my decision it is legally binding 
on both parties. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Mr M could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesn't automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
Sunny did some checks before it lent to Mr M. It asked him for details of his income, and his 
normal expenditure. And it checked his credit file before agreeing the loans. Ive seen a 
summary of those checks and I dont think they showed anything that should have caused 
additional concerns to Sunny.
As I mentioned earlier each of Mr Ms loans was repayable over a six month period. So the 
amounts that Mr M needed to repay each time were smaller than if hed taken a normal 
payday loan. But of course he was committing to making those repayments over a far longer period. And at times Mr M had a number of loans outstanding together. So Ive needed to 
consider the total amount that Mr M needed to repay to Sunny each month.
I think the fact that Mr M typically repaid his loans much earlier than planned should have 
caused some concerns to Sunny. That might be the sort of behaviour that would indicate 
that someone was facing problems managing their money and needing to refinance loans on 
a regular basis. So Ive also taken that into account when looking at whether Sunny should 
have given the loans to Mr M.
I think that the checks Sunny did before agreeing the first four loans were proportionate. The 
amounts that Mr M needed to repay were small compared with the disposable income hed 
declared. Given these repayment amounts, what was apparent about Mr Ms circumstances 
at the time, and his borrowing history with the lender, I dont think it wouldve been 
proportionate for Sunny to ask him for the amount of information that would be needed to 
show the lending was unsustainable before agreeing the first four loans. 
I do think, by the time Mr M asked for loan 5, that Sunny should have realised that it couldn't 
safely rely on the information he was providing about his finances. I think it should have 
taken steps at that time to independently verify Mr Ms true financial position. We asked 
Mr M for copies of his bank statements so we could see what better checks would have 
shown Sunny. He didn't provide these to us. So Im not able to say that better checks would 
have shown Sunny that it shouldn't have given loan 5 to Mr M.
But looking at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr M I think by loan 6 the 
lender should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise 
harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it shouldn't provide further loans. 
This was now Mr Ms sixth loan request in a period of two months. Each of the loans Mr M 
had taken had been repayable over a period of six months. But Mr M had paid off the first 
two of those loans far earlier than planned, but borrowed increasing amounts very shortly 
afterwards. I think that pattern of frequent borrowing and repaying early should have 
indicated to Sunny that Mr M was most likely having significant problems managing his 
money.
When Mr M asked for loan 6 he wasn't making any inroads to the amount he owed the 
lender. Each time he had asked to borrow his overall debt to Sunny had increased. At no 
time had there been a reduction in his overall borrowing.
Between loan 6 and loan 14 Mr M continued to have multiple loans active at the same time. 
So Sunny ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr M was having to borrow 
further to cover the hole repaying his previous loans was leaving in his finances and that 
Mr Ms indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
I think that Mr M lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing from loan 6 
onwards because these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ms indebtedness by 
allowing him to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of 
time. The sheer number of loans was likely to have had negative implications on Mr Ms 
ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
So I don't think the offer Sunny has made to Mr M goes far enough. I don't think Sunny 
should have lent to Mr M from loan 6 onwards. Sunny needs to pay Mr M some 
compensation. 
Putting things rightI dont think Sunny should have agreed to lend to Mr M after, and including, the loan that he 
took on 17 December 2017 (loan 6). So Sunny should; 
refund all the interest and charges Mr M paid on loans 6 to 9 and loans 11 and 12.
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement
remove any interest and charges still outstanding on loans 10, 13, and 14 and treat 
any of the payments Mr M made towards these loans as payments towards the 
capital
if reworking each of these loan accounts as Ive directed results in Mr M effectively 
having made payments above the original capital borrowed on any loan, then Sunny 
should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the 
overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of 
settlement.
if reworking these loan accounts leaves an amount of capital still to be paid on any 
loan, then Sunny can use the total refund due from the other loans (after the 
deduction of tax) to offset this. And if there is still an outstanding capital balance on 
any loan then I remind Sunny that it should take a sympathetic view when seeking to 
agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr M
the number of loans taken from loan 6 onwards means any information recorded 
about them is adverse. So all entries about loans 6 to 9, and loans 11 and 12 should 
be removed from Mr Ms credit file. All information about each of loans 10, 13, and 14 
should be removed from Mr M's credit file once the principal borrowed on each of 
those loans has been fully repaid
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold Mr Ms complaint and direct Elevate Credit 
International Limited to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2020.
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman