DRN-1466531
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. Mr C 
says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him the PPI. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in January 1999. The policy cost 
no more than 77p per £100 of the outstanding card balance and covered Mr C in the event 
he wasnt working due to accident, sickness or unemployment. Following a successful claim, 
it would repay 10% of the outstanding balance at the point of claim, for up to twelve months.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint comes to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Cs case. And, having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold.
I think Lloyds made it clear that Mr C didnt have to take out the PPI and that he chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why he cant remember this. I say this because Ive 
seen a copy of the credit agreement that Mr C signed in January 1999 and I can see he 
chose to take out PPI. He ticked a box, under the heading Optional Features to confirm he 
wanted to purchase PPI even though he didnt have to. And he decided not to take out other 
optional features that were available. And as the PPI wouldve appeared on his monthly 
credit card statements, had it been added to Mr Cs account without either his knowledge or 
his consent, I wouldve expected him to query this at some point in the first few months after 
the account was opened.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr C so it had to check that the PPI was right for him  and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example, he 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  he told us he was 
employed and in good health. And although he had some sick pay from his employer, the 
policy wouldve paid out in addition to this, and for longer.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems 
like it would have been useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off taking out 
the cover.
Ive thought about everything Mr C and his representative have said about the sale of the 
PPI itself  but these points dont change my decision.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman