DRN-3675984
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Capquest Debt Recovery Limited chased him for a debt while hed 
been keeping up with a payment arrangement.
What happened
This complaint surrounds a defaulted credit card account.
In 2020, Mr C reached an agreement with the debts owner to make six payments to settle 
the account. The debt owner then instructed Capquest to service the account.
Mr C made the payments on time, though some were assigned to a different closed account 
in error, and one was returned in error. He complains that Capquest continued to chase him 
despite the arrangement, and that they didnt contact him about the returned payment.
Capquest have not responded to the complaint. They no longer service the account now.
Our investigator looked into things independently and upheld the complaint, as Capquest did 
not provide anything to defend themselves. Capquest didnt reply, so the complaints been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive had to base my decision on the limited information I have.
From what Ive got, it looks like Mr C agreed a settlement arrangement with the debts owner 
before Capquest were instructed to manage the account. And I can see from his statements 
that Mr C made all these payments on time.
As I understand, the debt owner assigned some of these payments to the wrong account, 
and returned one. Were looking into what happened there in a separate complaint against 
the debt owner. In this decision, Im only considering what Capquest did as the servicer.
Mr C has explained that Capquest continued to chase him despite him keeping up with his 
arrangement, that they wouldnt help him when he called, and that they didnt tell him when 
his final payment got returned in error. 
Capquest havent provided anything which shows otherwise, nor anything to defend 
themselves in general, despite the chasers and extensions weve given them. So the only 
evidence I have to go on is Mr Cs testimony. Mr Cs testimony has been consistent and 
credible, and Ive not found any good reason to disbelieve him.
So based on the limited information Ive got, I find its most likely that Capquest did not 
manage this account properly. They shouldnt have pursued Mr C if he was keeping up with 
an arrangement, they shouldve tried to help him when he called, and they shouldve let him 
know when his payment got returned in error.
As I understand, they caused Mr C some real upset. So that should be put right.
Putting things right
I direct Capquest Debt Recovery Limited to:
Make sure things are properly closed on their end so they dont pursue Mr C any 
further for this debt; and-
Pay Mr C £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience they caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Cs complaint, and direct Capquest Debt 
Recovery Limited to put things right in the way I set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman