DRN-3235602
The complaint
Mr M complains that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited trading
as Scottish Provident has acted unfairly in relation to a claim under his whole of life policy. 
Specifically, he believed his policy had a sum assured of £225,000 but when he came to 
make a claim, it was limited to £25,000. Mr M says Scottish Provident failed to clarify what 
his policy covered and it did not point out clear policy exclusions from the outset.  
To resolve his complaint, Mr M says Scottish Provident should pay the missing £200,000. 
What happened
Mr M took out his policy through an independent financial adviser. It is a Pegasus Personal 
Assurance policy, with critical illness benefit from Scottish Mutual Assurance for which Royal 
London trading as Scottish Provident now takes responsibility. The policy had an initial sum 
assured of £100,000 and was index linked. It came into force in January 1997.  
In 2019, Mr M sadly became unwell with a type of cardiovascular disease. After 
investigations, he had to undergo angioplasty in order to have two stents fitted. He then 
made a critical illness claim to Scottish Provident in late 2020.  
A claim was paid for £25,000. Mr M says he was shocked to discover this wasnt the full sum 
assured, so he complained. Scottish Provident said the capping of angioplasty benefit was 
set out in the policy terms. Mr M remained unhappy and sent a further complaint letter.  
Scottish Provident issued a response to the complaint in November 2020. It said while it 
noted Mr Ms unhappiness about the benefit amount, it was satisfied that the documentation 
clearly outlined the terms under which a claim for angioplasty was payable.
Thereafter Scottish Provident did acknowledge further complaint aspects pursued by Mr M 
relating to the administration of his claim and offered him £200 for its failings. Specifically 
these were relating to an unnecessary request for further family history information, its failure 
to realise it had already received identification, and its failure to manage Mr Ms expectations 
with regards to correspondence and the date at which he would receive his claim payment.
It otherwise remained of the view that the claim was correctly processed. Scottish Provident 
says policies such as Mr Ms did not cover full payments for angioplasty and would have 
been priced as such on that basis. It couldnt comment on what Mr M was told in 1997, as 
the policy was sold to him by an IFA. 
Mr M therefore brought his complaint to this service in 2021. He said he took out the policy 
because one of his parents had suffered a similar cardiac crisis. He in fact took out two 
policies with similar cover, and the other has now paid out in full. He allowed this policy to 
increase with an index linked premium because he thought the increasing sum assured 
covered the prospect of a critical cardiac incident, which could be likely.
Mr M said Scottish Provident provided a policy with embedded exclusions contained within it 
that were neither clear nor evident when it was taken out. To dispute this and have to chase 
Scottish Provident for illegible documentation was distressing for him at a particularly 
vulnerable time. It failed to find a Key Facts document. And further, he made many 
arguments to Scottish Provident that it merely ignored, contrary to good industry practice. 
Mr M also supplied correspondence he had sent to senior staff at Scottish Provident, noting 
multiple failures in its complaint handling, including sending letters to his financial adviser 
instead of him, failing to acknowledge receipt of correspondence and forcing him to have to 
chase for updates. He said Scottish Providents actions were immoral and unfair. 
An investigator from this service considered the complaint, but she didnt think it should 
succeed. She said since Scottish Provident didnt sell the policy, she had considered the 
information Mr M was given and whether it had acted fairly in relation to his claim. She also 
couldnt look at the matters that related purely to complaint handling. 
On both points, she didnt believe Scottish Provident had done anything wrong. She didnt 
think the way the documentation set out the benefit was hidden from Mr M or that its 
underwriters ought to have done anything differently at the outset. Also, she concluded that 
the policy terms made clear that the claim was limited to the lesser of 25% of the sum 
assured or £25,000. Scottish Provident had therefore correctly met the claim. 
Mr M disagreed. He made several detailed additional submissions. I have considered these 
in full though I wont be setting them out verbatim here. In summary, Mr M said:
the investigator seemed to be reviewing matters from the claim backwards, which 
was unfair;
he remains of the view that the policy was mis-sold as Scottish Provident 
misrepresented it to him in the first place;
the policy was purchased with very clear expectations and these werent met;
he had already told our investigator how another parallel policy purchased at the 
same time has paid out in full;
Scottish Provident cannot produce the Key Facts information but it is this information 
which Mr M had relied on;
the investigator is merely applying caveat emptor;
the policy wording is deliberately obscure and puts the onus on layperson customers 
to scrutinise the terms at the outset;
he questions the point at which a policyholder can rely on representations made by 
an insurer;
in his view, Scottish Provident has withheld the most important information (the Key 
Facts document) which could underwrite its defence of his complaint;
he does not think the onus ought to be on him to show it misled him, but the other 
way around;
he knows from professional experience than an underwriter would look at all of the 
facts  and in doing so would have seen his family history relating to cardiac matters;
on that basis Scottish Provident had greater responsibility to check the policy was 
appropriate for him;
if he had withheld his family history then this would be misrepresentation so it seems 
that Scottish Provident is given the benefit either way;
it appeared that the investigator was suggesting Scottish Provident could not be 
liable for the actions of Royal London, but a business cannot avoid regulatory liability 
merely because of the transfer of assets;
he doesnt agree with the investigator that complaint handling is a matter which sits 
outside of the jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service;to present a file with critical documents missing ought to amount to a complaint;
the role of the ombudsman should be to balance the scales of an individual against 
the weight of a company  and he feels this service has failed in that duty;
if Scottish Provident hadnt done anything wrong, why did its final response to the 
complaint add a line noting it would respect any decision made by the Financial 
Ombudsman Service?;
it should be for Scottish Provident to show it provided clear evidence of the policy 
terms, including exclusions  and it did not do so;
it could easily be the case that the wording was included after the policy began. 
Our investigator wasnt minded to change her view. She noted that complaint handling 
wasnt a regulated activity. And as before, she didnt think Scottish Provident had done 
anything wrong in the administration of the policy or the handling of the claim. She said the 
limitations of the policy were made clear to Mr M, something he and his adviser could have 
discussed. Scottish Provident did not sell the policy  it operated it, and had done so fairly.  
The complaint was then referred for a decision. In the interim, Mr M explained he had 
concerns over a premium increase.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at everything before me, I do not believe this complaint should succeed. Im 
sorry that this wont be the answer Mr M has hoped for and I can see things have been 
difficult for him. I will set out my reasons for this conclusion below.  
I wont be looking at the points Mr M has raised since the matter awaited an ombudsmans 
decision in respect of premium payments and increases  those form the subject of a new, 
separate complaint to Scottish Provident.  
Though I know Mr M feels strongly about it, Im unable to address his concerns about 
customer service issues such as Scottish Provident failing to send timely acknowledgements 
to complaints or it having sent letters to his financial adviser. Thats because complaints to 
this service do need to be about specific regulated activities or any ancillary activities, 
including advice, carried on by a business in relation to regulated activities. 
The relevant regulatory activities here are effecting contracts of insurance and carrying out 
contracts of insurance. Complaint handling is not a regulated activity in its own right. I do not 
have discretion as to the nature of regulated activities  they are set out within the Dispute 
Resolution (DISP) rules in the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook applying to this 
service. Mr M can review the rules at https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/2/.
Some matters for which Mr M held concerns - such as the delayed claim payment - are 
ancillary to carrying out a contract of insurance. However, these werent pursued to this 
service by Mr M, since Scottish Provident accepted the further complaint and paid Mr M 
£200. It may help Mr M to note that this is a level of compensation which I deem appropriate 
in the circumstances of trouble caused to him by Scottish Providents administrative errors. 
I can see Mr M has explained his reasons for holding two policies, and that he took this 
policy out to cover him in circumstances akin to the position he is in now because of his 
family history of cardiac events. And I dont doubt that. But, this is not a complaint about the sale of the policy  if Mr M is unhappy about what was put to him in 1997 hell need to 
address that separately, by reporting any concerns (if held) to the advising business. 
Though Mr M has said that Scottish Provident and its underwriters had to make a 
consideration about the suitability of the cover for him when he applied for the policy, I 
disagree. That was the role of the adviser when making recommendations to him at the time. 
Scottish Provident offered Pegasus policies. And so its underwriter would have looked at Mr 
Ms disclosures to determine what cover it was prepared to provide, and at what cost. 
I also do not agree that Scottish Provident should have conceivably known that because Mr 
M had a family history of cardiac matters that this was the specific reason he sought the 
policy. It is obviously an important matter for Mr M. However, Scottish Providents role was 
limited to deciding on what basis it could offer Mr M the whole of life policy, costed using the 
medical information he supplied, on an actuarial basis.  
To be fair to both parties in a complaint, the correct position for this service to take is to look 
at how a business has assessed a policyholders claim against their policy wording for the 
condition or event being claimed. This is by reviewing the terms and conditions. Though Mr 
M is unhappy about the documentation available (and Ill discuss that further below), I 
believe Scottish Provident has fairly paid the claim.  
I see no reason why it is fair or reasonable to disregard the Standard Provisions applying to 
the policy  these are the relevant terms and conditions setting out the insurance contract 
between the parties. Section 3.4 is entitled Critical Illness Benefit (Angioplasty). It says:
Critical Illness Benefit is available if specified in the Schedule.
If the Owner makes a valid claim on account of Angioplasty as specified in section 
4.2 (b) (iii), the Company will:
[on the qualifying date and following claim requirements being met]
pay an amount equal to the lesser of
(a) 25% of the Sum Assured at the Qualifying Date, and
(b) £25,000.
In fact, Mr Ms policy contains a specific section for angioplasty claims  as is particular to 
these Pegasus policies. For claims relating to all other listed critical illnesses, the policy ends 
upon claim payment of the sum assured. This is clearly set out in section 3.3 of the policy, 
which is entitled Critical Illness Benefit (other than Angioplasty).  
It was for Scottish Provident to decide what terms and conditions ought to apply to the 
Pegasus Personal Protection policy, and on what basis. Mr M did not have to accept the 
terms, and he could have sought cover elsewhere. I know Mr M says that if he knew that the 
policy had the limitation on angioplasty claims, hed never have taken it out. But I do not hold 
Scottish Provident liable for that; all of the policy information Ive seen points to the two 
categories of claims at sections 3.3 and 3.4 in the terms and these make the clear distinction 
that angioplasty claims are subject to the cap above, where all other claims are not.  
Because of the passage of time and the nature of third party sales, Scottish Provident has 
not been able to produce a Key Features document. This is because it says the adviser 
would have supplied this to Mr M. 
Firstly, I do not find that the absence of this document means I should draw an inference that 
the information within it would be misleading or false. I do not believe that is likely, on balance, when all of the other policy information (the policy schedule, the provisions, review 
documentation and the application) are consistent. 
Secondly, I do not believe this would alter my view on the complaint in any event. I do not 
agree that this complaint turns on the missing Key Facts information. Nor am I persuaded 
that it would be reasonable for Mr M to have placed sole reliance on an assumed misleading 
Key Facts document when the policy documentation was correctly issued to him. 
The policy schedule dated 10 February 1997 is a one page summary document of the cover. 
I accept Mr M says he may not have read through the entire provisions document  despite 
being encouraged to, I recognise that policyholders may not always review multi-page 
documentation, even where an insurer advises to do so as good practice. Nonetheless, that 
schedule expressly confirms The Policy is subject to the Standard Provisions of the 
Personal Assurance Plan (reference PEGPA 0496). Those are the terms the claim has 
been measured against  fairly  as I set out above. 
Further, the policy summary specifically says what the cover is (Ultimate Whole of Life) and 
this comprises Critical Illnesses payable as specified in Sections 3.3 and 3.4.
If Mr M had referred to those headings, they highlight the limitations on angioplasty without 
even reading any of the terms themselves. I believe that this is clear information, open to Mr 
M and his adviser. It follows that I do not agree with the contention that Scottish Provident 
provided misleading, hidden or unreasonable terms. Nor do I accept that it intentionally 
embedded exclusions to ensure that Mr M was unaware of the provisions.  
I say that being particularly mindful that Mr M has said how cover for cardiac events (and 
angioplasty to resolve such issues) was of paramount importance to him, given his family 
history. In this situation, I would reasonably expect he would have reviewed the policy to 
determine what cover it offered for that situation, given the significance he has stated now.   
I am also aware that during reviews of the policy, Scottish Provident has provided Mr M with 
periodic reminders about the nature of the cover, setting out:
Important please note:
The benefits listed above are payable subject to any restrictions and exclusions 
included in your plan.
Your plan documentation will give you a full definition of all the conditions covered.
I therefore believe Scottish Provident continued to make Mr M aware that the policy had 
restrictions, and he could have reviewed these if required.  
I realise Mr M feels that there is an unreasonable balance in terms of what was expected in 
1997 from him and from Scottish Provident as the insurer of the policy. Despite this, I havent 
seen any evidence of unfairness in how the policy was offered to Mr M. I do not believe the 
Key Features documentation differed materially from the stated policy terms, but even if Mr 
M had placed reliance on it, I wouldnt reasonably expect it to be read in isolation. 
It is an unusual provision that Pegasus policies separated out cover for angioplasty but that 
doesnt render the entire policy mis-sold or unsuitable  and suitability of the cover wasnt 
part of any duty that Scottish Provident had to Mr M in any event. What it was required to do 
was 1) provide clear and not misleading information about the provisions of the whole of life 
policy and 2) process any claims fairly and reasonably in accordance with those provisions. It has done both things and therefore, this complaint cannot succeed.  
My final decision
Despite my sympathy for Mr Ms circumstances, I cannot uphold his complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2022.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman