DRN-4183241
The complaint
Mr T has complained that Nationwide Building Society incorrectly reported a repayment 
arrangement made in November 2021 on his credit file.
He has also complained that an agreement he made in November 2022 is showing as an 
arrangement on his credit file rather than as payments made on time.
Mr Ts original complaint included matters that another ombudsman has ruled as being out 
of jurisdiction. Therefore, Ill only be looking at the two issues above in this decision.
What happened
In November 2021, Mr T arranged to pay £10 per month to reduce his overdraft over the 
next six months. He then noticed an entry on his credit file reporting a missed payment, 
which was incorrect. Nationwide agreed to amend it but amended it incorrectly and errors 
are still showing on the credit report for this period.
In November 2022, Mr T agreed to make repayments to £150 per month until the overdraft 
was paid off. 
Our investigator thought that Nationwide had made errors when reporting Mr Ts six-month 
arrangement between November 2021 to April 2022 and that it failed to correct this. He 
recommended that Nationwide should correct the credit file and pay compensation of £100 
for distress and inconvenience, which Nationwide agreed to.
However, our investigator thought that the reporting of the November 2022 arrangement on 
Mr Ts credit file was fair and reasonable as it was an accurate reflection of the situation.
Mr T disagrees with the adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The payments made between November 2021 and April 2022 should have been showing as 
a repayment arrangement on Mr Ts credit file. Its not in dispute that errors appeared on the 
file and that Nationwide then made further mistakes when trying to correct it. Our investigator 
has previously set out the details of what happened and so I dont need to repeat it here.
Mr T said he was negatively impacted as it was during this period that he was trying to get a 
mortgage and had an application declined. However, Mr T has since clarified that he is 
unsure if he applied for credit around this time. But the issue is that, if he had wanted to 
apply for credit, this would have affected it.
There were already a large number of negative entries showing on the credit report prior to 
this arrangement. So I agree with our investigator that it is unlikely that the incorrect 
reporting of the six-month arrangement has made any significant difference to Mr Ts overall 
credit rating. And it should be remembered that, even if those six months had been reported 
correctly, they would show as Mr T being in an arrangement to pay a lower amount than 
needed to clear his debt.
Mr T says that any period of six months showing that payments were being regularly made 
would have a positive impact on a credit file, even if only slightly. As Mr T has pointed out, 
different lenders use different criteria when making lending decisions. So, if he did have any 
applications declined, it would be difficult to say if it was just down to the misreporting during 
that period or not. Regardless of that, as Mr T hasnt provided any evidence of being turned 
down for borrowing, Im unable to conclude that he has suffered any detriment. 
Nationwide clearly made errors in reporting the November 2021 agreement, so I uphold this 
first part of the complaint. On balance, I consider that £100 is reasonable and proportionate 
compensation for Mr Ts distress and inconvenience.
In November 2022 Mr T agreed to pay £150 per month towards reducing his overdraft. This 
is recorded on his credit file as an arrangement but Mr T wants it to be recorded as 
payments made on time. But Mr T did make an arrangement to pay £150 per month to 
reduce his debt. So, theres no fault on Nationwides part for recording it as such. Because 
Nationwide has a duty to record data accurately and the information on his credit file is an 
factual reflection of the situation. 
Mr T didnt make the agreed payment in February 2023. He says that the overdraft was 
changed from unarranged to arranged without his knowledge or consent. He says if this 
hadnt happened, then his credit file wouldnt show missed payments as a result of not 
complying with the arrangement.
What happened is that, once the arrangement was made, Nationwide added a reducing 
overdraft limit to the account as a way of monitoring that payments were being made in line 
with what was agreed. But even if it hadnt done this, any failure to make the monthly £150 
payment should still have been recorded as a failure to keep up with the arrangement. And 
the account was already showing as in arrears for the periods when no arrangement was in 
place.
Based on the available evidence, Im satisfied that the information on the credit file relating 
to the November 2022 arrangement is an accurate reflection of how the account was being 
managed. So, Nationwide doesnt have to amend the credit file. It follows that I do not 
uphold the second part of Mr Ts complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I partly uphold the complaint. Nationwide Building Society should amend 
Mr Ts credit file to accurately reflect that he was in an arrangement between November 
2021 and April 2022. It should also pay Mr T £100 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman