DRN-3708993
The complaint
Miss B and Mr L complain about AXA Insurance UK Limited (AXA) handling and the settling 
of their claim, under their home insurance policy. 
For simplicity, throughout this decision I may refer to AXA and anyone acting on their behalf 
as AXA.
What happened
Miss B and Mr L reported a leak at their home with AXA. A trace and access were conducted 
to find the source of the leak, but this couldnt be found. So, AXA instructed a surveyor to 
carry out an inspection. AXA accepted the claim and from the claim notes, AXA said it was 
waiting for quotes from Miss B and Mr L, before settling the claim. But when AXA hadnt 
heard anything from Miss B or Mr L, it closed the claim.
A few weeks later, Miss B contacted AXA as the leak reappeared and was now causing 
damage to kitchen units. Miss B contacted AXAs surveyors to inspect the damage to the 
units. Miss B said that the surveyors declined to inspect the damage and asked for 
photographs instead. 
Miss B and Mr L said that they provided photographs of the damage and also obtained 
quotations for the work. Miss B informed AXA that the kitchen units would need to be 
removed for the damage to be fully assessed. Miss B also told AXA that she would need to 
re-order the units given the time of year (Christmas) and the production constraints. AXA 
said that it did not give Miss B or Mr L authority to order the units. It did confirm that it 
believed that the units were to be removed. Nonetheless, Miss B and Mr L ordered and paid 
a deposit for the replacement units but did not initially install them.
In November 2018, AXA left a voicemail message providing a settlement figure of £2,800. 
Miss B asked AXA to provide the information in writing including a breakdown as to how it 
arrived at the £2,800 figure, which was significantly less than the quotes that she had 
obtained. 
AXA explained to Miss B and Mr L that it believed that the labour costs quoted, were 
excessive. It also said that it would only be providing a 50% contribution for the painting of 
the undamaged units. It confirmed that it would send Miss B and Mr L an updated scope of 
works (SOW) that reflected the 50% painting contribution to the undamaged units. This 
review was completed by AXA and an amended SOW and a settlement figure of £4,027.45 
was provided.
Miss B and Mr L contacted AXA to obtain a breakdown of these costs. They explained that 
AXA didnt respond to these requests and so they instructed a private surveyor to assess the 
damage and provide a settlement figure. This report was sent to AXA for consideration.
Miss B and Mr L said that due to the delay (around 18 months had passed since their 
previous contact with AXA), they had to get some of the repairs completed. And because of 
the private surveyors report, as well as the indication from Miss B and Mr L that most of the 
works had been completed, AXA chose to send a surveyor to re-inspect. 
AXAs surveyor provided a report and new SOW. This report concluded that there was no 
evidence that the kitchen units had been damaged, and because of this, no cover would be 
provided. A new settlement figure of £858.95 was then offered less the excess of £350. Miss 
B and Mr L complained to AXA. 
In its final response, it said that as they hadnt followed the correct claims process, which 
was that all invoices should have been agreed by them prior to any works having been 
carried out, and this was not done, the settlement offered was fair. It did agree that there had 
been some delay during the claim process and for this it offered a total of £150 
compensation, for the trouble and upset caused.  
Miss B and Mr L were given their referral rights and referred a complaint to our service. One 
of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. He said that 
he didnt think that the assessment presented by AXA in the final response letter was 
accurate. He felt that Miss B and Mr L did everything asked of them and it was only out of
desperation, 18 months into the claim when nothing whatsoever had been done by AXA, that
they had the work completed. 
He concluded that Miss L and Mr B had a poor experience during the claims process due to 
lack of communication, avoidable delays, poor customer service issues, including closing the 
claim without consent or agreement. He recommended AXA reimburse the costs of the 
repairs of £5,819. In addition, he recommended that AXA should pay a further £200 making 
a total of £350 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
Miss B and Mr L accepted the view, AXA did not. It said that the level of criticism aimed at 
AXA for the handling of this claim was unfair. It said that Miss B and Mr L didnt follow the 
correct claims processes and caused delay. It said that in the time between the claim being 
closed to the customers coming back to AXA was almost two years later. In which time, they 
told AXA that most of the works had been completed. 
It said that there wouldve been a chance for a re-inspection upon repair of the leak, with no 
further damage occurring, but this wasnt done. And this wouldve given AXA the opportunity 
to have seen the full extent of damage caused, prior to any repairs being undertaken by Miss 
B and Mr L. And to assess what was covered or not covered. So, it asked for a decision from
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I considered the complaint and I thought the complaint should be upheld. I issued a 
provisional decision on 22 August 2022 and asked both parties to send me anything else by 
19 September 2022. In my provisional decision I said:
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.Having done so, I intend to uphold this complaint, but with a different outcome than our 
investigator. I understand that this is likely to be a disappointment for Miss B and Mr L, but I 
hope my findings go some way to explain why I think this is fair.
I note that Miss B and Mr L have made a number of detailed points, which I have read and 
considered. I hope the fact that I dont respond in similar detail here wont be taken as a 
discourtesy. As an informal dispute resolution service, we are tasked with reaching a fair and 
reasonable conclusion with the minimum of formality. In doing so, it isnt necessary for me to 
respond to every point made, but to concentrate on the nub of the issue.
The basis of Miss B and Mr Ls complaint is that the poor level of service that they 
experienced from AXA during their claim for damage following an escape of water. The poor 
service they said related to delay, handling of the claim  in particular the lack of provision of 
a SOW and explanation as to how AXA arrived at the settlement figure, which was 
considerably less than the quotes that they had obtained. Ive considered these points as the 
main issues that Ive thought about in my assessment of this complaint.
Delay  
Miss B and Mr L said that there had been significant delays caused by AXA during the claim 
and as such, they felt out of desperation, that they had to get the work completed before 
agreeing with AXA what would be covered. 
I have had a look at this, as AXA also accept that there were delays. But said that many of 
the avoidable delays were caused by Miss B not maintaining contact, which ultimately lead 
AXA to close the claim. It sent me 22 call recordings in which it either attempted to contact 
Miss B or spoke to Miss B. 
In summary, some of the calls (around six) were voicemails left for Miss B to contact AXA, 
so that the claim could be progressed. It should be noted that a few of the calls were not 
responded to by Miss B or Mr L. 
Many of the calls were what Ive considered as chase calls in which AXA called, spoke to 
Miss B directly, and sought responses to things like the SOW, settlement offers made and 
updates from them as to progress. On each occasion, Miss B said that she would get back 
to them as she wanted to consider it. But seemingly, didnt respond quick enough.
There then follows several months of no contact between the parties, in that Miss B and Mr L 
didnt appear to have updated AXA. And AXA said that it closed the file, due to lack of 
communication from Miss B and Mr L. Around 18 months then passed, by which time Miss B 
contacted AXA again and the claim was re-opened. A second visit from a surveyor was 
authorised and a settlement figure was offered and declined by Miss B and Mr L. They then 
referred their complaint to our service. 
Having reviewed the evidence from both parties, I do not agree that there was delay caused 
solely by AXA. There were many occasions when AXA contacted Miss B and Mr L seeking 
responses from them to progress the claim. And I can see that on several occasions no 
responses were received. I dont think it was unreasonable for AXA to close the claim when 
it hadnt received the responses. But I do think it was fair for it to re-open the claim as and 
when Miss B and Mr L decided that they wanted the claim to progress. 
Schedule of works 
Miss B and Mr L complained that the schedule of works that was sent to them in December 
2018, didnt disclose any costs. AXA said that it had emailed, not costed SOWs throughout the claim. It also said that Miss B and Mr L did contact and ask for clarification of costs, 
which it responded to. But, due to commercial sensitivities, it could not provide fully costed 
SOWS. 
I have considered the SOWs sent and I think it lists all of the work that AXA said would be 
covered under the claim. It is not unusual for insurers to send out un-costed SOW for 
commercially sensitive reasons, as AXA did here. And I dont think it was unreasonable not 
to provide a breakdown of costs, especially as I am satisfied that many of the items 
disclosed on the SOW, also featured on Miss B and Mr Ls independent surveyors report. I 
am also satisfied that Miss B and Mr L did receive the SOW, which is supported by the call 
recordings and because they queried how the surveyor arrived at the costings. 
Settlement figure
Another issue of this complaint relates to the settlement figure. Miss B and Mr L said that 
they had spent £5,819 to date on repairs and expected this figure to be reimbursed by AXA. 
They said that they had also sent their independent surveyors report to AXA and that 
surveyor had assessed and costed the damage to be £5,646. 
AXAs second surveyor who attended in August 2021, assessed the cost of the claim as 
£858.95 less the excess of £350. The surveyor concluded that as there was no evidence 
provided from Miss B and Mr L of damage to the kitchen units, this cost wasnt allowed for in 
the settlement figure.
Miss B and Mr L said that they had sent in the photos of the damaged units and the 
plumbers report in 2018. But AXA said that although it received the plumbers report, there 
were no photos attached. It also said that it asked Miss B and Mr L repeatedly for the 
evidence, but none was provided.  So, in the absence of the damaged kitchen units it 
excluded them and the painting of the undamaged units, from the settlement figure. 
I asked AXA why (as Miss B and Mr L had said) it refused to carry out a re-inspection, so 
that it could be satisfied that there was damage to the units. It said that it hadnt refused to 
carry out a re-inspection of the units. It had asked for a copy of the plumbers report and 
photos of the damage. Whilst Miss L and Mr B sent in the report, there were no photos of the 
damage included. It said on several occasions it called Miss B and left voicemails requesting 
that they sent in the quotes for repair and no response was received. This was when it 
closed the file. 
AXA also said that it had requested confirmation of the damage to the units and had it 
received proof of the damage, it either would have progressed the claim without the need of 
a re-inspection. Or if the damage couldnt have been validated, then a re-inspection would 
have taken place. 
I have read the requests AXA sent to Miss B and Mr L as well as the call recordings that I 
have listened to. Im persuaded that AXA did not receive the photos of the damaged units 
and I think it was fair that at that stage it didnt consider this within the settlement figure of 
£858.95 (less the excess) it offered.
AXA has said that if it is able to validate the damage from the photos, then it will consider the 
costs under the claim. I have seen the photos that Miss B took of the damage and I can see 
that there is damage to the units. I would expect AXA to be provided with copies of the 
photos so that it can validate the damage caused.
I also asked AXA to explain why the settlement figure had changed from £4,027.45 to 
£858.95 (less the excess). It said that there had been revised figures given by its surveyor and the amount of £4,027.45 was given on 21 December 2018, to include a 50% 
contribution to the undamaged kitchen units. The last figure given of £858.95 in November 
2020, was due to the lack of evidence of damage to those units. Both amounts were rejected 
by Miss B and Mr L. But I think there appears to be damage to the units and because of this, 
the settlement figure of £4,027.45 offered in December 2018, is fair.
Taking all of these points into consideration, I intend to ask AXA to settle the claim by paying 
Miss L and Mr B £4,027.45, which takes into account the damaged units, the damage to the 
other areas in the home and a 50% contribution to the undamaged units. 
I have also thought about the compensation offered by AXA for some of the issues Miss B 
and Mr L experienced. It offered £150 in total and having considered that there appeared to 
be delays caused by Miss B and Mr L, I think the £150 offered is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
To put matters right, I intend to direct AXA as below. 
Responses to my provisional decision
AXA did not respond to my provisional decision, save to ask for the photos of the damage 
caused. 
Miss B and Mr L said that there were:
factual inaccuracies in the provisional decision regarding whether Miss B and Mr L 
had sent AXA photos of the damage, as they had sent the photos to AXA, who 
acknowledged receipt in July 2018.
AXA didnt tell Miss B or Mr L that it didnt give authority for them to order the kitchen 
units.
Miss B and Mr L had no record of AXA telling them that their contractors charges 
were excessive.
They did not tell AXA that the work was completed.
There was no reference made to COVID or urgent health and safety reasons as to 
why there were intervening delays. 
 Miss B and Mr L said that they followed the process and disagreed that they hadnt 
followed the process. They submitted quotes and sought approval of them. Which 
was time consuming and proved redundant as AXA made settlement offers. 
Unsure whether their particular vulnerabilities were considered. 
They believe that the settlement in December 2020 was £4190.18 and not £4027.45 
nor did they believe that it included VAT. 
They believed that it didnt cover the second track and trace that took place in August 
2018. But then said that AXA had sought to settle this by way of a cheque it sent to 
them in December 2021  which they didnt cash, on the basis that they had referred 
a complaint to our service. They want confirmation that the cheque hadnt been sent 
in full and final settlement. And they wanted the amount of the cheque to be included 
in the total amount.
The want confirmation that the amount covers all damage in the home.
Finally, they wanted their mitigation of costs to be accounted for especially as they 
believed it was AXAs lack of response in 2018 which caused them to instruct a third- 
party surveyor. They want the third-party surveyors costs to be included in the total 
amount. I note that Miss B and Mr L didnt significantly comment on the issues raised regarding delay 
or that my provisional findings concluded that they were partly responsible for the delay 
during the claim. I also note that despite the provisional decision being issued on 22 August 
2022, Miss B and Mr L did not respond until 26 September 2022. 
I did make it clear in the provisional decision that I considered all the information provided to 
me by both parties. I acknowledged that Miss B and Mr L had made a number of points, 
which I had considered but I hoped the fact that I didnt respond in similar detail wouldnt be 
taken as a discourtesy. As an informal dispute resolution service, we are tasked with 
reaching a fair and reasonable conclusion with the minimum of formality. In doing so, it isnt 
necessary for me to respond to every point made, but to concentrate on the nub of the issue. 
Miss B and Mr L said that they had sent in photos of the damage. AXA in the evidence it 
provided to me, said that it had been waiting for proof of the damage, which it never 
received. Miss B has provided me with email correspondence in which she said that she 
informed and attached photos of the damage, which was acknowledged by AXA.
Having looked at the timeline provided to me by AXA and the timeline given to me from Miss 
B, looking at the date on which Miss B sent the photos (31 July 2018), I can see that AXA 
had previously been asking for the proof of damage as well as quotes for the work to be 
carried out, since April 2018. There were four calls made by AXA to Miss B requesting the 
information and a call back. These calls were not responded to until a few days later when 
Miss B said that she would be obtaining the proof and quotes. Over a month then past and 
AXA still hadnt received any proof. 
Miss B eventually sent the photos of the damage (which I accept were acknowledged by 
AXAs contractor) some two months after the initial request had been made by AXA for the 
proof. This delay, which hasnt been commented on by Miss B or Mr L, meant that AXA had 
closed the claim due to lack of information provided from Miss B or Mr L and lack of 
communication from them. Consequently, I am satisfied that at the time that AXA requested 
the further information for Miss B and Mr L, this wasnt provided which resulted in AXA 
closing the claim. 
In any event, AXA has confirmed that if photos were sent to them, it would consider the 
damage. Photos of the damage have been sent to AXA for it to consider. So, Im satisfied 
that the photos of the damage have been received. 
Miss B and Mr L said that at no time did AXA tell them that their contractor quotes were too 
high. But the evidence I have read indicated that in 2019, Miss B and Mr L were notified 
(after they had submitted their quotes) that the labour costs were too excessive. Miss B 
confirmed that she was told by AXA that any competent carpenter could fit the kitchen units 
and AXA confirmed that it said this as Miss B and Mr Ls contractors quotes for labour was 
too excessive. And their contractor was unwilling to negotiate on them. So, when AXA 
informed Miss B and Mr L of this, AXA said that they raised a complaint.
In addition, the evidence shows that AXA asked for the quotes before agreeing to any costs 
 Miss B has provided an email from AXA dated as long ago as August 2018, when AXA 
specifically made it clear that any costs had to be agreed by them, before work could be 
carried out. And given the delay from Miss B and Mr L, this authorisation wasnt given by 
AXA. And this was the reason, it said that Miss B and Mr L didnt follow the correct claims 
process. 
Miss B and Mr L questioned why there was no reference made to COVID and whether their 
particular vulnerabilities and health and safety issues had been considered.  I can only make findings on evidence that is presented to me. Miss B and Mr L did not 
provide any evidence of COVID as an issue in this complaint to AXA or to our service. So, I 
am unable to make findings on issues that havent been previously raised with the business. 
As I previously mentioned, I have considered all the points that Miss B and Mr L raised, even 
if I hadnt specifically commented on them. But as regards to the health and safety issues 
and her vulnerabilities, I considered those issues when I thought about what a fair and 
reasonable level of compensation was.  
Finally, I have considered Miss B and Mr Ls comments regarding the settlement figure. Miss 
B said that the amount that was last offered by AXA was £4190.18 in December 2020. The 
evidence from AXA indicated that the last offer it made was for £4027.48.
I asked AXA to confirm whether the lower amount was the actual last offer made to Miss B 
and Mr L and if it was the last offer made why was it lower than the £4190.18. It said On
21/12/2018 surveyor confirmed he had updated the scope of works to the amount of
£4027.45 less excess and left the customer voicemails to call him to discuss this. 
It further said that due to the elapsed time between 2018 and 2020 BVS conducted a further 
inspection, he agreed with the original surveyor and that settlement should not exceed that 
of what the original surveyor offered in 2018. Settlement offer was put in writing to the 
customer and sent by email on 15/12/2020 at £4,190.18 less £350.00 policy excess (slight 
increase to include the under stairs cupboard).
Taking all of these points into consideration, I think its fair that AXA to settle the claim by 
paying Miss L and Mr B £4,190.18 less £350.00 policy excess, which takes into account the 
damaged units, the damage to the other areas in the home and a 50% contribution to the 
undamaged units. AXA has confirmed that the amounts will be plus VAT (provided Miss B 
and Mr L can prove that it has been paid). And for the avoidance of any doubt, the figure 
includes the damage to the under stairs cupboard. 
I have also thought about the compensation offered by AXA for some of the issues Miss B 
and Mr L experienced. It offered £150 in total and having considered that there appeared to 
be delays caused by Miss B and Mr L, I think the £150 offered is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Putting things right
To put matters right, I direct AXA as below. 
My final decision 
I uphold Miss B and Mr Ls complaint.
AXA Insurance UK Limited to verify the damage to the kitchen units, with the photos 
provided by Miss B and Mr L and to pay them £4190.18 (less policy excess of £350.00 plus 
VAT  if proof that VAT had been paid)  in order to settle the claim.
AXA Insurance UK Limited to pay £150 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
AXA Insurance UK Limited must pay the above amounts within 28 days of the date on which 
we tell it Miss B and Mr L accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest from the date of my final decision to the date of payment, at 8% a year simple. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 November 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman