DRN-2821064
The complaint
Mr I complains Evolution Lending Limited have mis-sold him a secured loan.
What happened
On 15 March 2016 Mr I was passed from another company to Evolution to discuss a loan for 
£7,000. The stated aim of the loan was home improvements and debt consolidation.
The following day, Mr I asked to increase the loan to £12,000, as he said the home 
improvements were likely going to cost more than he expected. 
A loan for £12,000, over 15 years, with a total repayment cost of around £41,000 was 
agreed  and Evolution sent out a mortgage illustration document setting out the fees, 
charges and interest as well as the total amount to be repaid. Mr I called back the next day 
and agreed to take out the loan. The loan funds, minus the debt consolidation, were paid into 
Mr Is current account on 31 March 2016.
On 22 September 2016 Mr I was contacted by another company in the Evolution group who 
explained they could potentially offer him a cheaper loan with them. Because of that he 
asked for a settlement figure for this loan. He was quoted £14,639.29 to do so. He then 
settled the loan with an unsecured loan from the other company. As a result of that 
refinancing his loan within the same group, fees totalling £2,100 were removed from the 
settlement figure on this loan and added to the loan with the other company  so Mr I paid a 
total of £12,539.29 to settle this loan.
Mr I wasnt happy that the total settlement for his loan was higher than the original £12,000 
hed borrowed. He felt the interest charges and fees were unfair and werent explained 
properly  leading to the settlement being higher and him having to take further credit. Due 
to this he felt hed been mis-advised. 
Evolution explained they went through the loan details with Mr I on the phone and set 
everything out  including the interest and charges. They also sent Mr I a mortgage 
illustration, which explained all of this as well. So, they didnt think theyd done anything 
wrong and wouldnt be refunding charges or interest as Mr I had asked. 
Mr I wasnt happy with this, so asked us to look into things. One of our investigators did so. 
He found that Evolution had clearly explained the fees and interest to Mr I before he took out 
the loan  both on the phone and in writing. And he explained if you redeem a loan early in 
its lifetime you wont have paid back much of what youd borrowed, because the interest is a 
higher proportion of monthly payments at the beginning of the loan, than it would be towards 
the end.
Mr I didnt accept this, explaining he felt Evolution selling him another loan which cost him 
more was mis-selling and wasnt fair. So, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to make it clear in this decision Im only deciding whether Evolution have acted fairly 
in granting the loan, and in how theyve settled it. The terms of the other loan are subject to a 
separate complaint.
Mr Is key complaint is that he was mis-sold this loan, so thinks interest and charges should 
be refunded minus what he calls a reasonable figure of 5% interest.
Its down to lenders such as Evolution what interest rates they wish to offer, and down to 
consumers such as Mr I to decide if theyre prepared to accept those terms. So, to decide 
this case I need to ensure they made it clear to Mr I what the interest and charges would be 
before the loan was granted  and that he made an informed decision in taking out the loan.
Ive not been provided with the initial call Mr I had with Evolution. Theyve said they dont 
have this call due to an error and have provided evidence to back that up. Ive seen no 
reason to doubt that. So, I need to decide what I think based on the information I do have.
After the initial call, paperwork was sent out to Mr I  he called back to increase the amount 
he wanted to borrow from £7,000 to the £12,000 he ultimately took out.
Evolution could provide this second call, so Ive listened to it. In it, Mr I is asked to confirm 
various details of the loan hes looking to take out for security purposes. The figures include 
the total amount repayable, and the annual percentage rate (APR) of the loan. Mr I is asked 
about what the charges would be if he settled the loan, and he read from the illustration 
which said itd be a maximum amount of two months worth of interest. And Evolution explain 
on the phone that at the start of the loan Mr I will be paying more interest than at the end, 
because of payments going more towards interest rather than the amount borrowed.
The interest and charges Mr I ultimately ended up paying are the same ones he confirmed in 
these calls. With that in mind I can only conclude Mr I was given all the information he 
should have been regarding the interest and charges that ended up being applied.
Ive also considered more generally whether Mr I should have been granted the loan in the 
first place. Lenders such as Evolution are required to carry out proportionate and borrower 
focused checks to ensure a loan is affordable and can be sustained.
And, in the calls Ive listened to along with the information Evolution have given about the 
checks they did, Im satisfied the loan was granted appropriately. Evolution went through an 
income and expenditure with Mr I during the phone call  to assess all of his incomings and 
outgoings  and this showed he was able to afford the monthly payment for the loan.
Overall then, I dont think the loan was mis-sold for the reasons Mr I has said. But, I also 
need to look at the charges Evolution applied when he settled this account.
The original paperwork Mr I signed showed a maximum early repayment charge of £448.57 
would be paid assuming interest rates stayed the same  its explained in the paperwork 
sent to Mr I this equates to two months interest.
But, the settlement figure Evolution provided to Mr I applied an early repayment charge of 
£559.86. Theyve explained this was made up of the early repayment charge of £448.57, 
plus interest of £111.29 thatd accrued on the account from the date the settlement balance 
was requested, to the date it was settled in full. There was a delay of several weeks between 
these two events, so this seems like a reasonable explanation. 
Taking all of this information into account, Ive seen no reason to say the loan was mis-sold, 
or that the fees applied when it was redeemed are unfair.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman