DRN-3154098
The complaint
 Mr M complains about two loans provided to him by Oplo PL Ltd trading as
1st Stop Personal Loans Limited, which he says were unaffordable.
 
What happened
 1st Stop provided Mr M with two loans. The details of which are given in this table:
Number Taken Amount Total to 
repayInstalments Repayment Current 
balance
1 06/11/2017 £2000 £2388.96 24 99.54 Paid
2 19/11/2018 £3500 £4718.16 24 196.59 Paid
Our investigator assessed the complaint and recommended that it be partially upheld. He 
concluded that 1st Stop didnt make a fair lending decision for loan 2. He said 1st Stop would 
have seen that Mr M was making a significant payment to credit and it was likely the loan 
repayments were not sustainable.
1st Stop disagreed with our investigators view. It said it carried out proportionate checks and 
made fair lending decisions when it agreed to lend on each occasion.
As this complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has come to me, as an ombudsman, to 
review and make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time.
When 1st Stop lent to Mr M on both occasions the regulator was the Financial Conduct 
Authority and relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC).
1st Stop was entering a regulated credit agreement. So, it had to carry out a reasonable 
assessment of Mr Ms creditworthiness before it entered the agreement. This means that 1st 
Stop had to consider both the risk to it that Mr M wouldnt make the repayments under the 
agreement when due, and the risk to Mr M of not being able to make these repayments. In 
particular, 1st Stop had to consider Mr Ms ability to make repayments under the agreement 
as they fell due over the life of the agreement, without him having to borrow to meet the 
repayments, without him failing to make any other repayment he had a contractual or 
statutory duty to make, and without the repayments having a significant adverse effect on his 
financial situation.
The rules dont set out any specific checks which must be completed to assess 
creditworthiness. But the lender should take into account the borrowers income (over the full 
term of the loan) and their ongoing expenditure for living expenses and other debts. Whilst it 
is down to the lender to decide what specific checks it wishes to carry out these should be 
reasonable and proportionate to the type and amount of credit being provided, the length of 
the term, the frequency and amount of the repayments and the total cost of the credit. So, a 
lenders assessment of creditworthiness would need to be flexible and what is appropriate 
for one person might not be for another. And what might be sufficient for a borrower in one 
circumstance might not be so for the same borrower in other circumstances.
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of credit is likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make repayments 
for an extended period).
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Ms case, I have considered the 
following questions:
Did 1st Stop complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ms loan 
application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loans in a sustainable way? 
If it did, did 1st Stop then make fair lending decisions?
 If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
Did 1st Stop carry out proportionate checks for loans 1 and 2?
I can see that on each occasion, 1st Stop asked Mr M about his income and expenditure. It 
has told our service that it also carried out a credit check and used an online affordability 
check with a third party. It also used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data to work out an 
average amount of living expenses for loan 2 also. 
1st Stop says after it made its assessment it could see that the loan repayments were 
affordable and that it had worked out that Mr M had enough disposable income to afford the 
repayments. I can see why it would say this after looking at its calculations and how much 
disposable income it had calculated Mr M would have. But I dont think it carried out 
proportionate checks for either loan application.
For loan 1, I can see on the credit search it carried out, that Mr M had 4 accounts that had 
been in arrears within the past 12 months. The report had recorded these as delinquent 
accounts. 3 of these still had outstanding balances showing. When I look at this and also 
that the loan term was for 24 months, I think 1st Stop ought to have wanted to seek further 
information about Mr Ms expenditure to ensure that he could repay the loan amount in a 
sustainable way. The delinquent accounts would seem at odds with 1st Stops assessment 
of his finances and this should have prompted it to conduct a complete review of his 
finances.By the time Mr M had asked for loan 2, he would have been indebted to 1st Stop for a year 
and he was asking for a larger loan at this stage with loan repayments that had doubled from 
his first loan. So, I think for these reasons and because this was his second loan, I think it 
should have carried out further checks and verified his expenditure to ensure he could afford 
the repayments for this loan also.  
As I cant see that this 1st Stop did do this, I dont think that the checks it carried out before 
providing Mr M with his loans were reasonable and proportionate, bearing in mind Mr M 
would need to meet his loan repayments over 24 months with regards to both loans.
What would 1st Stop have seen if it had carried out proportionate checks for loan 1?
I need to now think about what 1st Stop would have seen if it had carried out proportionate 
checks for loan 1. Our investigator asked Mr M to provide his bank statements from 
around the time he applied for the loan, for a period of around three months. Im not 
suggesting here that this is the check that 1st Stop should have done. But I think looking at 
his bank statements over a period such as three months would give me the best picture of 
what the lender should have seen.
Mr M has not been able to provide statements from this time to our service. So, I havent 
been able to see what 1st Stop would have most likely seen if it had carried out further 
checks. So, because of this, I am unable to safely conclude that Mr M was given a loan that 
was unaffordable for him. 
Did 1st Stop make a fair lending decision for loan 2?
Ive concluded the checks 1st Stop carried out werent proportionate and that they needed to 
do more. But I dont need to look into what it would have seen if it had carried out 
proportionate checks for loan 1, because I dont think 1st Stop made a fair lending decision, 
based on what it had in front of it. 
I say this because when I look through the credit search results that 1st Stop would 
have had in front of it, I can see that Mr M was already committed to quite a high 
proportion of credit repayment in relation to the income figure 1st Stop was using in its 
assessment. 
1st Stop would have been aware that Mr M would be paying £299 on a loan, £410 on 
a second loan and then would be making £195.46 on repayments for loan 2 also. In 
total he would need to repay around £900 in credit repayments a month. This 
represented a large and significant part (more than 40%) of his income. 
Mr M was paying such a significant proportion of his monthly income on credit 
repayments that 1st Stop ought to have realised it was unlikely that he would be able 
to sustainably repay his loan over the 24-month term. And, in these circumstances, 1st 
Stop should reasonably have concluded that it was not fair to lend to Mr M.
So, I conclude that 1st Stop didnt make a fair lending decision when it agreed to loan 2. But 
I am unable to safely conclude that loan 1 was unaffordable for Mr M.As Mr M has been indebted with a high amount of interest and charges on loan 2 that he 
shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a result of what 
1st Stop did wrong.
So, I think 1st Stop needs to put things right.
 
Putting things right
  In line with this Services approach, Mr M shouldnt repay more than the capital amount he 
borrowed for loan 2. With this in mind, 1st Stop should:
add up the total amount of money Mr M received as a result of being given loan 2. 
The payments Mr M made should be deducted from this amount. Any payments 
made after the total repaid exceeds the amount Mr M was given should be treated as 
overpayments and refunded to him;
add interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments from the date they were 
paid by Mr M to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information placed on Mr Ms credit file because of loan 2;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires 1st Stop to take off tax from this interest. 1st Stop must 
give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
  My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint about loan 2 for the reasons set out 
above and require Oplo PL Ltd, to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman