DRN-3178932
The complaint
Mr Z complains about end of contract charges when his agreement with Ald Automotive 
Limited ended.
What happened
In October 2017 Mr Z was supplied with a car and entered into an agreement with Ald.
Mr Z voluntary terminated the agreement and following this, the car was inspected and 
collected. The inspection identified damage which exceeded fair wear and tear. Ald asked 
Mr Z to pay damage charges and charges for a missed service.
Mr Z disputed the charges. He said when the car was inspected he was told that he would 
receive a copy of the report the same day. But he didnt receive this until around 3 weeks 
later. Mr Z also said that the car was in good condition when it was collected.
Ald looked into Mr Zs complaint but didnt uphold it. It said the charges had been applied 
correctly and in line with the relevant guidelines.
Mr Z remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought the charges had been applied 
correctly and that the charges were in line with what he expected.
Mr Z didnt agree. He said he shouldnt be held responsible for the damage because the 
inspection report wasnt sent to him when it should have been. Mr Z said he hadnt been told 
about any damage during the inspection. He also said that hed returned the car before the 
end of the agreement and that hed covered less than half the contractual mileage 
allowance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the agreement say that Mr Z must return the car I good 
condition and that any damage or missing items are the customers responsibility.
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been issued by the BVLRA and these are accepted as an 
industry standard in determining whether damage exceeds fair wear and tear.
Ive looked at the inspection report. This identifies damage to several areas of the car. The 
damage is quite widespread over the vehicle. Ive reviewed it all carefully. Ive also had 
regard to the relevant guidelines. Having done so, Im satisfied that the damage goes 
beyond acceptable wear and tear. So, I think the charges have been applied correctly.
Ive taken account of what Mr Z has said about the time between the inspection taking place 
and him receiving the inspection report. Mr Z has said its possible that the damage occurred 
during this time. I dont think thats likely because the inspection was carried out in Mr Zs 
presence and the damage was noted in the report. I understand Mr Zs frustration about the 
delay in receiving the report, but Im not persuaded that the damage occurred after the 
inspection had ben caried out.
Mr Z says he returned the car having used less than the contractual mileage allowance. Ive 
thought about this, but theres nothing in the agreement which says that low mileage can be 
set off against damage charges.
Taking all of the information into account and for the reasons Ive given, Im satisfied that the 
charges have been applied fairly. I wont be asking Ald to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman