DRN-3755472
The complaint
Mr D complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc declined a payment he made to an ISA with 
another business. As a result, Mr D says he lost out on his ISA allowance. 
What happened
On 5 April 2022, the last day of the financial year, Mr D called HSBC and ordered a card 
machine. At the end of the call, Mr D told the agent he wanted to make a £10,000 payment 
via his debit card later in the day. The agent advised it wasnt possible to note his intention to 
make a large payment on its system. But the agent told Mr D that if his payment was 
declined he could call HSBC back and a marker would be added to his account for a 30 
minute period. That would allow a follow up payment to be made. No time limit was given to 
Mr D during the call. 
Mr D attempted to make a payment at around 10pm and it was declined. But when Mr D 
called HSBC he found the customer services line was closed so he was unable to speak 
with anyone or get a marker applied to his account. As a result, Mr Ds told us he was unable 
to complete the ISA transfer he was looking to make. And, due to the end of the financial 
year, Mr D said that means he lost out on his tax free savings threshold. 
Mr D complained and HSBC sent him a final response. HSBC accepted its agent hadnt told 
Mr D its customer service line closed at 8pm and apologised, offering him £100 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Ds complaint. They thought HSBCs offer was 
fair and didnt ask it to take further action. Mr D asked to appeal and said that as a result of 
not being able to call HSBC back he was unable to invest in the ISA during the financial year 
so lost out on his tax free threshold. As Mr D asked to appeal, his complaint has been 
passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr D called HSBC on 5 April 2022 his first query related to a card reader. At the end 
of the call, Mr D advised the agent he may need to make a payment of £10,000 later that 
day and asked them to note it on the system. The agent explained that there was no facility 
to do that but if a payment was declined Mr D could call and a marker would be placed on 
his account. I appreciate that the payment Mr D needed to make was time sensitive due to 
his ISA allowance. But Mr D didnt mention what the payment was for when he spoke with 
the agent. Or that he intended to make it later that evening. 
Had the agent been aware that the payment was time sensitive and required to be made that 
day, Id have expected them to give a more comprehensive response. Including the time its 
customer services teams closed for the day. Whilst I understand why Mr D needed to make 
the payment on the day he called, Im not persuaded the agent could reasonably have 
foreseen that failing to give the closing time for the customer services team would lead to a 
loss of this nature. Im very sorry to disappoint Mr D, but I havent found grounds to tell 
HSBC to cover potential future losses.
HSBC offered Mr D £100 and apologised for the service provided during Mr Ds call. In my 
view, the existing offer recognises level of distress and inconvenience caused and is a fair 
way to resolve Mr Ds complaint. As Im satisfied HSBC has made an offer that is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances, Im not telling it to increase the award or take further 
action. 
My final decision
My decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc has already made an offer that is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman