DRN-1591142
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy with the quality of a car he acquired using a hire purchase agreement from 
Oodle Financial Services Limited (Oodle). He wants to reject the car.
What happened
In February 2019, Mr T entered into a hire purchase agreement with Oodle for a used car. 
The car was around five years old and had covered approximately 55,000 miles. Hes since 
reported various issues with it  some of which were repaired by the dealer who said they 
were cosmetic. But the main complaint now is that the car is burning lots of oil.
He complained to Oodle and included a diagnostic report from a local garage. The report, 
carried out in early July 2019, recorded a mileage of 69,665. It indicated that there were 
several past problems with the car. The report doesnt record how or when the problems 
were fixed, simply recording them as past problems. It showed that a number of other 
vehicle systems were fine. 
Oodle arranged for another inspection which was carried out three weeks later by which time 
the car had covered almost 73,000 miles. They couldnt find any current fault with the car 
during their inspection. They said they found no evidence of an oil leakthe performance of 
the vehicle was good and as was would be expected for a vehicle of this age and 
mileageno suspension noisegear change was smooth with no abnormal noises 
heardand no excessive smoke was evident on acceleration. 
The inspector acknowledged that oil consumption issues would require a three-day extended 
road test. But they said that on the balance of probabilities taking into consideration the time 
and mileage covered by the vehicle since the point of finance inception this would not have 
been present or developing at that point.
Oodle rejected Mr Ts complaint as they didnt have any evidence suggesting the fault had 
been present at the point of sale. Mr T was unhappy with Oodles response so referred his 
complaint to us and one of our investigators looked into it. He acknowledged that Mr T had 
reported some issues with the car early in the contract, including, but not limited to, an oil 
leak. The dealer said theyd carried out a few repairs such as a rocker cover gasket and a 
stone chip on the windscreen but made no mention of excessive oil consumption. 
Our investigator agreed with Oodle that there was nothing to show a problem with oil 
consumption at the time of the sale. Our investigator suggested Mr T could obtain a further 
independent inspection and we could reconsider the complaint if it showed a problem.
Mr T obtained a further report from another inspector in February 2020. They noted the 
mileage as 79,029 and that the car was emitting blue smoke from the exhaust  a sign of 
burning oil. A diagnostic scan showed misfires on all cylinders and coil packs. The inspector 
reported that Failure of the ignition coil packs can occur suddenly and without warning at 
any time and that the current symptoms could not have been present at the point of sale. 
The inspector reached this conclusion in part because the car had passed its MOT just 10 
days before Mr T acquired it, and it wouldnt have done so had such emissions been 
present. They said they couldnt confirm the vehicle had an underlying issue at the point at 
the point of purchase. 
Our investigator looked at the report. He noted the inspector had been unable to identify 
issues with the car at the time Mr T acquired it, so he didnt uphold the complaint. As there 
was no agreement, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. Mr T has 
subsequently paid for repairs himself.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). It covers the quality of 
goods acquired using a finance agreement (such as hire purchase) and a consumers right 
to reject the goods if theyre of unsatisfactory quality. 
The CRA says goods are of a satisfactory quality if they meet the standard that a reasonable 
person would consider satisfactory taking into account things such as the description of the 
goods, the price paid and other relevant circumstances. Satisfactory quality of the goods 
includes aspects such as freedom from minor defects and durability. A consumer generally 
has the right to reject a good if its later found to have been of unsatisfactory quality at the 
point of sale if an initial repair fails. 
In this case, the car Mr T acquired was just under five years old and had covered 
approximately 55,000 miles. While the cash price of the car was £8,290, I dont think it would 
be reasonable to expect the car to be of the same standard as a brand new, similar model. I 
would expect some signs of wear and tear, but I would expect it to be free from defects, be 
safe and durable as the law requires.
Within the first week or so of the contract, Mr T returned the car to the dealer for some 
repairs  a seatbelt clip, stone chip to the windscreen and, he says, an oil leak. While the 
dealer has made no mention of an oil leak in their communication with Oodle, they have said 
they changed a rocker cover gasket. My research tells me this may have caused an oil leak 
if it had failed. But the diagnosis report provided by Mr T after this initial repair says no oil 
leak found in July 2019. Three weeks later another report found no evidence of oil leaks 
and no oil contamination was evident to the undertrays on the vehicle. So Im satisfied that if 
there had been an oil leak early in the contract, it must have been successfully repaired. 
As Ive already mentioned, the CRA says the quality of goods includes their durability. 
I acknowledge that Mr T didnt have use of the car for as long as hed have expected, but he 
did cover almost 25,000 miles in the time. The car was already around five years old when 
he acquired it, and by February 2020 it had completed over 79,000. So, Ive considered 
whether this means the car was durable at the point of sale as required by the CRA. 
I note that the car travelled almost 15,000 miles in four months between Mr T acquiring it 
and the diagnostic report he had done, and a further 3,000 or so in the following three weeks 
before the independent inspection ordered by Oodle. If there had been an unrepaired fault at 
the time of sale, I think it more likely than not that the car would not have been able to 
complete such high mileage in a relatively short period of time. I appreciate Mr T says that 
was achieved through constant topping up of oil, but I have to bear in mind the independent 
inspections carried out could identify no fault with the car.  
By February 2020 when Mr T had a further inspection carried out, it seems clear a problem 
had developed leading to blue smoke being emitted from the exhaust and the misfiring mentioned in the report. This report said these were faults which can occur suddenly and 
without warning at any time. It goes on to say the faults could not have been present at the 
point of sale. 
Bearing in mind what that report says and the total distance covered by Mr T in the time he 
was able to use the car, I cant reasonably say the car was of unsatisfactory quality at the 
point of sale as set out by the CRA. It follows that I dont think Oodle have acted 
unreasonably in rejecting his complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2020.
 
Richard Hale
Ombudsman