DRN-2666587
The complaint
B complains about delays and problems updating its details and directors with Advanced 
Payment Solutions Limited trading as Cashplus. 
What happened
Last year, B changed its company name and appointed new directors. Bs representative 
sent Cashplus confirmation of the new details and documents to verify the identities of the 
new directors. Cashplus didnt accept the documents provided by Bs representative. 
Cashplus said it required details of the new directors on company headed paper. 
B complained and Cashplus issued a final response providing details of the information 
required along with a link to guidance on its website detailing acceptable verification 
documents. 
Further identification documents were sent to Cashplus and accepted. But Cashplus says B 
hasnt complied with its requirements for updating the directors and individual who will 
control the account. 
Our investigator looked at this complaint and felt Cashplus had acted fairly and in line with its 
processes. Cashplus has recently confirmed that a further letter is required from B to update 
the directors. Bs representative asked to appeal, so its complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been reasonably brief in setting out the background because all parties broadly agree 
about the timeline of this case. I can see Bs representative submitted identification 
documents along with evidence its name had changed and various requests to update the 
directors. Its clear the situation has become protracted and that B has sought clear 
guidance from Cashplus. Ive reviewed all of the correspondence between the parties 
involved including the documents sent with a view to making changes on the account. Whilst 
I understand the situation has been ongoing for several months, I havent found Cashplus 
has acted unfairly. 
As our investigator has said, its up to Cashplus to decide what information is required to 
update a business name and make changes to the directors named on an account. That 
includes what documents it will accept for verification purposes and how they should be 
certified. I understand Bs representative feels the information sent shouldve been sufficient, 
but Cashplus has confirmed it didnt meet the requirements it has in place. I cant say 
Cashplus has made a mistake or treated B unfairly on the basis that it operates differently to 
other organisations. Ultimately, B will have to comply with Cashplus requests to complete 
the required changes in full. 
Ive looked the certified document Cashplus refused to accept. The wording of the 
certification isnt in line with Cashplus requirements so Im satisfied it had reasonable 
grounds to reject them. 
Bs representative asked Cashplus to send a list of acceptable documents for verification 
purposes. Cashplus gave B a link to its website that sets out the documents it can use in full. 
Given the information requested was set out online, I think Cashplus decision to refer B to 
its website was a reasonable step. 
The identification requirements have now been met. The outstanding issue remains adding 
the directors to the account. Earlier this year, Bs representative sent a letter confirming new 
arrangements to Cashplus. But Cashplus has explained the letter also needs to confirm 
which director is going to control the account. Cashplus says it requires one letter covering 
the updated directors, including who will control the account. Whilst I appreciate the ongoing 
frustration from Bs representative in relation to its requirements, Cashplus can decide what 
process to follow and the format the information it requires should take. I havent been 
persuaded that Cashplus has acted unfairly or made an error in this case. As a result, Im 
not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman