DRN-4268741
The complaint
Mr A complains Santander UK Plc (Santander) blocked and closed his current and credit 
card accounts immediately and without explanation. Mr As also unhappy he was told to pay 
off his overdraft and credit card balance imminently after closure.  
What happened
In January 2022, following a review, Santander decided to close Mr As accounts with 
immediate effect. Mr A was sent a letter for his current account explaining it had been closed 
immediately and he would need to pay off the overdraft balance within seven days. Mr A 
says he borrowed the money from his parents and paid this off. 
Santander also sent Mr A a notice of closure letter for his credit card, and he was told to pay 
off his outstanding balance of around £4,000 in 60 days. Mr A called Santander and 
explained he couldnt pay off such a substantive sum in that time. Santander agreed he 
could continue to make regular payments on his card to reduce the balance, but he wasnt 
able to use the credit card for any new transactions. 
Unhappy with Santanders actions, Mr A complained. In summary, Santander said in its final 
response: 
- It has acted in line with the terms of the account in blocking Mr As accounts
- It has legal and regulatory obligations to meet which means it can be required to 
withhold transactions or services, or block accounts  and its not always possible to 
provide an explanation for this 
- Santander is unable to continue its banking relationship with Mr A, and given the 
terms of the account, it can do so at anytime without explanation 
Mr A referred his complaint to this service. One of our Investigators looked into his 
complaint, in summary, some of the key findings they made were: 
- Santander wasnt obliged to give notice or explanation for the block  and did so in 
line with its legal and regulatory obligations
- Santander closed Mr As current and credit card accounts fairly; in line with its terms 
and conditions; and legal and regulatory obligations 
- Santander isnt obliged to give an explanation to Mr A for the closures 
- Mr A was given fair notice of repaying his credit card balance  two months was in 
line with the terms of the account. Also, as Mr A was struggling to pay off his debt in 
this time, Santander acted fairly by working out a payment plan  and his credit file 
hasnt been affected by this 
- Santander has acted fairly by continuing to charge Mr A interest on his outstanding 
credit card debt. Thats because the terms of the account say You must continue to 
pay interest on all amounts you owe us even after the Account is terminated or 
closed 
- But the terms and conditions dont mention a credit card fee, nor do they say 
Santander can continue to charge this after an account closure. Mr A hasnt used his 
credit card since March 2022, so it doesnt seem fair he should be charged a monthly 
fee. So Santander should reimburse Mr A all monthly fees from March 2022
- As Mr A didnt say he was struggling to pay off his overdraft, and paid it off within 
seven days, Santander hasnt done anything wrong
- Call recordings with Mr A and Santanders agents show he was passed from 
department to department, and overall the customer service wasnt good
- To put things right, Santander should reimburse all monthly credit card fees. And it 
should pay Mr A £60 for the stress and inconvenience caused
Mr A did not agree with what our Investigator said. Id like to assure Mr A that Ive carefully 
read all the points hes made, even if I dont explicitly set them out here. Some of the key 
points Mr A has made are: 
- Santander had told Mr A on a call that he would not have to pay any interest on the 
outstanding balance whilst he worked towards clearing it 
- He had provided a genuine GPs fitness note despite it not being signed, so it is 
something that should be considered as part of any distress and inconvenience 
award   
- Santander should have checked his entire banking history with it before deciding to 
close his accounts 
In response, our Investigator said theyd listened to calls Santander had given them, and 
they didnt hear Santander saying no interest would be charged.  Nor had they addressed an 
ancillary complaint point as that related to Santanders HR policy regards recruitment.
I note too Mr A asked for specific bank statements so he could better explain transactions 
that formed part of Santanders review. Mr A has sent his comments on these. Id like to 
assure Mr A Ive considered what hes said as part of my decision. 
Santander also responded, it said it was happy to pay Mr A £60 compensation. It added that 
the monthly fee on the credit card is automatically added as its built into the account. So as 
such it cant stop its systems from continuing to add this charge until the balance is repaid. 
But Santander has suggested it can refund the £3 a month charges from March 2022 to 
date, and that it will leave an alert on Mr As customer profile to note any future charges are 
also refunded upon customer contact or closure of the account. 
As Mr A didnt agree with our Investigator said, his complaint has now been passed to me to 
deicide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. Much of what Ive decided will 
disappoint Mr A, so Ill explain why. 
Im very aware Ive summarised the events in this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by me in taking this 
approach. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me 
to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts. 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome. I do stress however that Ive considered everything Mr A and Santander have said 
before reaching my decision. 
Its important to note, my decision focuses on Santanders actions regarding Mr As current 
account and credit card. So I wont be making any finding on points Mr A has raised about 
Santanders broader actions relating to its HR policy around recruitment.  
I would add too that our rules, as they stand, allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We 
may treat evidence from banks as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if it 
contains security information, or commercially sensitive information. Some of the information 
Santander has provided is information I consider should be kept confidential.
Account review and closure
Banks in the UK, like Santander, are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order 
to meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry out ongoing 
monitoring of an existing business relationship. That sometimes means banks need to 
restrict, or in some cases go as far as closing, customers accounts.
Having carefully considered Santanders reasons for reviewing and blocking Mr As 
accounts, Im satisfied it acted in line with the legal and regulatory obligations it must follow.
Santander is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with it. 
But before Santander closes an account, it must do so in a way, which complies with the 
terms and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions of the account, which Santander and Mr A had to comply with, say 
it could close the account by giving him at least two months notice. And in certain 
circumstances it can close an account immediately or with less notice. 
Having looked at the information given to me by Santander and Mr A, Im persuaded, on 
balance, it was entitled to close the account in the way that it has done. That means I think 
Santander acted properly in closing Mr As current account immediately. 
Similarly, for the same reasons, Im persuaded Santander acted in line with the terms of the 
credit card account when closing it by stopping Mr A using it going ahead. 
I know Mr A would like an explanation of why Santander took these actions. But neither I nor 
Santander are under obligation, that Im aware of, to do so. And Ive already said that we 
consider some information as confidential. 
Customer service and debt repayment   
Santander gave Mr A seven days to repay his overdraft of around £2,000. From the calls Ive listened to Mr A says he borrowed this money from his parents, though he didnt think 
Santander was acting fairly. Mr A didnt discuss needing to make any payment arrangement, 
so Santander didnt act on this. 
Having reviewed the account terms, Im satisfied Santander did nothing wrong by asking 
Mr A to repay his overdraft in this way. Mr A was fortunate enough that his parents, who he 
has a longstanding relation with of borrowing money, were able to help him. Mr A ultimately 
had taken out this debt, and so was contractually bound to repay it.
From the calls Ive listened to, its clear Mr A wasnt in a financial position to repay his credit 
card balance within two months. And, despite the customer service issues which Ill discuss 
later, he was able to agree a payment with Santander which I understand doesnt affect his 
credit reporting adversely. 
To my mind, Mr A is therefore unable to use the card but can make payments as he 
wouldve before. I think this is a fair solution. So I dont think Santander have done anything 
wrong here. 
Ive listened to several calls, and its clear that Mr A was passed from department to 
department as many of Santanders staff didnt know what to do with his queries. Its not my 
role to make findings on Santanders wider operations and processes, but in relation to Mr A, 
Im satisfied its standards have fallen short. 
Monthly credit card fee and interest 
Ive read the terms of Mr As credit card account and note Santander can charge interest on 
the balance until its cleared.  By doing so, even after Mr A no longer has the use of it, Im 
satisfied Santander isnt doing anything wrong. After all, Mr A agreed contractually to pay 
interest on any debt until its paid off. 
Santander accept it should not have charged Mr A a monthly fee on his account. I also think 
this fee should not have been charged and was applied unfairly given he no longer has 
benefit of the account. I note Santander has process issues in making sure the fees arent 
charged each month going ahead. This is unfortunate, because by doing so, Mr A will suffer 
detriment especially as this will add to the overall outstanding balance and will most likely 
attract interest. 
So, Santander should refund any fees charged since March 2022, and also rework the 
account so any interest incurred because of these fees is also refunded. It follows it is in 
Santanders interest to not charge these fees as theyll attract interest until either Mr A 
proactively asks for a refund, or when the balance is cleared.  
So, to summarise and be clear, I think Santander shouldnt have charged Mr A a monthly 
credit card fee and it should have provided better customer service when he was trying to 
make a payment arrangement. 
Mr A has explained that Santanders actions have caused him severe distress and 
inconvenience. He says, among other things, it affected his health, and he has sent in his 
GPs fitness notes to demonstrate this point. Im happy to accept these as legitimate. 
I dont doubt Santanders actions had an adverse impact on Mr A. But Ive decided that it 
acted fairly, and in line with obligations placed on it, when reviewing and closing the 
accounts. This is the crux of Mr As complaint. So given I dont think Santander did anything 
improper, I wont be making any award of compensation for distress or inconvenience 
related to these key points of the complaint.  But I do think £60 is fair compensation for the distress and inconvenience Santanders 
customer service caused him. This no doubt would have impacted his wellbeing as well 
causing inconvenience. 
Putting things right
To put things right, Santander should: 
- Pay Mr A £60 compensation 
- Refund all monthly credit card fees from March 2022 till date. The account should 
also be reworked so that any interest incurred from these fees being applied are also 
refunded 
- Continue to refund all future monthly credit card fees. And if the fees are added to the 
outstanding balance, any related interest to also be refunded  
My final decision
For the reasons above, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. I now direct 
Santander UK Plc to put things right as above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2023.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman