DRN-3346075
The complaint
Ms B complains about the service she received when she visited a TSB Bank plc branch. 
Ms B feels shes been subjected to discrimination. 
What happened
In December 2021 Ms B went into a TSB branch to pay her credit card bill. During her visit 
she says she was asked to use the cash machine rather than queue for a member of staff. 
During the conversation there was a disagreement and Ms B says she was accused of being 
racist by a member of staff. Ms B also says she told the member of staff she was autistic, 
and they shrugged their shoulders. So, Ms B raised a complaint with TSB.
TSB looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. TSB said it had refurbished the branch, 
which led to a reduction in members of staff but more machines to use  so it actively 
encourages customers to use them. It went on to say that the branch managers version of 
events was different to Ms Bs. The branch manager said in their testimony that they did ask 
Ms B if she wanted to use the machine, but she declined. They went to say that when 
another counter was opened and Ms B went to use it, she behaved inappropriately towards 
the member of staff. 
Ms B remained unhappy with TSBs response, so she brought her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator found that whilst here were some constancies in the testimony of Ms B and 
the TSB members of staff, there were also some occasions where it differed. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Our 
investigator found that when asked the branch manager didnt remember accusing Ms B of 
being racist or that she mentioned she was autistic. Our investigator found it plausible that if 
the branch manager had felt Ms B had been racist towards him, he wouldve mentioned it in 
his submission. Overall, our investigator didnt find any issues with the customer service Ms 
B received in the branch, and she didnt agree that Ms B needed to find another branch to 
use. 
Ms B remained unhappy with the investigators view, so the complaints been passed to me 
for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same outcome as the investigator, for largely the same 
reasons. Ill explain why. 
Ms B clearly feels strongly about her complaint and Id like to reassure her that Ive 
considered her testimony carefully. Ive also had a lot of information, including testimonies 
from the branch staff at TSB.
As a service, its not our role to say whether a business has breached the Equality Act 2010 
or discriminated against its customer. Were an informal alternative to the courts and decide 
complaints on a fair and reasonable basis. But I want to assure Ms B that as the Equality Act 
2010 is relevant law in this particular case, Ive taken that legislation and what it says about 
how businesses should treat consumers into account when considering her complaint.
When interactions happen face to face in a bank branch, I have to rely on the testimony 
provided by both the customer and the bank to reach a view on what I think is most likely to 
have happened. This is because I wasnt present at the time and wouldnt have witnessed 
the incident. There is also no CCTV from the time of the incident. 
In the circumstances of this complaint, there is no dispute that the branch manager asked 
Ms B if she wanted to use the cash machine rather than continue to queue - both parties 
agree to this. What happens after that does differ depending on the testimony of individual. 
The branch manager says he asked Ms B to wear a mask due to Covid restrictions and she 
pulled up her collar and covered her mouth. He then goes on to say that Ms B started to get 
frustrated with the wait to speak to an adviser as she was parked on double yellow lines. Ms 
B thinks she was treated differently because she was British when she was asked to use the 
machine rather than queue. 
At this point Ms B says the branch manager accused her of being racist suggesting she 
didnt like the way he looked  but he has no recollection of this. With that in mind, I think on 
balance it is likely that if the branch manager felt Ms B had acted in a racist way towards 
him, he would have remembered challenging it and I think it is  likely it would have been 
recorded on the system notes. I say this because, there is a detailed recollection of the 
events that occurred in branch, so I see no reason why this aspect of the incidence wouldnt 
be recorded. So, I agree with the investigator that if this was something that had happened, 
Id expect the branch manager to raise it in his testimony, as this wouldve been 
unacceptable behaviour from Ms B.
Ms B goes on to say that she told the branch manager that she was autistic. Ms B hasnt 
said why she told the branch manager this. And the manager also doesnt recall it 
happening. Due to the conflicting testimonies I have gone on to consider the version of 
events that followed. A business is responsible of ensuring, where possible, it makes 
reasonable adjustments for customers when they disclose a disability. In this case, I am 
unclear what adjustments Ms B was requesting, or the purpose of her disclosing her 
disability. Therefore, I cant fairly conclude that TSB treated her unfairly after she says she 
disclosed her disability and it is unclear what action Ms B wanted TSB to take. However I am 
pleased to see that TSB has said, if Ms B is requiring further assistance in branch or wished 
for it to consider any reasonable adjustments, to contact it will consider what further it can do 
to assist. 
Ms B has said that she thinks she was treated differently because she was British. I thought 
about this point carefully and if there is anything that I think amounts to Ms B being treated 
differently. Having done so, I dont think thats the case. Ive carefully considered both 
versions of events and I dont feel the branch manager asking Ms B if she would like to use 
the cash machine to speed things up was unfair or unreasonable  in fact Im more 
convinced the branch managers aim was to provide a better customer service. 
As with the events regarding using the cash machine, both parties agree that Ms B wanted 
another cashier desk opened. TSB have said this was done, but after Ms B was rude to 
another customer. The advisors note from the time documents Ms B being rude to the 
advisor and another member of the public. The advisors notes were made at the time and 
they also detail the customers willingness to provide information to support the advisors 
version of events. I find it unlikely that a customer would be willing to lie in these circumstances, so I find it most like Ms B was challenging towards the customer and advisor, 
rather than the other way round. 
Ms B has also confirmed in her testimony that the other member of the public did accuse her 
of being rude, which is in line with the staff members notes. So, I find them plausible and 
persuasive. Ms B has said the person only made this comment as they were bored. 
Once the other desk was open, the advisors notes document Ms B throwing her credit card 
statement at her and asking her to pay the bill. The advisor says she warned Ms B once 
about her behaviour and after it happened a second time, she refused to serve her. The 
branch manager also recalls the same version of events. 
Having taken everything that happened into consideration and having read all the 
testimonys provided  its clear there was a breakdown in communication and the 
relationship with Ms B and the staff working that day. Although it sounds as though Ms B did 
have to wait to make her payment, I havent found anything that supports the allegations that 
Ms B has made, and I wont be upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Bs complaint about TSB Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Tom Wagstaff
Ombudsman