DRN-2395006
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy about the time taken and settlement of his conservatory claim by 
Safe World Insurance Group (UK) Ltd under an Insurance Backed Guarantee.
What happened
Mr F had a conservatory built and from the time it was built he encountered problems with it. 
Cracks were found, there were issues over the depth of the foundations, doors wouldnt shut 
and lock properly leaving Mr Fs home vulnerable. Attempts were made via other routes and 
dispute organisations to try and reach a satisfactory conclusion. Unfortunately, the company 
that built the conservatory stopped trading, so Mr F contacted Safe World to claim under this 
guarantee.
Despite the previous efforts to resolve the claim being noted Safe World said it needed to 
have the issues reviewed by an independent expert M. This led to further problems as M 
noted that the conservatory had been built without a build over agreement from the local 
water authority. It was highlighted to Mr F that this was a legal requirement and jeopardised 
the legality of the conservatory. But Safe World also confirmed there was cover for the 
conservatory under the guarantee but that a period of annual monitoring would need to be 
carried out to see if the problem was persisting or if the conservatory had now settled. Mr F 
didnt accept this. Previous dispute resolution options he had used had said he should get a 
full refund, so he brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said Safe World under the guarantee is 
responsible to repair or replace a defect, but it didnt extend to offering a full refund. Our 
investigator said Safe World had acted fairly. He said it had acted in line with the insurance 
contract when it offered to do the repairs and monitoring.
Mr F remained unhappy with this and asked for his complaint to be passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There has been quite a bit of correspondence on this file and I see some dispute about what 
the complaint is about. Id like to be clear that Im looking specifically at the complaint Mr F 
originally brought to this service about the claim outcome and the time taken as dealt with in 
Safe Worlds final response. Theres been quite a lot of correspondence around these issues 
and I think anything else should be considered separately.
I can completely understand that Mr F would prefer to get a full refund, knock down the 
conservatory and start again. Im sure in his position many people would feel the same. But 
as explained by our investigator we can only deal with the complaint in relation to the 
business we are looking at. In this case thats Safe World and following on from that I have 
to base my considerations on the guarantee wording it has provided. So even if other 
parties, organisations, etc have made other points, decisions and findings Im not able to 
consider those. Im only able to make a decision based on this guarantee. If another 
organisation has suggested other options Mr F prefers then Im afraid I need to be clear that 
doesnt impact on the decision I can make. I can only require Safe World to do what it signed 
up for by way of the guarantee wording.
The policy wording under the guarantee section states:
Cover provided is for the works specified in this paragraph (or the cost of any such works) 
required to meet the terms of the written guarantee to rectify a defect, where the supplier has 
ceased to trade and is unable to honour the written guarantee. The works shall include only 
removal, repair, alteration, rectification or remedial works to rectify a defect, and shall be 
limited to those works necessary to meet the terms of the written guarantee.
So, just to be clear from the start. It covers removal, repair, alteration, rectification or 
remedial works regarding defects only. Im only able to consider Safe Worlds actions 
against this standard. Im not able to consider the remit of other dispute organisations and 
any outcomes suggested elsewhere. Safe World said, Our liability is the cost of the 
rectification of any defects, subject to the maximum sum insured and not the payment of the 
full sum insured, unless the cost of rectification of any defects covered exceeded this. I think 
this is reasonable.
Safe World pointed out the guarantee definition of a defect in the policy was wording was:
Defect: A physical fault or error in the installation which was caused by the defective 
workmanship of the supplier or defective materials which were supplied by the supplier, 
which is specifically stated as being covered by the suppliers written guarantee, which they 
provided to you.
Its clear that Safe World did review all of the points raised about previous attempts by other 
organisations to resolve the issues with the conservatory and previous reports on the overall 
condition. But it decided that an independent expert report would be the best way to deal 
with the claim. So M was appointed. I think thats reasonable. I can understand Mr F found 
this frustrating after the amount of time hed spent trying to get the issues resolved. But I 
accept what Safe World said in its final response. It said it was only responsible from the 
point when Mr F made his claim to Safe World. Any previous issues or delays werent down 
to Safe World.
One of the key issues M uncovered was the problem with the build over agreement. This 
highlighted that there was no way of legally retaining the conservatory. M said the water 
authority could be contacted by Mr F to apply for this but there was a possibility it would lead 
to enforcement action by the water authority. M was unsure if the conservatory had now 
fully settled and said to check this tell tale devices should be fitted, and the site monitored 
over the next four seasons. Safe World pointed out that assumptions had been made about 
the ground material under the conservatory, but no actual tests had been carried out. Safe 
World accepted that if the monitoring of the tell tales showed the problem was ongoing it 
would look to remedy the problem by underpinning. I think thats fair. I note that Safe World 
did explain to Mr F how it proposed to do this, when it would check the tell tales, what Mr F 
would be required to do, and it offered dates when this could be set up. I think that was 
reasonable. 
One of the main points Mr F made throughout his claim was the difficulty around using and 
locking the conservatory doors. This had been a constant problem and works had been 
carried out on several occasions, but the problems continued. Safe World accepted that in 
the short term the doors could be adjusted and confirmed it was willing to do this regardless of the other issues. I think thats fair.
Safe World was very clear about the issues Mr F was facing in relation to the water authority 
and having no build over agreement. It stated that the conservatory was effectively illegal. It 
advised Mr F that even if he took down the conservatory the water authority might not grant 
an agreement for a later replacement. But it did say despite its reservations if Mr F wanted it 
to carry out the remedial work without him getting the build over agreement it would be 
willing to do so. And it concluded by saying that it wouldnt have any liability if later the water 
authority insisted the conservatory be taken down. I think that was a pragmatic and 
reasonable answer from Safe World to try and help resolve the issues.
Safe World didnt accept it had created any unfair delays in the handling of the claim. And I 
think from the details Ive seen thats reasonable. I can see there was a lot of discussion 
around the claim, but I cant see that Safe World tried to slow down the process of dealing 
with the claim. I accept Mr F feels the monitoring period is quite lengthy. But as Safe World 
has agreed to resolve the door issues in the meantime, I think thats a reasonable offer 
based on Mr Fs priority of being able to use and lock the doors.
There has been throughout lots of commentary about the options taken by Mr F and other 
potential options open to him. But Ive stuck purely to Mr Fs original complaint about Safe 
World, the claim offers, and the time taken to deal with the claim only. Any other issues 
would need to be considered separately.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I make no award against Safe World Insurance Group (UK) Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2021.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman