DRN-4295150
The complaint
Mr F complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC registered a marker about him at CIFAS, the 
national fraud database when it closed his account.
What happened
Mr F says he had no involvement in any fraudulent activity on his account and no control 
over what happened. He says the marker has led to the closure of another bank account of 
his at a different financial business.
Barclays said it hadnt made a mistake and that it wouldnt be removing the marker. It had 
asked Mr F about credits received to his account that had been reported as fraudulently 
obtained. It had closed his account in line with its terms and conditions.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr F had first told him that 
he was the victim of fraud. And that someone must have taken a picture of his debit card. 
But he couldnt explain how someone would have obtained his PIN. After our adjudicator had 
issued his first opinion, Mr F changed his version of events and said that he was approached 
by someone at University about opening an account. And told that if he allowed someone to 
use it to make transfers he could make money. He said he was worried about the 
consequences of admitting this. Our adjudicator thought Mr F ought to have been suspicious 
about this and why he needed to be involved, especially when he was asked to provide his 
debit card and PIN. He said hed been offered £500 to £750 for this. And he didnt give this 
account of what happened when he spoke to Barclays or first contacted this service.
Mr F didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Barclays 
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted. The evidence must 
be clear, relevant and rigorous.
What this means in practice is that a bank must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
have entered the consumers account, whether they are retained or pass through the 
account. Secondly, the bank will need to have strong evidence to show that the consumer 
was deliberately dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might 
be, an illegitimate payment. This can include allowing someone else to use their account in 
order to receive an illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against 
someone who was unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show deliberate 
complicity.
To meet the standard of proof required to register a CIFAS marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving 
the account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to 
understand their level of knowledge and intention.
Ive taken into account guidance from CIFAS about cases where someone receives 
fraudulent payments into their account like this  acting as a so called money mule. And 
that relevant factors in deciding whether Mr F was deliberately complicit in what happened 
include whether he knew or ought to have known that the money wasnt legitimate, whether 
he may have benefitted from the money by keeping part and whether he has provided 
generic or inconsistent explanations.
I agree with our adjudicator that there were grounds for Mr F to ought to be suspicious about 
what he says he was being asked to do. And about why he would need to be involved and 
would benefit to such an extent. It isnt sufficient for him just to say that he didnt know the 
specifics or that he didnt actually benefit. On his version of events, he opened an account 
and gave control of it to someone else and is fairly responsible for what happened. I also 
note that he has given an inconsistent explanation of what happened which means that it is 
difficult to find what he now says is reliable. For all these reasons I find it most likely he was 
complicit in what happened.
Barclays says that it applied the CIFAS marker because Mr F received fraudulent funds into 
his account. So, Ive looked at whether Barclays was fair to apply the marker, based on the 
evidence it had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the business must 
have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set by CIFAS. And 
that any filing should be for cases where there are reasonable grounds to believe fraud or 
financial crime has been committed, rather than mere suspicion. 
Having reviewed Mr Fs account of events and the evidence he has provided, Im satisfied 
that Barclays had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded. In coming to this 
view, Ive taken into account the following reasons:
- Mr F received fraudulent funds into his account and didnt report this to Barclays at 
the time.
- He authorised the withdrawal of the funds and so was in control of who had the 
benefit of this money.
- Barclays had grounds to believe that Mr F had been involved in the use of 
fraudulently obtained funds based on the evidence it had.
Given this it decided to close his account in line with its terms and conditions. I appreciate 
what Mr F says about the impact of the marker and that he didnt expect this to be applied. 
But Im afraid I dont have a basis to require Barclays to do anything further.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 October 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman