DRN-2262636
The complaint
Miss W complained about a loan Progressive Money Limited provided to her. She thought 
that Progressive shouldve seen that, when it provided the loan, she was having problems 
managing her existing debt  and she is unhappy that it wont agree to remove the 
interest from the remaining loan balance now that shes repaying the loan through a debt 
management plan. 
What happened
Miss W took out a single loan with Progressive as follows: 
Loan Date taken Date repaid Number of monthly 
instalmentsLoan 
amountApproximate  
monthly  
repayment*
1 August 2016 Not paid 60 £8,000 £294.25
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Miss W and Progressive had told us and he partly 
upheld Miss Ws complaint.
Our adjudicator thought that Progressive had carried out proportionate checks before 
agreeing to lend and that there wasnt anything in the information it gathered which meant it 
shouldnt have lent to Miss W. 
So he didnt uphold this part of the complaint.
But our adjudicator did think that Progressive had failed to act reasonably when it became 
aware that Miss W had applied to enter into an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA) with 
her creditors. 
And so our adjudicator set out the steps he felt Progressive should take to put things right for 
Miss W  
Progressive disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at this complaint. It mainly said 
that other than the contractual interest payable under the loan agreement, no additional 
interest, late payment fees or additional charges had been applied to the account. 
Progressive said it isnt a requirement for a firm to remove contractual interest accrued on an 
account as a result of the customer falling into financial difficulties.
So the complaint comes to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending 
on our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Ws complaint.
Progressive needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, this means 
Progressive needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether 
Miss W could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or 
the amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the 
risk of it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So 
wed expect a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer 
irresponsibly.
Ive kept these things in mind when thinking about whether Progressive did what it 
needed to before agreeing to lend to Miss W and thought carefully about the following key 
questions:
 Did Progressive complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Miss W would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way? If so, did it make a fair lending 
decision? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
 Did Progressive act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Although it seems that Miss Ws main complaint is now about the interest being added to the 
loan, as Ive looked at the complaint afresh Ive also considered whether the loan was fairly 
provided in the first place. And I've carefully listened to the call recordings Progressive 
provided. Having done so, Ive independently reached the same view as our adjudicator.  
Our adjudicator thought that Progressive had carried out proportionate checks  and I think 
thats broadly right. Progressive verified Miss Ws employment and monthly income by 
looking at payslip information. It took details from her about her monthly expenditure  and 
checked this information with her over the phone. This included asking Miss W about what 
she was spending on other credit and how much she owed to each of her other creditors. It 
cross-checked this against information on a credit search it carried out on Miss W.
Miss Ws monthly income was around £1,850 and her stated outgoings at the time she 
applied for the loan were approximately £1,000. 
Progressive said the credit checks it did showed that Miss W had 21 active accounts, 
including a high cost short term loan. There was some adverse information showing  10 
defaults were noted including 5 which were still active. But Miss W explained these were the 
result of a relationship[ breakdown. 
So I agree that the information on the credit file wasnt too concerning. And by establishing 
that the purpose of Miss Ws loan was to consolidate a substantial portion of her existing 
debt, Im also satisfied that Progressive took reasonable steps to ensure that it wasnt 
increasing Miss Ws indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful, as well as taking reasonable steps to ensure Miss W was able to make the monthly 
repayments.
Miss W provided the information Progressive needed to be able to arrange for payments to 
be made directly to other creditors  so Progressive was able to ensure that the loan was 
used for its stated purpose. This loan was used to clear the outstanding balances Miss W 
owed to at least 8 other creditors, significantly reducing her day to day monthly outgoings 
as a result. 
By around March/April 2017 it looks like Miss W was experiencing difficulty making the 
loan repayments. And by then Progressive was aware that she had defaulted on 2 other 
creditor accounts. But when assessing this loan application, Progressive could only make 
a reasonable decision based on the information it had available at the time. And its only 
fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances where a lender did 
something wrong. 
In this case, I dont think that Progressive did anything wrong when deciding to lend to 
Miss W - it carried out proportionate checks which suggested the repayments were 
affordable. I dont think there was anything in the information it gathered that shouldve 
prompted Progressive to think that further checks were needed before agreeing the loan.
So I dont think the loan was provided irresponsibly and Im not upholding this part of 
Miss Ws complaint. But Ive thought carefully about whether Progressive acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in some other way  in particular, once it became aware that she was 
proposing to enter into an IVA. 
I've taken into account everything that Progressive has told me  including what it said in 
its response to our adjudicators view. I accept that when it started to look like Miss W 
might be having money management problems Progressive went to some lengths to 
discuss the situation with her. Miss Ws job circumstances meant she wasnt always very 
easy to contact  and it looks like she failed to respond promptly to all of Progressives 
attempts to get in touch. When contact was established, Miss W offered reasons for her 
various missed payments and gave assurances to Progressive that she would be able to 
catch up on arrears. So I think Progressive had reason to think that Miss Ws payment 
problems were likely to be temporary. And I dont think I can fairly say that there was any 
onus on Progressive to do more than it did up to this point. 
But I think that once Progressive became aware that Miss W was proposing to enter into 
an IVA  its records suggest this was on 6 November 2017  then I think it shouldve 
realised this was a clear indication that she was now in serious financial difficulties. And 
being aware of her situation, particularly bearing in mind that Progressives own records 
showed that her payment problems had started around 8 months or so earlier, I think its 
fair and reasonable to expect that Progressive shouldve taken immediate action to put in 
place constructive measures to assist Miss W to manage her debt. 
There was an obligation on the part of Progressive to treat Miss W in way that was 
positive and sympathetic. Like our adjudicator, in the particular circumstances of this case, 
I think it wouldve been fair and reasonable for Progressive to freeze the interest on the 
account at that point in time. It makes no difference to my mind that the IVA didnt go 
ahead and that Miss W has continued to make the loan repayment via a debt 
management plan. 
Miss W has confirmed her commitment to repaying her debt. Shes told us shes struggling 
to make any inroads into repaying this loan as the monthly repayments shes making under the debt management plan arent enough to cover the interest on the loan. So I think in the 
circumstances that the redress suggested by our adjudicator is fair.
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Miss W to repay the principal amount that she borrowed, 
plus the contractual interest owing on the loan up until 6 November 2017 - because she 
had the benefit of that lending and I dont think the loan was provided irresponsibly. 
If Progressive has sold the outstanding debt it should buy it back if its able to do so and 
then take the following steps. If Progressive isnt able to buy the debt back, then it should 
liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
Progressive should:
remove from the outstanding balance on this loan any additional interest 
charges which have been applied to the account on or after 6 November 2017
if, after reworking the account, this results in Miss W having effectively made 
payments over and above the loan amount owing, then Progressive should 
refund this surplus with 8% simple interest, payable from the date the 
overpayment would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled*
if an outstanding balance remains, Progressive should continue to try and agree 
an affordable repayment arrangement with Miss W - bearing in mind the 
ongoing responsibility it has to treat her positively and sympathetically in those 
discussions.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Progressive to deduct tax from this interest. Progressive  
should give Miss W a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Miss Ws complaint and Progressive Money 
Limited should take the steps I've set out above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman