DRN-3781290
The complaint
Mr S complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited - trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF) - has unfairly turned down his claim under sections 75 and 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) in respect of a timeshare product they financed. 
What happened
In or around May 2010, Mr S purchased a timeshare product jointly with his wife from a 
company Ill refer to as C. The circumstances that brought about this purchase arent clear. 
However, it appears the purchase price was £3,995, and after payment of a deposit of 
£1,000, the balance of £2,995 was funded under a fixed term loan agreement provided by 
BPF. 
In or around October 2010, it appears Mr S purchased a points-based timeshare product 
from C jointly with his wife. The purchase price agreed was £18,674. A trade in value of 
£3,995 was given against the existing product Mr S held leaving a balance to pay of 
£14,679. Its unclear how this was funded albeit Mr S suggests this was also financed by 
BPF.
In or around March 2018, using a professional representative (the PR), Mr S made a claim 
to BPF under the CCA1. The original letter of claim runs to several pages. So, it isnt 
practical to repeat them in full here. But I will provide a summary of the key points below.
The PR allege that Mr S purchased a fractional holiday club product having relied upon 
misrepresentations made by C and, under section 75 of the CCA (S75), BPF is jointly liable 
for those misrepresentations. The PR have also suggested that those misrepresentations, 
amongst other things, led to an unfair debtor-creditor relationship under section 140A of the 
CCA (S140A).
In particular, the PR suggest that the following statements of misrepresentation were made 
by C as benefits and features associated with the purchase of the fractional holiday club 
product:
Mr S could only exit from his existing membership by purchasing the fractional points 
membership;
Mrs S could exit from the fractional points membership after a finite number of years; 
and
The product provided an exclusive membership.
The PR go on to suggest that the fractional points product Management Agreement leads to 
a breach of contract. In particular, that provisions within it mean that exit from the agreement 
is reliant upon the ultimate sale of any associated property. And C provides no guarantee of 
how long it would take. As a result, Mr S could continue to incur costs under the agreement 
for an indeterminable term.
1 Whilst the products were purchased in the joint names of Mr and Mrs S, the loan details provided were in Mr Ss 
sole name only. Therefore, Mr S is the only eligible claimant under the CCA.
The PR also thought there were various regulatory and legislative breaches together with 
other reasons why the purchase had led to an unfair debtor-creditor relationship under 
S140A. In particular:
C received commission from BPF which wasnt disclosed to Mr S, so breaching their 
fiduciary duty;
The product purchase wasnt worth the amount paid for it;
No choices of finance were presented to Mr S; and
BPF failed to carry out a sound and proper credit assessment.
In response, BPF thought Mr Ss claim had been brought too late under the provisions of the 
Limitation Act 1980 (LA). However, they did also respond to the various allegations and 
didnt agree the product funded by them had been misrepresented or that thered been any 
breach of contract. They also didnt agree there was any reason that the relationship might 
be found to be unfair under the provisions of S140A.
Mr S didnt agree with BPFs findings. So, the PR referred his complaint to this service. In 
doing so, they provided a detailed explanation of what they believe were Cs fiduciary 
responsibilities to Mr C supported by various examples of case law and rulings. They 
emphasised that the non-disclosure of commission was a clear breach of those 
responsibilities. 
One of our investigators considered all the circumstances of Mr Ss complaint. In doing so, 
the thought that any claim under the credit agreement from May 2010 was likely to have 
been made too late under the LA. Particularly as it appears the loan under this agreement 
had been settled in October 2010. Furthermore, our investigator didnt think there was any 
evidence to suggest the loan had been unaffordable for Mr S.
Our investigator wasnt able to make any findings as regards subsequent timeshare 
purchases in the absence of any evidence to support Mr Ss assertion that subsequent 
purchases were funded under loans provided by BPF.
Mr S didnt agree with our investigators findings. So, the PR asked that his complaint be 
reviewed by an ombudsman for a final decision. They also said the wish to rely on a 46-page 
document produced by Counsel containing Generic submissions on behalf of 
complainants, which relate specifically to complaints about the sale of points products by C.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant Considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, DISP 3.6.4R of the FCA Handbook means Im 
required to take into account; relevant law and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, 
guidance and standards and codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider was 
good industry practice at the relevant time.
S75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. Mr S says 
he paid for the timeshare products with restricted use fixed sum loan agreements. So 
provided thats the case, S75 would apply here. This means that Mr S would be afforded the 
protection offered to borrowers like him under those provisions. And as a result, Ive taken 
this section into account when deciding whats fair in the circumstances of this case.
S140A looks at the fairness of the relationship between Mr S and BPF arising out of any 
credit agreement (taken together with any related agreements). And if its demonstrated that 
the products purchased were funded under credit agreements with BPF, theyd be deemed to be related agreements. Only a court has the power to make a determination under S140A. 
But as its relevant law, Ive considered it when deciding what I believe is fair and 
reasonable. 
Given the facts of Mr Ss complaint, relevant law also includes the LA. This is because the 
original transactions - the purchases allegedly funded by loans with BPF - took place in 
2010. Only a court is able to make a ruling under the LA, but as its relevant law, Ive 
considered the effect this might also have.
Its relevant to stress that this services role as an Alternative Dispute Resolution Service 
(ADR) is to provide mediation in the event of a dispute. While the decision of an 
ombudsman can be legally binding, if accepted by the consumer, we dont provide a legal 
service. And this service isnt able to make legal findings  that is the role of the courts. 
Where a consumer doesnt accept the findings of an ombudsman, this doesnt prejudice their 
right to pursue their claim in other ways.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, my decision is 
made on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on what I 
think is more likely than not to have happened given the evidence thats available from the 
time and the wider circumstances. In doing so, my role isnt necessarily to address every 
single point thats been made in my decision. And for that reason, Im only going to refer to 
what I believe are the most salient points having considered everything thats been said and 
provided.
The product(s) purchased and any related credit agreements
PRs letter of claim dated March 2018 refers to the purchase of a fractional holiday club 
product from C, although provides no specifics about when the transaction purportedly took 
place. 
The account number quoted by the PR  presumably for the alleged associated loan  
appears to relate to a loan BPF agree they provided to Mr S in May 2010. That loan 
agreement was for £2,995 to fund a cash price of £3,995 (after an advance payment of 
£1,000). However, the PRs claim letter goes on to say that Mr S paid £18,674 for the 
timeshare product. 
A document headed Acquisition Agreement refers to the purchase of Points Rights with a 
purchase price of £18,674 and is dated October 2010. Based upon this, I dont think the loan 
referenced by the PR does relate to the Points Rights product purchase.
BPF confirm they have no record of a second loan being provided to Mr S for any such 
purchase. So, our investigator asked the PR for evidence that BPF had provided him with 
the finance to fund the purchase in October 2010. In response, the PR said [Mr S] has not 
provided any further documentation however, has advised categorically that the loan was 
financed by [BPF].
For Mr S to have a valid claim under the various sections of the CCA, it must first be clearly 
established that a qualifying loan did, in fact, exist specifically for the purpose of funding the 
product purchased. In the absence of any clear evidence, such a claim is unlikely to be 
successful. And in those circumstances, its not possible for me to make a finding.
I think its also relevant that neither Mr S nor the PR have been able to provide any 
documentation from the time of the sale of either product here. Ive only seen the first page 
of an acquisition agreement dated October 2010. This appears to be at odds with the PRs 
letter of claim. In particular, under the heading Breach of Contract, the PR references the 
Management Agreement which governs [Mr Ss] Fractional Membership. They go on to 
quote from various clauses within that agreement but havent provided a copy of the one 
given to Mr S.Ultimately, none of the allegations presented appear to relate to the purchase in May 2010 
for which there is evidence of a loan provided by BPF. 
Was the claim of misrepresentation under S75 made in time?
The PR says the supplier misrepresented the nature of the purchase agreement and 
benefits to Mr S when he agreed to purchase the product. And they believe this could bring 
cause for a claim under S75.
Accepting my comments above, a section 75 claim is an action [that is, court action] to 
recover any sum by virtue of any enactment under section 9 of the LA. And the limitation 
period under that provision is six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued. 
So here, assuming Mr S is able to provide evidence of funding by BPF, he had to make a 
claim within six years of when he entered into the purchase contract and credit agreement. 
The purchases appear to have taken place in May and October 2010. Thats because this is 
when the PR say Mr S lost out having relied upon the alleged false statements of fact at that 
time.
Details of the alleged misrepresentations were submitted by the PR to BPF in March 2018. 
But as this was more than six years after both of the purchases were likely to have been 
completed and Mr S first says he lost out; I believe a court is likely to find that his claim falls 
outside of the time limit permitted in the LA. So, I cant fairly say that BPFs decision to 
decline any claim under S75 ultimately appears unreasonable here.
Was the unfair relationship claim under S140A made in time?
A claim under Section 140A is a claim for a sum recoverable by statute  which is also 
governed by Section 9 of the LA. As a result, the time limit for making such a claim is also 
six years from the date on which the cause for action accrued. 
However, in determining whether or not the relationship complained of was unfair, the High 
Courts decision in Patel v Patel (2009) decided this could only be determined by having 
regard to the entirety of the relationship and all potentially relevant matters up to the time of 
making the determination. In that case, that was the date of the trial or otherwise the date 
the relationship ended.
So, having considered this, I believe the trigger point here is slightly different. Any 
relationship between Mr S and BPF continues while any related finance agreement remains 
live. So, that relationship only ends once the agreement ends and the borrowing under it has 
been repaid. BPF wrote to Mr S in October 2010 (around the time of the second purchase) 
to provide a settlement figure for the original loan of £2,995. And given the acquisition 
agreement from October 2010 references a trade in value of £3,995  the original purchase 
price of the first product  it seems likely Mr Ss first loan was repaid when the second 
purchase was completed. And because this was more than six years before the date of the 
claim, I believe any claim under S140A is also likely to have been made too late under the 
provisions of the LA. However, with no clear evidence of a second loan, I cant establish 
whether that did exist, and if so, if its been repaid/closed.  
That being said, and in the absence of any clear evidence relating to a second loan being 
provided by BPF, I want to give my thoughts in relation to any potential claim Mr S might 
believe he has under S140A.
Disclosure of Commissions
Mr Ss S140A claim is primarily based upon the status of C (as the introducer of the loan) 
and their resultant responsibilities towards him. In particular, its argued that the payment of 
commission by BPF to C was kept from Mr S. But I dont think the fact that BPF might have 
paid C commission was incompatible with their role in the transaction. C wasnt acting as an 
agent for Mr S, but as the supplier of contractual rights obtained under a timeshare product 
agreement. And, in relation to any loan, based upon what Ive seen so far, it doesnt appear it was Cs role to make an impartial or disinterested recommendation or to give Mr S advice 
or information on that basis. As far as Im aware, Mr S was always at liberty to choose how 
he wanted to fund any purchase and there was no requirement or duty upon C to provide 
funding recommendations or options.
Whats more, I havent found anything to suggest BPF were under any regulatory duty to 
disclose the amount of commission paid in these circumstances. Nor is there any suggestion 
or evidence that Mr S requested those details from BPF. As I understand it, the typical 
amounts of commission paid by BPF to suppliers (like C in this case) was unlikely to be 
much more than 10%. And on that basis, Im not persuaded its likely that a court would find 
that any non-disclosure and payment of commission created an unfair debtor-creditor 
relationship under S140A, given the circumstances of this complaint.
Credit Assessment
There are certain aspects of Mr Ss claim that could be considered outside of S75 and 
S140A. In particular, in relation to whether BPF undertook a proper credit assessment. In 
their response to Mr Ss claim, BPF said theyd undertaken a creditworthiness assessment 
before entering into the agreement which showed there were no issues. 
BPF havent provided specific evidence of their credit assessment or details of Mr Ss credit 
file or credit score at the time. And given the passage of time, I wouldnt reasonably expect 
that information to still be readily available. If I were to find that BPF hadnt completed all the 
required checks and tests  and I make no such finding  I would need to be satisfied that 
had such checks been completed, they wouldve revealed that the loan repayments werent 
sustainably affordable for Mr S in order to uphold his complaint here. However, with no 
information about Mr Ss actual position at the time and no evidence or suggestion that he 
struggled to maintain repayments, I cant reasonably conclude the loan was unaffordable for 
him. And given the first loan now appears to have been fully repaid, there doesnt appear to 
be any evidence of loss here either.
Summary
The PRs letter of claim doesnt appear to make any overt allegations in relation to the 
original product purchased in May 2010 although the loan details provided appear to relate 
to that transaction. Having considered all the facts, I think a court would find that any claim 
under that loan was likely to have been made too late under the LA.
Ive seen no evidence to support Mr Ss assertion that the product purchased by him in 
October 2010 was funded with a loan from BPF. So, Im unable to consider it further. Ive 
also not seen any documentation or evidence from the time of either sale to support the 
allegations of misrepresentation or unfairness. And in these circumstances, I cant fairly say 
that BPFs response to Mr Ss claim was unfair or unreasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman