DRN-1888088
The complaint
Mr H has complained about Vitality Health Limiteds decision to decline his claim under a 
group private medical insurance policy for treatment of a back problem and then to remove 
him from the policy. Vitality did this because it believed Mr Hs back problem was pre-
existing and that he had deliberately misrepresented his medical history to obtain benefit to 
which he was not entitled under the terms of the policy.
What happened
In August 2019, Mr H joined his employers group private medical insurance policy which 
was held with Vitality. The policy was underwritten on a moratorium basis so that, for at least 
the first two years, Mr H wasnt covered for treatment of any condition which had existed in 
the five years before the policy started.
In October 2019, Mr H went to see a chiropractor about back pain. He subsequently had an 
online consultation with his GP who agreed to provide him with a referral letter. Once hed 
received this letter, Mr H made a claim to Vitality for the chiropractor treatment.
Vitality declined the claim. It said that although Mr H had said his back problem had occurred 
recently following heavy lifting, it considered that the GPs referral letter indicated that Mr Hs 
back problem existed before the policy started. It also noted that in 2018 Mr H had made a 
claim for treatment of a back problem under a previous policy which hed held with Vitality. It 
therefore considered that Mr Hs claim was excluded under the policys moratorium clause.
Mr H didnt accept Vitalitys decision. He considered the GP referral letter had been wrong to 
imply that hed reported his back problem was a recurring issue. He explained this to the GP 
surgery which agreed to issue a revised referral letter. Mr H provided this revised letter to 
Vitality.
Vitality obtained Mr Hs medical records from which it noted that Mr H had also sought 
treatment for a lower back problem in 2014. Having reviewed the matter, it maintained its 
decision to decline the claim as it still considered that Mr Hs back problem was pre-existing. 
However, it also said it believed that by asking the GP surgery to amend the facts stated on 
the initial referral letter, Mr H had attempted to misrepresent his symptom history to gain 
benefit under the policy to which he was not entitled. It therefore said it was removing him 
from the policy in line with the policys provisions dealing with dishonesty and fraud.
Mr H was unhappy at Vitalitys actions. He referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. He was satisfied 
that Vitality had acted reasonably in declining the claim on the grounds that Mr Hs back 
condition was pre-existing. However, he considered that Mr H had been concerned that the 
first GP referral letter didnt properly reflect the nature of the discussion which had taken 
place; in particular, it didnt reflect that Mr H believed his recent back injury was unrelated to 
any previous problems hed experienced. The investigator considered that Mr H had 
legitimately tried to correct this mistake and it was therefore unfair for Vitality to accuse him 
of dishonesty and remove him from the policy. He thought it should reinstate Mr H as a 
member of the policy.
Vitality didnt accept the investigators findings. It considered the first GP referral letter was 
correct and that in obtaining a revised letter Mr H had not been seeking to correct a mistake 
but had been trying to hide the fact that hed had chronic back pain in the past.
In view of the continued disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Let me first of all deal with the issue of the declined claim.
The policy states:
We dont pay claims for the treatment of any medical condition or related condition which 
you have received treatment for, had symptoms of, asked advice on or to the best of your 
knowledge and belief were aware existed in the five years before your cover started (a pre-
existing medical condition).
Mr H was seeking to claim for treatment of his lower back which he said hed recently injured 
in the course of heavy lifting.
However, the medical evidence shows that in October 2014 Mr H reported to his GP that he 
had a long history of lower back pain which he attributed to too much distance running. His 
GP at that time referred him for some physiotherapy sessions.
Furthermore, in early 2018, Mr H underwent three sessions of physiotherapy to treat lower 
back pain. Vitality agreed to provide cover under his previous policy for this treatment though 
in the event it didnt pay anything because the total cost was less than the policys excess.
In light of the above evidence, I consider it was reasonable for Vitality to say that in 2019 
Mr H had likely triggered a pre-existing problem with his lower back and on that basis decline 
his claim. If he wants the claim to be accepted, I consider the onus is on Mr H to provide 
evidence that his current problem is entirely unrelated to the problems hed experienced in 
the five years before taking out the policy and I dont consider he has done this. Simply 
asking his GP to confirm that his latest episode of back pain only began after the policy 
started is not enough.
Let me now deal with the issue of Mr Hs removal from the policy.
Under the heading of Dishonesty/Fraud, the policy states:
We believe our customers are honest, and the contract between us is based on mutual 
trust. Representations including statements and information provided by you or any insured 
dependants are relied on in assessing the terms of cover. In the event that any of the 
information provided by you or any insured dependants is wrong or incomplete we may have 
the right to cancel cover with effect from inception and/or to decline claims made under the 
plan.
If any claim is in any respect dishonest or fraudulent or if any dishonest or fraudulent means 
or devices are used by you, any member of your household or anyone acting on your or their behalf to obtain benefit under your plan (including any discounts, cashback or rewards), then 
all benefits under your plan may be lost and you may have to return to us any payments 
already made as a result of any dishonest or fraudulent actions.
Accusing someone of dishonesty or fraud is a serious matter which can have significant 
repercussions for that person. An insurer should therefore only make such an accusation if it 
has strong supporting evidence.
The initial referral letter by the GP stated that Mr H had reported hed hurt his back four 
weeks earlier after lifting boxes. The letter also stated that Mr H had reported hed had lower 
back pain in the past but that this was the worst episode.
After Vitalitys initial rejection of his claim, Mr H contacted his GP surgery and said that, 
contrary to the impression given in the recent referral letter, his current problem was an 
acute issue which had arisen only recently. The surgery issued a letter of clarification stating 
this and confirming that Mr H was not suffering with an ongoing issue in respect of his back.
Vitality believes that the initial referral letter was accurate and that, after his claim was 
initially declined, Mr H got his GP to write an inaccurate letter to try and obtain benefit to 
which he wasnt entitled. In particular, it considers that Mr H was trying to hide his history of 
back problems.
However, I consider that Mr H believed that Vitality had falsely inferred from the initial 
referral letter that hed told the GP his latest injury was somehow related to past problems. 
He considered that this was not what he had told the GP at the time and that this 
miscommunication was preventing him from obtaining benefit to which he believed he was 
entitled. He therefore asked the GP to issue a fresh letter which confirmed that this was a 
new injury and that Mr H hadnt been suffering from back pain beforehand. I consider this 
was a reasonable action for Mr H to take, even if Im not persuaded that the revised letter 
was sufficient to show that his claim was eligible.
I therefore disagree with Vitalitys assessment that this was deliberate dishonesty on the part 
of Mr H. In particular, I dont accept that he was trying to hide his history of symptoms. I say 
this because when Mr H asked the GP for a revised letter, he was aware that Vitality knew of 
the treatment hed received in 2018. This being the case, Mr H was quite clearly not 
obtaining the letter to try and mislead Vitality into believing hed never previously 
experienced back problems. He was simply trying to persuade it that his current injury was 
unrelated to any previous problems.
In light of the above, I consider it was unreasonable for Vitality to remove Mr H from the 
policy on the grounds of dishonesty and fraud. I consider it should reinstate him and remove 
any reference to the removal from internal and external databases so that Mr H doesnt need 
to declare anything about the removal in future insurance applications.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require Vitality Health Limited to reinstate Mr H to the group policy and to remove any record 
of his removal from its internal and external databases.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2020. 
David Poley
Ombudsman