DRN-4319391
The complaint
Mr C complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) irresponsibly gave him 
two loans that he couldnt afford.
What happened
On 10 September 2021 Mr C asked for and was given a loan for £5,000 which had a term 
of 24 months. The purpose of the loan was to refinance debt. On 27 October 2021 Mr C 
asked for and was given a loan for £5,000 which had a term of 30 months. The purpose of 
the second loan was debt consolidation.
In 2022, Mr C complained to NatWest to say that the loans shouldnt have been opened 
for him because they werent affordable and that NatWest ought to have made a better 
effort to understand his financial circumstances before providing him with credit. NatWest 
declined to uphold the complaint. And Mr C brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator thought the complaint should not be upheld. Mr C didnt agree. So, the 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
NatWest will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Mr Cs complaint is that NatWest made credit available that was unaffordable. NatWest 
has explained that it relied in part on information that Mr C provided at the time of 
application to assess affordability. They said they carried out a credit search in Mr Cs 
name to assess Mr Cs level of debt at that time and to understand how he had been 
managing that debt. With that information and using their own scoring metric, NatWest 
decided to agree to the loans. And Mr C declared an income that was not modest and 
NatWest cross referenced it Mr Cs account which confirmed the declared income as 
accurate. So, there was some assessment of affordability at the time of the sale.
The NatWest checks showed that Mr Cs credit file was very clean at the time of the loan 
applications. When I say this, I mean that Mr Cs management of his existing credit 
showed no recent history of CCJs, defaults or any late payments. Mr C provided us with 
his credit report which is devoid of any adverse marking. 
So, it would have seemed to NatWest from the information they had from credit reference 
agencies that, at the point that the lending decisions were made, Mr C was affording his 
existing credit. And so, NatWest were not put on notice of any reason not to agree the 
lending from that. And so, I dont think that the information that NatWest had at the time of 
the lending decisions, would have led them to feel they ought to make more searching 
enquiries of Mr Cs expenditure. 
Mr C has provided us with some bank statements for his current account. Over a number 
years the amount moving into Mr Cs account was broadly equivalent to the amount 
leaving it. And the account maintained a largely positive balance in the year before the 
loans were given. I have seen insufficient evidence that the other information that 
NatWest acquired, or could have acquired, or had presented to it at the time of the 
lending decision, would have led them to think that they were remiss in not checking Mr 
Cs expenditure more closely. 
I have seen no evidence that Mr C made NatWest aware of his gambling at the time the 
loans were applied for. And the account had not been adversely affected by it at the time 
the loans were taken out in any obvious way. 
Mr C thinks the weight of his existing credit made the loan unreasonable. But Mr C told us 
that the purpose of the loan was to pay off other debts. So, I dont see the provision of the 
loans as evidence solely of new credit being provided by NatWest, adding to an already 
large amount of personal borrowing. Instead, rather than the new credit adding to Mr Cs 
burden of credit, in terms of total debt and the monthly cost of servicing that debt, it looks 
like Mr C was taking steps, that could be termed sensible, to manage his existing debt by 
taking out these loans and using them to pay off other debts that were presumably on less 
favourable terms. So, it doesnt seem automatically unreasonable for NatWest to have 
facilitated that. 
In any event, having considered all the submissions made in this case, and in the absence 
of any extra evidence from Mr C to the contrary, I have seen insufficient evidence to think 
that more thorough affordability checks would have led NatWest to think that the credit it 
provided Mr C was unreasonable for either loan, or that more searching checks would 
have prompted them to have acted differently than they did. 
I know that Mr C will be disappointed with my decision, in itself and because he has 
invested time and energy in pursuing his complaint. But I want Mr C to know that I 
considered all the submissions made in this case. But having considered all the 
submissions in this case, particularly those at the time of the lending decisions, I have not 
found sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint. I have seen insufficient evidence to 
think that the loans NatWest provided were unreasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman