DRN-1607818
 
The complaint
This is a complaint that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) 
to Mr R. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 1997. Barclays sold Mr R the 
policy when he applied for the card.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr R disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive considered what Mr R has said, but Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I will explain 
why.
Mr R has said the PPI was added without his knowledge. However it wouldnt be fair for me 
to conclude this happened unless there was reasonable supporting evidence. Where 
someone has said another person or organisation has done something wrong, fairness 
requires that the person making the allegation should present evidence that this probably did 
happen. It wouldnt be fair to require someone to prove they didnt do something wrong, 
especially when it was such a long time ago. And Ive looked at a copy of Mr Rs credit card 
application form, and I can see it gives an option to either tick yes or no for PPI  and the 
form has a tick against yes.  So the documentary evidence, at least, is that Barclays 
offered PPI as a choice and Mr R took it, even if he doesnt now remember it. Without 
stronger evidence, I cant fairly say the PPI was added without Mr Rs knowledge or consent. 
Barclays says it recommended the PPI to Mr R  and so this means it had a higher standard 
to meet. It had to make sure the PPI was suitable for his individual needs. However, it 
doesnt look as if it was unsuitable based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. 
The PPI could have helped pay the credit card bill for a period longer than Mr Rs 
employment sick pay. And it would have paid out at the same time as any sick pay or 
redundancy pay, so leaving Mr R more financially secure for longer. It would have meant 
Mr R wouldnt need to fall back on other resources so soon.  So, overall, the PPI was 
potentially useful. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  And I cant see any other reason 
why the recommendation was unsuitable.
Its difficult now to know how well Barclays explained the PPI. Its possible the information 
Barclays gave Mr R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have been. The information given on the application form wasnt full enough, and I dont know if other clear information 
was given to Mr R. But I dont think full information about costs and benefits would have 
affected whether he took the PPI. I say this because, in his circumstances, its unlikely this 
would have made the PPI seem less useful. And it doesnt look like hed have been affected 
by any of the significant exclusions in the policy. 
This means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr R. But 
Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr R because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr R about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mr R, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr R.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2020.
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman