DRN-3097410
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) considered his claim 
for water damage under his newest buildings insurance policy rather than the one in force 
when the damage happened.
What happened
Mr H was aware of an issue with water under his home for several years. It was the 
responsibility of the water company, and it fixed the leak in mid-2019.
Some months later, Mr H became aware that the water had damaged his kitchen floor and 
some of the kitchen base units. During that time hed switched to a new insurance policy, still 
with Lloyds.
Mr H made a claim under his contents and buildings policy for the damage caused to his 
floor, some personal items, and the kitchen units. He said his kitchen units were no longer 
available and he provided a quote for replacement of the full kitchen.
Lloyds accepted the claim but said it would only cover the cost of the damaged kitchen units, 
not the undamaged parts. Mr H was unhappy with Lloyds decision because he thought it 
should cover the full kitchen in line with the policy in force at the time of the damage. Lloyds 
maintained its position.
Our investigator partially upheld the complaint. She thought that Lloyds should contribute 
50% to the replacement of the undamaged kitchen units in recognition of Mr Hs loss of 
match. However, she was satisfied that it had fairly considered the claim under the correct 
policy.
Lloyds didnt agree. It said that Mr H had previously paid for matching items cover, but he 
had cancelled his policy renewal and taken out a new policy without matching items cover. 
Initially Mr H accepted the proposed settlement, but then he disagreed. He thought Lloyds 
should reconsider the claim under the old policy, which included matching items cover.
After further considerable communication between all parties, the complaint was passed to 
me decide.
Then, I issued a provisional decision in September 2021 explaining that I was intending to 
not uphold Mr Hs complaint. Heres what I said:
There are two parts to this complaint:
the policy under which Mr Hs claim should be considered, and
whether Lloyds made a fair offer in line with that policy.
Policy
Mr H says Lloyds should consider his claim under the 2018/2019 policy because thats when 
the damage wouldve happened. Lloyds says its covered under the 2019/2020 policy year 
because thats the one in which Mr H first identified and notified it of the loss. The key, 
relevant difference between the two policies is that the 18/19 policy includes cover for 
matching sets, whereas the 19/20 policy doesnt.
Generally speaking, a claim should be considered under the policy in force when the 
damage occurred. The problem arises when its not clear when, exactly, the damage 
happened. Thats the issue here. Mr H thinks its evident that the damage happened during 
the earlier policy term. However, he wasnt aware of the damage until well into the next 
policy term when he no longer had matching sets cover. So, in this case, I must consider 
whether its fair to accept that the damage was caused by an insured peril much sooner than 
Mr Hs claim, or whether Lloyds fairly accepted the claim under the policy in force at the time 
he reported the damage.
Both policies say:
This insurance policy will cover loss or damage arising during the insurance period due to 
an insured cause that occurs during the insurance period.
While theres an overall acceptance that the floor mightve been damaged due to the 
underground leak during the previous years, theres no certainty about when that started to 
affect the kitchen units. Mr H reported the kitchen damage to Lloyds approaching six months 
after the 19/20 policy inception, after finding it when replacing his flooring. So, I cant fairly 
say theres any evidence that the damage happened before policy inception. And in the 
absence of any clear evidence to show that the damage occurred during the previous, or 
even earlier, policy year, Im satisfied that Lloyds fairly considered the claim under the policy 
in force when Mr Hs floor collapsed, and he notified Lloyds of the damage.
I see no reason to ask Lloyds to reconsider the claim under the 2018/2019 policy.
Settling the claim
This brings me to the question of whether it was fair for Lloyds to cover the damaged kitchen 
units but to decline cover for any undamaged parts. Firstly, I must point out that Lloyds didnt 
reach a final settlement offer. It explained which policy it would provide cover under, and that 
it didnt include cover for matching sets. Thats when the dispute started, so my decision is 
limited to whether the basis for its consideration of the claim is fair rather than deciding 
whether a specific settlement offer is fair.
As Ive said, I think Lloyds fairly considered the claim under the 19/20 policy year. So, Ive 
looked at the policy, which says:
Replacement of sets cover
This section applies if you have Replacement of sets cover for your buildings  this 
is shown in your policy schedule. 
Mr Hs schedule doesnt include replacement of sets cover.
So, under this policy, Mr H wouldnt be covered for any undamaged kitchen units. But Mr H 
says he wasnt made aware that his policy didnt include matching sets and thats why he 
thinks its fairer to consider his claim under the previous policy.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr H says but I dont agree. If Mr Hs 18/19 policy had 
simply renewed, then Id have expected Lloyds to bring to his attention any change in cover. 
Indeed, I can see that Lloyds did highlight this change at renewal in its policy booklet, under 
the heading Changes to your product features, as follows:
Reduced coverBuildings and Contents: Replacement of sets cover
We have removed Replacement of sets cover.
This means you will not be covered for the undamaged item of a matching set or 
suiteIn order to be covered for this you would need to upgrade to Home Insurance 
Premier.
However, Mr Hs policy didnt renew. He cancelled the renewal and took out a new policy, 
online, benefitting from a new customer discount. Cover for matching sets was an optional 
extra, which he didnt buy. Ive checked the policy documents and the Insurance Product 
Information Document, which is a single sheet summary of key cover, clearly states:
What is not insured?
Replacement of sets
Its the first item in the list and prominent in the document, so I dont think its fair to say 
Lloyds didnt make Mr H aware of this when he bought his new policy. It seems to me that 
Mr H quite reasonably shopped around during the renewal period but selected cover which, 
unfortunately, didnt provide the cover he had previously. But I cant see that Lloyds did 
anything wrong here.
Moving on, Lloyds accepted Mr Hs claim and agreed to cover the cost of the undamaged 
kitchen units in line with the policy. Mr H is unhappy with the offer because his kitchen is no 
longer available, and the units wont match. Hes provided a quote for a full replacement 
kitchen. 
Looking at the photos of Mr Hs kitchen, theres no clear evidence of noticeable damage 
when the units are in situ. I accept that photos can lack clarity, so Ive thought carefully about 
what Mr H said about the damage. He explained that he didnt claim for his kitchen units until 
2020 because he wasnt aware of the damage until he removed the flooring. This suggests 
to me that any damage was out of sight or at least in a less prominent part of the kitchen. 
Under the headings How well look after your claim and Helping you get back to normal, 
and this is applies to both the 18/19 and 19/20 policy years, the policy states:
Depending on the extent and type of damage, we can rebuild, repair, or replace your 
things, or give you a cash payment.
If your claim is complicated, say after a flood, we can send a Personal Claims 
Consultant to visit your home and help you make a list of the damage. 
We have trusted suppliers who can repair or replace your lost or damaged items, 
including electrical equipment, jewellery, bikes and furniture.
We guarantee all claims-related work done by our approved contractors for a 
minimum of 12 months from the date of completion.
So, its entirely possible that even if the kitchen isnt available to buy, Lloyds might be able to 
replace the damaged parts with a similar finish and arrange for cosmetic repairs to achieve a 
similar match. If Mr H hadnt noticed the damage which he thinks existed during the previous 
policy year, I think its possible Lloyds could achieve a reasonable match that wouldnt stand 
out. If not, then it has the option to offer a cash settlement. 
I should point out that this would have been an option even if Mr H had matching sets cover. 
Lloyds wouldnt necessarily have automatically replaced the whole kitchen because the 
policy provides for the following under Replacement of sets cover:we will pay for the cost of replacing or changing any associated undamaged item, or part of 
an item, when a replacement of or reasonable match for the lost or damaged item cannot 
be obtained. 
So, I cant say that the outcome wouldve been markedly different even if Mr H still had 
matching items cover.
In summary, Im satisfied that Lloyds made a fair offer to send a Personal Claims Consultant 
to assess the kitchen damage and replace or repair in line with the 2019/2020 policy terms 
and conditions. As Mr H didnt select the optional matching items cover when buying his 
policy, I see no reason to require Lloyds to pay anything towards the undamaged units.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Lloyds didnt have anything further to add and Mr H didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party made any further comment, or provided further evidence for me to consider, 
I see no reason to change my provisional findings. So, my final decision is the same as my 
provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr Hs 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman