DRN-3694277
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited has declined a claim he made on his 
private health insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr S has a diagnosis of obstructive sleep apnoea (OSA). Hed previously made successful 
claims for OSA on the policy for diagnosis and treatment, including a procedure called CPAP 
titration. It takes place after diagnosis and is used, in summary, to find the best pressure 
setting for the patient. 
In 2021 he made a claim on the policy for a CPAP titration, but AXA declined to cover it. 
Mr S complained but AXA maintained their decision to decline the claim. 
In their final response letter AXA acknowledged theyd missed opportunities to manage 
Mr Ss expectations about cover and given him the wrong reasons for declining the claim. 
They clarified their reasons for rejecting the claim and paid Mr S £100 to acknowledge the 
time and trouble hed spent contacting them. Unhappy, Mr S complained to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. She 
thought AXA had fairly declined the claim in line with the policy terms and conditions. And, 
she thought AXAs offer of compensation was fair. Mr S didnt agree and pointed out AXA 
had paid for CPAP titration when hed claimed before. AXA said they believed this had been 
paid in error. This further information didnt change the investigators opinion about the 
outcome of the complaint.
Mr S asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. In summary, he said hes now been 
penalised because AXA paid the previous claim and there was nothing in the handbook to 
suggest that the CPAP titration (which he says is a diagnostic test) wouldnt be covered. He 
reiterated that hed received a poor service from AXA and their payment of the previous 
claim highlights that the terms were unclear. So, I now need to make a decision.       
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say AXA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
In reaching my decision Ill focus on what I think are the relevant policy terms and the issues 
which are central to the outcome of this complaint. 
The policy term which AXA relies on to decline the claim says: 
We do not cover the costs of providing or fitting external prosthesis or appliances 
needed for any other reason. Prostheses and appliances include items such as 
crutches or joint supports. 
Im not upholding this complaint because I think it was fair for AXA to decline the claim. I say 
that because: 
CPAP Titration relates to the calibration of the CPAP machine after diagnosis of 
OSA. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for AXA to conclude that this fell within 
the exclusion Ive outlined above. I think calibration of a machine can reasonably be 
considered to fall within the scope of fitting an external appliance. The list of 
examples in the policy term isnt exhaustive  it simply gives the examples of 
crutches or joint supports. Its also an exclusion which appears in lots of private 
medical insurance policies. 
AXA had previously paid a similar claim in error. I dont think it means the terms are 
unclear and it doesnt automatically mean that AXA has to pay this claim too. 
Mistakes sometimes happen and AXA is entitled to assess this claim based on the 
relevant policy terms. 
I dont think its fair to conclude that the payment of the previous claim gave Mr S a 
legitimate expectation that any further claims for CPAP titration would be paid. And, 
in any event, I think its likely hed have gone ahead with the CPAP titration even if 
he thought AXA would decline the claim. It was recommended by his consultant and 
it seems most likely to me hed have gone ahead with this recommendation. 
Ive thought about what Mr S has said about exploring other options instead of CPAP 
titration. I think its unlikely hed have had the titration done elsewhere, given that the 
consultant was already treating him and was familiar with Mr Ss condition and 
current symptoms. So, this hasnt changed my thoughts about the outcome of this 
complaint. 
Ive taken into account that Mr S was given different reasons for the claim being 
declined. AXA accepts that he wasnt given the right reasons for the claim being 
turned down and that it missed opportunities to manage Mr Ss expectations. 
Theyve offered £100 compensation and I think that fairly reflects the distress and 
inconvenience this caused Mr S.    
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman