DRN-1605188
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them payment protection insurance 
(PPI) when they took out loans in 2003 and 2004.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D applied for a loan from Nationwide in September 2003. They borrowed 
£3,000. At the same time they were sold a PPI policy. The PPI policy was funded with a 
single premium of £585.35 which was added to the loan meaning they borrowed £3,585.35 
in total. The loan was to be repaid over 84 months. The PPI covered Mr D only against not 
being able to work due to an accident, sickness or unemployment. The PPI would have paid 
a monthly benefit equal to the loan repayment for up to 12 months if Mr D had lost his job. 
For an accident or sickness claim it would pay the monthly benefit until either Mr D returned 
to work or the loan was repaid.
On 14 April 2004 Mr and Mrs D applied for a new loan this time for £8,000. Again, they were 
sold a PPI policy which was added to the loan. This loan was partly intended to clear the first 
loan taken in September 2003.
But a week later on 21 April 2004 Mr and Mrs D applied for a third loan this time for £11,000. 
This loan application replaced the application made on 14 April 2004 and was sold without 
PPI. It was partly used to clear the first loan. This meant Mr and Mrs D were never charged 
for the PPI sold on 14 April 2004.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr and Mrs Ds complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs D 
disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
Mr and Mrs D never paid PPI premiums for the 14 April 2004 loan and were not sold PPI 
with the 21 April 2004 loan. So in this decision I am only looking at the sale of PPI with the 
loan taken September 2003. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account here.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Nationwide has sent us a copy of the loan agreement signed by Mr and Mrs D in September 
2003.
I can see that the loan agreement describes the PPI as being optional. I also see the policy 
premium, interest, total amount payable and the monthly cost of the PPI are all set out 
separately to the main loan.I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs D have told us they can recall being they had to take out the 
PPI in order to have the loan approved. But I have to take into account that the sale took 
place 17 years ago and memories do fade. Overall, I think it is likely Mr and Mrs D were told 
the policy was optional and they chose to buy it.
I dont think it is likely Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs D a personal recommendation that they 
take out PPI. So it didnt have to check if it was right for them. But Nationwide did have to 
give Mr and Mrs D enough clear information so they could decide for themselves if the PPI 
was right for them.
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs D about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been. But thats not enough to uphold this complaint. I next need to decide 
whether or not they would have changed their mind about buying the policy if they had been 
given better or clearer information. I cant say they would have done. 
I think Mr and Mrs D chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like they wanted this type of 
cover.
The policy covered Mr D. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt 
look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would 
have been useful for him if something went wrong.
It also looks like the PPI was affordable and the credit agreement showed the monthly cost 
of the policy. So I dont think better information about the policy would have put Mr and Mrs 
D off taking out the cover.
I am aware that Mr and Mrs D complained to Nationwide about another PPI policy they were 
sold in 2002 and Nationwide upheld that complaint. I dont know why Nationwide made the 
decision to uphold that complaint. It could be, for instance that it wasnt able to locate the 
paperwork. But in any event Ive looked at the sale of the PPI in September 2003 and Ive 
not seen anything to make me think this PPI policy was mis-sold.
In summary, I think its most likely Nationwide made it clear the policy was optional and Mr 
and Mrs D chose to buy it. I think its possible Nationwide couldve given clearer information. 
But even if Nationwide had given Mr and Mrs D all the clear information it shouldve, I still 
think they wouldve gone ahead and taken out the PPI.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award against 
Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 May 2020.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman