DRN-4193546
The complaint
Mr R has complained that Covea Insurance plc (Covea)  has declined his claim for 
immunotherapy for his pet dog and has also said it wont provide any further cover for 
treatment for allergies.
What happened
Mr R has a pet dog, who Ill refer to as Z who he acquired in March 2020 when Z was two 
months old. Mr R insured Z with Covea with effect from 21 March 2020.
On 14 February 2022, Mr R contacted Covea to discuss making a claim for immunotherapy   
that had been recommended as a treatment for R. R had for some time been receiving 
various treatments for allergies but none of the treatments had satisfactorily addressed Rs 
skin problems which seemed to be particularly affecting his ears.
 
Covea says that during this call it was explained to Mr R that Immunotherapy wasnt 
something that was specifically covered by the policy but because Rs skin allergies were an 
ongoing condition, it could look at covering the treatment, but no guarantee was provided 
that this would be possible, nor did it confirm to Mr R that it accepted liability. It says any 
such treatment would need to be pre-approved and a pre-authorisation form would need to 
be completed.
Mr R submitted a claim for immunotherapy treatment for Z on 15 February 2022. Covea 
referred to Zs previous medical history. It noted that on 2 April 2020, within 14 days of policy 
inception, the vets notes state:
 O also reports priritus (sic). According to the pictures, just mild erythema, no other 
lesions.   
Covea rejected Mr Rs claim. In its final response letter to Mr R, Covea states that skin and 
ear issues were noted within the first 14 days of policy inception. It referred to the terms of 
Mr Rs policy which states that the policy doesnt provide cover for any illness that starts 
within the first 14 days of the policy start date, which means:
An illness that showed clinical signs in the first 14 days of your pet's first policy year, 
or
An illness which is the same as, or has the same diagnosis or clinical signs as an 
illness that showed clinical signs in the first 14 days of your pet's first policy year, or
An illness that is caused by, relates to, or results from, a clinical sign that was 
noticed, or an illness that showed clinical signs in the first 14 days of your pet's first 
policy year, no matter where the illness or clinical signs are noticed or happen in, or 
on, your pet's body.
Until he claimed for the cost of immunotherapy treatment, Mr R had claimed successfully 
from Covea for the cost of treatment Z had received for allergies. But having identified the 
above exclusion, Covea has said that these claims were met in error. Covea said that it 
wouldnt seek to reclaim any monies back from Mr R, but it was unable to settle any further 
claims for Zs condition going forward. 
Mr R argues that the condition for which Z saw the vet on 2 April 2020 was for an infection 
caused by a parasite, and this was treated and resolved at the time. Hes provided the 
following statement from Zs vet:
It is correct that [Z] had a brief episode of itchy skin treated on April 7th 2020 but this 
was likely secondary to fleas. This appears to have resolved entirely and the itchy 
skin did not start properly until the end of June of that year. It would be extremely 
unusual for a dog to present with environmental allergies at an age younger than 6 
months so I think it highly unlikely that the episode in April was allergic in nature.
As Mr R wasnt satisfied with Coveas rejection of his claim, he brought his complaint to this 
service. He says he wanted an apology, and for Covea to pay the immunotherapy claim 
refused in May 2022, and for it to confirm ongoing coverage for allergies. He also asked for 
proportionate compensation.
Our investigators view was that Mr Rs complaint shouldnt be upheld. He referred to the 
reference to pruritus and erythema in Zs medical history on 2 April 2020. He considered that 
these were skin conditions caused by allergies, so immunotherapy, which is used to treat 
allergies, wouldnt be covered as there is evidence that Z had allergies within 14 days of 
policy inception. The previous successful claims also shouldnt have been paid.
Mr R doesnt agree with our investigators view. He argues that Z wasnt treated for allergies 
in the first 14 days of the policy and that the exclusion shouldnt apply. He maintains that the 
pruritus and erythema noted on 2 April 2020  were symptoms of the Giardia that Z was being 
treated for, and that pruritus and erythema are symptoms, and not conditions in themselves. 
He also says that they are likely to be secondary to fleas and not the allergies that were 
diagnosed some months later.
Mr R asked that his complaint be referred to an ombudsman, so it was referred to me for a 
final decision from this service.
I issued a provisional decision as I was proposing to come to a different view to that of our 
investigator. In response to this, Covea said it wished to refer the matter to an independent 
vet for their professional opinion. It was asked to provide its response before 26 May 2023. 
Covea hasnt provided any further veterinary opinion but has referred me to Zs vets opinion 
that it would be extremely unusual for a dog to present with environmental allergies at an 
age younger than 6 months, and submitted that did not preclude the possibility that the first 
signs were seen earlier than six months.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and in the absence of any further veterinary opinion from Covea, Im now 
issuing my final decision which is to maintain the view expressed in my provisional decision  
and Ill explain why.
As Covea is seeking to rely upon an exclusion within the policy to decline Mr Rs claim, the 
burden is on it to prove that the exclusion relied upon applies in the circumstances. In its 
final response to Mr R, Covea says:Please be advised that the skin and ear issues were noted within the first 14 days of 
your policy being incepted with us. 
That is factually incorrect. As the policy began on 21 March 2020, the 14-day period 
thereafter ended on 4 April. There is only one entry in Zs medical records within that period, 
that being the entry on 2 April when reference is made by Mr R to Z possibly having pruritus, 
and the vet expressing a view, based on pictures, that it was just mild erythema. There is 
no reference to Zs ears.
For Coveas case to succeed, it needs to show evidence that the signs of pruritus or 
erythema that were noted on 2 April 2020 were clinical signs of the allergies for which Mr R 
claimed in 2022.
On the balance of probabilities, I didnt consider that Covea had provided sufficient evidence. 
In coming to that provisional view, I considered the following:
Pruritus is a medical term for itchiness, which can be caused by a number of things 
including parasites (eg fleas and ticks), food allergies, seasonal allergies and skin 
infections. There are therefore a number of other possible causes for Zs 
presentation in April 2020.
The 2 April 2022 entry makes no reference to Zs ears, which later become the main 
area for Zs treatment.
The vets notes on 2 April 2020 go on to say Plan: Start TMPS to see if parasites are 
the cause of all clinical signs. If still not eating properly and itchy, will need to see 
her. There is no record of any follow up to this in the following months, which 
suggests that the pruritus or erythema had been addressed.
Zs vet has said that Zs brief episode of itchy skin was likely secondary to fleas. 
This appears to have resolved entirely and the itchy skin did not start properly until 
the end of June of that year. It would be extremely unusual for a dog to present with 
environmental allergies at an age younger than 6 months so I think it highly unlikely 
that the episode in April was allergic in nature.
The first mention in Zs medical records to a possible allergy is on 9 September 2020 
when a food allergy was thought likely. A skin allergy was first mentioned on 26 
October 2020 when pruritus was also noted on her ears, paws and chin.
Covea hasnt provided any medical evidence of its own to support its position.
My conclusion was that a single reference by Mr R to pruritus on 2 April 2020, which the vet 
thought more likely to be erythema, was insufficient to prove that this was a sign of allergies 
which werent considered as a cause of Zs condition until September 2020. Zs vet had 
provided her professional opinion that this was likely to be flea related and highly unlikely to 
be allergic in nature given Zs young age.
As my initial view was that Covea hadnt acted fairly in its rejection of Mr Rs claim, I said I 
was proposing to uphold Mr Rs complaint unless I received further information from Covea 
that persuaded me to the contrary. I also said that I was proposing to require Covea to settle 
Mr Rs claim for Zs immunotherapy treatment unless it could provide a reason why this 
treatment falls outside the policy terms. 
In response to my provisional decision, Covea hasnt provided any further veterinary opinion 
but has referred me to Zs vets opinion that it would be extremely unusual for a dog to present with environmental allergies at an age younger than 6 months, and submitted that 
did not preclude the possibility that the first signs were seen at earlier than six months.
Whilst I accept that it is possible that what Z displayed within 14 days of policy inception was 
a sign of allergies, I have no further medical information from Covea that contradicts the 
professional opinion provided by Zs vet. In my view a mere possibility that Z was displaying 
signs of allergies is insufficient for me to  decide that Covea has acted fairly. I consider that 
the balance of probability is supported by the professional opinion of Zs vet.
Covea has also not provided any reason why immunotherapy treatment shouldnt be 
covered under the terms of the policy.
Im therefore not persuaded that I should depart from my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im upholding Mr Rs complaint.
I require Covea Insurance plc to settle Mr Rs claim subject to any other terms and 
conditions of his policy.
I also require Covea Insurance plc to pay Mr R interest on any sum paid to him at the simple 
rate of 8% from the date of his claim until payment is made to him.
If Covea Insurance plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr R how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr R a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2023.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman