DRN-2176127
complaint
Ms B says that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background
Ms B was sold the policy in 2004  fourteen years after she took out her credit card in 1990. 
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint but didnt think that it should be upheld. Ms B 
disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about he sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this in to account in deciding Ms Bs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided that the PPI wasnt mis-sold. I know that this will be 
disappointing for Ms B, so Ive set out my reasons below.
Ms B says that she was told that PPI was automatically added in the early days of credit 
card use and that she never agreed to take it out. Barclays has said that the PPI was sold 
during a telephone call with Ms B, fourteen years after Ms B took out her credit card in 
September 2004, and that the policy was cancelled seven months later in April 2005. Ms B 
says that no phone call took place  and that as a financially astute person she knew that 
PPI policies were a waste of money and that she is amazed that a policy was added to her 
account.
Ive thought about what Ms B has told me, but Im afraid that I disagree - Ill explain why.
In order for me to find that Barclays added the PPI policy to Ms Bs credit card without her 
knowledge, I would have to find that no paperwork was ever sent to her about he policy to 
make her aware that a PPI policy had been added to her account, that she didnt notice the 
charges for payment protection on her account statements  and that the PPI was 
subsequently cancelled by someone other than Ms B. And I simply dont have enough to say 
so. Instead, I think that its more likely that a phone call did take place, and Barclays gave 
Ms B a choice in taking out PPI  shed already had the card for fourteen years without PPI, 
so it wouldve been clear it wasnt compulsory  but due to how long ago the sale took place 
Ms B doesnt recall the sale.
Barclays says it recommended the PPI to Ms B - so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example, she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover and the 
policy couldve paid out on top of, and for longer than her existing cover if shed needed to 
make a claim.
Its possible that the information Barclays gave Ms B wasnt as clear as it shouldve been but 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it could have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So, I dont think 
better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover.
This means that Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms B.
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms B because: 
When the policy was sold, Barclays expected to get a high level of commission and 
profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Ms B about 
that. Because Barclays didnt tell Ms B, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything that Ms B has said  but this doesnt change my decision. And 
for the reasons set out above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs W.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Ms B any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2021.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman