DRN-4118571
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, wont reimburse money that 
he lost as the result of a romance scam.
What happened
In March 2020, Mr D started talking to a performer, who Ill refer to as P on an online cam 
site. Mr D was led to believe by P that she had genuine feelings for him and that Mr D and 
herself were in a romantic relationship. Over the course of the next twenty-one months, Mr D 
made several payments to the cam site and to another similar online site to engage with P. 
However, when Mr Ds funds were diminished, P confessed to Mr D that shed lied to him 
about her feelings and deceived him into wrongly believing that they were in a romantic 
relationship. 
Upon realising hed been scammed, Mr D contacted Halifax and asked for their assistance in 
recovering his money. But Halifax felt that Mr D had made payments to sites from which he 
had received the service offered by those sites  which in this instance was interaction with 
P. Mr D wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Halifax responded to Mr D and reiterated their position. However, they did apologise to Mr D 
for not raising his complaint correctly in the first instance, and they made a payment of £40 
to him as compensation for any upset and inconvenience this may have caused. Mr D wasnt 
satisfied with Halifaxs response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel Halifax had acted 
unfairly towards Mr D by not reimbursing the money to him for the reasons Halifax had 
provided, and so they didnt uphold the complaint. Mr D remained dissatisfied, so the matter 
was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. This means that it isnt within my remit here to 
declare that Halifax have acted in a non-regulatory or unlawful way. 
Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. And while we do take 
relevant law and regulation into account when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed 
on determining whether we feel a fair or unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial 
perspective, after taking all the circumstances and factors of a complaint into consideration. 
I note that in his correspondence with this service, Mr D has referenced the Contingency 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code. However, the CRM Code doesnt apply when the 
payments in question are made by debit card  as was the case in this instance  and so 
isnt something Ive considered when reviewing this complaint.
It isnt in dispute that Mr D was deceived by P here, or that he made payments over a 
prolonged period which total a considerable amount to online sites to engage with P 
because of that deception. However, the question I must ask here is whether I feel that 
Halifax should fairly and reasonably be considered as accountable and responsible  in part 
or in full  for the losses that Mr D has incurred because of the scam perpetrated by P. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that Halifax are expected to process payments 
that its customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and conditions of that 
customers account. In this instance, theres no debate that Mr D authorised the payments in 
dispute. This is because at the time Mr D sent the money, he wanted the payments to be 
made. And although Mr D didn't realise at this time that he was being tricked, under the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017 (which are the relevant regulations that apply here), he 
is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
 
However, considering the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice, 
and what I consider was good industry practice at the time, I feel that Halifax should fairly 
and reasonably have been monitoring Mr Ds account, and any payments made, to look out 
for unusual transactions or other signs that might have indicated that Mr D might have been 
at risk of being scammed. And, if Halifax did have cause to suspect that Mr D might be being 
scammed, to have potentially contacted Mr D and asked him about the payments he was 
making and, where appropriate, to have warned him about potential scams.
But this isnt the end of the story here, because if I were to feel that Halifax should have had 
cause for concern that Mr D might have been in the process of being scammed, and should 
have contacted Mr D and spoken with him about what was happening, Id also need to feel 
that such an intervention from Halifax would most likely have been successful and resulted 
in Mr D recognising that he might be being scammed and deciding to take action  such as 
no longer communicating with the scammer  moving forwards. 
In this instance, upon review of Mr Ds account statements, it appears that Mr D began 
making payments to the online sites in March 2020. These initial payments were made by Mr 
D in relatively quick succession, on 9 March, 12 March, 16 March, and 23 March 2022. And 
while each single payment was for approximately £210, which wasnt an amount Id consider 
unusually large  given how Mr D used his current account in the months leading up to that 
time  I do feel the four payments to the new payee totaling approximately £840 could have 
been seen as out of keeping with how Mr D used his account.
Furthermore, from 2 April 2020 onwards, the spending pattern to this new payee changes 
significantly, with Mr D making several payments a day to it. For instance, on 6 April 2020, 
Mr D made 14 separate payments to this new payee, totaling approximately £1,950  which 
was close to 20% of Mr Ds account balance at that time. 
Similar multiple payments to the new payee were made at other times in April 2020 and in 
the following months. This pattern of payments seems clearly out of character with how Mr D 
had used his account up to that time, and I feel it should have given Halifax cause for 
concern such that they should have contacted Mr D and questioned him about what the 
payments were for.
However, Mr D has explained that he didnt visit the online sites with any intention of looking 
for or finding a romantic relationship, and that when he began using the sites it was only 
after a few weeks of interacting with P that P began falsely professing her love for him. And 
this timeframe corresponds with the change in Mr Ds spending pattern, described above. 
Accordingly, given that the service provided by these sites is interaction with the performers 
on those sites, it seems that in the first weeks that Mr D used the sites he was receiving the 
service he visited the sites to receive. And indeed, even after P began to manipulate Mr D, it could be argued that Mr D continued to receive the service offered by those sites  a 
payment for time and engagement with a performer  albeit now with a falsely given 
understanding that a real romantic relationship with P had begun.
As such, Im not convinced that Mr D was the victim of a scam until the point in April 2020 
when his spending pattern changed and when his manipulation by P began. And so, I 
wouldnt expect or instruct Halifax to reimburse to him the money that he paid to the sites in 
questions and for the service provided by those sites which he received.
Im also not convinced that even if Halifax had contacted Mr D in April 2020 and asked him 
about the payments he was making that a different outcome would have occurred here. This 
is because Mr D genuinely believed he was in a romantic relationship with P at that time, 
and I feel its more likely than not  given how Mr D has described what happened  that he 
would have confirmed to Halifax that he was happy to make the payments that he was 
making and wouldnt have felt that he was being scammed. 
Im aware that Mr D feels differently and instead feels that had he been contacted by Halifax 
and been told about romance scams that he would have recognised that he might be being 
scammed and would have acted differently moving from that point. However, while I can 
appreciate Mr Ds strength of feeling in this regard, his position now has the benefit of 
hindsight, and Im not convinced that Mr D would have acted as he now says he would.
In taking this position Ive considered several factors, including that Mr D has explained that 
his mental health had been impacted by having to isolate because of the social restrictions 
brought in by the UK Government in response to the global emergence of the Covid-19 
pandemic which was taking place at that time. As such, from what Mr D has said about his 
circumstances at the time, it seems to me that he may have been more vulnerable to the 
manipulation from P which he encountered, and therefore unfortunately more likely than not 
to have been taken in by it  even if he had received warnings about the nature of romance 
scams from Halifax.
Finally, Mr D is unhappy that Halifax didnt recover his money via a chargeback. A 
chargeback is a process by which some disputes are resolved between the card issuer, in 
this case Halifax, and merchants, in this case the online sites, under the relevant card 
scheme rules. 
 
These rules are set by the card provider  the company whose symbol is on the card. The 
card provider has an agreement with banks and building societies as to how its cards are 
used, and this agreement covers when an attempt at a chargeback can be made. These 
rules are strict, and Halifax doesn't have the power to change them.  And one of these rules 
is that a chargeback cant be claimed when a service has been received. And, as alluded to 
above, Halifax felt that Mr D had paid money to online sites which provided a service  time 
and engagement with a performer  which he had received. 
 
Its also important to note that a chargeback claim isnt a right that a customer has  its a 
voluntary act on the part of the bank in question. And this means that Halifax werent 
required to ask the card provider for the transactions to be reversed via the chargeback 
scheme. And while it is considered good practice for them to have done so, if they thought 
the chargeback claim was likely to succeed, its correspondingly expected that Halifax 
wouldnt submit any claims that they didnt feel had a reasonable chance of being 
successful. Halifaxs position on this matter doesnt seem unreasonable to me, and so I dont 
feel that they did act unfairly by choosing not to submit Mr Ds chargeback claim as they did.
I realise this wont be the outcome that Mr D was wanting here, but it follows from all the 
above that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Halifax to take any further action. This is because I feel that Mr D did initially receive a service from the online sites in 
the manner he expected to, and also because, once Mr D began being manipulated by P, I 
dont feel its likely that any intervention that Halifax could reasonably have made in regard to 
the payments to P would have resulted in Mr D recognising that he was being scammed 
such that a different outcome would have occurred here. 
This isnt to say that I dont sympathise with Mr D and whats happened to him here. But it is 
to say that I dont feel that Halifax should fairly or reasonably be considered as being solely 
or partially responsible or accountable for the losses that Mr D has incurred such that any 
instruction of reimbursement should be issued to them. I hope that Mr D will understand, 
given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman