DRN-2644426
The complaint
 Mr L is unhappy that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited added an exclusion 
to his pet insurance policy.
Provisional decision
 I sent my provisional decision in January 2021, which set out the background to the case 
and what I was minded to decide:
Mr L took out a lifetime pet insurance policy for his dog, C, which started on 9 March 
2019. In December 2019, he notified a claim for Investigation of Vomiting  Potential 
Intestinal Foreign Body. When reviewing this, Red Sands saw an entry from Cs 
clinical history dated 11 March 2019 that said hed recently suffered from diarrhoea  
so this would have occurred shortly before the policy commenced. Red Sands 
accepted the investigation claim, possibly as a gesture of goodwill or as it didnt 
relate to an illness of the digestive system, but said that all cover for the digestive 
system was excluded due to the clinical history. It said the exclusion applied from the 
start of the policy. C was later diagnosed with mesenteric volvulus. I understand Mr L 
attempted to claim in relation to this but was declined due to the exclusion. Sadly, C 
had to be euthanised in June 2020.
Mr L says that Cs diarrhoea in March 2019 was, in his vets opinion, caused by the 
stress of a long car journey for a new puppy. C didnt need any medication or 
treatment  it quickly cleared up by itself. He thought it was unfair to exclude all cover 
for the digestive system because of this.
Our investigator agreed with Mr L that the retrospective exclusion had been applied 
unfairly in the circumstances. But Red Sands maintained that it had added the 
exclusion correctly. It also noted that there had been subsequent incidents of 
diarrhoea and digestive issues. It now falls to me to decide how this complaint should 
be resolved.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im minded to 
agree with our investigator that the claims have been declined unfairly. Ill explain 
why.
Red Sands has relied on policy term 1.2.4 to justify adding the exclusion for the 
whole digestive system, given that Cs clinical history shows he suffered from 
diarrhoea shortly before the policy commenced:
Please note if your pet first showed any clinical signs; or had an accident, 
injury or an illness; or was diagnosed with a condition within the first 14 days 
or prior to the commencement date, we reserve the right to apply an 
exclusion to your policy in respect of this clinical sign, accident, injury, illness 
or condition.
I appreciate the purpose of this term is to replicate what would have happened if a 
traditional risk-assessment and full underwriting had occurred at the point of sale 
(which isnt the norm for off the shelf policies of this nature). The question here is 
whether the term has been applied fairly in all the circumstances of this case. And to 
decide this, we consider what would most likely have occurred if an insurer had 
asked clear and specific questions about material facts at the point of application; 
and if a policyholder had answered them honestly and accurately in line with his duty 
of reasonable care.
Cs medical records show that Mr L told the vet that C had diarrhoea shortly before 
the policy commenced. This cleared up without treatment:
been well. did have some D+ after long drive from down south but back to 
normal now
I note the exclusion list does say Red Sands will exclude all claims with respect to 
the digestive system due to the condition of diarrhoea. And term 1.2.4 does say that 
Red Sands reserves the right to apply an exclusion in respect of this condition. I 
do have some concerns about how widely this has been applied. Regardless, Ive 
considered what I think would have happened if a full underwriting review had been 
conducted at commencement. I note the following guidance at the start of the 
exclusion list (with my emphasis):
The Insurer agrees that where certain conditions and/or circumstances do 
not match exactly the exclusion list below, the Administrator may adapt the 
exclusion accordingly. Please refer to a senior vet nurse or the team 
leader/claims manager if the condition does not appear on the list or if you 
require any assistance
Prior to commencement, C experienced one brief bout of diarrhoea that cleared up 
without treatment. Red Sands maintains that, in light of this, the exclusion for the 
whole digestive system would have been added if an underwriting question had been 
fairly asked and properly answered. But Im conscious of the room for flexibility 
provided by the guidance above. And if, on disclosing the diarrhoea, the exclusion 
had been proposed to Mr L as a condition of cover, I think its likely he would have 
provided additional expert evidence from his vet  as he did when it was applied 
retrospectively (again, with my emphasis):
In March 2019 [C] was ~ 8 weeks old and had travelled a long way to his 
new home. He experienced mild, transient diarrhoea following this journey 
that had completely resolved already on presentation to ourselves at valley 
vets. Mild, self-limiting diarrhoea in young puppies is a very common 
presentation, especially when they have just arrived at their new home. This 
type of gastrointestinal upset tends to be largely stress related. Given that 
[Cs] diarrhoea resolved within a couple of days and did not recur, in my 
opinion, it is resoundingly likely that this was a stress related bout of 
colitis and should not be regarded as an indication of underlying 
gastrointestinal disease which could be linked to any future upset.
If the vets evidence suggesting the diarrhoea was simply caused by the stress of the 
journey had been considered by Red Sands at the outset, Im not persuaded that 
such a wide-ranging exclusion would have been applied by a prudent underwriter exercising their commercial judgment in a fair and reasonable manner. Even if it 
would have been, Im not persuaded that Mr L would have accepted the insurance, 
given his resistance when the exclusion was added. Its more likely that he would 
have sought alternative cover from another provider rather than proceed with such a 
significant restriction.
Theres no evidence that its commonplace for insurers to exclude the whole 
digestive system based on one bout of diarrhoea which a treating vet had deemed to 
be stress-related  as was the case when the policy commenced. This suggests that 
if, as Red Sands maintains, it would have applied the exclusion from the outset, the 
shortcut of a retroactive exclusion in place of full and fair underwriting has unfairly 
prejudiced Mr Ls position, leaving him largely uninsured despite paying the premium. 
It follows that the fair and reasonable remedy would be to consider his subsequent 
claims, subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
For the avoidance of doubt, it would be premature to order Red Sands 
unconditionally to pay the claims at this point, as I do not believe they have yet been 
properly considered under the relevant policy terms and conditions owing to the 
insurers reliance on the knock out point regarding the retroactive exclusion  a point 
which, for the reasons given above, I think is unsustainable.
Responses to provisional decision 
I invited both sides to respond before I made by final decision. 
Mr L has confirmed that he had nothing new to add. Hes highlighting the information hes 
already provided from his vet, which he says confirms the mesentery system is separate to 
the digestive tract of a dog.
Red Sands has provided a further veterinary report. This states that there isnt a strong case 
to link the 2019 symptoms to Cs volvulus, and agrees that diarrhoea due to stress on 
rehoming is common. In light of this, Red Sands has agreed to the provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither side has provided any evidence or points to contradict what I was minded to 
conclude, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional 
decision. And so for the reasons this decision explained (as set out above), Im satisfied Red 
Sands should remove the exclusion and reconsider the claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Red 
Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to:
remove the exclusion for claims with respect to the digestive system;
reconsider the declined claims fairly and reasonably in line with the remaining policy 
terms;
If point two leads to any claims being met, Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited
should pay any actual interest or charges Mr L can show he incurred paying for the
treatments (I understand payment he paid via credit card). If no credit-card interest wasactually incurred, interest should be paid on any sums due at the simple rate of 8% a year
(less any tax properly deductible) from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
If, having reconsidered the claims, the insurer still declines, I see no reason why Mr L cant
raise a new complaint and refer the matter back to our service if he disagrees. If that
happens, for expediency Mr L can refer the matter back to the investigator who looked into
this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman