DRN-2770540
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy with a search recorded by a third-party company on her Experian Limited 
credit file.
What happened
Mrs M says she noticed an identification check was completed on her by a third-party 
company on her credit file. Ill refer to the third-party company as O. 
Mrs M says when she complained to O, she was told it was an administration error caused 
by Experian and not O. Mrs M says Experian then told her that it wasnt their fault, it was 
Os. Mrs M has asked for a full investigation into what happened.
Experian say they contacted O on Mrs Ms behalf to ask them to check the accuracy of the 
information they provided. O responded to advise they have no record of the search and 
authorised its removal from Mrs Ms credit file. As a result of Os confirmation, Experian 
apologised for the distress and inconvenience Mrs M experienced and deleted the search 
from her credit file.
Since Mrs Ms complaint has come to us, Experian accepted this was an administrative error 
on their part. They said although a search was carried out on Mrs Ms credit file, there 
wouldnt have been any financial impact caused to her.
Our investigator looked into Mrs Ms concerns. She said whilst Experian accepted this was 
an error on their part, Mrs M was caused some inconvenience in having to get the search 
removed from her credit file. So, she recommended Experian pay £50 compensation in 
recognition of the inconvenience caused. 
Experian agreed with our investigators recommendation. But Mrs M didnt. She said she 
was concerned Experian were allowed to behave like this and that its unacceptable that 
theyve said this was an administrative error. Mrs M said the impact on her was potentially 
unlimited and that we, as a service, shouldnt allow them to get away with this. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mrs M wants an explanation for exactly how this happened and also feels that 
Experian shouldnt be allowed to get away with this. Its important for me to make Mrs M 
aware that our role isnt to punish or fine a business for their mistake or standard of service. 
Rather, my role is to consider the circumstances of individual complaints; what  if anything 
 a business has done wrong and what the consequences of this were.
Ive looked at the information provided by Experian and I can see the type of check recorded 
on Mrs Ms credit file was an identification check. From what I understand, this type of check 
doesnt impact a customers creditworthiness and are considered as soft searches  
meaning it doesnt generally leave a footprint for other businesses to see.
Experian told O that the identity check was requested by another customer, not Mrs M, 
which picked up the incorrect details on one of Experians systems by mistake. So, it seems 
to me that this was a genuine mistake and Im satisfied Experian took the right steps to 
rectify this by removing the search from Mrs Ms credit file.
I note Mrs M says the impact of this error couldve been potentially unlimited, but I havent 
seen any evidence to suggest this was the case  and as Experian have now removed the 
incorrect search, I hope this gives Mrs M some peace of mind there wont be any 
consequences. I think its fortunate Mrs M didnt lose out financially as a result of this error. 
However, having considered everything, I think Experian should pay Mrs M £50 
compensation. I say this because whilst theres not been any financial impact or loss to Mrs 
M, I think this issue caused Mrs M to worry. And I also think Mrs M has been caused 
inconvenience as a result of trying to find out how the search came to appear on her credit 
file and also who was at fault for this issue. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold this complaint and I require Experian Limited to 
pay Mrs M £50 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2021.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman