DRN-3187682
The complaint
Mr P complains Healthcare Finance Limited (HCF) failed to honour a claim he brought 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
Mrs P has represented Mr P in his complaint. Where I refer to things said or done by Mr P in 
relation to the complaint, this should be taken to include things said or done by Mrs P.
What happened
Mrs P applied to HCF for finance to have some remote orthodontic treatment carried out by 
a supplier I will call D, which consisted of clear aligners, retainers and teeth whitening.
Mrs P was declined for the finance and it was suggested by the broker (an associate of HCF 
which has also handled the complaint) that her husband could apply instead, or Mrs P could 
make amendments to her application which would allow HCF to take into account her 
husbands income. Mr P applied in his own name and was accepted for the loan. The loan 
agreement was dated 30 November 2019.
D went bust before it could complete Mrs Ps course of treatment, during protracted 
discussions with them about some of the aligners, which had turned out to be unsatisfactory. 
As a result, Mrs P didnt receive all of the aligners she needed, nor did she receive the 
retainers or the teeth whitening. She and Mr P complained to HCF, seeking to hold them 
liable under section 75 of the CCA.
HCF denied any liability, arguing that because the finance had been taken out in Mr Ps 
name, but Mrs P was the person receiving the orthodontic treatment, it had no responsibility 
under section 75.
Mr P complained about HCFs decision. He was also unhappy that HCF had restricted online 
access to the loan account and refused to take payments from him. 
HCF didnt agree with Mr Ps complaint, so he referred the matter to this service for an 
independent assessment. One of our investigators looked into it. He noted that in order for a 
valid section 75 claim to be made, there needed to be a debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) 
agreement. In such an agreement, the debtor needed to have a contractual relationship with 
the supplier, but Mr P didnt have any agreement with D, meaning the necessary DCS 
agreement didnt exist. The investigator therefore didnt think HCF was wrong not to honour 
the claim.
Our investigator more recently reviewed Mr Ps concerns about HCF blocking access to the 
online account and refusing to take payments. He concluded there was not enough evidence 
to show HCF had blocked online access, and HCFs payment records indicated it was Mr Ps 
bank which had blocked the payments, not HCF. So he didnt think these points of complaint 
should succeed either.
Mr P asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint, so the case has been passed to me 
to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Section 75 Claim
When someone buys goods or services using a point of sale loan such as the one provided 
by HCF here, section 75 of the CCA gives a legal right to claim against the lender in respect 
of breaches of contract or misrepresentations by the supplier of the goods or services, so 
long as certain technical conditions have been met. 
One of the technical conditions is the need for there to be a valid DCS agreement in place. 
While it is a technical term, what it means in practice is that in order to be able to make a 
successful section 75 claim, the borrower (debtor) needs to have used the loan to pay the 
same company which they have a claim against for breach of contract or misrepresentation.
The difficulty in this case is that Mr P is the borrower, and so it is he who needs a claim 
against D for breach of contract or misrepresentation in order for HCF to have liability under 
section 75. However, it is Mrs P who had a contract with D for the orthodontic treatment. 
As our investigator noted, this was a contract of a personal nature. Scans were taken of 
Mrs Ps teeth and a treatment plan was created specifically for her. She was meant to be 
supplied with various bespoke dental appliances (i.e. the aligners and retainers) to give 
effect to that treatment plan, which it was anticipated would benefit her by aligning her teeth. 
I think it would be difficult to argue that anyone other than the person receiving the 
treatment, and the practitioner providing it, would normally be parties to such a contract. I 
conclude that while Mr P may have funded the contract, he was not a party to it.
Theres a general legal principle that a person who is not a party to a contract cant make a 
claim on it. There are some exceptions to this, such as where the contract is made for the 
benefit of someone who is not a party to it, but I dont think thats the case here. So I dont 
think Mr P has a claim for breach of contract against D, and therefore he has no claim 
against HCF either under section 75 of the CCA.
Mrs P has said HCFs knowledge of the particulars of the arrangements, and the inducement 
by its associated broker to get Mr P to borrow the money instead of her, should be taken into 
account here. In essence, Mrs P argues she should be considered a party to the loan 
contract (i.e. a co-debtor with her husband) due to the way in which things were set up. This 
would cause the problem with the DCS agreement to fall away.
While this is an interesting argument, I dont quite agree with it. I accept Mrs P originally 
intended to be the borrower. She didnt meet HCFs lending criteria and the broker offered a 
couple of options to proceed. In an email of 22 November 2019, about a week before the 
loan agreement was signed, HCFs broker said the following to Mrs P:
It may well seem affordable to you and may well be affordable but we can only use the 
information we have. In any case, you would need to apply again, I'm afraid.
One thing to consider is selecting homemaker on your application if your partner contributes 
significantly more to the household income. We could then use your application and your 
credit score if you can verify your partner's income with a recent payslip (last 90 days).
It doesnt seem to me that HCF, via its broker, was saying the only option was for Mr P to apply for the loan in his own name. It appeared to be willing to accept an amended 
application from Mrs P, and suggested a way in which Mr Ps income could be taken into 
account if she proceeded. I appreciate Mr and Mrs P were left with the impression that it was 
advisable for Mr P to apply for the loan, but ultimately I think it was his choice. And Im not 
convinced in any event that if Mr P had been advised this was the only option, that this 
would somehow bring Mrs P into the loan agreement as a debtor.
I dont lack sympathy for Mr and Mrs P. Mrs P has been left in a difficult situation by Ds 
insolvency. But the question I have to answer is whether HCF acted fairly in declining Mr Ps 
section 75 claim. I dont think Mr P has a valid claim against HCF, because he has no claim 
against D. It follows that I dont think HCF was wrong to decline the claim.
Customer service issues
HCF says it has never restricted Mr Ps access to his online loan account. Ive carefully read 
the correspondence between Mr P, Mrs P and HCF, and from this I understand HCF created 
one online account for Mr P, and one for Mrs P. 
Mr Ps online account contains the details of his loan, facilities to make a payment and so 
on, while Mrs Ps online account is effectively empty as her loan application was declined. It 
appears what most likely happened was that Mr P mistakenly logged into Mrs Ps account, 
found it was empty and believed all the information about the loan and making a payment 
had been removed. I think Mr and Mrs P later accepted this was what happened, after HCF 
clarified the situation. In any case it doesnt seem HCF restricted the account.
Similarly, I dont think HCF blocked Mr Ps payments. Mrs P had spoken to her and Mr Ps 
bank in November 2020 about the problems they were having with HCF and D. Ive seen 
emails she sent to the banks disputes department. Its common practice for banks to block 
further card payments to a payee when a dispute is raised in relation to that payee, as a 
precaution. And I note Mrs P, in a communication to HCF, confirmed [the bank] 
advisedthey will cancel future paymentuntil I notify them otherwise. When Mr P later 
tried to make card payments to HCF, these failed, and the error codes logged on HCFs 
system indicate the bank had blocked the transactions, even after it seems Mr P had asked 
the bank to stop blocking them. Based on the evidence Ive seen, HCF was not responsible 
for these payments being unsuccessful.
My final decision
While I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to both Mr and Mrs P, for the reasons 
explained above, I do not uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2021.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman