DRN-2751974
The complaint
Ms K says The Carphone Warehouse Ltd mis-sold her mobile phone insurance policies 
between 2013 and 2016.
What happened
Ms K took out three insurance policies with Carphone Warehouse:
Policy 1 was sold in March 2013 and cancelled by Ms K in January 2015
Policy 2 was taken out in December 2014  and cancelled by Ms K in December 2016, 
when she bought a new phone. 
Policy 3 was taken out in  December 2016 and cancelled  by Ms K in December 
2018, when she bought a new phone. 
Ms K made successful insurance claims on policies 1 and 2.
In January 2020 Ms Ks solicitors complained to Carphone Warehouse on her behalf about 
the sales of the policies. They said the policies were unsuitable - she didnt want or need the 
insurance but was sold it regardless; Ms K was told the insurance was compulsory if she 
wanted to have technical support; and she was pressured into buying the insurance.
Our investigator considered whether the complaint about policy 1 could be investigated, as it 
was brought more than six years after the sale of the policy. He concluded that he could look 
into this sale as Ms K would only reasonably have become aware of grounds to complain in 
March 2019, after the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) published a report into the way 
Carphone Warehouse had sold these types of policies.
The investigator said it was likely there were failings in the way Carphone Warehouse 
assessed the suitability of the insurance but didnt think it was in fact unsuitable for Ms K. He 
noted that Ms K made a successful claim on policy 1 and made use of the benefits offered 
under policy 2, which indicated that she had a need for cover. He said even if Carphone 
Warehouse hadnt provided appropriate information about the policy, it was unlikely that 
having further details of what it covered would have affected Ms Ks decision to take the 
policies. While he thought it was possible Ms K was told she could only get technical support 
if she bought the policy, he was satisfied she would have gone ahead even if things had 
been made clear. 
Carphone Warehouse accepted the investigators view but Ms Ks solicitors didnt and on her 
behalf, requested a final decision. They maintain that Ms K didnt want the insurance and 
only bought it because she was pressured into the sale and thought it was compulsory if she 
wanted technical support. So the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) investigation found there were failings in how Carphone 
Warehouse sold insurance between 2008 and 2015. Ms Ks representatives say the 
outcome of that investigation was that Carphone Warehouse agreed to provide redress to all 
affected customers. And they say Ms K falls into that category, so she should automatically 
be refunded the premiums paid for these policies.
The FCA agreed to reduce the fine imposed on Carphone Warehouse because it had 
agreed to provide redress to affected customers. But that leaves the question of who is an 
affected customer. In addressing this question our normal approach is to consider:
whether there has been a failing by a business, and if so,
whether (and how) the person bringing the complaint to us has been affected by that
failing.
If, for example, I concluded there were flaws in a sales process but the customer would
have bought the policy anyway, they wont necessarily have lost out as a result of those
failings. I need to consider not just what Carphone Warehouse did, but whether Ms K would 
have acted differently but for any failing, and suffered any loss or harm as a result.
Were the policies suitable for Ms K?
When selling insurance Carphone Warehouse was required, amongst other things, to 
provide customers with clear, fair and not misleading information about the policy. And for an 
advised sale (which this was) it would also need to take reasonable steps to ensure it was 
suitable for their customer. This would include establishing if they had a need for it and 
whether they had cover elsewhere that could provide the same benefits. Theres also a 
requirement that Carphone Warehouse treat its customers fairly.
Ms K argues these policies were unsuitable, though her representatives havent specified
how or why they were unsuitable. 
One of the things the FCA found was that sales consultants were not trained adequately to 
assess a customers needs to determine whether the insurance was suitable. So its quite 
possible there were failings in the way Carphone Warehouse assessed the suitability of 
those policies, where the sales fell within the period covered by the FCA report. But even if 
thats the case I dont think these policies were in fact unsuitable for Ms K. 
The policies were sold when Ms K upgraded to new phones. I think she had a potential need 
for the cover they offered which included loss, theft or accidental damage of the phone. The 
policies also include cover for breakdown from the date the manufacturers warranty 
expires. 
Ms Ks solicitors havent provided anything to suggest Ms K had alternative cover elsewhere 
which would have provided similar benefits. On the insurance certificates completed at the 
time, she confirmed she had no alternative cover. And during the term of the first insurance 
policy, Ms K made a successful claim, which supports the fact she had a need for cover. She 
also made use of the benefits offered by the second policy. It doesnt look like Ms K was 
significantly affected by any of the things the policies didnt cover and looking at the cost I 
think they were affordable for her. Her solicitors havent provided anything to the contrary. 
Taking all of this into account, I dont think the policies were unsuitable for Ms K or that 
Carphone Warehouse would have done anything wrong in recommending them to her. And 
for the same reasons even if Carphone Warehouse didnt provide her with clear, fair and not 
misleading information about the policies, I dont think having further details of what they
covered would have affected her decision making.Was the optional nature of the policies made clear?
Ms Ks representatives argue she was told the insurance was necessary to obtain technical 
support. 
Carphone Warehouse says it would have provided leaflets which would have made it clear 
that standalone policies offering technical support were available. However, Im aware the 
FCA report found there was a key focus by advisers on the technical support features 
offered by the insurance product. And sales consultants were trained in objection handling, 
which undermined the advised sales process. 
Given the findings of the report I do think its possible that for the sales during that period, 
Ms K was told she could only access technical support if she took out the policy, or that the 
adviser didnt make the distinction clear to her. And I think Ms K might have reasonably paid 
more attention to what she was told by the adviser than any leaflets that were available in 
store.
Ive thought carefully about whether any of this made a difference to Ms Ks decision but, 
based on the evidence available to me, Im satisfied she would have gone ahead with 
insurance cover even if things had been made clear to her. She was buying new phones and 
didnt have alternative cover in place. She later made use of the insurance. I havent seen 
any clear evidence to show that the only reason she took the policies was to obtain technical 
support and that she wouldnt have gone ahead if the sales process had been clearer.
Ive also thought about whether Ms K knew she could buy a phone without getting the 
insurance. Ive seen the documents for the 2014 and 2016 sales and both say taking out the 
policy is not compulsory with the purchase of your phone. For the 2014 sale Ms K signed 
alongside that statement and for the 2016 sale she signed underneath it. 
Because of the time that has passed Carphone Warehouse cant provide documentation for 
the 2013 sale but I understand this should have contained similar wording. 
A signed insurance certificate doesnt in itself mean the adviser made the optional nature of 
the policy clear. And I appreciate the FCA report (which covers the first two of these sales) 
did mention cancellation calls in which customers said theyd been told the insurance was 
compulsory. However, Ms K hasnt provided any detailed recollection of the sales that 
persuades me this actually happened in her case. So, based on the information available to 
me, I dont think Carphone Warehouse has done something wrong in relation to this issue.
Summary
While there may have been failings in Carphone Warehouses sales process I think that 
without these Ms K would still have taken out these policies. So I dont think shes lost out as 
a result or was sold a policy that wasnt suitable for her or was inappropriately pressured into 
buying the policy, not knowing it was optional.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2021.
 
Peter WhiteleyOmbudsman