DRN-3443014
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) blocked and closed their joint account, 
causing them substantive distress, inconvenience, and financial loss. 
What happened
HSBC carried out a review of Mr and Mrs Ds account in August 2020. In doing so, they 
contacted Mr D by phone, email, and written correspondence to contact its Safeguard team. 
Mr and Mrs Ds account was blocked during this time. 
Later, in September 2020, Mr and Mrs Ds account was closed by HSBC. Any remaining 
funds were sent to a third-party bank account as nominated by Mr and Mrs D. 
In summary, Mr and Mrs D want HSBC to pay around £22,000 as compensation for:
- The time it took to rearrange their direct debits during the pandemic. Mr D says it 
took substantial effort and time to do this and he should be compensated in line with 
his hourly earning rate
- The distress this has caused them, especially as they were in the process of buying a 
house
- The loss of account benefits for Mrs D 
During this time, Mr D was wrongfully told his pension payment had been paid into his new 
account. HSBC looked into this and said it had previously misinformed them, and the money 
had been sent back to the pension provider. 
Unhappy with HSBCs actions, Mr and Mrs D complained. In short HSBC explained that: 
- it had closed the account as it was complying with UK sanctions policy
- it had not communicated the closure of the account to them as they were already 
aware of its decision to do so
- It was sorry for any inconvenience caused by its system and processes when it paid 
some direct debits but not all of them
HSBC offered, in total, around £80 as compensation to Mr and Mrs D and a refund of an 
account fee of around £10. Mr and Mrs D did not accept this. The complaint was referred to 
our service. One of our Investigators looked into Mr and Mrs Ds complaint, in short, they 
found: 
- HSBC reviewed Mr and Mrs Ds account in line with its obligations and terms of 
account. And HSBC isnt obliged to provide any explanation why it did so 
- HSBCs review was carried out promptly 
- HSBC did give Mr and Mrs D some indication of its reasoning and it did provide 
notice of closure 
- As HSBC acted fairly, they didnt recommend it should pay any compensation for any 
loss Mrs D may incur because of losing any account benefits
- HSBC did not clearly communicate what was happening with Mr and Mrs Ds direct 
debits, with some being paid and others not. This led to them incurring some fees 
from the payee companies. Sorting this out caused distress, inconvenience and loss 
to Mr and Mrs D. So HSBC should pay compensation of £250 for the impact its errors 
caused
- HSBC caused error and provided poor communication in relation to Mr Ds pension 
payment. This caused further stress and led to Mr D chasing for updates on the 
issue. Because of this HSBC should pay a further £100 in compensation
HSBC agreed with what our Investigator said. Mr and Mrs D did not, and in summary they 
made the following points: 
- Their complaint is about HSBCs incompetence whilst closing the account, not the 
decision to do so 
- HSBC did not provide them with a list of standing orders and direct debits which 
resulted in missed and duplicate payments
- The Investigator has failed to properly consider the time they have spent in fixing 
these problems and has ignored the stress this caused them 
This complaint has now been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. Ill explain why. 
I note Mr and Mrs D say their complaint isnt about HSBCs decision to review and close 
their account. But its this activity which has led to the serious of events for which they have 
clarified they are complaining about. So if HSBC did something wrong here, it would have a 
direct consequence on any other findings I make about any ancillary events. 
So, because of this, its something I will consider in my decision. 
Banks in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their 
legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of an 
existing business relationship. That sometimes means banks need to restrict, or in some 
cases go as far as closing, customers accounts.
From the information Ive been given, Im satisfied HSBC acted fairly when deciding to 
review Mr and Mrs Ds account. Im aware of no obligation under which HSBC must disclose 
its reasons for doing so. Having said that, HSBC have told Mr and Mrs D it was carrying out 
a review in line with its obligations under UK sanctions policy. Im satisfied, from what Ive 
seen, that HSBC was acting in line with legal and regulatory obligations it must follow.   A bank is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with a bank. 
But before a bank closes an account, it must do so in a way, which complies with the terms 
and conditions of the account. 
Having looked at HSBCs reasons for closing the account, which includes Mr D not making 
meaningful contact with it to go through a review with one of its specialist departments, Im 
satisfied its acted in line with the terms of the account. And that its acted both reasonably 
and fairly in doing so. In reaching this finding, Ive considered what Mr D has said about a 
similar review taking place for his business account and that he was away on holiday. 
I note Mr and Mrs D complain they werent given notice of the account closing. But having 
looked at HSBCs contact notes with Mrs D, Im satisfied this was explained. 
This now brings me onto what Mr and Mrs D see as the crux of the complaint. That is, that 
HSBCs failings caused them to suffer distress, inconvenience, and financial loss. Ive 
already said HSBC acted fairly in reviewing and closing the account. So that means it hasnt 
done anything wrong here. 
Typically, when a bank decides to restrict and close an account this will have a negative 
impact on its customers. Having said that, Im satisfied HSBCs communication and actions 
in relation to any direct debits wasnt as clear as it should have been. It honoured some and 
not others without clear communication, this in of itself would have caused confusion. 
The fact Mr and Mrs D had to change their direct debits manually is a result of HSBC 
deciding to restrict and close the account, so its something they would have had to have 
done in any case. But the extent to which they needed to spend time and suffer any distress 
couldve have been limited if HSBC had been more effective in how it communicated this. 
So, because of this, Im persuaded HSBC should compensate Mr and Mrs D for the distress 
and inconvenience it caused through its poor handling of the matter. Its difficult to say what 
a fair amount is given a large proportion of the actions Mr and Mrs D had to take would have 
existed without the poor communication. But having given this some thought, Im satisfied 
£250 is fair compensation.  
It's not in dispute that HSBC made errors when telling Mr D it had sent his pension payment 
to his nominated bank account. HSBC accept it got this wrong. Mr D did get his money, 
albeit through speaking to his pension provider to remit it again to another bank account. I 
note this was reconciled in a reasonably short time. So I think £100 is fair compensation for 
any distress and inconvenience caused.   
I note there is a significant disparity in what Mr and Mrs D see as fair compensation to that 
which Im awarding here. But my decision takes into account how long it appears the whole 
matter took to resolve, and the impact this had upon them. And this, as Ive said, has been 
mitigated against HSBCs root action of deciding to restrict and close the account being a fair 
and reasonable one.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Ive decided to uphold the complaint in part. I now 
direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay Mr and Mrs D £350 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman