DRN-4255410
The complaint
Mr A has complained that Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) unfairly declined a claim 
he made for repairs to a washing machine under an appliance protection plan. 
What happened
Mr A held an appliance protection plan with D&G. He made a claim for repairs to a washing 
machine in January 2023. In February 2023 an engineer attended his home and reported to 
D&G that the washing machine was being kept outside. 
D&G declined the claim for repairs as it said Mr A hadnt maintained the washing machine 
indoors in line with the manufacturers instructions. D&G said cover was therefore excluded 
for repairs. 
D&G said it would consider Mr As claim if he moved the washing machine indoors so it was 
safe for the engineer to inspect it. 
Mr A told D&G hed bought another washing machine as a temporary fix while waiting for his 
to be repaired. Mr A complained to D&G. He was unhappy with its decision and complained 
about a call he had with an agent on 23 February 2023. Mr A said he didnt receive call 
backs when promised while chasing for a response to his complaint. 
In April 2023 D&G didnt uphold Mr As complaint as it said it had correctly declined his 
claim. It listened to the key call and was satisfied the agent had been polite when speaking 
with Mr A. 
For the time Mr A was without a washing machine it paid a goodwill gesture payment of £90. 
Mr A remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. 
D&G told us the plan was cancelled as Mr A stopped paying. 
Our Investigator thought D&G had acted reasonably and in line with the policy when 
declining the claim. He also listened to the key call and didnt find D&G had done anything 
wrong. 
Mr A didnt agree. He wants this service to listen to all calls between him and D&G when he 
raised his complaint. He reiterates that there was a roof where the washing machine was 
kept. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr As plan with D&G says the following which are key to his claim:
Important conditions 
 Your product must have been installed, maintained and used in accordance with 
the manufacturers instructions 
Your responsibilities 
You must arrange any work required to make your product accessible and compliant 
with all relevant safety standards and safe to work on (as determined by our 
repairer). For example, where there is a pest infestation or if hazardous material is 
present you will need to arrange for this to be safely removed. You must take 
reasonable care of your product. This includes caring for it in line with the 
manufacturers instructions and not allowing it to be subject to adverse weather 
conditions. We will not do any work where these standards are not met.
Exclusions 
We shall not approve work or payments for or arising from: 
 claims where you have breached the important conditions or failed to comply with 
your responsibilities set out in this policy;
 your failure to follow the manufacturers instructions;
So I think the plan terms and conditions are clear as to the conditions under which an 
appliance should be maintained. 
Mr S says his washing machine was being kept in an extension to the property and there 
was a roof. Ive seen photos of Mr As washing machine provided by the engineer who 
attended his home. Im satisfied from the comments by the engineer and the photos that Mr 
As washing machine wasnt indoors or in accordance with manufacturers instructions. 
Mr A complained about a key call on 23 February 2023. I understand Mr A wants this service 
to listen to other calls as he says D&G failed to call him back when promised. However, I can 
see from the timeline that Mr A chased D&G for a response to his complaint, and so any 
poor service he is unhappy about during this time is outside of our jurisdiction to investigate. 
This is because the Financial Conduct Authority does not include complaints handling as a 
regulated activity. So I havent asked to listen to any additional calls as this isnt necessary 
for me to reach a conclusion on Mr As complaint - as we can only consider complaints about 
regulated activities.
From the relevant information available, I think D&G properly considered Mr As claim. The 
engineer referred his findings to D&G following his visit and D&G declined the claim for 
repairs. D&G has explained why it reached this decision - and I havent seen any reasonable 
evidence to contract its findings. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr A. But this means Im not upholding his complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman