DRN-3313568
The complaint
Mr A complains about the suitability of the advice provided by Hunter Mills Limited (Hunter 
Mills) in November 2017 to transfer the value of his safeguarded benefits in the British Steel 
Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension plan (PPP).
What happened
The events leading up to this complaint were set out in detail by our investigator in his
assessment which he provided to both Mr A and Hunter Mills. I dont intend to repeat here 
what our investigator stated but will instead provide a summary.
In March 2016, Mr As former employer, Tata Steel UK Ltd (Tata Steel), announced that it 
would be examining options to restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS from 
the company. The BSPS was a defined benefits (DB) pension scheme that provided a 
guaranteed lifetime income to members. The consultation with members referred to possible 
outcomes regarding their safeguarded benefits, one of which was a transfer to the Pension 
Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund designed to provide compensation to 
members of DB pension schemes when their employer becomes insolvent. Tata Steel 
closed the BSPS to further benefit accrual from 31 March 2017.
In May 2017, the PPF announced that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement 
(RAA) had been agreed  this was approved by The Pensions Regulator in August 2017. 
Under the announced plans, Tata Steel agreed to set up and sponsor a new DB pension 
scheme, the BSPS2, subject to certain conditions relating to funding and size being satisfied.
In October 2017, these changes were communicated to BSPS members, including Mr A, 
under the Time to Choose communication exercise. This explained that BSPS members 
had three options regarding their safeguarded benefits:
1. Transfer to the PPF;
2. Transfer to the BSPS2; or
3. Transfer to an alternative pension plan such as a PPP.
Options 1 and 2 wouldve enabled Mr A to retain guaranteed pension income, albeit at a 
lower level than provided by the BSPS. 
Members had to decide which option they wanted by 22 December 2017  those that didnt 
choose an option remained in the BSPS and were ultimately transferred to the PPF. The 
details of Mr As safeguarded benefits in the BSPS at that time were as follows:
He had accrued 26 years and 7 months qualifying service between August 1984 and 
March 2011;
The scheme pension provided was based on his final salary, qualifying service and 
benefit accrual rate  as at the date of leaving the scheme in March 2011, his annual 
scheme pension was £15,662. The scheme pension would be revalued by a 
prescribed amount over the term to the scheme normal retirement age of 65 and, 
once in payment, would also escalate annually by a prescribed amount;
Payment of benefits before age 65 would be subject to an early retirement reduction 
on a sliding scale  in simple terms, the earlier benefits were taken, the greater the 
reduction applied to the scheme pension. Broadly, this meant a 30% reduction would 
apply to the scheme pension if benefits were taken at age 55 and a 18% reduction at 
age 60; and
The cash equivalent transfer value of his safeguarded benefits was £519,136.72. 
In response to the announcement by Tata Steel, Mr A contacted Hunter Mills for advice. He 
met one of its advisers in October 2017. A fact find document and attitude to risk 
questionnaire were completed which recorded the following information about Mr A:
He was aged 50 and his wife aged 49. They were both in good health. They had two 
financially dependent children aged between 14 and 15;
He was employed full-time by a global manufacturing company and paid gross 
annual income of about £25,000;
Their assets comprised the marital home valued at £280,000 and cash deposits of 
£5,000. They didnt have any other savings or investments;
They didnt have any debts or liabilities;
They had surplus disposable income of £300 to £400 available every month;
In addition to the value of his safeguarded benefits in the BSPS, he was on course to 
receive the State pension at age 67 and had been a member of his employers 
defined contribution (DC) pension scheme since 2011. The total annual contribution 
into his DC plan was 16% of his gross annual salary;
He had limited investment experience and knowledge. His risk profile was 
determined to be Lowest Medium and he had a small capacity for loss.
In the notes section on the fact find document Hunter Mills adviser recorded the following 
about Mr As planning objectives:Following the fact find meeting, Hunter Mills issued its suitability report to Mr A in               
November 2017. The report confirmed Mr As concerns and objectives, as follows:
You have sought advice over your British Steel pension scheme for a number of 
reasons but primarily to do with the financial strength, being able to access the 
proceeds earlier than age 65 and to make sure the death benefits are the most tax 
efficient for your wife.
Hunter Mills concluded that neither the PPF nor the BSPS2 would offer Mr A the flexibility 
and control he wanted in retirement. It recommended that Mr A transfer to a PPP provided 
by Prudential for the following reasons:
Protects your built up savings from market ups and downs
To enter a financial product that allows you to continue saving for now but allows a 
whole range of flexible ways to take your benefits at age 55
To access the transfer value in the form of a tax free cash lump sum or income or 
both earlier than the main scheme retirement age of 65 without having to suffer a 
reduction or penalty
To use any tax free cash sum from the age of 55 but defer having to take an income 
which would be taxable
To pass the balance / value at the time of your death to [Mr As wife] and later your 
two children or anyone else you decide in the future of your choosing potentially free 
of income tax if before age 75
To gain from the enhanced transfer values currently on offer (due to low gilt yields) 
which may not continue
To have the flexibility to choose how, when and how much income you require in 
retirement
To benefit from extensive Inheritance Tax planning without increasing the value of 
your estate or causing any inheritance tax liabilities
To have control of your investment where you can decide where the pension is 
invested
The potential for capital growth and produce a higher level of income, tax free cash 
sum or both
Receive a reduction in plan charges based upon the size of the transfer
To leave the precarious financial state of the scheme
The costs associated with the recommendation were set out in the suitability report, as 
follows:
Initial charge deducted from the PPP fund value
1.75% (or £9,085) initial adviser charge
Ongoing annual charges deducted from the PPP fund value 
The ongoing charge was 1.45%, broken down as follows:
0.50% ongoing advice charge
0.65% fund charges
0.30% product charge 
Mr A accepted the recommendation, following which the transfer to the PPP was completed. 
Hunter Mills recommended that, after the deduction of its initial adviser charge, the transfer 
value be invested in Prudentials Pru Growth Fund.
This complaint
During 2021, Mr A complained to Hunter Mills about the suitability of its pension transfer 
advice. In summary, he said that:He shouldve been advised to leave his benefits within the BSPS2 because of the 
guarantees it provided;
He hadnt seen an adviser from Hunter Mills since the pension transfer despite the 
fact it had continued to receive the 0.50% ongoing advice charge deducted from the 
value of his PPP;
He was unhappy about the level of fees charges and the mental stress of seeing the 
value of his PPP fall during the Covid-19 pandemic; and
Hunter Mills failed to update its records after he had informed it about changes to his 
personal circumstances.
Hunter Mills didnt uphold this complaint. In summary, it stated that it did its best to help him 
during difficult circumstances involving a pension scheme that had severe financial 
difficulties and a short window of time to make a major decision. It stated that Mr As options 
were limited and by transferring out he now had many more options open to him when he 
decides to take benefits which are more tax efficient than a DB pension income. In addition, 
the by transferring out, he now has superior death benefits available to his children
which they wouldnt have got under the PPF and BSPS2 options. It concluded that it 
remained satisfied a pension transfer was the only viable option to enable him to achieve his 
objectives relating to control, early retirement and flexibility, and death benefits. In its view, 
neither the BPS2 nor PPF wouldve enabled Mr A to achieve his objectives. 
One of our investigators considered this complaint and recommended that it be upheld 
because he concluded that Hunter Mills had provided unsuitable advice to Mr A. He thought 
suitable advice wouldve been to transfer to the BSPS2. To put things right, our investigator 
recommended that Hunter Mills carry out a redress calculation in line with the FCAs 
guidelines on the basis that Mr A opted for the BSPS2 and would be a 20% income taxpayer 
in retirement. In addition, he recommended that Hunter Mills pay Mr A £500 compensation 
for the trouble and upset caused by its unsuitable recommendation.
Hunter Mills disagreed with our investigators assessment and provided additional comments 
in response. Our investigator considered those additional comments but wasnt persuaded to 
change his view and recommendation that this complaint should be upheld. Since 
agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint has been referred to me to review and 
decide. This is the last stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to 
have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Id like to clarify that the purpose of this final decision isnt to repeat or address every single
point raised by the parties. Ive carefully considered the evidence provided by Mr A and 
Hunter Mills. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont believe its 
affected what I think is the right outcome. Im satisfied that Ive been provided with sufficient 
evidence to decide this complaint.To make my findings easier to follow, Ive set them out under separate headings below.
The FCAs applicable rules and guidance
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time
of the advice but provides useful context for my assessment of Hunter Millls actions here.
PRIN 6 : A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule)
The provisions in COBS 19 which specifically relate to a DB pension transfer were as 
follows:
COBS 19.1.2R required the following:
A firm must: 
(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a 
defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits 
with the benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder pension 
scheme or other  pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises a retail 
client to transfer out of a defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme 
with safeguarded benefits;
(2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able 
to make an informed decision;
(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the 
factors that do and do not support the firm's advice, in good time, and in any case no 
later than when the key features document is provided; and
(4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison 
and its advice.
And COBS 19.1.3 G stated:
In particular, the comparison should:
(1) take into account all of the retail client's relevant circumstances;
(2) have regard to the benefits and options available under the ceding scheme and 
the effect of replacing them with the benefits and options under the proposed 
scheme;
(3) explain the assumptions on which it is based and the rates of return that would 
have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being given up;
(4) be illustrated on rates of return which take into account the likely expected returns 
of the assets in which the retail client's funds will be invested; and(5) where an immediate crystallisation of benefits is sought by the retail client prior to 
the ceding schemes normal retirement age, compare the benefits available from 
crystallisation at normal retirement age under that scheme.
Under the heading Suitability, the following was set out:
COBS 19.1.6G: 
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined 
benefits occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits 
whether to transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a 
transfer, conversion or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a 
transfer, conversion or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on 
contemporary evidence, that the transfer, conversion or opt-out is in the client's best 
interests
COBS 19.1.7G:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, pension conversion or 
pension opt-out, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, where 
relevant, in relation to the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved 
to replicate the benefits being given up.
COBS 19.1.7B:
In considering whether to make a personal recommendation, a firm should not 
regard a rate of return which may replicate the benefits being given up from the 
defined benefits pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits as 
sufficient in itself.
COBS 19.1.8G:
When a firm prepares a suitability report it should include:
(1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal 
recommendation;
(2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and
(3) a summary of any other material information.
Businesses are required to follow these rules and consider the guidance because the FCA 
considers safeguarded benefits to be valuable. Based on the above regulatory rules and 
guidance, businesses advising on pension transfers should start by assuming that the 
existing DB pension scheme is suitable and to only recommend a transfer, which converts 
safeguarded benefits into flexible benefits, if it can clearly demonstrate its in their clients 
best interests.
In assessing the suitability of Hunter Mills recommendation, its necessary for me to have 
due regard to the FCAs rules and guidance stated above when it advised Mr A.
Mr As situationThe situation for Mr A wasnt normal because the existing DB pension scheme, the BSPS, 
was closing. So he was essentially forced to transfer the value of his safeguarded benefits to 
a new scheme. He had three options, as set out in the Time to Choose pack issued to him 
in October 2017:
1. Transfer to the PPF;
2. Transfer to the BSPS2; or
3. Transfer to an alternative pension plan such as a PPP.
Its undeniable that it was a period of great uncertainty for individuals such as Mr A. Many of 
these individuals were in a vulnerable position due to the uncertainty surrounding the future 
of the BSPS. I think the uncertainty only served to emphasise the need at that time for a 
balanced assessment of the options available and ultimately the provision of suitable advice. 
Its my view that any concerns Mr A had about the security of his safeguarded benefits 
shouldve been addressed and appropriately managed by the professional party in the 
transaction, Hunter Mills.
Options 1 and 2 wouldve enabled Mr A to retain guaranteed income, albeit at a lower level 
than provided by the BSPS. There were differences between the PPF and the BSPS2. For 
deferred members below the scheme normal retirement age, like Mr A, the PPF would 
provide compensation based on 90% of their accrued pension at the scheme normal 
retirement age (in effect a 10% reduction in benefits). The BSPS2 didnt apply such a 
reduction. The BSPS2 also provided the potential for discretionary increases to the accrued 
pension, a higher level of spouses pension and the option to transfer to an alternative 
pension to convert to flexible benefits at a later date, if then deemed suitable.
So while the situation was somewhat unusual, Mr A still had the option to retain guaranteed 
benefits in either the PPF or BSPS2. Based on his age, circumstances and uncertainty about 
when he would retire (which Ill come on to later), its my view that he wouldve been better 
off choosing the BSPS2 instead of the PPF because of the higher level of income it would 
pay at age 65.
I dont believe that the circumstances surrounding the BSPS altered the FCAs position or its 
expectations of firms. Given the FCAs view on safeguarded benefits and what was known at 
that time, its my fair and reasonable opinion that Hunter Mills shouldve started its advice 
process by assuming the BSPS2 was likely to be the most suitable option for Mr A and to 
only recommend a transfer to the PPP if it could clearly demonstrate it was in his best 
interests, as referenced in COBS 19.1.6G.
Transfer analysis 
One of the key components in determining the suitability of a pension transfer is assessing 
the financial viability of the proposed transaction. 
The transfer value analysis system (TVAS) rules applied at the time Hunter Mills advised         
Mr A. This required it to carry out a transfer value analysis to calculate the critical yield 
applicable to the proposed transfer. The critical yield is the annual rate of investment return 
required on the invested transfer value, after charges, to match the capitalised value of the 
benefits offered by the DB pension scheme on the assumption that the value of the 
alternative pension is used to secure a lifetime annuity at the scheme normal retirement age 
(or other selected age)  the higher the critical yield, the less likely that the alternative 
pension will achieve sufficient investment growth to match the revalued pension payable by 
the DB pension scheme.Hunter Mills calculated the following estimated benefits and critical yield figures for the BSPS 
and PPF: 
Scheme At age 65 based on taking 
a full pensionAt age 65 based on 
taking a reduced pension 
and maximum tax-free 
cash Critical yield
BSPS £27,444 7.19%
BSPS £18,188 plus tax-free 
cash of £121,2565.24%
PPF £22,466 3.43%
PPF £17,515 plus tax-free 
cash of £116,4823.10%
The critical yield figures for the BSPS2 werent calculated. But it was known at the time 
Hunter Mills advised Mr A that the BSPS2 would, at age 65, pay a higher level of benefits 
than the PPF but lower than the BSPS, so the benefit and critical yield figures for the BSPS2 
likely fell somewhere in between the figures above.
Hunter Mills expressed its view on the critical yield figures in the suitability report as follows:
In our opinion this would not be achievable by using the portfolio we are 
recommending and especially not year in year out if you choose to receive all 
benefits as income [7.19%]. If you took cash and income [5.24%] then it is 
achievable. It is therefore possible that future income and cash will not match what 
the BSPS is projected to offer you at age 65 on a pure like for like basis
I disagree with Hunter Mills assessment of the critical yield figures. Ill explain why. Hunter 
Mills recommendation to Mr A was provided to him after the FCA gave instructions in its 
Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB 
pension transfers as to how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss 
assessments where a complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to 
October 2017 similar rates were published on our website. 
In response to our investigators assessment, Hunter Mills expressed concern about this 
Service referring to discount rates when deciding complaints about pension transfers 
because there wasnt any regulatory requirement for it to refer to these when it advised                 
Mr A. In its view, the discount rates dont have any relevance in assessing the suitability of 
its advice.
I agree with Hunter Mills that businesses weren't required to refer to discount rates when 
giving pension transfer advice. But I consider that they provide a useful indication of what 
growth rates wouldve been considered reasonably achievable when the advice was given in 
this case. The discount rates we refer to are based on a typical investment spread across 
shares and bonds. Over the last thirty years, the bond component in the discount rates has 
increased to reflect the more cautious approach typically being taken when members 
transfer a large number of years of DB qualifying service. The closest discount rate which 
I'm able to refer to and published by this Service for the period before October 2017 is 4.2% 
based on Mr A taking benefits at the scheme normal retirement age of 65. Furthermore, the 
FCA's projection rate for pensions at the time was 8% per year for the upper rate, 5% per 
year for the middle rate and 2% per year for the lower rate. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr A's 
Lowest Medium attitude to investment risk and the investment timeframe to age 65. Based on these factors, I think the critical yield figures meant that there was limited scope to match 
the benefits likely payable by the BSPS2, let alone exceed them. There would usually be no 
point relinquishing safeguarded benefits in order to stand still, given the risk that the 
transfer might underperform. So, from an economic point of view, its questionable whether 
there was a reasonable prospect that Mr A would be financially better off by transferring on a 
like-for-like basis when compared to the scheme pension. I think the figures show that there 
was a strong possibility Mr A would be worse off at age 65 by transferring.
Notwithstanding the above, the basis of the recommendation was that Mr A was seeking to 
take benefits earlier than age 65. Theres reference in the suitability report that he was 
looking to access benefits at age 55. If that was the case then I wouldve expected Hunter 
Mills to also calculate the critical yield figures at age 55 to enable Mr A to make an informed 
decision. But it inexplicably only calculated and presented the figures at age 65. I think this is 
a material oversight because the figures at age 55 wouldve been higher (compared to at 
age 65) due to the shorter investment timeframe and impact of initial advice charge on the 
required growth rate. This means that Mr A wasnt provided accurate information about the 
level of investment growth required to match the scheme pension if he took benefits earlier 
than age 65. In my view, this oversight further undermines the case for a pension transfer at 
that time.
Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving pension transfer advice,
as was set out in COBS 19.1.7B. A reasonable prospect of the critical yield being met or
exceeded wouldnt necessarily mean that the transfer was suitable, and, conversely, there
might be other considerations which mean a pension transfer is suitable, despite providing
overall lower benefits. Ill now go on to consider this in the context of Mr As recorded 
objectives.
Mr As objectives
Based on the fact find document and suitability report, Mr A had several objectives regarding 
his safeguarded benefits, which can be distilled into three broad areas, summarised as 
follows:
Control: He was concerned about the longevity of Tata Steel and that the value of 
his safeguarded benefits could be transferred to the PPF, leading to a reduction in 
the level of benefits he would receive when he retired. Due to these concerns, he 
wanted control over his pension benefits by transferring away;
 
Flexibility and early retirement: He wanted the flexibility to retire earlier than age 
65 and, at that point, receive annual retirement income of about £18,000 in 2017 
terms; 
Death benefits: He wanted to ensure that, in the event of his earlier death, any 
unused pension benefits be passed on to his family.
I recognise that Mr As safeguarded benefits was ultimately his money to do with as he saw 
fit. However, he was relying on Hunter Mills to provide expert, balanced information and 
advice, taking into account all the information available to it at that time  so that he could 
then make an informed decision. I understand that there will be instances where a client 
seeks financial advice with preconceived notions or concerns about the financial health of an 
employer or DB pension scheme but, as the professional party, Hunter Mills was tasked with 
rationally addressing those concerns and providing an appropriately balanced view of the 
available options. In my view, financial planning isnt simply about wish fulfilment and facilitating whatever 
course of action a client wishes to take. If an advising business considers a course of action 
to be unsuitable for their client, or otherwise not in their best interests, it has a choice not to 
facilitate the transaction.
Control objective
Its clear that one of Mr As main motivations for considering a pension transfer was due to 
his concerns about the BSPS and the risk that this might fall into the PPF. I accept that such 
concerns were common among steelworkers at the time, and that it wouldve been a major 
motivation behind many of them transferring out. So I can understand why Mr A wanted to 
have control over his benefits by transferring to a PPP. 
In its suitability report Hunter Mills mentioned the situation with the BSPS and PPF, as 
follows: 
The British Steel scheme is a contracted out of SERPS final salary scheme. This is 
a private sector scheme and promises to provide you with a pension at retirement or 
a smaller income and a tax free lump sum. The main scheme retirement age is 65 
and provides pension / inflationary increases before and after retirement. Please note 
the phrase promises and not guaranteed. The pension scheme promises to provide 
you with an income providing the employer doesnt fail or winds up. As you will have 
seen in the recent media, the disastrous situation with BHS and their final salary 
pension !
The only form the BSPS or Pension protection Fund benefits can be paid to you is 
via a fixed monthly income for the rest of your life or a reduced income and a tax free  
cash sum. The downside of entering the PPF is that once in no transfers out are 
allowed even if it no longer suits your requirements and the earliest you can access 
benefits of any type is age 60. They will still be reduced for taking earlier than age 65 
which was the age the BSPS was set up to
If the employer ceases contributions or fails then the scheme has the back-up of the
government run Pension Protection fund. This provides 90% of the expected pension 
you are due but the earliest you can access is age 60, benefits reduced for taking 
earlier than age 65 and once entered you are not able to transfer out. Some of the 
inflation increases are also not as generous as the main schemes as well.
Hunter Mills also stated that it recommended a transfer away, To leave the precarious 
financial state of the scheme.
I dont think the situation was as bleak as Hunter Mills suggested. I think it overplayed the 
situation regarding the PPF which likely fed into Mr As fears. Its worth noting that Hunter 
Mills advice was provided in November 2017, after the Time to Choose pack had been 
issued to members. I think that the risk of the BSPS falling into the PPF had receded by a 
large extent by that point, as the RAA had been approved and the BSPS2 was being 
proposed primarily because it could provide benefits in most situations that were higher than 
PPF benefits. But, in any event, I dont consider a transfer to the PPF was an outcome for     
Mr A to avoid at all costs. Ill explain why.
The PPF was introduced by the government in 2005 as a lifeboat scheme to protect
members of DB pension schemes with the promise of providing a minimum level of benefits.
The revaluation and escalation rates are set by law. Depending on his age on transfer to the
PPF, Mr A could expect to receive a minimum of 90% of his scheme pension, although this
would be affected by the revaluation and escalation rates under the PPF. This contrastedwith the recommended PPP where theres no promise of a minimum level of benefits
payable. At the time of Hunter Mills recommendation, the PPFs financial position remained 
robust. So there wasnt any reason at that time to question the financial viability of the PPF 
to provide benefits in the future.
A transfer to the BSPS2 wouldve removed any immediate concerns Mr A had about the 
PPF. After all, the whole reason the BSPS2 was conceived was to provide a new long-term 
DB pension scheme for former members of the BSPS. And if it was the case, in the future, 
that the BSPS2 was at risk of being transferred to the PPF, then I think it likely that, similarly 
to the BSPS, members would be given the opportunity to transfer out to an alternative 
scheme before any transfer to the PPF occurred. So I dont think that there was any 
immediate concern about options disappearing for Mr A or that there was an urgency to 
transfer to a PPP at that time to avoid a transfer to the PPF. 
If Mr A was concerned about his safeguarded benefits being transferred to the PPF which 
would result in him losing 10% of his scheme pension, then I question why he would accept 
the risk of transferring to a PPP which exposed him to unlimited downside risks where the 
loss could be significantly greater than 10%. This simply doesnt make sense to me and 
suggests that he didnt have the knowledge and experience to understand the features, risks 
and benefits of the PPF compared to the pension transfer. He was relying on Hunter Mills to 
provide expert advice on this point, but I think it failed to do this. 
In my view, the suitability report didnt deal with Mr As concerns about the PPF. So he likely 
thought that a transfer to the PPF was an outcome to avoid at all costs and probably 
reinforced his view that a transfer to a PPP was the best course of action, particularly after 
Hunter Mills misled him about the earliest age at which he could access benefits under the 
PPF. It stated that under the PPF he wouldnt be able to access benefits earlier than age 60. 
This was incorrect. The PPF allows members to take benefits from age 55 (the same as the 
recommended PPP) or even earlier if a protected pension age is applicable. This misleading 
information likely reinforced Mr As concerns about the PPF and convinced him that 
transferring was necessary so that he didnt lose the option to take benefits earlier than age 
60. But he made that decision from an uninformed position. 
In summary, I think that Hunter Mills failed to adequately allay Mr As misapprehensions 
about the PPF and misled him about the earliest age at which he could access benefits 
under that scheme.
Flexibility and early retirement objective 
It was recorded that Mr A wanted the flexibility to retire earlier than age 65 and, at that point, 
receive annual retirement income of about £18,000 in 2017 terms. The contemporaneous 
evidence stated that Mr As expected annual expenditure in retirement would be £9,000. 
 
I think its clear that Mr A was attracted to a flexible arrangement. As noted above, theres 
reference in the suitability report that he was looking to access benefits flexibly at age 55. 
But flexibility isnt an objective in itself. The suitability report, for example, states that the 
PPP would give Mr A the flexibility to take a variable income instead of a fixed income but 
didnt explain why this was so important. And it wasnt explained why he didnt want a fixed 
or guaranteed retirement income stream. In my view, theres no real evidence that Mr A 
required irregular lump sums, variable income or staggered income during retirement. I think 
theres insufficient colour and detail in the suitability report to explain why Mr A required 
flexible benefits.
Many people want to retire early or have the ability to take flexible benefits. But this can only 
happen if they have the financial means to support themselves in retirement. Financial planning generally involves managing client expectations and a need for compromises. Mr A 
may have wanted to retire earlier than 65 but it was for Hunter Mills, as the expert, to 
establish if this was feasible and to manage his expectations and help him modify his 
objectives to reflect the reality of his circumstances, if necessary. The further away from 
retirement an individual is, the harder it is to establish what their likely income need is. And 
in Mr As case, being aged 50 at the time of the advice, I think it wouldve been difficult to 
predict with any degree of certainty what his expected expenditure during retirement would 
be  and what level of income hed need to cover this and whether, in fact, he could retire 
early. 
Hunter Mills stated in the suitability report that if benefits were taken early under the BSPS 
(or BSPS2) then the income paid to Mr A would be reduced. It characterised this reduction 
as a penalty. But the reduction wasnt a penalty but applied to reflect the fact that the 
scheme would have to support the income for longer than anticipated, and to protect the 
interests of scheme members generally. 
Hunter Mills portrayed the PPP option as allowing for early retirement earlier than age 65 
without penalty. It stated in the suitability report, To access the transfer value in the form of 
a tax free cash lump sum or income or both earlier than the main scheme retirement age of 
65 without having to suffer a reduction or penalty. I think this was misleading. The reality 
was of course that the PPP wouldve had less time to grow if accessed earlier than age 65 
and any resulting income would need to last longer. I cannot see that this was adequately 
explained to Mr A so that he could understand accessing any of the available options early 
would likely lead to reduced retirement income during his lifetime compared to taking 
benefits at age 65.
While I dont doubt Mr A wouldve liked the flexibility to retire early, possibly from age 55, 
plans can change over such a long period of time. Notwithstanding this, Mr A was then aged 
50 and couldnt access the money in the PPP until age 55 at the earliest anyway. So I dont 
think there was any need to transfer at that time, especially given the critical yield figures 
attached to the transaction.
Had Hunter Mills advised Mr A to transfer to the BSPS2 he wouldve maintained 
safeguarded benefits and retained the option to transfer to a PPP at a later date, if then 
deemed suitable, when he could immediately access benefits and, crucially, determine his 
retirement income and lump sum needs with far greater accuracy than at age 50. I think this 
is a key point. This approach wouldve entailed significantly less risk for Mr A compared to 
the pension transfer at that time. Transferring to the PPP led to the investment, inflation and 
longevity risks associated with providing the retirement benefits moving from the DB pension 
scheme to Mr A for the period until he retired. It also led to Mr A concentrating all his private 
retirement provision on a DC basis which offered no guarantees but was based entirely on 
investment performance and charges. 
That said, if it was a genuine requirement that Mr A required flexible benefits, I make the 
following observation. He had been an active member of his workplace DC pension scheme 
since 2011. He and his employer were, in total, contributing 16% of his gross annual salary 
of £25,000 into his DC pension plan every year, which was about £4,000 in monetary terms. 
This would increase in line with increases in his salary. It appears that he intended to 
continue working in the same role for the foreseeable future. And in the event he left that 
employment, I think its likely that hed find alternative employment and, with the legal 
requirements of auto-enrolment, would join a different DC pension scheme and pay a 
minimum of 8% of his earnings into it. 
So by the time he retired, its likely that Mr A wouldve built up significant DC pension 
savings. So if he did have a need for flexible benefits, I think this couldve been met in the first instance by using his likely significant DC pension savings built up since 2011. This 
course of action wouldve enabled Mr A to maintain his safeguarded benefits in the BSPS2 
and defer any decisions regarding it until a later date. The alternative, blended approach Ive 
suggested above may have enabled Mr A to achieve his flexibility objective but with 
significantly less risk. I havent seen any evidence that Hunter Mills adequately considered, 
presented and discounted this alternative blended approach in meeting Mr As objectives. 
The notes in the fact find document stated that Mr A liked the idea of no inheritance tax. 
And in the suitability report, Hunter Mills stated that it recommended the pension transfer to 
a PPP to enable Mr A, To benefit from extensive Inheritance Tax planning without 
increasing the value of your estate or causing any inheritance tax liabilities. Im not sure 
how this was relevant to the recommendation or why Mr A required extensive inheritance tax 
(IHT) planning. I say this because at the time of the advice, the value of Mr As taxable 
assets for IHT purposes was significantly below the threshold of £325,000. So he didnt have 
any IHT liability at that time. And there wasnt any indication this would change in the 
foreseeable future.
While its true that Mr A held significant pension assets, these dont normally form part of an 
individuals estate for IHT purposes. So whether the value of his safeguarded benefits were 
held in the PPF, BSPS2 or PPP, they would normally be exempt from IHT. I cannot see that 
Hunter Mills explained this to Mr A and so its likely  based on the content of the suitability 
report  that he incorrectly thought he had an IHT-related issue that would be resolved by 
transferring to the PPP when this wasnt the case at all.
In summary, the contemporaneous evidence simply doesnt support the position as to why 
flexibility and early retirement objectives wouldve been a sufficiently compelling reason for 
Mr A to relinquish valuable benefit guarantees at that time by transferring to a PPP. He didnt 
gain any IHT-related advantage by transferring. I havent seen any evidence that shows the 
pension transfer to the PPP led to Mr A gaining any clearly defined advantage compared to 
the alternative option of transferring to the BSPS2.
Death benefits objective
It was recorded that Mr A wanted to ensure that, in the event of his earlier death, the value of 
unused pension benefits be paid to his wife and children. Since he had left the employment 
of Tata Steel in 2011, there wasnt any death in service benefit available from that employer.
Had Mr A opted for the BSPS2, then, on death before retirement, it would provide a refund of 
contributions of £39,737 plus interest at 3% per year compound and a 50% spouses 
pension would be provided  after retirement it would pay a 50% spouses pension to Mr As 
wife. There was also the potential for a childrens pension for any qualifying dependants 
calculated as five sixths of the spouse's pension with this amount being shared between 
dependants up to age 23. It was noted in the suitability report that Mr A wasnt happy with 
these death benefits. The report stated:
You find this aspect completely dis-agreeable and has been one of the key focal 
points for recommending a transfer to an alternative arrangement where [Mrs As 
wife] can benefit from the capital value, potentially tax free and the value retained in 
the family. She already has substantial pension savings and an employed income in 
her own right. If any value is passed to [Mr As wife] she can then nominate anyone 
to receive any remaining value eg. your two children and so pass the benefits on and 
retain within the family.
The recommended PPP offered flexible death benefits. Based on the applicable tax rules, if 
death occurred under age 75 the benefits are paid free of income tax  after age 75 the benefits are taxed at the beneficiarys marginal rate of income tax. Its fair to say that 
immediately following the transfer to the PPP and for the period until Mr A withdrew 
retirement benefits, the death benefits available would be significant (subject to investment 
performance) due to the simple fact he couldnt access and deplete the fund value.
But Mr A was recorded as being in good health. So he could expect life expectancy into his 
80s. There werent any immediate health concerns that indicated a pension transfer was a 
suitable course of action at that time.
Mr As safeguarded benefits, accounting for 26 years and 7 months qualifying service, 
represented the backbone of his retirement provision built up by that time. His other savings 
and investments included cash deposits of about £5,000 and his benefits built up in his 
workplace DC pension plan. Taking this into account, I think its fair to say that when the time 
came to retire, he would be heavily reliant on the value of his BSPS benefits to support his 
standard of living in retirement. Withdrawing money from the PPP to meet his income and 
lump sum needs possibly would likely mean that the size of the fund remaining in later years 
 when death is more likely  could be much smaller than expected. This doesnt appear to 
have been considered by Hunter Mills.
If Mr A wanted to provide a lump sum to his family on his death, then life cover couldve 
achieved the same objective of providing a lump sum while enabling him to maintain 
safeguarded benefits in the BSPS2. I note that Mr A had surplus disposable income 
available every month between £300 to £400 which he couldve used to pay for life cover to 
achieve the death lump sum objective. Pure life cover for a defined term is generally cheap 
and some cover may have been affordable for Mr A given he was aged 50 and recorded as 
being in good health. However, I cannot see evidence that Hunter Mills adequately 
investigated the life cover option. For example, I havent seen evidence that Hunter Mills 
quantified Mr As death lump sum need, over what term, how this might change over time, 
how it might be met by other means or present personalised life cover quotes to him to 
enable him to make an informed decision.
Notwithstanding the above, I note that Mr A didnt have any debts or liabilities that would 
need to be repaid on his death. In the event of his death then the value of his workplace DC 
pension plan would be payable to his nominated beneficiary. Hunter Mills didnt record the 
value of that DC plan but I can see that Mr A had been a member of it since 2011 and that 
the total annual contribution was 16% of his annual salary of £25,000  so on his earlier 
death, this may have provided a reasonable lump sum to his wife. In addition, I note that              
Mr A was employed full-time by a large global manufacturing company and so I think its 
more likely than not he had some form of death in service benefit cover but this wasnt 
recorded by Hunter Mills.
So it seems to me that in the immediate future, certainly while Mr A remained employed, 
some level of benefit would be paid to his family on his death. This leads me to conclude that 
there wasnt any immediate need to transfer at that time to provide death benefits in a 
different format when its likely Mr A couldve explored the life cover options available to him.
While I understand that death benefits are important to consumers, the priority here, in my 
opinion, was to advise Mr A about what was best for his own retirement provision. A pension 
is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. Its my view that Mr A had no health 
issues at the time Hunter Mills advised him which might reasonably have prompted him to 
relinquish the guarantees attached to his own retirement income for the sake of an 
enhanced safety net for his family. Furthermore, Hunter Mills recorded that Mr As wife had,  
substantial pension savings and an employed income in her own right, so it seems she 
wasnt entirely reliant on the value of Mr As safeguarded benefits to provide her with 
retirement income, further undermining the case for a pension transfer.Overall, Im not convinced there was any real merit in Mr A transferring to a PPP at that time 
to provide a lump sum death benefit to his family.
If properly informed, would Mr A have transferred anyway?
Im not persuaded that a pension transfer was clearly in Mr As best interests. And as Ive 
noted above, I think Hunter Mills provided misleading information in several sections in its 
suitability report which prevented him from making an informed decision. As a result, I think 
its fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint.
In potential mitigation of Hunter Mills advice, Ive also thought about whether Mr A, if placed 
in a fully informed position, would nevertheless have decided to transfer the value of his 
safeguarded benefits to a PPP. This was a complex transaction involving many factors 
which Mr A, as a layperson, wouldnt have been familiar. Its my view, given his lack of 
investment knowledge and experience, that he was heavily reliant on Hunter Mills, as the 
professional party in the transaction, to take those factors into account and provide suitable, 
balanced advice. 
Mr A might have chosen to transfer against advice on the basis of his concerns. However, 
bearing in mind that many other members transferred to the BSPS2 even though such 
concerns were widely held, and bearing in mind also his lack of investment experience and 
Lowest Medium risk profile, I dont think, on balance, that he wouldve insisted on 
transferring. Given Mr As reliance on Hunter Mills, I think its likely he wouldve accepted a 
recommendation for the BSPS2 had it advised him to take that course of action.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Hunter Mills to put Mr A, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice he was given. My view is
aligned with that of our investigator.
Our investigator concluded that, if properly advised, Mr A wouldve transferred to the BSPS2 
and his benefits would now be preserved in that scheme. While some information on the 
benefits of the BSPS2 were still to be confirmed, its my view that by November 2017 the risk 
of the BSPS falling into the PPF had receded by a large extent. So I think Hunter Mills 
shouldve considered the BSPS2 as a viable option. So, in addition to the PPF, I think its fair 
to consider the BSPS2 as a potential comparator scheme for redress purposes.
There were differences between the BSPS2 and PPF. These differences meant that the PPF 
was likely the better option for unmarried, deferred members who expected to retire early or 
take the maximum tax-free cash available even allowing for the 10% reduction in the starting 
entitlement. But the BSPS2 was likely the better option for married pensioners and deferred 
members who expected to draw benefits at or close to the scheme normal retirement age of 
65. Given the timeframe, Im not convinced that it could be reasonably determined in 2017 
that the PPF was the likely better option for Mr A. And so I think, given the lack of clarity 
surrounding when Mr A would retire, the BSPS2 was likely the better option for him based on 
what was known at the time and that at age 65 the BSPS2 would provide a higher level of 
benefits than the PPF. As such, the calculation on the basis of entering the BSPS2 should 
be carried out. For clarity, compensation should be based on the BSPS2s normal retirement 
age of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
Hunter Mills must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for 
calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
Hunter Mills should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress 
rather than using third party actuarial software. This is because in its  Dear CEO letter of             
19 May 2023, the FCA expressed its concerns about businesses using such software. A 
copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr A and this Service upon completion 
of the calculation.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr As 
acceptance of this final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Hunter Mills should:
calculate and offer Mr A redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr A before starting the redress calculation that:
- its redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest the redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr A receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum;
if Mr A accepts Hunter Mills offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr A for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented; 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr As end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr A as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, Hunter Mills may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum 
payments to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their 
pension. Typically, 25% of the loss couldve been taken as tax-free cash and 75% wouldve 
been taxed according to Mr As likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
In addition, Hunter Mills should pay Mr A £500 compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused by its unsuitable recommendation.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Hunter Mills Limited to 
pay Mr A the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£160,000. Where the compensation amount doesnt exceed £160,000, I would additionally require Hunter Mills Limited to pay Mr A any interest on that amount in full, as set out above. 
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Hunter 
Mills Limited to pay Mr A any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Hunter Mills Limited pays Mr A the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr A. 
If Mr A accepts this final decision, the money award becomes binding on Hunter Mills 
Limited. My recommendation wouldnt be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr A can accept 
this final decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr A may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2023.  
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman