DRN-2015458
The complaint
Mrs C on behalf of the estate of Mr C has complained British Gas Insurance Limited 
(British Gas) caused her property to be severely fire damaged after carrying out works on 
her boiler under her homecare policy. She also complains it withdrew her electrics cover; 
cancelled appointments; and didnt arrange alternative accommodation. Shes said this has 
affected her health. And she was living without heating or hot water for a number of months.
As this complaint is about events that happened at Mrs Cs property, I will refer to her only. 
Any reference to British Gas includes its agents. 
What happened
British Gas has said Mrs Cs homecare policy renewed in October 2019. Its said it covered 
her central heating system only. Mrs C says the policy also covered her electrics. In 
November 2019, British Gas engineers visited Mrs Cs property for a routine service. And 
around 15 November 2019, Mrs C called as her boiler wasnt working. The service notes 
show British Gas tried to rectify things and it ordered heaters as Mrs C had no heating. 
Around 21 November 2019, British Gas says an engineer returned to the property to fit new 
parts. But as this didnt fix things, he booked a power flush. His statement says he identified 
the shower pump in the airing cupboard was leaking but he didnt carry out repairs on it as it 
wasnt covered. So he says he isolated the pump to stop it dripping on an electric valve.
On 29 November 2019, another engineer attended the property. The engineers statement 
says he told Mrs C he would chase the flush as she was considered a vulnerable customer. 
Sadly on 4 December 2019, there was a fire at Mrs Cs house. Shes explained it caused 
extensive damage and left her without a habitable property. A fire report carried out the next 
day says the fire was caused in the fuse box or by a nearby electric heater.
Mrs C says British Gass account of things is inaccurate. She says her boiler was working 
before the service. And the engineer described the leak in the airing cupboard as high risk 
so she expected him to fix it. She thinks this leak either started the fire  or it stopped her 
system from working which meant she had to use electric heaters which started the fire.
Mrs Cs given us a report from the electrical company (K) who repaired her electrics in 
April 2020. It says her boiler now works which suggests the leak caused the problem. Shes 
also given us a report from a chartered engineer (J) which says using five heaters at the 
same time couldve caused her circuit to overload. 
British Gas says for the size of Mrs Cs property, it wouldnt have left five heaters  and she 
may have had two left over from a previous visit. It also says the heaters were left with the 
manufacturers instructions and its own safety leaflet. It thinks the problems with the system 
were only temporarily resolved because the system was left idle for some time. 
British Gas says Mrs C first requested electric cover in January 2020. But the cover was 
withdrawn as the wiring was damaged and hadnt been reconnected. British Gas has said 
appointments Mrs C later booked for April 2020 were cancelled as it was unable to contact 
her for pre-visit checks as part of its process for visits during the coronavirus pandemic. 
Unable to resolve things with British Gas, Mrs C asked our service to look into things. Our 
investigator didnt uphold her complaint. He accepted British Gas version of events and 
didnt think it caused the fire. And he didnt think it had done anything wrong since then. 
Mrs C didnt agree with our investigators opinion so the complaints been passed to me. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I understand Mrs Cs been through an extremely 
difficult time  shes had a lot to deal with which has impacted her health significantly. Im 
also sorry to hear about the loss of her pet dog and the separation shes had to experience 
from her family. I know shell be disappointed with the outcome. 
Cause of the fire
In this case, the question for me is whether its more likely, on the balance of probabilities, 
British Gas did something wrong and that directly led to the fire in Mrs Cs home. From all 
the reports Ive been given, it seems theres no dispute the fire was caused by the electrics. 
But, based on what Ive seen, I cant say whether this was the heaters or something else. 
Thats because the fire report from the day after the fire indicates its not possible to say. 
And whilst Js report says the heaters overloaded the system, it seems this was more likely 
based on a conversation with Mrs C as it was from several months after the fire. 
In any event, I dont think this makes a difference in this case. If the fire was caused by the 
heaters provided by British Gas as Mrs C suggests, none of the reports say it was due to a 
fault  but more likely due to too many being used at the same time. So the question for me 
is whether that happened because of British Gas actions. 
Mrs C and British Gas disagree on how many heaters it gave her to use. Ive looked at the 
service history notes provided. Under the columns relating to parts I can see on 
19 November 2019, two fan heaters are listed. Taking this together with the engineers 
statement that he provided two fan heaters on 21 November 2019, Im persuaded its more 
likely the engineer ordered two heaters to supply Mrs C with. I can also see the service 
history shows fan heaters were provided to Mrs C in the past  in 2016. So I think its likely 
she mightve still had those heaters  or some of her own  to use. And I think its unlikely 
British Gas gave her the number of heaters to use as she says it did. 
British Gas has said when it delivered Mrs C the heaters, it did so with the packaging and 
safety leaflets. This instructs users on how they should and shouldnt use the heaters. Mrs C 
says it didnt give her any of this. Considering British Gas seems to have ordered these 
heaters to be delivered to Mrs C two days later, it seems plausible to me that it wouldve 
been delivered in its packaging  particularly as it says thats its normal process. 
Mrs Cs insisted we obtain the message she says the engineer sent to his manager on 
21 November 2019 about the high risk issue. She says he was referring to the leak. British 
Gas denies this conversation happened  and it says it doesnt have any messages sent that 
day. In any event, I havent seen any evidence to make me think this leak caused the fire. I know Mrs Cs report from K suggests the leak was the start of a chain of events which 
caused the fire. But it seems unlikely to me the leak caused the problems with the heating as 
from what Mrs Cs told us, her heating still has problems  even after the leak and electrical 
issue were repaired. In any event, shower pumps are specifically excluded from cover under 
Mrs Cs policy. So even if it had stopped Mrs Cs system working, Im satisfied she wouldve 
needed to get the leak repaired herself  and use the heaters in the meantime. So I dont 
think seeing a copy of the message to the manager would change anything.
Overall, based on everything Ive seen, the cause of the fire isnt clear, and Im not 
persuaded Mrs Cs shown it was most likely caused by something British Gas did wrong. 
Electrical cover, cancelled service visits
Mrs C maintains she had electrical cover. British Gas has given us her renewal notice for 
October 2019 which only mentions central heating cover. And under the policy terms, not 
every policy includes electrical cover. Mrs C says her bank has told her she paid for it but 
shes not given us anything to show this. So Im not satisfied she had electrical cover.
Mrs C thinks British Gas cancelled her electrical cover in January 2020 incorrectly. But its 
said it did so as her electrics were fire damaged and not connected. And from what Mrs Cs 
said about the extent of the work K did on her electrics some months later, I think thats 
likely. The policy terms say electric cover is for repairs and not for system rewiring. And it 
seems at the time Mrs C requested electrical cover in January 2020, she wouldnt have been 
able to benefit from it. So I dont think British Gas cancelled the cover unfairly. 
Mrs C says she had appointments booked around April 2020 which were cancelled. 
British Gas has told us prior to the visit, it needed to speak to her to carry out specific checks 
as part of a new process put in place for the coronavirus pandemic. Its given us screenshots 
of its internal system to show its calls werent answered. So Im satisfied it acted fairly (and 
in line with its own process) considering the relevant nationwide guidance at the time. 
Alternative accommodation
Mrs C lived at the property without heating and hot water for a long time as shes said she 
had nowhere else to go. And I understand this mustve been extremely difficult and upsetting 
for her. But under the terms of the policy, British Gas will only cover the cost of alternative 
accommodation if the policyholders boiler or gas appliance catches fire or explodes  and 
thats not what happened here. As I dont think the fire was caused by British Gas, I dont 
think it would be fair to expect it to have covered the cost of alternative accommodation. 
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold the estate of Mr Cs complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr C to accept or reject my 
decision before 14 May 2021.
 
Nadya Neve
Ombudsman