DRN-3558701
The complaint
Mrs and Mr N complain that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited trading as AXA PPP healthcare 
hadnt fully refunded the premium for their travel insurance policy and didnt tell about the 
option of a deferment of payment.
What happened
Mrs and Mr N had an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy insured by AXA PPP which 
theyd renewed each year since 2013. The policy was arranged by a broker through a 
professional national association which they belonged to. 
On or about 20 March 2020 they received the policy renewal documents for renewal on 
1 May 2020. As Mrs and Mr N didnt contact AXA PPP the policy automatically renewed, as 
set out in the renewal documents. The annual policy ran from 1 May 2020 until 30 April 
2021, the premium was £542.30. 
In March 2021 the renewal letter from AXA PPP said it was stopping offering the policy 
through the broker and the 2021/22 policy would be the final one. On 17 May 2021 Mrs and 
Mr N contacted AXA PPP and said they hadnt taken a holiday during the 2020/21 policy 
year, theyd only renewed the policy to retain lifetime membership of the insurance which 
AXA PPP was now withdrawing, so they wanted a full refund of the £542.30 policy premium. 
They also complained AXA PPP hadnt offered them the option of a deferred payment of 
premium due to the Covid-19 pandemic which AXA PPP had offered to some other 
policyholders. Mrs and Mr N didnt renew the 2021/22 policy.
AXA PPP said: 
The policy and renewal letters were clear it wasnt a lifetime policy but a one year 
policy that could be renewed.
It was assessing the impact of the pandemic on claims made under its policies and 
planned to be offer a partial premium refund in March 2022. It sent a £25 gift card as 
an interim payment towards the refund. 
It wouldnt fully refund Mrs and Mr Ns premium. It said even if they didnt wish to 
travel abroad at the time the policy covered trips in the UK. 
It had extended policy cancellation rights at the start of the Covid-19 pandemic (in 
March 2020) to enable policyholders who contacted it to defer their travel cover for 
three months with a premium refund for that period, But as Mrs and Mr N hadnt 
made contact at that time it didnt know they were unhappy with their travel cover.
Mrs and Mr N complained to us. They said:
At the time of the 2020 policy renewal their planned holiday to Europe had already 
been cancelled by the travel provider due to the pandemic. Their medical conditions 
meant it was unlikely they would travel in the future due to the risk of Covid-19 and 
as they wouldnt be travelling AXA PPP had no risk to insure.
AXA PPP should have told them about the policy deferment option. 
Theyd understood that continuing to renew the insurance gave them cover for life 
which theyd wanted as historically many travel insurance policies withdrew cover 
when a policyholder reached 75 or 85 years old. If theyd known AXA PPP was no 
longer going to offer the policy from 1 May 2022 they wouldnt have paid to renew the 
policy in May 2020. 
Given their age and the risks of Covid-19 AXA PPP should have known they were 
unlikely to travel abroad and that they didnt need the policy during 2020/21. But it 
still renewed the policy even after the British governments advice in March 2020 not 
to travel abroad.
Our investigator said AXA PPP had acted fairly in not refunding the full premium and she 
didnt think it had done anything wrong.
Mrs and Mr N disagree and want an ombudsmans decision. Before I made my decision 
there was a further development, AXA PPP paid Mrs and Mr N £84.03 in a partial refund of 
the 2020/21 policy premium. They said as AXA PPP accepted the principle of a refund it 
should give a full refund.
Our investigator explained why AXA PPPs partial refund didnt change her view. The 
information in AXA PPPs letter about the partial refund and on its website detailed why it 
had given policyholders a refund. The refund wasnt directly in response to Mrs and Mr Ns 
complaint that they should have a refund because they hadnt travelled in 2020/21 policy 
year.
Mrs and Mr N still want an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs and Mr N have raised several issues in their complaint, which Ive considered. Having 
done so I find that AXA PPP has acted fairly and reasonably. Ill explain why.
Did AXA PPP lead Mrs and Mr N to reasonably understand that the policy gave lifetime 
cover?
Mrs and Mr N understood the policy gave them lifetime cover, which they said led them to 
renew the policy in May 2020 even though they thought it unlikely they would travel that 
policy year because of Covid-19.
Mrs and Mr N no longer have the information that they say led them to believe it was a 
lifetime policy. But they think AXA PPPs policy renewal letter saying that if one of them is 
over 86 years old they wouldnt be able to re-join the policy if there was a break in cover 
also gave the impression it was lifetime cover.
But the 2020 policy document is clear that the policy is for one year. It also says: 
Before the end of any year, provided the travel policy you are on is still available, we 
will write to you to let you know whether we wish to renew the travel policy and, if so, 
on what terms. If we do not hear from you in response and we do wish to renew, then we may at our option assume that you wish to renew the current travel policy on 
those new terms
So I think AXA PPP made it sufficiently clear to Mrs and Mr N it was a one year policy that 
could be renewed if AXA PPP wanted to offer the policy for renewal and Mrs and Mr N 
wanted to continue the policy. And the policy and March 2020 renewal letter is clear that the 
policy will automatically renew unless Mrs and Mr N contact AXA PPP to say they no longer 
wanted to renew. 
The policy document for the 2021/2022 policy year says very similar. And although I havent 
seen all the policy documents AXA PPP provided to Mrs and Mr N from when they first took 
out the policy I think its more likely than not that those policy documents were also clear the 
policy was for year with the option to renew.
Ive seen no evidence that the information AXA PPP provided about the policy reasonably 
led Mrs and Mr N to believe that the policy was a lifetime policy.
Mrs and Mr N also say if theyd known AXA PPP was going to withdraw the policy from 
May 2022 they wouldnt have renewed the May 2020/21. I think the policy term Ive set out 
above is clear that its for AXA PPP to decide if it wants to offer a policy for renewal each 
year, and on what terms. AXA PPP gave one years notice that it wouldnt be offering the 
policy for renewal again in May 2022, which I think was reasonable notice for it to give.
Should AXA PPP have fairly contacted Mrs and Mr N to offer the three month deferred 
cover?
Under the policy terms there is no requirement for AXA PPP to offer a policy deferment. AXA 
PPP told Mrs and Mr N that given the exceptional circumstances of the Covid-19 pandemic it 
offered deferred cover for three months and a three months refund for those policyholders 
that contacted it early in the pandemic.
I dont think AXA PPP needed to write separately to each policyholder with that offer as 
I think its reasonable for a policyholder to know if they wanted to renew the policy and/or 
contact AXA PPP if they had any questions regarding the policy cover and the options 
available to them.
I think AXA PPP fairly said that as Mrs and Mr N didnt contact it in the early stages of the 
pandemic to tell it they were unhappy to continue their cover it didnt later need to offer the 
three month deferment. 
Did AXA PPP act fairly in paying Mrs and Mr N a partial refund of the policy premium?
Industry rules and guidance 
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance about a consumers right to cancel an insurance contract. These are contained 
in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says insurance contracts like the one Mrs and Mr N held have a cooling off period of 
up to 14 days for a consumer to cancel without penalty and without giving any reason. This 
is called the right to cancel. 
Under ICOBS, a firm may provide longer or additional cancellation rights voluntarily, as long 
as these are on terms which are at least as favourable to the consumer, unless the 
differences are clearly explained.
ICOBS 7.2.2 addresses payment for the service provided before cancellation in the event 
that a consumer has the right to cancel. This rule says, if a consumer exercises the right to 
cancel, they may only be required to pay for the service actually provided in accordance 
with the contract. This may include an amount for cover provided (i.e. a proportion of the 
policys exposure that relates to the time on risk). 
Guidance set out under ICOBS 7.2.4 says:In most cases, the FCA would expect the proportion of a policys exposure that 
relates to the time on risk to be a pro rata apportionment. However, where there is 
material unevenness in the incidence of risk, an insurer could use a more accurate 
method. The sum should be reasonable and should not exceed an amount 
commensurate to the risk incurred. 
Mrs and Mr N didnt cancel their travel insurance policy within 14 days, they didnt cancel the 
policy within the policy year. 
The policy terms and conditions
The terms and conditions of Mrs and Mr Ns insurance policy with AXA PPP outlines their 
cancellation rights under the contract. These say:
Cancelling your travel policy 
The lead member may cancel this travel policy within 14 days from the day that your 
travel policy is concluded, or the day that you receive the full policy terms and 
conditions whichever comes later. This is known as the cooling off period. We will 
return any premium paid for the travel policy providing no claims have been made in 
relation to the period before cancellation (being no more than 14 days cover). If you 
incur eligible claims costs within that period we reserve the right to require the lead 
member to pay for the services we have actually provided in connection with the 
travel policy to the extent permitted by law and any return of premium is subject to 
this. If the lead member does not cancel the travel policy during the cooling off period 
the travel policy will continue on the terms described in this handbook for the 
remainder of the travel policy year. The lead member can cancel this annual travel 
policy at any time after the cooling off period, there will be no return of premium in 
these circumstances.
As Mrs and Mr N didnt cancel the policy within the 14 days they arent entitled to any refund 
of premiums under the terms and conditions of the contract with AXA PPP.
What is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances
Ive also considered what I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
complaint taking into account the exceptional and extraordinary circumstances surrounding 
Covid-19.
On or about 20 March 2020, when Mrs and Mr N received the policy renewal letter, and on 
1 May 2020 when the policy renewed Covid-19 was already a known event and the British 
government had already advised against non-essential travel abroad. Their planned holiday 
had already been cancelled by the travel provider and they had no plans to travel due to 
Covid-19.
There was enough information for Mrs and Mr N to make an informed decision about 
whether or not they wanted to renew the policy given the pandemic and they renewed the 
policy aware of the impact of Covid-19. Mrs and Mr N say they renewed to keep the lifetime 
cover they thought they had. But as Ive said, Ive seen no evidence that AXA PPP was 
responsible for Mrs and Mr Ns misunderstanding of the policy. 
Mrs and Mr N say they didnt use the 2020/21 policy as they didnt travel abroad so AXA 
PPP had no risk to insure for them. But the policy does give some cover for holidays in the 
UK and AXA PPP could reasonably understand that if Mrs and Mr N didnt plan to travel they 
would contact it to discuss the situation, which they didnt do. 
Mrs and Mr N have likened their situation to buying a watch which theyve had to pay for 
even though it wasnt received. But I dont think these circumstances are the same. AXA 
PPP did provide Mrs and Mr N with a travel insurance policy, it was Mrs and Mr Ns decision 
not to use the policy. I dont think Mrs and Mr N could reasonably expect AXA PPP to decide that on the basis of 
their age and medical conditions they wouldnt be travelling and not activate the policy 
renewal. The policy information was clear the policy would be automatically renewed unless  
Mrs and Mr N contacted AXA PPP and they didnt give any indication to it that were unhappy 
for the policy to renew until after the policy ended.
Overall, I find that AXA PPP could have reasonably said it wouldnt offer any premium refund 
to Mrs and Mr N for the policy period 2020/21.  
I note Mrs and Mr N said that AXA PPP gave another policyholder a full premium refund. 
AXA says if that happened it was an error. I can only decide a complaint on its 
circumstances and for the reasons above I think it would have been reasonable for AXA 
PPP to offer no refund to Mrs and Mr N. Just because AXA PPP may have made an error  
and refunded the full premium on another persons policy doesnt mean it had to fully refund 
Mrs and Mr Ns premiums.
AXA PPP has provided Mrs and Mr N with a partial refund of their premium of about £110 in 
total. The payment isnt a direct response to Mrs and Mr Ns individual complaint. The 
information AXA PPP provided to Mrs and Mr N, through its letters about the refund and 
though its website, details why its offered a partial refund. Very briefly, AXA PPP says its 
travel policy premiums are based on the expected use of its policies and as policyholders 
hadnt been able to travel as much in the last couple of years due to the pandemic it 
anticipated lower claims. So it decided to offer a partial refund in proportion to the premiums 
policyholders had paid. 
As the partial refund goes beyond what I would say AXA PPP had to do I think its acted 
fairly.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 September 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman