DRN-2574637
The complaint
Ms H complains about the way National Savings and Investments intend to make payments 
to holders of Premium Bonds.
What happened
Ms H describes herself as a long-term holder of Premium bonds. She says she doesnt use 
online banking, has no mobile phone and cant rely on internet access.
She became aware that National Savings and Investments (NSI) intended to change their 
processes so that all payments were made to their customers direct into their bank accounts, 
with notification sent by text or email. This meant they would stop making any payments by 
way of cheques sent through the post.
Ms H objected to this proposed change and complained to NSI. They said they could make 
an exception and notify individuals by post if they requested it. Payments would then be 
made into the individuals bank account, as long as they provided their account details.
When Ms H raised concerns about the security of her bank account details, NSI agreed that 
they would ask for Ms Hs details each time they wanted to make a payment to her but 
wouldnt keep her details permanently on file. 
Ms H wasnt happy with this response and brought her complaint to us. Our investigator 
looked into it and didnt think NSI had done anything wrong.
Ms H disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think I need first of all to be clear about the purpose of our service. 
The regulator of financial businesses is the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). The FCA has 
powers which allow it to guide and/or direct regulated financial companies about how they 
run their business. They can in effect give general guidance about whether certain business 
practices or procedures are fair.
Our role is to look into individual complaint about financial businesses. We can decide 
whether what a business has done has been unfair or unreasonable for a particular 
customer (the person bringing the complaint). If the business has done something wrong, we 
then look at the impact thats had  on the individual customer - and we can direct the 
business about how to put things right - for that individual customer.
Were not, in other words, the most appropriate forum or channel through which to have a 
debate  much less resolve one  about issues which are in effect matters of public policy.
So, in this decision, Im not going to comment on whether NSIs attempts to become a more 
digital business and use less paper are right or wrong. And I dont have any power to direct 
NSI to change its business practices or processes.
Im sure there are arguments on both sides of that debate. And I can see that Ms H is a very 
eloquent and reasoned advocate for what she thinks is the right course.
Ms H is also clearly very much aware that the decision made by NSI to discontinue 
payments by posted cheque has been questioned and debated by the Treasury Select 
Committee. That is a right and appropriate place to debate matters of public policy. And to 
ensure that public bodies and quasi-public bodies are doing the right thing.
So, all I can do is look at what NSI have done to Ms H and the way theyve dealt with her as 
an individual. My role is to decide whether theyve acted unfairly or unreasonably towards 
her specifically. And if so, to ask them to put things right.
I think we owe Ms H an apology, because I can see from our case file that shes raised with 
us previously whether we were or were not the right place to bring her complaint. Even if she 
hadnt done that, weve known throughout what the nature of her complaint was. 
Im sorry that we havent had a discussion with Ms H before now about what we can and 
cant do for her and what our purpose and powers are. I think we might have resolved this 
complaint much sooner if wed done that.
When I consider what we can look into, I can see that when Ms H raised her objections with 
NSI, they took steps to explain quite clearly and comprehensively what her options were.
They also explained that they can continue to notify her of any payments by post, rather than 
by text or email alone, if she wishes.
And they offered MS H an arrangement for making the payments (by holding her bank 
details only temporarily) which should provide some reassurance to her. Theyve also 
assured Ms H that any information about her account will be held securely.
So, Ms Hs remaining objections  to how shes been treated individually, rather than to the 
increasing reliance in our society on online transactions - can only reasonably amount to the 
fact that she doesnt wish to share the minimum possible amount of information about her 
bank account with NSI in order to allow them to make payments direct into that account.  
I can understand Ms Hs concerns. But Im sure shell understand that I cant say that theres 
anything inherently unfair or unreasonable in a business asking a customer for their bank 
details in order to carry out financial transactions with them. 
And I cant see any reason to suggest that, in this particular case, the way NSI have gone 
about that with Ms H is unfair or unreasonable towards her. In fact, they appear to have 
been willing to make exceptions from their usual  and preferred  process to accommodate 
Ms Hs requests as far as possible.
Im sure the broader debate about the proper use of online financial transactions and 
electronic processes will continue  in the appropriate places. And Im sure Ms H knows how 
that she can contribute to that debate my making her views known to the appropriate bodies, 
including the FCA if she so wishes.But, in summary, I cant see that NSI have acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Ms H  or 
indeed that shes suffered any material loss or detriment as a result of their actions  in this 
particular case.  
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman