DRN-2523384
The complaint
Mr M complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) wont pay for the full cost of repairs to his 
car following a claim made on his motor insurance policy. He wants the car fully repaired or 
for it to be written off. 
What happened
Mr Ms car was damaged, and he made a claim. UKI said there was previous damage to the 
car that hadnt been repaired correctly. So it offered Mr M a cash in lieu of repairs 
settlement. It increased this offer to £5,669.78 after Mr M complained that it had missed 
some damage. UKI paid Mr M £150 compensation for delays in providing its engineers 
report and £150 compensation for not including all the relevant repairs in its first offer. Mr M 
said the repair costs estimated by his garage were £8,167.93.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought UKI was 
entitled to offer cash instead of repairs. He thought it wasnt responsible for the previous 
damage. And he thought UKIs engineer had assessed the costs of repairs UKI was 
responsible for. 
Mr M replied that his garages estimate was for the current, not pre-existing, damage. He 
asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M said he didnt know that his car had been a previous write off. I can understand that he 
feels frustrated that hes now being held liable for poor repairs completed before he owned 
the car. But, as UKI has pointed out, it was Mr Ms responsibility to carry out checks when he 
bought the car privately. And UKI isnt responsible for damage to the car caused before it 
insured it. 
Mr M wanted UKI to fully repair his car. Were not engineers. We dont assess whether or 
how damage to a vehicle would be caused as this is a matter for the experts in these 
situations, the insurance companies and engineers. Our role in these complaints is to 
determine whether an insurance company has considered all the available evidence and 
whether it can justify its decision to not pay for repairs.
UKI relied on its repairers and its in-house engineers assessments of the damage to the 
car. They said the new damage couldnt be repaired without rectifying the previous poor 
repairs. Ive not seen any expert engineering evidence to contradict this. So I think UKI has 
justified its decision not to fully repair the car. 
And I also think it reasonably offered to settle Mr Ms claim by paying him cash for the 
repairs costs, as I can see its entitled to do by the policy terms and conditions. 
Mr M pointed out an area of damage that the engineer had missed. And UKI then considered 
this and included its repair cost in its settlement offer. It also paid Mr M £150 compensation 
for missing this. I think that was fair and reasonable compensation for the trouble raising this 
caused Mr M. 
Mr M provided his own estimate for repairs. He said these were for the new damage, and not 
the previous damage. This estimate was higher than that provided by UKIs repairers. I think 
UKI considered this and decided that this estimate charged higher rates for labour than its 
repairer. I think its usual for insurers to have discounted rates from their approved repairers. 
And I wouldnt expect UKI to pay more for the repairs than it would have had to pay if they 
were done by its approved repairers. So I cant say that this is a reason why UKI should 
increase its offer to Mr M. 
Mr M thought his car should be declared a total loss. But I think its for UKI to decide whether 
or not the car is beyond economical repair based on the claims repair costs and the cars 
value. So I cant say that it needs to declare Mr Ms car a total loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman