DRN-3500144
The complaint
Miss B complains that Studio Retail Limited was irresponsible to lend to her.
What happened
Miss B held a catalogue shopping account with Studio Retail. It was opened on 9 September 
2015 with a credit limit of £250. The limit was then increased as follows:
Month Limit
9 Sep 2015 £250
8 Oct 2015 £350
5 Nov 2015 £450
17 Mar 2016 £550
Miss B says her credit file should have indicated to Studio Retail that further information was 
required before it approved her for credit. She says she was on a low income and fell into 
arrears with her utility accounts resulting in her having to borrow money from family and 
friends.
Studio Retail says it carried out affordability and credit checks which resulted in Miss Bs 
application being approved. It said she had no other revolving credit accounts at the time, no 
arrears and no county court judgements or bankruptcy orders. It said there were no 
indications of financial difficulty and it was satisfied Miss B could sustainably afford a 
monthly commitment of £15 when it gave her an initial credit limit of £250. Studio Retail says 
it reviewed the account regularly and approved a further three credit limit increases based on 
proportionate checks and Miss Bs repayment history. From April 2016, when Miss B began 
to miss payments, Studio Retail says it agreed several repayment arrangements until, finally, 
in October 2017, it agreed to write off the balance after communication from a debt charity.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. Although he wasnt 
satisfied Studio Retails checks went far enough, he didnt consider better checks would 
have made a difference based on the evidence he had.
Miss B responded to say, in summary, that she struggled to make payments, especially as 
the credit limit increased.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when UK Credit lent to Miss B. Its 
rules and guidance obliged it to lend responsibly. As set out in the regulators Consumer 
Credit Sourcebook (CONC), this meant that UK Credit needed to take reasonable and 
proportionate steps to assess whether or not a borrower could afford to meet their 
repayments in a sustainable manner over the lifetime of the agreement.
At the time of the lending CONC 5.3.1G stated that:
1. In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required  a firm 
should take into account more than assessing the customer's ability to repay the 
credit.
2. The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required  should include the 
firm taking reasonable steps to assess the customer's ability to meet repayments 
under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable manner without the customer 
incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences.
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner was defined as being able to meet repayments out 
of normal income while meeting other reasonable commitments; without having to borrow 
further to meet these repayments; without having to realise security or assets (CONC 5.3.1G 
- 6) or without incurring or increasing problem indebtedness (ILG 4.3).
(The Office of Fair Trading was the previous regulator and it produced a document entitled 
Irresponsible Lending Guidance which the FCA referenced in its consumer handbook. 
CONC 5.3.1G  6 specifically referenced ILG 4.3.)
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
borrower of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance, potentially by carrying out more detailed checks 
based on the following factors:
the lower a persons income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
credit repayments to a given credit limit amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the credit (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make payments for an extended 
period).
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Miss Bs case, I have considered the 
following questions:
Did Studio Retail complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Miss Bs credit increases to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the credit in 
a sustainable way? 
oIf not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? Did Studio Retail make a fair lending decision?
Did Studio Retail act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
With regard to whether Studio Retail completed reasonable and proportionate checks, based 
on the guidelines above, Im not satisfied it did. I say that because:
Ive seen no evidence that Studio Retail asked Miss B about her income or 
expenditure;
Miss Bs credit limit more than doubled in six months;
Studio Retail says it used credit checks and account management information to 
make decisions about increasing the credit limits, but does not mention that Miss Bs 
income or expenditure was taken into account;
So I now need to consider what I think Studio Retail is likely to have found had it carried out 
proportionate checks. Although I dont have evidence of Miss Bs income or expenditure 
from the time, she has said she was on benefits totalling around £850 per month, all of which 
was committed to regular expenditure. However, I have seen a copy of Miss Bs credit file 
from 2020 and have considered the information it shows.
For Miss Bs credit limits in September to November 2015:
There are no indications of financial difficultly on Miss Bs credit file;
Miss Bs repayment history shows that she was making the repayments in full in 
September 2015 and her account was in credit in October 2015;
So I cant conclude Studio Retail made an unfair lending decision when it set, and then 
increased, Miss Bs credit limits in 2015.
For the credit limit increase in March 2016:
Proportionate checks are likely to have shown Miss B was struggling financially as 
she had three outstanding short-term loans, all of which were in arrears and on a 
payment arrangement;
Miss B made the minimum repayment in November 2015, reached her credit limit in 
December 2015 and started to incur interest charges in January 2016;
Miss B exceeded her credit limit in January 2016;
Based on the above, I find Studio Retail was irresponsible to further increase Miss Bs credit 
limit in March 2016.
Ordinarily, this service would recommend that Studio Retail should refund any interest and 
charges Miss B has incurred as a result of the credit limit increase in March 2016. However, 
I note that, in September 2017, Studio Retail wrote off the entirety of Miss Bs outstanding 
balance of £434.56.
This balance comprises:£263.40 Purchases
£122.63 Interest
£48.53 Charges
As Studio Retail has written off all interest and charges that Miss B incurred, as well as some 
of the money she owed for purchases, I dont find it needs to do anything else to settle 
Miss Bs complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 August 2022.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman