DRN-3611053
The complaint
Mr B, through his professional representative, complains about the transfer of pension 
benefits from several plans he held, including a defined benefits (DB) occupational pension 
scheme, to a personal pension. He says he was advised to transfer by Simpson Kelly 
Associates Ltd (SKA)  the respondent business in this complaint  and another financial 
business (which Ill call Firm R). Mr Bs representatives believe that the advice provided 
was unsuitable for him.
What happened
Mr B has said he approached SKA, as he knew one of its staff members through his wife. He 
has said that individual was his point of contact and adviser.
SKA completed a fact find in March 2016. This noted that Mr B had a DB scheme pension 
from his current employer, another stakeholder pension from that employer  which I 
understand was a defined contribution scheme  and both a Section 32 policy and a free 
standing additional voluntary contributions (FSAVC) policy with a separate provider. The 
fact find indicated Mr B was interested in accessing his Section 32 and FSAVC policy, but 
didnt intend at that time to make changes to his other pensions.
SKA says it didnt have the requisite permissions from the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) to advise on transferring Mr Bs benefits so referred the matter to Firm R so that it 
could provide advice. A new personal pension was subsequently arranged  with the 
application form showing that Firm R provided Mr B advice. Based on this advice, benefits 
held under the Section 32, FSAVC and defined contribution pension scheme were 
transferred to the new provider.
Mr B was referred back to SKA for ongoing advice and servicing of his newly arranged 
pension and signed the relevant terms of business agreeing to this.
In April 2017, Mr B approached SKA for advice about potentially transferring his DB scheme 
benefits. He has said he had concerns about the status of the DB scheme and that it could 
end up transferring to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF). SKA again completed a fact find. 
But as it did not hold the relevant permission from the FCA, to advise on the transfer of 
Mr Bs defined benefits, it said Firm R would once more provide Mr B with advice.
Firm R carried out further fact-finding and then sent Mr B a suitability report on 15 May 2017 
advising him to transfer out of his DB scheme to a personal pension plan  with the same 
provider that hed previously transferred his other pension benefits to. Mr B was once more 
referred back to SKA for ongoing advice and servicing of his pension. This ongoing servicing 
continued until 2021.
In 2021 Mr B complained to both SKA and Firm R about the advice. SKA said it hadnt 
provided Mr B with any advice to transfer his pensions  it said it had referred him to Firm R 
on both occasions. 
Mr Bs representative asked our service to consider both of Mr Bs complaints. Firm R is no 
longer authorised by the FCA and was declared in default  so unable to meet its liabilities 
 by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) in 2021. And I understand 
Mr Bs complaint about Firm R has been referred to the FSCS separately.
In respect of the complaint about SKA in summary the representative said Mr B had never 
met with anyone from Firm R, that SKA had acted as more than an introducer and in fact 
had provided advice to him to transfer his pensions. They say it did this as part of a joint 
venture between SKA and Firm R and referenced legal cases that it felt supported this. The 
representatives believe both parties failed to provide suitable advice, without which the 
transfer wouldnt have taken place, so felt SKA should also be liable for the losses  and 
referred to decisions made by our service in other complaints to support this. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He wasnt persuaded that SKA had
advised Mr B to transfer his pensions and was satisfied that Mr B had only transferred his
pensions because Firm R advised him to do so.
Mr Bs representative didnt accept this, so the complaint has been passed to me to make a
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have provided detailed submissions. And Id like to reassure both parties that 
Ive carefully considered all the evidence provided. If I dont comment on or refer to 
everything Ive been sent or every argument that has been made this isnt meant as a 
discourtesy or because I havent thought about it. Rather it is because my decision will 
address what I consider to be the key issues in deciding what is fair and reasonable. 
Mr Bs representatives have made reference to previous decisions by our service, the wider 
relationship between Firm R and SKA and legal cases in support of its argument. However, 
this service decides each case on its own particular facts and merits. So, the right outcome 
in one case may not be the right outcome in another as individual circumstances can vary. 
And whilst in deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider and have regard for the 
relevant law, regulation, and best industry practice, the decision I come to on what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, may be different to what a court would 
decide. So, in deciding this complaint, Im only considering the individual facts and merits 
relating to Mr Bs dealings with SKA. I wont be considering SKAs alleged acts or omissions 
in other cases where it introduced individuals to Firm R. And I wont be considering the acts 
or omissions of Firm R in its dealing with Mr B because this complaint is about SKA rather 
than Firm R.
My understanding of the representatives position is that SKA should be held liable because 
Mr B had no real contact with Firm R and it says SKA verbally advised him to transfer his 
pensions, and he relied upon that advice. It also argues there was a joint venture between 
SKA and Firm R. And in addition, it says SKA should be held liable because it didnt comply 
with the requirements of it to treat Mr B fairly and have regard to his best interests. 
Did SKA advise Mr B to transfer?
SKA has said that it did not have the required permission from the FCA to advise Mr B on his 
pension transfers. So, in both 2016 and 2017, when the transfers took place, it says it 
referred him to Firm R. And I note that Mr B said, in his complaint, during his first discussions 
with SKA it made him aware it didnt have the relevant permissions to carry out the transfers.In respect of the transfer in 2016, I dont doubt that Mr B was in discussion with SKA prior to 
the Section 32, FSAVC and defined contribution pensions being transferred and 
consolidated with a new provider. Ive seen a copy of an SKA branded fact find, completed in 
March 2016 before the transfer was carried out. And SKA seems to have obtained transfer 
quotations from the existing pension funds on behalf of Mr B.
The notes in the fact find though refer to the matter being referred to Firm R, because of 
Mr Bs requirements. And Im satisfied the referral was likely to include all the information 
SKA had gathered being shared with Firm R. Given the Section 32 policy included 
guarantees, including a Guaranteed Minimum Pension, and SKA didnt hold the relevant 
permission to advise on pension transfers, Im satisfied this referral was necessary. The 
application form for the new pension also confirms Firm R as the adviser and that it had 
given advice. And this form was signed by Mr B.
Turning to the transfer of the DB scheme benefits in 2017, Firm R provided Mr B with a 
suitability report. This report confirmed that Mr B had held discussions with SKA. But said 
that Mr B had given permission for the matter to be referred to Firm R as SKA didnt have 
the required permissions to provide advice.
Firm R also provided written confirmation to both Mr B and the trustees of the DB scheme 
that it had provided, and was responsible for, advice to transfer benefits from the DB 
scheme.
Mr Bs representatives say that, despite all of this, SKA did provide Mr B advice to transfer, 
and did so verbally. But having considered the available evidence, Im not persuaded that 
SKA advised Mr B to transfer his pension benefits. 
Its clear that Mr B held discussions with SKAs adviser on several occasions. SKA 
completed fact finds prior to referring Mr B to Firm R. And SKA was responsible for providing 
ongoing servicing advice between the first transfer and the second. So, I dont doubt 
discussions took place. I accept that SKAs adviser did a lot of the fact-finding with Mr B.  
And this likely involved discussing his retirement objectives and may even have gone as far 
as talking about advantages and disadvantages  something SKA has acknowledged it did 
often do on a general basis. But that doesnt, in my view, demonstrate that SKA gave Mr B 
advice to transfer his pensions.
I think SKA was probably hoping that Firm R would advise Mr B to transfer so it could 
become the ongoing adviser and receive fees for this. And its possible that Mr B believed 
SKA was advocating for the transfer of his benefits. But I havent seen sufficient evidence to 
show that SKA gave Mr B a personal recommendation, either verbally or in writing. In my 
view, the evidence shows that Firm R advised Mr B to transfer his pensions, not SKA.
Im also conscious Mr B could not have transferred his pensions, particularly the DB 
scheme, based on his verbal interactions with SKA alone. The information provided by the 
trustees of DB scheme prior to the transfer explained that it was a requirement that a 
member transferring take advice from a an FCA registered adviser. And that confirmation of 
this advice be provided. Its not in dispute that SKA didnt have the necessary permission to 
advise on pension transfers. Firm R, on the other hand, did. So, Mr B couldnt have 
transferred his DB scheme benefits based on the meetings he had with SKA or any verbal 
advice he feels he was given  because he wouldnt have been able to meet the trustees 
requirements.
Ultimately, Im satisfied Firm R gave the advice for Mr B to transfer his pension benefits in 
both 2016 and 2017. And I dont think SKAs earlier involvement or the fact it facilitated the 
completion of documents, should automatically make SKA liable for the suitability of the pension transfer advice provided by Firm R. It is my view that Firm R remains fully 
responsible for the advice it gave Mr B to transfer.
I have nevertheless considered whether Mr B would have still opted to transfer his benefits if 
Firm R had advised him not to transfer. Mr Bs representative says Mr B was persuaded to 
transfer based upon his interactions with SKA. But on balance I dont think Mr B wouldve 
gone against the advice provided by Firm R. Mr B has said SKA made him aware that it 
didnt have the required permissions to advise him. He was also an inexperienced investor 
from what I can see. So, if Firm R, a suitable qualified business whose services Mr B was 
paying for, had provided Mr B with clear advice in writing against transferring, explaining why 
it wasnt suitable for him, I dont think Mr B wouldve acted against that advice purely based 
on his earlier discussions with SKA.
In light of what Ive said above, its my decision that it was Firm Rs advice that ultimately 
enabled Mr B to transfer his various pension benefits. If this advice was unsuitable, then I 
think Firm R is responsible for Mr Bs losses flowing from the transfer.
Did SKA and Firm R embark on a joint venture?
Mr Bs representative says a joint venture existed between SKA and Firm R to facilitate Mr B 
transferring his benefits and that both businesses remain jointly liable for any financial loss 
Mr B has suffered.
For the reasons Ive already set out above I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to hold 
SKA liable for the advice given to Mr B to transfer his pension benefits. Although Mr Bs 
representative states that Mr B was verbally advised to transfer by SKA, Im satisfied Mr B 
transferred his benefits because Firm R advised him to do so, independently of SKAs 
involvement. So, I think Mr Bs losses flow from Firm Rs advice, rather than because of any 
interaction he had with SKA before that.
SKA did not treat Mr B fairly or have due regard to his best interests
Mr Bs representative has suggested that SKA didnt treat Mr B fairly or act in his best 
interests. 
As I have said above, SKA did not have the necessary regulatory permission to advise Mr B 
on the transfer of his pension benefits. So, SKA could not have advised Mr B against 
transferring, based on what it may have generally known about the regulators starting 
position that it wont usually be in a customers best interests to transfer DB scheme benefits 
away from the existing scheme. 
As SKA didnt have the necessary permissions, it referred Mr B to Firm R, which was 
regulated by the FCA to provide pension transfer advice. I dont think SKA could reasonably 
be expected to carry out further due diligence on Firm R, particularly as Firm R had the 
necessary permissions from the FCA to provide this advice. And, as a regulated adviser, 
Firm R was also required to treat Mr B fairly, act in his best interests and provide him with 
suitable advice.
In conclusion, I havent seen any evidence that it was SKAs advice that ultimately led to 
Mr Bs decision to transfer his pension benefits, without the actions of Firm R. I am also not 
persuaded that SKA made an error or treated Mr B unfairly in the role it carried out. Because 
of this, I dont consider it would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to 
require SKA to pay compensation to Mr B or to take any further action in response to this 
complaint.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman