DRN-4314261
The complaint
X has complained that Pinnacle Insurance plc (Pinnacle) has declined her claim for medical 
treatment for her pet dog on the ground that the treatment was for a condition that was 
present during the 14 days following policy inception and was therefore excluded.
What happened
X insured her dog, who Ill refer to as N, with Pinnacle on 30 June 2022. N had previously 
been insured under another policy which covered N until 14 July 2022 so there was a 14 day 
overlap in cover. The new policy with Pinnacle was subject to a 14-day exclusion period 
which ended on 13 July 2022.
Between 10 August 2022 and 8 December 2022 N was treated for a melanoma in her right 
hind toe. X submitted a claim to Pinnacle on 23 December 2022 for the cost of Ns 
treatment.
Pinnacle reviewed Ns previous medical history and noted that on 30 June 2022 N had been 
treated by her vet for a torn claw with subsequent infection of the nail bed. 
On 14 July 2022 the vet reported that Ns toe was healing well, but she injured it again whilst 
at the surgery.
On 10 August 2022 N attended the vet for a blood test for her thyroid. Shed also 
traumatised her toe again and it was taking longer to heal. She was noted to have had a 
weight loss and to have an enlarged lymph node. These were symptoms that hadnt been 
seen previously.  Further investigation led to a diagnosis of melanoma.
Pinnacle rejected Xs claim. It relies upon the following policy term and definition:
We will not pay for:
3. the cost of any treatment for any illness which occurs or shows symptoms within 14 
days of the start date;
Illness means physical disease, sickness, abnormality, infection or failure which is not 
caused by an accidental injury. This includes any symptoms, whether or not diagnosed.
X argues that the symptoms of Ns melanoma werent present during the14-day exclusion 
period and that neither she nor Ns vet were aware of the potential for Ns toe trauma in June 
to be attributable to a melanoma.  She says that had she known this, she wouldnt have 
switched insurers as she was conscious of the consequences of doing that for any pre-
existing conditions.
Ns vet has provided the following professional opinion:
We cannot definitively state at what stage the melanoma originated. It may have been 
present from the very start back in June 2022, but it may not have originated until July 
2022 or August 2022. We have no way to prove that the melanoma was or was not 
present in June 2022. What we do know is that it was not suspected to be neoplasia at 
this time by the consulting vet. It was suspected to be a traumatic injury and not 
something that would require further investigation or ongoing care.
Pinnacles vet maintains that the two conditions are linked, summed up as follows:
Overall the timeline of events here where the nail injury seen less than 6 weeks before a 
diagnosis of a melanoma with no period where the nail injury healed between the two 
points, and the bony changes seen on radiography due to a non-bone neoplasm showing 
evidence of chronicity is enough to relate the two conditions. Melanomas frequently 
present as a broken, sore nail, and so the initial presentation fits with an early stage 
melanoma.
Pinnacles declining of Xs claim has caused her significant financial problems and stress as 
Ns medication is expensive and requires regular boosters which X is concerned she will be 
unable to afford and which will influence ongoing decisions about the provision of care for N. 
X brought her complaint to this service. Shed like Pinnacle to pay her claim and to accept 
that the symptoms of melanoma did not present themselves during the 14-day exclusion 
period.
Our investigator considered that N had shown symptoms of melanoma within 14 days of the 
policy start date even though at that stage this hadnt been diagnosed. His view therefore 
was that Pinnacle had acted in line with the policy terms and conditions. 
In response to our investigators view, X obtained a report from a veterinary consultant in 
oncology. Her professional opinion was that there was no evidence of melanoma on 30 
June, and she provided a number of grounds for reaching this conclusion. X also made 
further submissions.
As our investigator didnt consider that he should change his view, Xs complaint has been 
referred to me as an ombudsman for a final decision from this service.
I issued a provisional decision upholding Xs complaint in response to which I received 
responses from X and Pinnacle which Ill refer to below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and having re-assessed the available evidence, Im maintaining my original 
view as expressed in my provisional decision, and Ill explain why. 
In my provisional decision I expressed my view as follows: 
The treatment for which X is claiming is the treatment for the melanoma with which N was 
diagnosed in August 2022. This treatment will be ongoing.
Ive considered the exclusion upon which Pinnacle relies to decline Xs claim  that it wont 
pay for the cost of any treatment for any illness which occurs or shows symptoms within 14 
days of the policy start date. As the policy start date was 30 June 2022, that therefore means 
at any time before 13 July 2022.
Ive considered the report provided by Pinnacles vet which expresses the view that a non- 
healing wound, ease of injury and a close timeline of changes to the bone are indicative of an underlying disease process  an early indicator of melanoma during the 14-day exclusion 
period.
Ive also considered the opinion of Ns treating vet and two reports from a specialist vet 
oncologist. These arrive at different conclusions to that of Pinnacles vet as to the connection 
between the nail trauma for which N received treatment on 30 June 2022 and the melanoma 
that was diagnosed on 10 August 2022. 
They disagree that the nail injury indicates a sign of melanoma. They are of the view that the 
diagnosis of melanoma, made outside the exclusion period, is a separate condition. They 
accept that melanoma can present in a broken nail, but that in this case the tumour would 
need to have been more advanced than it was considered to be at that time. There were 
also other factors such as Ns hypothyroidism that couldve been responsible for the slow 
healing of the injury to Ns toes.
Ive also taken account of what X has said about her state of knowledge as at 30 June 2022. 
Im satisfied as to her concern at that time to ensure that N was fully insured in the 
knowledge that there would be potential consequences of switching policies should any 
condition be regarded as pre-existing. Im satisfied that neither X nor Ns treating vet had any 
suspicions in June 2022 that Ns nail trauma might be a symptom of a melanoma.
My provisional conclusion is that  Pinnacle has acted unfairly in  rejecting Xs claim on the 
ground that the melanoma with which N was diagnosed and for which treatment started in 
August 2022 and for which X is claiming, showed symptoms during the first 14 days of X 
taking out her policy. 
In summary, Ive reached that conclusion for the following reasons:
1. The balance of evidence indicates that N presented on 30 June 2022 with an injury, 
not an illness. There were no symptoms of melanoma during the 14-day exclusion 
period. Any symptoms of an illness shown, such as a delay in wound healing, did not 
manifest themselves until after the 14-day exclusion period.  The exclusion period 
therefore doesnt apply.
2. Ns treating vet had no concerns about Ns nail trauma being anything other than that 
and not a symptom of an illness that would only later be diagnosed. The vet didnt 
consider that any further treatment was necessary. 
3. Ns specialist oncology vet also agreed that the nail injury was not evidence of early 
melanoma. The symptoms of nail injury were different to those that led to the 
diagnosis of melanoma some weeks later. 
4. X was unaware any symptoms that could lead to a subsequent diagnosis of 
melanoma. Neither she nor Ns vet had any concerns about any claims for future 
treatment for N being prejudiced by her nail injury. 
In response to my provisional decision, Pinnacle provided further comment from its vet 
included within which were extracts from various publications. Ive looked at these and taken 
into account the vets confirmation of her earlier opinion. Ive also reviewed again the 
evidence provided by Ns vet and oncology consultant.
As I am not a vet, Im not qualified to comment on the medical evidence. I have to approach 
this case on the basis of what is fair and reasonable, bearing in mind that its for Pinnacle to 
prove on the balance of probabilities that the policy exclusion upon which it relies, namely for 
the cost of any treatment for any illness which occurs or shows symptoms within 14 days of 
the start date, applies in this case. I dont consider that Pinnacle has satisfied that test. I consider that the balance of evidence 
supports the view that N had no symptoms of melanoma present in June 2022. In  the 
absence of symptoms there is no evidence of any illness. 
On 14 July 2022 the evidence was that Ns nail was healing well. On 21 July his nailbed 
was looking great. There was no evidence noted of swelling consistent with melanoma. 
The diagnosis of nailbed melanoma wasnt made until 22 August 2022.
I dont consider it reasonable for Pinnacle to rely on the possibility that the melanoma was 
present prior to 14 July when there were no symptoms present at that time to support that 
conclusion, even if early-stage melanomas may be difficult to diagnose.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im upholding Xs complaint.
I require Pinnacle Insurance plc:
1. to meet Xs claim subject to any other terms and conditions of her policy.
2. to pay X interest on any sum paid to her at the simple rate of 8% from the date of her 
claim until payment is made to her.
If Pinnacle Insurance plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell X how much its taken off. It should also give her a 
tax deduction certificate if she asks for one so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2023.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman