DRN-3641011
The complaint
Miss B complains that Studio Retail Limited (Studio Retail) irresponsibly gave her a 
running account credit facility that she couldnt afford.
What happened
In November 2018 Studio Retail granted Miss B an account with an initial running credit 
facility of £150. Several credit limit increases followed: in February 2019 to £200; in 
September 2019 to £600; in November 2019 to £750; in February 2020 to £875 and then 
finally in October 2020 to £1,500.
In February 2022,  Miss B complained to Studio Retail to say that it should not have 
granted her the account and credit limit increases as she was in financial difficulty before 
the account was opened and that adequate affordability checks werent carried out when 
the credit limits were increased.
Our adjudicator didnt think Studio Retail had acted unfairly in the way it managed the 
account. Because Miss B disagrees, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Studio Retail will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about 
our approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Before providing credit and increased credit to Miss B, Studio Retail says it carried out a 
credit check using a credit agency to decide on the amount of credit it was able to offer. 
It also told us that Miss Bs account was then assessed on a regular basis from the 
credit check information. Similarly, the credit limits were then set using the same type of 
updated information plus regular observation of Miss Bs management of the account.
Its possible that Studio Retails checks werent sufficient. But even if the checks 
werent as good as they should have been, I dont think better enquiries would have 
caused Studio Retail to think the initial credit limit or the subsequent credit increase 
were unaffordable. I say this because Studio Retail gave Miss B a very modest initial 
credit limit of £150, requiring only small monthly repayments. Miss B had stated her 
annual income to be £43,000 when she applied for the account, although the credit 
checks werent able to verify this. Her management of other credit in the past had 
generally been good and there was no evidence from the checks of financial 
difficulties such as defaulted accounts or county court judgments. However, there was 
a single record of a payment arrangement for one credit provider. But taking all these 
factors together, I dont think that better checks would have led Studio Retail to 
decline credit.
Turning to the five credit limit increases, I agree with our adjudicator that Miss B appears 
to have been able to meet the repayments required for each of these, based on her 
monthly income and the monthly commitments shes told us about. Ive seen that she 
always paid more than the minimum required each month. And Ive noted that Miss Bs 
use of the credit limit was over 60% before the first increase to £200 in February 2019, 
and just over 50% before the second increase, to £600 in September 2019. For the later 
increases, she was using less than half the available credit. In short, Miss B appeared to 
be managing the account well, with little evidence to suggest she was getting into 
difficulty, whilst at the same time managing her credit elsewhere and meeting her 
necessary living expenses. 
Ive also noticed that Miss B missed a payment in August 2020  which was two months 
before the final credit limit increase  but that she quickly brought the account back up to 
date. 
Ive seen that Miss B told our adjudicator that by February 2019 shed taken on additional 
financial commitments, including payment plans with creditors, and so Studio Retail 
shouldnt have granted a credit limit increase at that point due to her limited disposable 
income. Ive seen evidence of this from Miss Bs bank statements, but it doesnt appear to 
have been significant to the extent that she was left without adequate disposable income 
to meet her other financial commitments and living costs. However, I accept its possible 
she had several more credit commitments that may not have been visible on her bank 
statements.
Overall, I havent seen enough to persuade me that, in February 2019 or before each of 
the later increases, Studio Retail would or should have seen that Miss Bs financial 
circumstances were in such a state as to make lending her additional amounts by way of 
increasing the credit facility available to her was unreasonable. Ive also kept in mind that 
had Studio Retail asked her about her income, it appears she was earning around 
£2,800 to £3,000 each month at the time. And having seen that the monthly payments 
Miss B was making would have been repayable in a reasonable timeframe, I dont think 
more thorough affordability assessment at this time would have put Studio Retail off 
increasing the credit limit at this point.
So, although I cant say that all of Studio Retails actions were necessarily appropriate, I 
dont make any award as I dont think Miss B was caused any loss or material distress or 
inconvenience as a result.
I note that Miss B was seeking to enter into a token repayment arrangement earlier this year 
and was required to complete an income and expenditure form as part of this process in 
order that Studio Retail could properly assess her request. Whilst I dont know the outcome 
of that request, I ask that Studio Retail continues to exercise forbearance with her and takes 
all necessary and appropriates steps to explore available options to help her to reduce the 
remaining outstanding debt. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 December 2022. 
Michael GoldbergOmbudsman