DRN-2484628
The complaint
Mrs F is unhappy that J.P. Morgan Europe Limited t/a Post Office Card Account (Post Office) 
wont refund transactions she says she didnt make or authorise. 
Background
what Mrs F says happened
Mrs F is disputing a number of cash withdrawals which took place between March and July 
2020 amounting to around £1,600. Mrs F has explained to us at that she was shielding at the 
time because of the Corona Virus pandemic and so did not leave her home at all for the first 
three months of the lockdown period. 
At the time, Mrs Fs now ex-husband was living with her. Mrs F has explained that as she 
was shielding, she needed someone to undertake her essential shopping for her and shed 
not used online services for this before. So, she gave her husband her card and PIN and 
asked him to do the shopping for her. Mrs F says she was explicit in her instruction that 
apart from the essential shopping, her money was not to be used for anything else. She says 
that she warned her husband that if he spent money on other things or withdrew too much, 
shed know immediately from her statements. 
Mrs F later discovered that a series of cash withdrawals had taken place during this time in 
various locations  not just at her usual local cash point. Moreover, it was clear to her that 
more money had been withdrawn than she had authorised to be spent on her shopping. 
Initially, Mrs F thought that perhaps her card had been cloned but after learning of the 
unlikelihood of this being the case, she realised that it was probably her husband whod 
been withdrawing money. Mrs F told us that during this time, she stopped receiving regular 
statements so was unaware of how much money her husband had been withdrawing. 
Mrs F told us that she was a victim of domestic abuse and that her ex-husband has since 
been arrested for assaulting her and her child. Mrs F contacted the Post Office to explain 
that she hadnt authorised the transactions and to explain the difficult circumstances shed 
been under at the time. She asked it to refund the cash withdrawals over the period in 
question. 
what Post Office says happened
The Post Office expressed its sympathy with Mrs Fs extremely saddening situation 
however, it said that it wouldnt refund the disputed transactions. It said this was on the basis 
that by sharing her card and PIN with her husband, Mrs F had breached the terms and 
conditions of her account and compromised its safety. 
An investigator here assessed the case and didnt uphold Mrs Fs complaint. He agreed that 
Mrs F had breached the terms and conditions of her account by sharing her card and PIN 
with another person. He also said that under the relevant law applicable to this situation, the 
transactions would be considered as authorised and so the Post Office isnt liable to refund 
them.
As Mrs F disagreed with the outcome, the case has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for similar 
reasons. Im sorry if this will disappoint Mrs F but Id like to explain how Ive made this 
decision.
At the outset, Id like to thank Mrs F for her openness in sharing what must have been a 
horrific time for her and her child. I cant begin to imagine how challenging it must have been 
for her to exit an abusive relationship and have to start rebuilding her life again and I extend 
my sympathy to her. Id like to wish her and her child well moving forwards. 
Mrs F has said to us that she has been honest about giving her card and PIN to her husband 
and feels that this honesty may well be to her detriment. I would like to assure Mrs F that 
whilst I have considered that she handed her card and PIN to her husband, Ive also looked 
at several other factors such as whether the Post Office ought to have known that Mrs Fs 
money was being used without her knowledge. So, I hope Mrs F is reassured that my 
decision does not turn on that fact alone. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable in this case, Im required to take into account 
relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
The Payment Services Regulations (PSRs) are the relevant law here. These primarily 
require banks to refund customers if they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. 
Certain other circumstances do apply and where relevant I mention these aspects below. So 
when we look at whether a bank has acted fairly in rejecting someones fraud complaint, one 
of the things we consider is whether the customer made the transactions themselves or 
allowed them to be made. If they did permit the transactions, then we generally wouldnt ask 
the bank to refund them. We also consider whether the transactions were made possible 
because the customer was negligent in the care of their card or PIN.
Its not in dispute that Mrs F gave her card and PIN to her husband. Mrs F says that she was 
unable to leave her home as she was shielding and so gave her card and PIN to her 
husband to undertake essential household shopping for her and her child. She did so with 
the explicit instruction that he was not to use her money for anything else.
Theres a concept of apparent authority which relates to the PSRs and is relevant here. In 
this case, Mrs F has been clear that she gave her card and PIN to her husband but disputes 
the amount he spent and some of the withdrawals he made. 
Under the PSRs, consent to transactions is defined differently than, say, its more 
commonplace meaning. Under the rules, a payers consent to a transaction doesnt depend 
on them knowing the full details of those transactions - including the amounts of those 
transactions. When applying this to Mrs Fs case, what this means is that by giving her card 
and PIN to her husband, even though he spent more than she said he could and used the 
card more often than she intended, the cash withdrawals would be deemed to be authorised. 
I know this will be disappointing for Mrs F to hear. 
Further, Ive considered that Mrs Fs husband may well have taken her card on occasion without her knowledge during this period and so there may have been times where she 
didnt authorise some of the withdrawals. However, from the available evidence, I cannot 
reasonably conclude that Mrs F didnt have the benefit of the funds and so I cannot fairly say 
that the Post Office should refund her on this basis.
Ive gone on to look at whether the activity on Mrs Fs account ought to have alerted the Post 
Office that something was wrong. Having done so, overall, I dont think it should have. From 
the account statements Ive read, from before and after the disputed transactions, I can see 
that:
balance enquiries were sometimes undertaken before withdrawals were made; this 
didnt look unusual
the amounts withdrawn werent unusual compared to what Mrs F would usually 
withdraw
the account balance wasnt eroded such that the account was almost emptied which 
could potentially have alerted the Post Office to some unusual activity 
there remained a fairly consistent balance of activity with incoming regular credits 
followed by cash withdrawals
there were no failed PIN attempts which again could have alerted the Post Office that 
the account wasnt being used as intended. 
Further, because the transactions were all cash withdrawals, I cannot see how the money 
was spent or what proportion of it was spent in grocery stores or similar. And because the 
amounts werent dissimilar to what Mrs F would usually withdraw, I cannot say that the Post 
Office ought to have been alerted that something wasnt quite right. If there had been rapid 
transactions eroding the account balance, new payees added to the account or out of 
character high value transactions, these types of activity could have prompted the Post 
Office to make further enquiries  but this wasnt the case in the circumstances of Mrs Fs 
particular complaint. 
I acknowledge that a number of the cash withdrawals were made at cash points which hadnt 
previously appeared on Mrs Fs statements but this of itself wouldnt be enough to alert the 
Post Office that something was wrong. 
Ive considered whether the Post Office missed any cues or triggers that could have alerted 
it to fraudulent activity on Mrs Fs account. Having done so, For the reasons set out above, I 
cannot say that the Post Office ought to have been aware or initiated further enquiries 
because the activity on the account wasnt unusual or out of character. And so, it follows that 
I do not consider it liable for the financial loss Mrs F has suffered. 
Regrettably, Mrs F says she wasnt receiving her statements for a while and so was unaware 
of how much her husband had taken out of her account. Its unclear why Mrs F didnt receive 
her statements at the usual frequency or whether despite being sent by the Post Office they 
were perhaps concealed from her. But this point doesnt alter the decision Ive reached for 
the reasons Ive already mentioned. 
Mrs F has said that notwithstanding her giving her card and PIN to her husband, the Post 
Office should still refund the disputed transactions because it now knows that she didnt 
authorise them and she was in an abusive relationship at the time. Whilst it is for the Post 
Office to decide whether it wants to do anything more to support Mrs F as its customer, for 
the reasons Ive outlined, I cannot compel it to do so because based on the evidence I cannot see that it could have done anything to prevent Mrs Fs husband from making the 
withdrawals or spending more than he was instructed to. Moreover, by sharing her card and 
PIN with her husband, Mrs F compromised the security of her account and breached the 
terms and conditions of its use.
I dont dispute that Mrs F has been taken advantage of financially, but I cannot hold the Post 
Office responsible for this. I know this decision will disappoint Mrs F but I hope that my 
explanation will reassure her that Ive taken this complaint seriously and reached my 
decision after a lot of thought.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Fs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Reena Anand
Ombudsman