DRN-1252361
 
The complaint
Ms P has complained that that Virgin Money Plc allowed a payment to go through on her 
credit card which took her over her agreed credit limit. This resulted in her losing a 
promotional offer on her credit card account.
What happened
Ms P had an automated payment plan set up on her PayPal account. This was set up to take 
money from her Virgin credit card. It was set up in such a way that if the balance on her 
credit card account together with the payment exceeded her credit card limit, then the 
payment would come out of her current account instead.  
The credit limit on her Virgin credit card wasnt enough to meet the June 2019 payment, so 
Virgin didnt allow the payment to go through. And the payment came out of Ms Ps current 
account instead. But in July 2019 when the same situation arose, Virgin allowed the 
payment to go through. This resulted in Ms P going over her credit limit by approximately 
£24. 
Ms P complained to Virgin. It told her that as the balance on her account had exceeded her 
credit limit, the promotional offer on her account would be withdrawn. But it accepted there 
had been an inconsistency between what it had done in June and July. So, it offered Ms P 
£75 as a gesture of good will. 
Ms P wasnt satisfied with this, so her concerns were looked into by one of our investigators. 
He explained to Ms P why he wasnt upholding the complaint. Ms P didnt agree with his 
assessment, so the complaint has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do understand Ms Ps frustration that as Virgin stopped the payment from her credit card 
account in June 2019, it didnt do the same in July 2019. And the impact on Ms P has been 
that this resulted in her losing the interest free promotional offer on her credit card account. 
So, the crux of the issue that I need to decide, is whether Virgin acted fairly and reasonably 
when it let the payment go through in July, and when it subsequently withdrew the 
promotional offer when Ms P subsequently exceeded her credit card limit as a result of this. 
It seems that when Virgin allowed the payment to go through in July 2019, this resulted in 
her credit card limit being exceeded by approximately £24. So, on the face of it, her credit 
card limit was exceeded by a very small sum. And it doesnt appear that Ms P was put in any 
financial difficulty in terms of her ability to repay this small sum in excess of her card credit 
limit. She appears to have been operating her card account at or around the card limit, and Virgin didnt put her in any further potential financial difficulty as it didnt increase her credit 
card limit.
But there does appear to be an inconsistency between what Virgin did in June and what it 
did in July when the payment was allowed. It seems to me that Virgin could potentially have 
allowed the payment to go through in June, but it chose not to. But notwithstanding that 
inconsistency I cant safely say that it acted unfairly by not stopping the payment in July in 
the same way it did in June. I think it was arguably a matter of commercial judgement on its 
part in how it acted in Ms Ps particular case and circumstances. And in terms of her ability 
to make the payments on the account, I dont think her exceeding the credit card account 
limit by such a small amount would have had a material impact on her ability to make 
monthly payments. 
However, what has clearly had an impact on Ms P, is the withdrawal of the promotional offer 
on her credit card account. I accept that this has resulted in Ms P having to pay interest on 
the account which she wasnt having to do before the account was withdrawn. So, Ive 
thought carefully about whether Virgin was allowed to do this. 
Virgin has given us copies of Ms Ps credit card statements. These gave information about 
how it charged interest. And on the statement for May 2019 it says:
If..you go over your credit limit, we will withdraw the promotional rate with effect from 
the start of the statement period. When a promotional rate ends or is withdrawn, we charge 
the current interest rate that applies to that transaction.  
So as the terms of the account allow Virgin to withdraw the promotional offer when the credit 
limit is exceeded, I dont think in this case that it has acted unfairly in withdrawing the 
promotional offer. 
I do understand that Ms P will be disappointed with my decision. 
My final decision
Virgin Money Plc has already made an offer to £75 to settle the complaint and I think that is 
fair in all the circumstances. So, my decision is that Virgin Money Plc should pay £75 (only if 
it hasnt already done so).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2020.
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman