DRN-3091977
The complaint
The estate of Mr H complains about the service provided by Philips & Cohen Associates 
(UK) Limited (PCA). 
What happened
Mr H passed away in April 2020. Mrs H was appointed to administer the estate of Mr H. 
Mrs H has told us she forwarded documents to PCA to try and deal with debts that it was 
administering in relation to the estate of Mr H. Mrs H says PCAs original case handler left 
during the process of dealing with the estate of Mr Hs accounts. As a result, she had to deal 
with other case handlers at PCA. 
Mrs H has also told us someone at PCA called and asked to speak with the late Mr H. Mrs H 
also says PCA wasnt able to explain what had happened to a cheque it received after the 
sale of a car. 
Mrs H complained on behalf of the estate of Mr H. PCA said its staff members were trained 
to deal with the estate of Mr H. PCA agreed it had provided some incorrect information about 
how a cheque payment it received would be used. 
An investigator at this service looked at the estate of Mr Hs complaint. They thought PCA 
had dealt with the complaint fairly, so didnt ask it to do anything else. On behalf of the estate 
of Mr H, Mrs H asked to appeal. So this complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mrs H has raised several concerns about the service provided by PCA while 
dealing with debts in the name of the estate of Mr H. I need to explain that the complainant 
in this case is the estate of Mr H. So whilst I dont doubt Mrs H has experienced some 
problems whilst dealing with PCA, Ill focus on how the issues raised impacted the estate of 
Mrs H. 
Mrs H has explained that despite being told she would receive a single point of contact at 
PCA, her case handler left. And from that point, she had to deal with different members of 
staff and repeatedly go back through the same information. I agree with Mrs H that having a 
single point of contact wouldve been simpler, but I havent seen anything that shows the 
estate of Mr H was unreasonably impacted by the original case handlers departure. Im 
sorry to disappoint Mrs H but I havent found PCA treated the estate of Mr H unfairly when 
more than one member of staff was involved in administering its accounts. 
PCA has apologised that it gave incorrect information about how a payment it received by 
way of a cheque from a third party. PCA says the call handler incorrectly told Mrs H it 
needed to issue a refund. But PCA has since clarified that as the outstanding balances owed 
by the estate of Mr H exceeded the balance of the cheque it received. As the funds PCA 
received werent sufficient to clear the outstanding balance there was no refund due to the 
estate of Mr H. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs H but as Im satisfied PCA dealt with the estate of Mr Hs 
complaint fairly Im not telling it to take any further action.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr H 
to accept or reject my decision before 8 December 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman