DRN-3771200
The complaint
Mr D complains that he was unable to use his debit card, linked to an account he and Miss A 
hold with Barclays Bank UK PLC, to withdraw money from an ATM.
As Mr D has provided most of the commentary in relation to this complaint, I will refer to him 
throughout. 
What happened
In June 2022, Mr D invited some friends out for a meal at a restaurant. When he tried to pay, 
he was told that the restaurant didnt accept card payments and he would need to pay by 
cash. Mr D said he went to a nearby ATM to try and withdraw money using both a new card 
hed been sent, and an older card when that didnt work. But the ATM had a message 
displayed explaining that Mr D had exceeded his daily cash withdrawal limit, so he couldnt 
withdraw any money. Mr D was unhappy about this, as he hadnt withdrawn cash at all. He 
said he then went back to the restaurant to ask if he could use another method of payment. 
Mr D says the restaurant then allowed him to pay using his card.
Mr D says he tried to withdraw money from an ATM again the next day, but this was also 
unsuccessful, and the same message was displayed. He called Barclays and was told by an 
adviser that this was because the limit for cash withdrawals had been set to zero. As I 
understand it, Mr D says he was also told the limit for contactless payments was also set to 
zero. Mr D says the adviser ultimately reset his cash withdrawal limit to £500. And, as I 
understand it, the limit for contactless payments was reset to £100. Mr D remained unhappy 
and said he hadnt been made aware that the limit for cash withdrawals was zero. He 
pointed out that this was the second time this had happened within a few months. He also 
said the matter caused him a great deal of embarrassment, given that the payment was for a 
meal which hed invited guests to. 
Barclays reviewed matters. As part of the response, it explained that Mr Ds withdrawal limit 
was set to zero which was why he was unable to withdraw money. Barclays said the limit 
had since been reset to £500.
Mr D brought his complaint to this service. He said the adviser who dealt with his complaint 
with was rude to him and called him at a time that he had asked her not to. Mr D said he was 
preparing for a very important call at that time and Barclays call caused him distress. Mr D 
was also unhappy that the adviser who dealt with his complaint said there was no evidence 
of Mr Ds attempted cash withdrawals, which he thought was questioning the validity of what 
he said had happened.
One of our investigators reviewed matters. She noted that the same issue had occurred 
some months previously in March 2022, for which Barclays had paid £50 compensation. In 
relation to the issue in June 2022, she thought Barclays actions had caused Mr D 
inconvenience. She recommended that it paid him an additional £50 compensation. Barclays 
accepted this recommendation, but Mr D didnt, and mostly repeated his earlier points. 
Our investigator reviewed matters again and concluded that £100 total compensation was 
fair for all the issues which occurred. She further explained that the recommendation was for 
Barclays to award a further £50, in addition to the £50 Mr D had already received. Mr D 
accepted this, and Barclays paid him an additional £50 in line with our investigators 
recommendation. 
There was a misunderstanding about how much compensation was being recommended 
and Mr D explained he thought our investigator recommended £100 but he only received 
£50. Our investigator explained she thought £50 for the second issue which happened was 
fair and that Barclays had made payment in line with her recommendation. But Mr D 
disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. So, the case has been passed to me to 
review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to the crux of the complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made to date.
Its certainly arguable whether its appropriate to consider the merits of this complaint, or 
whether I ought to dismiss this under the powers afforded to me under the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) Dispute Resolution (DISP) Rules  DISP 3.3.4 in particular. I say this 
because the parties have agreed a settlement and I think the investigators view made it 
clear what settlement was being accepted. The investigator explained that the total 
recommendation comprised of £50 compensation which was already paid  for the issue in 
March, which Im not looking at in this decision  and £50 compensation which was being 
recommended for the subsequent issue. But, in any event, I think the £50 compensation 
recommended for the issue that happened in June is fair. Ill explain why.
Ive considered that Barclays explained that the reason Mr D was unable to withdraw money 
was because his withdrawal limit was set to zero. However, in its submissions to this service, 
Barclays hasnt explained why this was the case and how this occurred. Instead, Barclays 
said that a limit can either been set through its internal systems, or by the customer 
themselves. 
Mr D said he wasnt aware that he could change the card payment and withdrawal limits 
himself using his mobile banking application. He has also been consistent when explaining 
that he was shocked to learn that the limits had been set to zero. Ive also considered that 
the same issue happened some months earlier due to an error Barclays apologised for. And, 
in submissions to this service, Barclays outlined that it had previously not reviewed matters 
thoroughly enough when the issue first occurred in March 2022. So, on balance, and based 
on the submissions before me, Im more persuaded that the what happened in June was 
also likely due to an error made by Barclays. 
Mr D is clear about how the matter affected him. Amongst other points, he says the situation 
caused him a great deal of embarrassment. I appreciate this wouldve been especially 
frustrating for Mr D, given that this was the second time the issue had happened within a few 
months. Mr D also explained that the adviser who dealt with his complaint called at a time 
that was inconvenient for him, despite him asking for this not to happen. And I acknowledge 
this caused Mr D distress because he was preparing for an important call. Having reviewed 
Mr Ds testimony, and the contact notes from Barclays, it seems there was a breakdown in communication when the call did take place. And, overall, I think the service could have 
been better.
Ive thought very carefully about all the circumstances here. And, whilst I dont doubt the 
matter would have been embarrassing and inconvenient for Mr D, Im satisfied that Barclays 
took steps to rectify the problem as soon as it was made aware of it. Mr D said he spoke to 
an adviser after the second issue occurred, and he says they were able to reset his cash 
withdrawal limit to £500 during the call. As I understand it, the limit for contactless payments 
was also reset to £100 on the call. So, I think the matter was resolved reasonably quickly. 
So, overall, having considered the impact of the matter on Mr D, and the overall service 
offered, I agree that £50 compensation is a fair way to put things right.
Barclays has already paid Mr D this compensation. So, it follows that I dont direct it to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined, Barclays Bank UK PLC doesnt need to do anything further to 
resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Miss A 
to accept or reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 
Hana Yousef
Ombudsman