DRN-3823195
The complaint
Mr H complained because Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, refused to refund him for 
transactions he said he didnt make.
What happened
On 29 April 2022, Mr H rang Halifax. He said that hed checked his account and had seen 
multiple debits which he hadnt authorised. 
There had been a £2,000 credit into Mr Hs account on 28 March. Mr H disputed 
transactions for goods and services which ranged from £2.72 to £1,349.00, which had taken 
place between 29 March and 27 April. The total came to £5,063.54. Mr H told Halifax that 
no-one had access to his card.
Halifax investigated, but it refused to refund Mr H. In its final response letter on 12 May, 
Halifax said that:
- it could see that Mr H used his mobile app often, and that hed used this around the 
time of the payments in March 2022. It said that the IP address (a unique computer 
identifier) used for the disputed payments had been the same as the IP address used 
for Mr Hs mobile app;
- the debit card payments had also been approved through a text message which had 
been sent to the mobile number which had been registered on Mr Hs account since 
June 2021;
- some of the disputed payments showed an IP address abroad. Halifax said that Mr H 
had told Halifax he had family there and often sent money to support them. Mr H had 
told Halifax that it wasnt possible for someone else to know or have used his details.
So Halifax refused to refund Mr H.
Mr H wasnt satisfied and contacted this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. He said that multiple disputed transactions 
had had Mr Hs correct address entered, so whoever did the transactions knew his address 
as well as having the card. And the investigator saw that one of the transactions had been 
made from an IP address to which Mr H had logged into internet banking. Also, the spend 
had happened over the period of a month, and if a fraudster had carried out the transactions, 
its likely theyd have maximised spending as quickly as possible. So the investigator 
believed that the disputed transactions had been made by Mr H or someone he knew such 
as friends and family.
Mr H wasnt satisfied. He said:
- he hadnt received a one-time passcode for the transactions. The investigator 
explained that not all transactions need a one-time passcode;
- although the investigator had said Mr Hs address had been supplied by the person 
doing the transactions, hed contacted all the merchants who had said the address 
didnt match. The investigator told Mr H the exact transactions where a match had 
been confirmed;
- he used to live in shared accommodation so someone living at the address or nearby 
might be involved in fraud. 
The investigator asked Mr H for more information about shared accommodation, which Mr H 
hadnt mentioned before. Mr H said the shared accommodation was his own property and he 
ran a private bed and breakfast with guests staying. He said hed been taken to hospital for a 
couple of days in March 2022, and sent in a copy of his hospital discharge document dated 
24 March. The investigator asked whether Mr H had left his debit card at home when 
admitted to hospital, and Mr H said he had. He said that could be when it had happened. 
The investigator asked for the name of Mr Hs business, or any advert or official confirmation 
of his business, but Mr H said it wasnt a registered business.  
The investigator also asked for clarification about the transactions which appeared to be 
made from an IP address abroad. Mr H said he, his wife and children hadnt travelled abroad 
until July 2022, and hed previously sent money to relatives and friends abroad but hadnt 
shared his bank details with them.
The investigator didnt change his view about Mr Hs complaint, and Mr H asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions. The relevant regulations for 
disputed transactions taking place in March and April 2022 are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017. These say that the payment service provider (here, Halifax) must show 
the transaction was authenticated. Thats the technical part, and here, Halifax has produced 
computer evidence which shows that the disputed payments were correctly authenticated. 
The regulations also say that its necessary to look at whether the card holder authorised the 
payments. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the payments, 
and the customer is liable if they did authorise them. It also counts as Mr H having 
authorised the payments if he allowed someone else  for example a family member or 
friend - to use his details. The regulations also say that account holders can still be liable for 
unauthorised payments under certain circumstances  for example if theyve failed to keep 
their details secure to such an extent that it can be termed gross negligence.
So Ive gone on to consider whether its more likely than not that Mr H authorised the 
disputed transactions, in line with what the regulations say about authorisation.
The disputed payments include payments where there is a match for the registered address 
which Halifax had on file for Mr H. This information isnt held on the card itself, so whoever 
carried out the payments must have known Mr Hs genuine address in order to verify the 
transactions.
Ive looked at the IP addresses for the disputed transactions. Some are located abroad, in 
the country where Mr H said he had relatives. Ive also seen that one of the disputed 
transactions took place using the IP address which Mr H had used on more than one 
occasion earlier in the year for transactions which werent disputed. 
Importantly, the transactions took place over a month. And some of them are for small 
amounts. If any fraudster had obtained Mr Hs card, its most unlikely that this would be the pattern of spend. Fraudsters tend to spend the maximum possible as soon as they can, 
before the fraud can be discovered and in order to maximise their gain.
As the investigator explained to Mr H, a one-time passcode isnt essential for all 
transactions. So it doesnt make any difference that Mr H said he didnt receive a code for all 
the transactions.
After the investigator issued his view, Mr H told us that he lives in shared accommodation. 
He hadnt mentioned this, either to us or to Halifax, before that. He told us it isnt a registered 
business so wouldnt be on any official records. Hes said that he thinks the fact that its 
shared accommodation is the reason for the disputed transactions, and that his debit card 
was taken while he was in hospital between 22 and 24 March.  
Im sorry to hear that Mr H had to go to hospital, and hope hes now in good health. But if, as 
Mr H now suggests, someone staying in his private bed and breakfast stole his card during 
that time, Id have expected the transactions to have taken place during that time  again so 
that the fraudsters could maximise their income before it could be discovered. Instead, the 
disputed transactions started on 29 March and went on till late April. Mr H told us he didnt 
take his debit card when he went to hospital, but I think its very unlikely in most bed and 
breakfast accommodations that the owners private rooms and personal possessions 
wouldnt be kept locked, separate, and inaccessible to clients. This is especially so when Mr 
Hs family  his wife, daughter and son  would have been at home during that time. He also 
said that the card was in his room when he returned home on 24 March.
Ive considered whether the shared accommodation would be a reasonable explanation for 
the disputed transactions. The card being used by someone at Mr Hs address would explain 
the IP match, and the fact that the person using it knew the correct address. But Im not 
persuaded that this new evidence proves that Mr H didnt authorise the disputed 
transactions. As Ive explained, thats because of the pattern of the transactions over a long 
period, the fact they didnt happen during the time Mr H was in hospital, and the fact that I 
dont think its likely that Mr Hs family would have left his card somewhere in the public part 
of his bed and breakfast business. I also find it strange that Mr H only mentioned his shared 
accommodation and his suspicions after the investigators view, and didnt tell Halifax about 
this.
So for these reasons I think its most likely that Mr H carried out the disputed transactions 
himself, or authorised someone else  for example a family member or friend  to do so. And 
Ive also explained that the Payment Services Regulations provide that account holders can 
still be liable for unauthorised payments under certain circumstances  for example if theyve 
failed to keep their details secure to such an extent that it can be termed gross negligence.  
So I do not uphold this complaint and I dont require Halifax to refund Mr H.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman