DRN-3364816
The complaint
Mr R, a sole motor trader trading as V has complained that Bollington Insurance Brokers 
Limited unfairly threatened to cancel his motor trade vehicle insurance policy. V believes 
Bollington mis-sold the policy to him.
What happened
Mr R bought a motor trade vehicle insurance policy through the broker Bollington in October 
2019. Mr R renewed the policy through Bollington in 2020. Bollington asked Mr R to provide 
proof of trading (POT). Mr R said he wasnt able to due to the impact on trade as a result of 
Covid 19.
Bollington checked with the insurer of the policy and it agreed for cover to continue until 
March 2021 when it would ask for evidence of POT again. Mr R was unable to provide this 
and so Bollington said it would look to cancel the policy on behalf of the insurer. 
Mr R was unhappy about this and raised a complaint. Bollington said it could allow for the 
policy to continue until renewal in October 2021. But at this point if Mr R couldnt provide 
POT it wouldnt be able to offer a policy. 
Mr R asked us to look at his complaint. He said Bollington had mis-sold the policy to him as 
it didnt clearly set out there was a requirement to sell a minimum number of vehicles in 
order for the policy to be valid. He says the threat to cancel the policy caused him distress. 
He said he was a sole trader starting up a business and he felt unsupported. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. She found that 
Bollington and the insurer(s) had allowed Mr R a motor trade policy for two years without 
providing any POT. She didnt agree that the communication Bollington had sent to Mr R 
requesting evidence of POT and explaining the cancellation process was threatening. The 
Investigator found no evidence to show Bollington had been unsupportive of Mr Rs 
circumstances. She explained that it isnt unusual for an insurer to ask for reasonable 
evidence to validate a policy and if Mr R was unhappy about this it would be something he 
would need to raise with the insurer involved. 
Mr R didnt agree. He listened to call recordings of the conversations he had with Bollington 
and told the Investigator there was evidence the policy should never have been sold to him.
Our Investigator reviewed the call recordings. She remained of the view that Bollington had 
acted reasonably. She found that although Mr R wasnt told at the outset that he needed to 
sell a minimum number of vehicles, when Mr R was told this later he still wanted to continue 
with the policy and said he had every intention of continuing to trade. So she didnt think 
Bollington had mis-sold a policy to Mr R. 
The Investigator found that Bollington had ensured the policy was allowed to continue until 
renewal in October 2021  taking into account Mr Rs circumstances as a new trader, the 
impact of Covid 19 and without any evidence of POT. 
Mr R didnt agree. In summary he says Bollington added to his stress at an already stressful 
time when it threatened to cancel the policy. He says he should have been made aware of 
the requirement to sell a minimum number of vehicles at the outset and if he had, he 
wouldnt have bought the policy. He says if the policy had cancelled he would have lost out 
on paying for six months premiums. Mr R says Bollington mis-sold the policies to him. 
So as Mr R doesnt agree, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When we consider whether a policy was mis-sold, we look at what the impact was and 
whether a customer would have made a different decision if all of the information had been 
available at the outset. 
Mr R was able to have a motor trade policy for 2019 and 2020 without POT. So despite not 
having proof of selling any cars as a motor trader for two years, Mr R had cover. 
Mr R says he wouldnt have bought the policy if Bollington had told him there was a 
requirement to sell a minimum number of vehicles to validate the policy it sold him. 
I think it was clear from Mr Rs conversations with Bollington that he intended to continue to 
trade. It isnt unusual for an insurer of a motor trade policy to ask for evidence of POT. So I 
dont think Mr R would have found an alternative motor trade policy on the market without 
the risk of being asked for POT. Therefore I dont think the outcome would have been any 
different  as I think Mr R would have bought an alternative policy and a different insurer 
would have most likely made the same request for POT from Mr R. 
Ive also kept in mind that when Bollington discussed the possibility of the policy being 
cancelled by the insurer, it said it would do this without charge. So Mr R would have only 
paid for the time on risk. If an insurer doesnt receive reasonable evidence to validate a 
policy, it can choose to cancel a policy and we wouldnt find this unfair. So I think Bollingtons 
approach to ensure Mr R didnt pay any cancellation fees if the cancellation went ahead was 
reasonable  and shows it took into account Mr Rs circumstances. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr R. But I dont think Bollington acted unreasonably or mis-sold a 
policy to him. So I dont think it needs to do any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask V to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman