DRN-3962979
The complaint
A limited company, K, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt do enough to prevent the
loss it suffered when it sent money to an HSBC account as the result of a scam.
K has used a representative to bring its complaint, but for ease of reading Ill mainly just refer
to K and will ascribe the representatives comments to it.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In 2020 K was the victim of an email
interception scam. It received an email from its owner requesting a payment to be made to
an account in the UK.
Whilst this email came from the owners genuine email address, he hadnt sent it. K followed
the instructions and sent £69,000 from its own bank (which is based outside the UK) to the
HSBC bank account details provided.
When the scam came to light K reported this to its own bank. K also got in touch with HSBC
requesting confirmation that the account in question hadnt been opened in its owners
name. Ultimately HSBC said it couldnt share that information due to data protection and it
later confirmed that no funds remained in the account to be returned.
The matter was referred to our service and one of our Investigators considered it. During her
investigation it was discovered that, in 2020, HSBC had recovered £29,145 from one of the
banks that the money had been sent on to from its customers account. This money was
returned to K around August / September 2022.
Part of Ks complaint was that HSBC had allowed a scammer to open and operate an
account. Our Investigator said that she couldnt consider this complaint point as it fell outside
of our jurisdiction. But she could look into Ks concerns that HSBC did not do enough to
prevent and respond to the notification of fraud from its bank (where these acts or omissions
took place on or after 31 January 2019). In this regard she recommended that the complaint
should be upheld in part and that HSBC should pay K just under £34,000.
K didnt accept this on the basis that it felt interest should be added to this amount. HSBC
made an offer to reimburse around £24,000 because it felt that K had contributed towards its
own loss by having insufficient systems in place. Ks submissions after our Investigator
issued her opinion still referred to an allegation that HSBC failed when opening the account.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide. Initially, I
issued a jurisdiction decision explaining which elements of Ks complaint I can consider.  
Following on from this in January 2023 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC has an obligation to conduct ongoing due diligence in relation to its accounts. In the
circumstances of this complaint, I think HSBC failed in relation to those obligations
specifically, regarding activity that took place on the account in question. And this failure took
place before Ks funds arrived in the account. As such, I think the entirety of Ks loss was
preventable, but for HSBCs failure.
HSBC recovered £29,145 and have now returned this to K. Ill deal with the issue of interest
in relation to that amount later in my decision. But this means the outstanding loss to K is
£39,855. HSBC have argued that K should bear some responsibility for its own loss due to
contributory negligence. Ive considered this but I dont agree.
K was going about its business in the usual way, without knowledge or awareness of the
fraud. When it received the fraudulent emails, there was nothing suspicious about them and
the request itself wasnt out of the ordinary. Indeed, they commonly made payments for far
greater sums and the email came from its owners genuine email address. And at the time of
instructing the payment, K believed it to be going to an account in its owners personal
name.
Ive considered HSBCs point that they believe K should have processes in place to protect
against scams of this nature. But not having a process in place isnt negligence in relation to
the act of instructing the payment relevant to this complaint. Ultimately, Im not currently
persuaded that, when making the payment, K knew or reasonably should have suspected
something was amiss yet continued despite this. So, in the circumstances I dont think it
acted unreasonably by making the payment or that a reduction for contributory negligence is
appropriate here.
There has also been much discussion as to whether interest should be added to the award.
The nature of Ks business and the likely funds available to it also mean that Im not
persuaded it was unable to do anything it otherwise would have done, due to being without
the funds for that period of time. In these circumstances I think the appropriate amount of
interest to award would be the rate that Ks bank account provides. And as K have confirmed
that its account doesnt pay interest, I dont think it is appropriate to make an interest award
in this case. This applies to both the recovered funds and the amount Im intending to direct
HSBC to pay.
For the reasons outlined above, but subject to any further information I receive from either
HSBC UK Bank Plc or K, Im intending to uphold this complaint. I intend to direct that HSBC 
UK Bank Plc pay K £39,855.
Both HSBC and K responded to my provisional decision to say they had nothing further to 
add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had any further evidence or comments for my consideration, I see no 
reason to deviate from the outcome explained in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc must pay K £39,855.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 March 2023.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman