DRN-3560714
The complaint
Mrs C complains Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) unfairly declined her 
claim for repairs when she made a claim on her motor insurance policy
There are several parties and representatives of Advantage involved throughout the 
complaint but for the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to Advantage.
What happened
Mrs C made a claim on her motor insurance policy with Advantage after an accident.
The accident happened on 5 May 2021. The impact was to the front of the car and Mrs C 
described the damage she could see externally. Advantage accepted the claim. 
Before the car was taken in for repairs Mrs C contacted Advantage again to update it that 
the car radiator was leaking. She had not noticed this at the time of making the claim as it 
had been raining at the time of the accident. 
The car was picked up on 20 May 2021 by the repair garage appointed by Advantage and 
returned to Mrs C on 25 June 2021. 
When Mrs C took the car away after the repairs, she assumed both the external damage and 
damage to the radiator had been completed. But the next day whilst on a journey the 
radiator over-heated and she had to have the car recovered by her roadside assistance 
provider. She made a call to Advantage and was referred back to the garage that had 
completed the repairs.
The garage confirmed there was an issue with the radiator but said as they had not 
completed any repairs to it, it was nothing to do with them. They said they were not told by 
Advantage that this was work that should have been completed. 
Mrs C paid for the repairs to be completed by a garage she had used in the past, at a cost of 
over £3,000.
Mrs C contacted Advantage to make a claim for the cost of the radiator repairs as she said 
the breakdown was a result of poor repairs completed after the accident. She said she had 
told Advantage the radiator was leaking and so it should have been fixed when it was being 
repaired.
Advantage said Mrs C had the repairs completed before she had allowed it to review the 
damage and this had prejudiced its position. It said its engineers said the damage to the 
radiator was not related to the accident and therefore it would not cover the cost of the 
repairs. 
As Mrs C was not happy with Advantage, she brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He looked into the case and felt that Advantage acted 
unfairly and unreasonably. They said Advantage should review the invoice of repairs and 
pay for any costs relating to the accident. And also pay £150 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience it has caused to Mrs C.
As Advantage is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me 
for a final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When looking at complaints relating to claims for damage to a vehicle, our service cant
determine what damage occurred. Instead what we look at is the information the insurance 
company relied on to make their decision.
In this case, when Mrs C first made the claim on her motor insurance policy, she told 
Advantage what was wrong with the car based on the impact of the accident. She only 
reported the damage she could see externally. I would not expect Mrs C to know about any 
damage caused internally.
Advantage relied on the information given by Mrs C. It did not inspect the car after the 
accident and before the repairs were started. 
Mrs Cs husband called Advantage and reported the radiator damage before the car was 
collected for repairs to be completed. Advantage confirmed this was noted on Mrs Cs claim.
Mrs C organised for the repairs to the radiator to be completed at a garage she had used in 
the past because she needed the car to get to work. She said she didnt advise Advantage 
before getting the repairs completed because it had already said it was nothing to do with 
them. Once the repair work was complete, she made a complaint to Advantage. 
Its important to again note that our service cant determine how the damage to the car 
radiator occurred. What we have to consider is the information or opinions Advantage have 
relied on to make their decision.
Because Mrs C had already had the radiator repairs completed Advantage were unable to 
conduct an inspection of it. Advantages in-house engineers said; having the vehicle 
repaired has prejudiced our position, as we can not now inspect to see if the radiator was 
damaged due to the insured accident claim.
Mrs C submitted pictures of the damaged radiator and Advantage got its in-house engineers 
to consider the circumstances of the accident and damage to the radiator. After considering 
all the evidence provided the in-house engineer concluded they could not; really say yes or 
no for sure if the damage was due to the impact of the accident or not.
Mrs C had reported there was damage to the radiator in addition to the external damage 
before her car was taken to a garage for the accident damage to be repaired. And as 
Advantage had chosen not to inspect the car, I think it should have organised for the radiator 
to be repaired at the same time as the external damage. After the radiator had overheated Advantage were not given the opportunity to inspect the 
car as Mrs C had the repair work completed before she made her complaint. It had to rely on 
picture evidence and information from the repairing garage to review the situation. 
It is not clear if the damage to the radiator was caused by the impact of the accident or not. 
And as there is no poof either way, I think Advantage should cover the costs of repairs to the 
radiator. This does not include work that Advantage have identified as not related to the 
impact of the accident but due to the car being driven after it had over-heated. 
Therefore, I uphold Mrs Cs complaint and Advantage should pay her the invoice amount 
paid to the garage for the repairs to her radiator, minus the itemised costs for the fuel 
injectors and the turbo charger.
I agree with our investigator and think Advantage should also pay Mrs C £150 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused to her by it not completing all the repairs after the 
accident.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I uphold this complaint.
I require Advantage Insurance Company Limited to pay Mrs C the cost of the invoice she 
paid for the radiator repairs, less the cost for the fuel injectors and the turbo charger. Plus 
£150 compensation for the inconvenience caused to her by it not completing all the repairs 
after the accident.
Advantage Insurance Company Limited must pay this within 28 days of the date on which 
we tell it Mrs C accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest 
from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2022.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman