DRN-1537667
 
The complaint
Ms D complains that National Westminster Bank Plc blocked her account. She also 
complains about some customer service issues.
What happened
In July 2019 Ms D told NatWest she was about to receive a very large payment into her 
account. She didnt want the account balance to exceed £85,000, being the maximum which 
is protected by the government if a bank fails, so she asked NatWest if there was a limit on 
how much she could transfer out of the account at a time. NatWest told her she could 
transfer £20,000 a day. So she attempted to transfer £75,000 out of the account over four 
days  three payments of £20,000 each, and one of £15,000.
The first transfer went through, but the second payment triggered NatWests anti-fraud 
systems, and her account was blocked. Ms D complains about this, and also complains that 
NatWest didnt contact her about it. She phoned NatWest, and Ms D complains that NatWest 
kept her on hold for too long, and passed her between different departments. NatWest asked 
Ms D to go to a local branch with proof of her identity before it would unblock her account. 
Ms D argues that NatWest should have been able to verify who she was over the phone. 
She also points out that the transfers were to an account which was also in her own name 
and to which she had paid money before.
NatWest apologised to Ms D for her experience on the phone calls. But it did not agree it 
had done anything else wrong, since it had a duty to protect her account from fraud. Ms D 
brought this complaint to our Service, but our investigator agreed that NatWests actions to 
protect the account had been reasonable, so he did not uphold the main part of this 
complaint. But he thought that the customer service on the phone calls merited £100 
compensation.
Ms D thought £100 was not enough, and she asked for an ombudsmans decision. NatWest 
did not comment about the investigators opinion.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think there were ample grounds for NatWest to flag the transfers for further attention. They 
were for much larger amounts than the transactions she normally made on that account. The 
payments Ms D had previously made to her other account had been £500 a month, which is 
very different to £20,000 in one day, followed by another £20,000 the next day. She was also 
using a new device to access her online banking and make the transfers.
While sometimes a transaction may be approved following a modest intervention, such as 
sending a text message to the customers phone, or asking the customer to answer security 
questions in a phone call, sometimes a more robust security check is advisable. In this 
instance, I cannot fault NatWests decision to ask Ms D to attend a branch in person, and to 
bring identity documents with her.
I appreciate that that, and the block on her account in the meantime, were inconvenient for 
Ms D. But if she had lost £75,000 to a fraudster, that would of course have been much more 
inconvenient. Banks have to balance the risk of one of those outcomes against the risk of 
the other, so this will inevitably and unavoidably cause some inconvenience to their 
customers from time to time. That cant be helped, and I would not lightly interfere with a 
banks discretion when it is exercised in favour of caution  that is, to process a payment 
only after it has been checked thoroughly. (After all, the Financial Ombudsman Service 
sometimes receives complaints from people whose money has been stolen, and then the 
complaint is that the bank didnt do enough checks.)
Putting things right
Its not in dispute that the service Ms D received on the phone calls could have been better. 
£100 is in line with what our Service would typically award for that kind of thing, so I think 
that is fair.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I order National Westminster Bank Plc to 
pay Ms D £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2020. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman