DRN-3661080
The complaint
Mr C complains about the way that AXA Insurance UK Plc handled a claim he made on a 
travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr C has travel insurance as a benefit of a packaged bank account.
Mr C booked a holiday abroad to a country Ill call F. He was due to travel in April 2021, 
along with his wife, Mrs C and other family members. He booked and paid for 
accommodation for the family.
However, as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, borders between the UK and F were closed 
at the time Mr C was due to travel. And sadly, Mrs C passed away in February 2021. The trip 
had to be cancelled and so Mr C made a claim on his travel insurance policy.
AXA looked into Mr Cs claim. It initially considered that Mrs Cs death had been the main 
cause of the holiday cancellation. So it asked Mr C to provide medical evidence from Mrs Cs 
GP, together with a copy of her death certificate. It also asked Mr C to provide information 
about the other members of the travelling party, so that it could establish whether any other 
insurer had any liability for the claim. 
Mr C provided AXA with the medical evidence it had asked for. But he said he wasnt 
prepared to provide information about his family members, as hed paid for the holiday and 
they hadnt suffered any financial loss. He was also concerned that this might result in data 
protection issues. Given the policy covered cancellation due to the imposition of travel 
restrictions, he was unhappy that AXA hadnt dealt with the claim under this head of cover. 
And he was upset to learn that AXA had lost Mrs Cs death certificate.
Ultimately, AXA accepted that it should have accepted the claim based on the travel 
restrictions cover and that itd unnecessarily caused Mr C time and trouble in obtaining 
medical information. It also apologised for the loss of Mrs Cs death certificate. It explained 
why it had asked for details of Mr Cs family members, but it accepted that Mr C had solely 
paid for the trip and it agreed to settle the claim without this evidence. It also paid Mr C £175 
compensation for its handling of the claim.
Mr C remained unhappy with AXAs offer and he asked us to look into his complaint. 
Subsequently, AXA offered to pay Mr C £500 in total. Mr C didnt think this offer went far 
enough.
Our investigator felt that AXAs offer was fair and reasonable. He agreed that AXA hadnt 
handled the claim as well as it ought to have done. He felt had caused Mr C unnecessary 
distress at an already stressful time, although he thought itd been fair for AXA to request 
information about the other members of the travelling party. Overall, he concluded that £500 
was a fair award in the circumstances.
Mr C disagreed. He didnt think that £500 compensation was satisfactory, given the 
unnecessary information hed been asked to provide and the time this had taken, at a time of 
grief and emotional distress.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think AXAs offer to pay Mr C total compensation of £500 is fair and 
reasonable and Ill explain why.
First, Id like to offer my sincere condolences to Mr C for the loss of Mrs C. Id also like to 
reassure him that whilst Ive summarised the background to his complaint and his detailed 
submissions to us, Ive carefully considered all hes said and sent us. In this decision though, 
I wont comment on each point hes raised and nor do our rules require me to. Instead, Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt handle claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
circumstances of the claim and the available evidence, to decide whether AXAs offer is fair.
AXA acknowledges that it didnt meet the regulators obligation to handle the claim fairly. It 
accepts that it made errors and that these caused Mr C additional upset at an already very 
distressing time. It ought to have been clear to AXA from the outset that given Fs 
government had put travel restrictions in place, Mr C would never have been able to take the 
trip. So I think it should reasonably have dealt with the claim on this basis under the relevant 
section of the policy.
Instead, AXA didnt deal with the claim under this particular heading. It required Mr C to 
obtain unnecessary medical evidence, at a time he was already grieving the loss of his wife, 
in order to progress the claim. This put Mr C to additional unnecessary time and 
inconvenience. And its clear that AXA then lost Mrs Cs death certificate. I dont doubt how 
frustrating and upsetting this mustve been for Mr C.
I agree with the investigator though that it was reasonable for AXA to ask for information 
about the other members of Mr Cs travelling party. Thats because I think it was reasonably 
entitled to be satisfied that Mr C had borne the financial loss and that no other insurer had 
any liability for the claim. So I dont think AXA did anything wrong on this point.
Ive considered everything Mr C has said very carefully. I understand how frustrating it 
mustve been to have to obtain evidence whilst Covid-19 restrictions remained in place in the 
UK, when it transpired that that evidence hadnt been needed to assess the claim. And given 
Mr C was dealing with grief and upset following the loss of Mrs C, I appreciate that this is 
likely to have had a real impact on him. 
Our awards of compensation arent designed to punish or fine the businesses we cover. 
Theyre intended to reflect the distress and impact we consider a financial business error 
has had on a particular consumer in their individual circumstances. In this case, it appears 
that Mr C made the claim on 24 March 2021 and that it was on 24 June 2021 that AXA 
accepted the claim without the need for further information and apologised for its initial 
claims handling errors. So it seems it took three months for AXA to correctly deal with the 
claim. Taking everything into account, I find that total compensation of £500 (less the compensation amount AXA has already paid) is a fair award to reflect the likely trouble, 
upset, time and inconvenience its errors had on Mr C. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that AXAs offer of compensation is fair 
and reasonable.
I direct AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Mr C total compensation of £500 (less the amount of 
compensation its already paid).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman