DRN-3897357
The complaint
Mrs B has complained that HDI Global Specialty SE unfairly declined a claim under her pet 
insurance policy.
What happened
On 8 August 2022 Mrs B took her dog to the vet because the dog had a limp. The vet 
prescribed some anti-inflammatory medicine. She didnt make a claim at that stage under a 
policy she had with a different insurer.
On 1 September 2022 Mrs B took out a new policy with HDI.
On 14 September 2022 Mrs B took her dog back to the vet as the anti-inflammatory 
medicine hadnt worked. After carrying out some x-rays later that month, the vet referred the 
dog to a specialist.
When Mrs B made a claim to HDI, it declined it on the ground that the lameness was present 
before the start of the policy and so any treatment related to it was excluded from cover. It 
also said if the lameness had first been noticed on 14 September, it would still have been 
excluded as that was within the first 14 days of the policy during which no illnesses were 
covered.
As Mrs B was unhappy with this response, she brought a complaint to this service. Our 
investigator thought HDI had acted fairly in declining the claim on the ground of the dog 
having a pre-existing condition. 
Mrs B has asked for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this complaint I am only looking at how HDI treated Mrs B and not the fact that her 
previous insurer also declined a claim for treatment.
Mrs Bs pet insurance policy helps cover veterinary treatment costs to keep her pet healthy. 
The policy sets out what is and isnt covered. The exclusion includes any claim for treatment 
relating to a pre-existing condition. It defined a pre-existing condition as follows:
Pre-existing condition
Any illness or injury or complication directly resulting from an injury or illness, whether 
diagnosed or undiagnosed that has been identified or investigated by a vet or is otherwise 
known to you prior to the start of the insurance or within the first 14 days of the policy for 
illness or 48 hours in the case of an injury.
It is not necessary for any condition to have been diagnosed for it to fall within this definition, 
but it must have been identified or investigated by a vet or known to Mrs B before the start of 
the policy or within the first 14 days. With this in mind, Ive looked at the history of the dogs 
previous visits to the vet.
On 8 August 2022 Mrs Bs dog was seen by a vet who noted Owner reports pet limping 
intermittently on the rhl [right hind leg] for the past two weeks.
The vets assessment was RH Stifle grade 1/5 lameness.
I think its fair to say that the dogs condition was first noticed by a vet on this date. I also 
note that Mrs Bs vet told the specialist that the condition had first presented on 8 August 
2022.
0n 14 September 2022 Mrs B took the dog back to the vet as the dog was skipping some 
steps when wakes up. In the claim form she said that the treatment was needed as the dog 
was limping.
On the basis of the policy terms above and the veterinary evidence I am satisfied that the 
condition for which Mrs B made a claim can reasonably be regarded as a pre-existing 
condition. That is because Mrs B knew the dog was limping before the policy with HDI 
started. It follows that I think HDI was entitled to decline the claim, although I sympathise 
with Mrs Bs situation.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman