DRN-2548136
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained that they were mis-sold two packaged bank accounts by 
Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds). Mr and Mrs H have said that they needed to take out these 
accounts in order to obtain loans and mortgages. Their account history is as follows
Fee-free Classic account taken out in 1998
Upgraded to a fee-paying Gold account sometime prior to 1 September 2001 
Upgraded to a fee-paying Platinum account in February 2004 
Account closed in March 2012
What happened
One of our adjudicators looked into this complaint already, and they did not think that the 
Gold or Platinum accounts were mis-sold. Mr and Mrs H did not agree with this and 
requested a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with I am not upholding this 
complaint. I will explain why.
Ive started by thinking about whether Mr and Mrs H were given a clear choice in taking the 
respective packaged accounts. At this point, it may help for me to explain that where matters 
are in dispute  such as here - I have to make my decision based on what I think is more 
likely than not to have happened, based on the available evidence.
In relation to the Gold account, I can see that Mr and Mrs H had held a free account with 
Lloyds prior to this upgrade. So I think, at the very least, they would have been aware that 
free accounts were available. Mr and Mrs H say that they were told they needed to upgrade 
to get mortgages and loans, and I note that they are not happy with us disputing this in our 
assessments. I should highlight that as an independent and impartial service I cant solely 
take either parties testimony as sole proof of what happened. I need to take this into 
consideration alongside all the other evidence that is available.
With this in mind, I can see that Mr and Mrs H had taken out a number of loans prior to the 
change to the Gold account. So I think that they wouldve known that loans were available 
on a fee-free account. In relation to taking out a mortgage, I cant see they applied for a 
mortgage until 2003. So I dont think it is likely this is why they took out the Gold account  
given how long this happened after when the Gold account was sold to them. In addition to 
this, I cant see any declined application for either product prior to the account being taken 
out, which I would expect to see had they taken out the Gold account on the basis that they 
could not obtain these products on a standard current account.
That said, I can see whilst holding the Gold account Mr and Mrs H did get two loans that 
came with preferential interest rates - compared to the loans that they couldve achieved on 
a standard current account. Due to how long ago these loans were taken out, I cant see the 
size of the loans or the discount they received on the interest rate. But from what I do know 
from other cases, these discounts were more often than not enough to mitigate the monthly 
cost of the accounts whilst they held the loans. Moreover, it appears that Mr and Mrs H were 
using an overdraft around the time that this account was likely to have been taken out. 
Another feature of the Gold account was that it came with a £100 interest free overdraft 
buffer and discounted interest rates on overdrawn balances above that amount. So this may 
have been another benefit that couldve interested them, as it could have potentially saved 
them money on their overdraft facility.
So in relation to the Gold account, I think that what Mr and Mrs H may recall is agreeing to 
the Gold account to get a better rate of interest on a loan that they could not achieve on a 
fee-free account, rather than them agreeing to the account because it was their only way of 
getting a loan in the first instance.
In relation to the Platinum account, again I cant see any declined applications for credit at 
the time the account was taken out. So I cant see why Mr and Mrs H wouldve been of the 
impression that they had to change account to improve their credit when they had already 
obtained credit on both a fee-free account and a cheaper Gold packaged account. 
Additionally, I can see that they already held a mortgage with Lloyds prior to the when the 
Platinum account was taken out, so I dont think is why they took out the account.
I can see that there was an application for a Platinum account credit card at the time of the 
sale, but I cant see that this was ever approved. And regardless of this, if they agreed to the 
account solely for this and the credit card was not approved, I think they wouldve 
downgraded their account at this point. 
At the time of this upgrade I can see that Mr and Mrs H overdraft limit was £4,000. And from 
what I can see, they were using this overdraft frequently. Given that the Platinum account 
came with a £250 interest free overdraft buffer and an overdraft interest rate that was around 
5% cheaper than the Gold account. I think it may well have been this benefit that Mr and Mrs 
H upgraded for, as potentially it could mitigate the difference in price between the two 
accounts.
So I think it is more likely that they agreed to the upgrades knowing that they did not have to 
due to the benefits that the accounts came with, rather than because they thought they had 
to have both accounts.
I note that Mr and Mrs H have not said that the benefits of either account were unsuitable for 
them. But I will address, for the sake of completeness, whether the recommendation Lloyds 
made for both account was appropriate.
The sale of the Gold account
Overall, I am satisfied that a personal recommendation was made when this account was 
sold. So Lloyds had to ensure that this recommendation was appropriate, given Mr and Mrs 
Hs circumstances. The major benefits at the time the Gold account was taken out was 
worldwide travel insurance, discounts on the interest rate available on personal loan and a £100 interest free overdraft with preferential rates on balances above this amount. From 
what I can see Mr and Mrs H did travel worldwide and did use their overdraft and took out 
two loans with preferential rates. So I dont think that recommending they take out this 
account was unreasonable.
The sale of the Platinum account
Again, I am satisfied that a personal recommendation was made when this account was 
sold, so Lloyds had to ensure that this recommendation was appropriate given Mr and Mrs 
Hs circumstances. 
The major differences between the Gold account and the Platinum account was that the 
Platinum account included family cover on the worldwide travel insurance, a larger interest 
free overdraft benefit of £250 and a better overdraft interest rate compared to the Gold 
account. It also came with discounts on the rates of personal loans, but this ended a few 
months after the account was sold to Mr and Mrs H. 
I can see that Mr and Mrs H contacted the travel insurer about the family cover and used the 
overdraft. And given that this was the cheapest account with this combination of benefits, I 
cant see that this recommendation was unreasonable in the circumstances.
I accept that in relation to both of these sales, Mr and Mrs H may not have been told 
everything about all of the benefits that these accounts came with. But I cant see anything 
specific that they might not have been told about, that I think wouldve changed their 
decision to take out the account. So in other words, I think its likely they still wouldve 
agreed to the two accounts, had they been given even more information about them during 
the sales.
I note that Mr and Mrs H have said that they were in financial difficulties at the time that 
these accounts were taken out. I cant see from Lloyds contact notes or anything else to 
suggest that this was discussed or shouldve been apparent to Lloyds at the times of these 
sales. So I dont think it was inappropriate for Lloyds to have sold either of these accounts.
Therefore, having taken everything into account, I dont think that these accounts were mis-
sold.
I can understand that this will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs H and I can see that with 
hindsight, Mr and Mrs H may not have felt that these accounts provided good value for 
money. But that in itself does not mean that Lloyds was wrong to have sold the accounts 
when it did. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 October 2021.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman