DRN-3430345
The complaint
Miss T complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) will not refund the money she 
lost when she fell victim to a property rental scam.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in 
detail here. Briefly, Miss T saw a one bed flat to rent on a social media marketplace. She 
enquired and was sent a link to a listing on a well-known property rental website. The flat 
was advertised at £850 a month inclusive of bills and Miss T was told it came with secured 
parking for one car. Unfortunately, Miss T was interacting with a fraudster using a fake 
listing. She was duped into paying a total of £1,350 for the deposit and first months rent by 
bank transfer.
Halifax is a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(the CRM Code). This means Halifax has made a commitment to reimburse customers who 
are victims of authorised push payment scams like this one except in limited circumstances. 
Halifax says it can choose not to reimburse Miss T because she made the payment without 
a reasonable basis for believing the transaction was legitimate. It says she didnt take 
enough steps to check that it was a genuine property and points out she didnt view it in 
person and didnt know the exact address. Halifax tried to recover the money Miss T had 
sent, but no funds remained. It paid Miss T £48 to cover the cost of phone calls shed made 
to the bank.
Miss T thought the bank should have refunded her and explained that her friend that was 
scammed at the same time and in a similar situation had got her money back. She referred 
her complaint to us. Our Investigator ultimately did not recommend that it should be upheld. 
She didnt think Halifax should have intervened to stop the payment from being made or that 
it should have refunded the loss under the CRM Code. She thought the deal was too good to 
be true for an exclusive central London location and that Miss T should have taken a much 
more cautious approach before deciding to go ahead.
Miss T asked for the complaint to be reviewed again. She said it wasnt fair that only her 
friend had been compensated when they had both done the same thing at the same time. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered whether Halifax should have reimbursed Miss T under the provisions of the 
CRM Code and whether it ought to have done more to protect her from the possibility of 
financial harm from fraud, bearing in mind the relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, 
guidance and standards and relevant codes of practice. Having done so, I cant fairly say 
Halifax should have done more or that it is obligated to refund the money that has been lost. 
Theres no dispute here that Miss T has been the victim of a scam and has lost money. But 
this isnt enough, in and of itself, for Miss T to receive a refund of the money from the bank.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that its customer authorises it to make. It would only be fair and reasonable 
for me to say that the bank should have to refund some or all of the money thats been lost if 
it should have done more in the circumstances to protect Miss T and this would have most 
likely prevented the scam, or if it should have refunded Miss T because of obligations under 
the CRM Code.
Ive thought about whether Halifax did enough to protect Miss T at the time she made the 
payment. Halifax should be looking out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that a customer is at risk of financial harm from fraud. But this particular payment did 
not stand out. Having looked at Miss Ts account statements in the months leading up to the 
scam, this payment was unremarkable. She typically makes faster payments and this one 
was similar in size to other transactions she had made in the recent past. This wasnt a 
particularly unusual request in and of itself and there were no obvious indications that the 
transaction could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. This means Halifax did not act 
unreasonably by following Miss Ts instructions and making the payment she had requested 
without any intervention.
Ive gone on to consider the CRM Code and whether any of the permitted exceptions to 
reimbursement apply in the circumstances of this case. I am persuaded that Miss T failed to 
take the requisite level of care required for Halifax to choose not to reimburse her under the 
terms of the CRM Code. I agree with the banks assessment that she made the payment 
without having a reasonable basis for believing that it was for a genuine property and that 
the person/business she transacted with was legitimate. 
Weighing everything up, I think it should have been evident to Miss T that there was a risk 
with this transaction and that she should have done more to question the deal and to satisfy 
herself that it was valid before sending any money. Miss T didnt know exactly where the 
property was when she agreed to rent it. Whilst I do appreciate that the global pandemic 
made it more difficult to view properties in person, the information Miss T had suggested the 
property was located in an expensive area of central London such as Mayfair, Hyde Park 
and Green Park. I dont think it was realistic for Miss T to think a one bedroom flat including 
all bills and secured parking space in one of these exclusive areas was genuinely being 
offered for £850 a month. Miss T has explained that she thought people rented things out for 
a cheaper price on the property rental website but I am not persuaded that a genuine 
landlord would be willing to indefinitely rent out a flat for around one fifth of the typical cost 
for a comparable property in the same area. The price was out of keeping with the wider 
rental market and too good to be true. 
Although Miss T has explained she had never done anything like this before, its clear from 
her conversation with the fraudster that she did recognise that some aspects of the 
arrangement were unorthodox. The fraudster told Miss T she had five days to check out the 
property after receiving the keys within which she could cancel and get a full and instant 
refund if it was not suitable. She recognised that policy to be really generous and she was 
uneasy about the lack of a tenancy agreement and a floor plan. 
I think there were red flags about the proposed arrangement that were evident from the 
information Miss T had before making the payment. At the time Miss T made the payment, 
I consider she did so without a reasonable basis for believing that this was a genuine rental 
property from a legitimate landlord. This means she didnt meet the level of care required of 
her under the CRM Code.  
In reaching this conclusion, Ive considered the situation Miss T was in at the time. Shes 
explained she wasnt really thinking straight and had recently been bereaved. I am sorry to hear that Miss T has had a difficult time lately and Im mindful that this scam will have only 
added to that. But Ive not seen anything that makes me think that Miss T wasnt able to 
protect herself from this particular scam at the time that it happened. I am mindful that it was 
Miss Ts own research that ultimately rumbled the scam and her actions stopped her friend 
from sending more money. It is clear that something did not sit right with Miss T about the 
situation and it is unfortunate that she only uncovered the true nature of things after shed 
sent her money. 
Miss T has referred to her friends complaint and explained that her friend received a refund 
of the money that she lost to a very similar scam at the same time. Its natural that Miss T 
would want to understand the differences between them. I am not able to discuss another 
complainants case specifically. But I would point out that, while on the surface complaints 
may seem similar, each complaint is determined by its own individual circumstances. Here, 
as Im required to do, Ive looked at the individual circumstances of Miss Ts complaint.
Overall
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Miss T and I can understand why she wants to do all
that she can to try and recover the money shes lost. She sent her money in good faith and 
did not receive anything in return for it. But I cant fairly hold Halifax responsible for the 
actions of a fraudster. I can only look at the banks position on Miss Ts fraud claim and its
assessment of it under the CRM Code. For the reasons I have explained, Im satisfied 
Halifax has been able to establish it can choose not to refund Miss T under the CRM Code. 
Im also satisfied the bank processed Miss Ts payment correctly and it did all it could to help 
her once it knew what had happened. After carefully considering everything, Im unable to 
fairly say Halifax should have to do more. As such, it would not be fair to ask the bank to 
refund the money that was lost or to pay any further compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2022.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman