DRN-2015736
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) treated them unfairly regarding their 
landlord insurance by declining their claim, avoiding their policy, retaining their premiums 
and placing a fraud marker against them.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out a landlord insurance policy on 14 July 2018 with UKI over the phone 
to cover a number of rental properties they owned through their business. They said they 
later took additional cover for further properties, and subsequently renewed the policy in July 
2019. In August 2019 they made a claim for damage to one of their properties, but the 
following month UKI told them that the claim was declined, their policy avoided, and all the 
premiums paid for the policy would be retained. 
UKI said this was because when they took out their policy Mr and Mrs M had deliberately 
misrepresented their information regarding a previous company of Mr Ms. The question UKI 
asked was; Has any owner of the properties been subject to bankruptcy or insolvency
which are either outstanding or been discharged for less than five years? Mrs M answered 
no. Mr and Mrs M said this was because they thought Mr Ms company closed in 2009. But 
UKI discovered that the company was listed as dissolved in 2015.
UKI sent Mr and Mrs M a Statement of Fact which confirmed, Neither you, or any director 
or partner of the business or its subsidiary companies either personally or in any business 
capacity has been subject to bankruptcy or insolvency orders which are either outstanding or 
have been discharged for less than 5 years. UKI asked Mr and Mrs M to check accuracy of 
this and other statements, but no correction was offered.
UKI said that Mr and Mrs M had given false information in order to make a financial gain and 
so it avoided the policy and applied a fraud marker against them. Mrs M said she had never 
falsified any information and had not made any previous claims. She said Mr M had closed 
his business 10 years before and as the question related to the last five years they hadnt 
mentioned it. Mrs M said she had received poor service from UKI in her attempts to deal with 
this issue and their claim. 
UKI said Mr and Mrs M had answered the question about previous businesses incorrectly. 
And it considered this to be a deliberate, qualifying breach, which entitled it to avoid the 
policy, not deal with Mr and Mrs Ms claim and place a fraud marker against them. 
Mr and Mrs M said they had suffered considerable stress through this situation. They 
brought their complaint to us and our investigator thought it should be upheld in part. He 
thought thered been a misrepresentation of the facts as UKIs question to Mr and Mrs M 
was clear and they ought to know the information about Mr Ms business as it was readily 
available. He said this was a qualifying breach as UKI had shown it wouldnt have offered 
cover had it know about Mr Ms business. 
But the investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs M had deliberately misrepresented the facts, he 
thought they had acted recklessly. He said UKI should remove the fraud marker it had put 
against Mr and Mrs M. He thought the fraud marker had caused Mr and Mrs M additional 
distress and UKI should pay them £300 compensation for this.
UKI doesnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. UKI 
said it thought Mr and Mrs M had deliberately misrepresented the facts in order to obtain a 
gain from claims they were not entitled to, and said that its evidence supported this. It said it 
had acted fairly and in line with the Insurance Act 2015. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Insurance Act 2015. This places a duty on the insured to 
make a fair presentation of the risk to the insurer when taking out an insurance contract (a 
policy). This means Mr and Mrs M had to disclose either:
everything they know, or ought to know, that would influence the judgment of an
insurer in deciding whether to insure the risk and on what terms;
enough information to put an insurer on notice that it needs to make further enquiries 
about potentially material circumstances.
 
UKI thinks that Mr and Mrs M failed to make a fair presentation of their risk when they 
answered the insolvency question (above). 
And if the insured fails in their duty to make a fair presentation, the insurer has certain 
remedies provided the misrepresentation is - what the Insurance Act describes as - a 
qualifying breach. For it to be a qualifying breach the insurer has to show it would have 
offered the policy on different terms or not at all if the insured hadnt made the 
misrepresentation. 
UKI has shown us its underwriting guidance which illustrates that it wouldnt have offered Mr 
and Mrs M cover at all had it known the correct information about Mr Ms former business. 
This means Im satisfied Mr and Mrs Ms breach of the duty in the Act was a qualifying one.
The remedy available to the insurer under the Act depends on whether the qualifying breach 
was deliberate or reckless, or careless. The Act states: A qualifying breach is deliberate or 
reckless if the insured knew that it was in breach of the duty of fair presentation, or did not 
care whether or not it was in breach of that duty. It is for the insurer to show that a qualifying 
breach was deliberate or reckless. So, we invited UKI to do this. It responded:
A product that she was not entitled to due to misrepresentation and shouldn't have been on
cover and they would be unfairly gaining from us if we pay for a claim that we should never
been on cover for which Mr and Mrs M tried to make a gain by submitting 4 claims which add 
up to a total of £7733. Had we not of found this information when reviewing the
claims, we would of paid out on all these. This is intent to make a gain.
Mr and Mrs M deliberately provided us misleading or untrue information to us. A clear 
question was asked at the inception of their policies and a clear answer confirmed -'no'.
Ive looked at Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances when the policy was taken out and the 
information Mrs M gave on their behalf. Although I agree that they should have answered 
Yes to the question or at least checked for the correct response, I dont think UKI has 
shown that their response was deliberately misrepresented. Mrs M has explained that they 
had reason to believe that Mr Ms former business had been wound up more than five years before the policy started. I think they were probably reckless in not making straightforward 
checks on the correct position, but I also think theres a lack of evidence to show they gave 
their answer deliberately to gain advantage as UKI has suggested.  
As a consequence, I dont agree that Mr and Mrs Ms misrepresentation was deliberate. Im 
satisfied Mr and Mrs Ms misrepresentation should be treated as reckless and the remedies 
under the Insurance Act are the same in both cases. The insurer can:
avoid the policy and keep the premiums
the insurer doesnt have to pay any claim as effectively the policy never existed.
Therefore, Im satisfied UKI was entitled to avoid Mr and Mrs Ms policy in accordance with 
the Act. And, as this means that  in effect  their policy never existed, UKI does not have to 
deal with their claim following the damage to their property. And  as the Act reflects our 
long-established approach to misrepresentation cases, I think allowing UKI to rely on it to 
avoid Mr and Mrs Ms policy produces the fair and reasonable outcome in this complaint.
However, as I dont think Mr and Mrs M deliberately misrepresented their situation I dont 
think it was fair for UKI to place a fraud marker against them. There is nothing in the 
Insurance Act about placing a fraud marker, and I require UKI to remove this and write to Mr 
and Mrs M to confirm its removal.
Mrs M said she discovered the fraud marker had been placed when an application for credit 
failed. I think that Mr and Mrs M have been caused considerable stress by the application of 
the fraud marker over and above that due to the avoidance of their policy. I agree with the 
investigator that as the fraud marker was unfair, I think UKI should pay Mr and Mr M £300 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience they have suffered.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint in part. I 
require UK Insurance Limited to remove fraud markers on any internal and external systems 
relating to Mr and Mrs M and their misrepresentation concerning Mr Ms previous business.
I also require UK Insurance Limited to pay Mr and Mrs M £300 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience they have been caused by the fraud marker.
I do not require UK Insurance Limited to remove the avoidance of Mr and Mrs Ms policy, 
deal with their claim or return their premiums. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 November 2020.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman