DRN-3892344
The complaint
Ms M complains that One Insurance Limited (One Insurance) delayed in carrying out repairs
to her car following a claim on her car insurance policy and didnt offer her the courtesy car
her policy entitled her to.
What happened
In October 2021, Ms M made a claim on her car insurance policy for damage to it following
an accident.
According to One Insurances internal records, what followed is that:
In December 2021, Ms M called One Insurance, I think for an update on when her
car would be repaired. At this point, One Insurance instructed a garage to carry out
the repairs.
In February 2022, Ms M contacted One Insurance again via an online chat to ask for
an update on when the repairs would be done.
A week later, on 1 March 2022, in another online chat, Ms M refers to the garage not
having a courtesy car available for her. A few days after that, Ms M complained to
One Insurance about its delay in carrying out the repairs.
Towards the end of March 2022, One Insurance sent Ms M its response to her
complaint. It apologised for not keeping her updated on the claim and for the delay in
carrying out the repairs. One Insurance offered Ms M £200 in compensation for this.
Towards the end of April 2022, One Insurances notes say Ms M had collected her
car from the garage and was keeping it until the repairs were authorised.
Also towards the end of April 2022, One Insurance increased its offer of
compensation to Ms M from £200 to £350. It also offered to arrange for another
garage to carry out the repairs. Ms M declined both offers.
In early May 2022, in another online chat, Ms M chased One Insurance for an update
on the repairs. It seems One Insurance told her the parts needed were due to arrive
at the garage the following day.
A few days after this, Ms M said she was driving her car when the entire rear end of the
vehicle essentially collapsed on to the rear wheels. She says she parked her car some
miles from her home and contacted One Insurance, who told her the garage would call her
about recovering it. Around a week after this, Ms M says she called One Insurance again,
since her car hadnt been collected, and was told there were ongoing conversations as to
whether or not her car breakdown was to do with the accident. Ms M says she then had to
buy a second-hand car to enable her to get to work.
I dont know when Ms Ms car was repaired but One Insurance says Ms Ms claim was
settled in June 2022.
When Ms M brought her complaint to us, the investigator who looked at it upheld it. She said
that, in addition to the £350 One Insurance had offered Ms M as compensation for the
delays and failure to keep her updated on the claim, it should also pay Ms M £400 in
compensation for the loss of use of her car between February and June 2022.
One Insurance disagreed with our investigators view. It said compensation for loss of use
should cease at the end of April 2022, which is when it offered to instruct an alternative
garage  an offer which, as Ive said, Ms M declined. It said its original offer of £350 was
more than reasonable.
Our investigator accepted One Insurances argument about loss of use. In her second view,
while still upholding Ms Ms complaint, she recommended additional compensation for loss
of use of £200 for the period from February to April 2022 (rather than £400 for the period
from February to June 2022).
One Insurance asked for Ms Ms complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. It said the 
£350 compensation already offered is a reasonable amount.
In my provisional decision of 12 December 2022, I explained why I intended to uphold       
Ms Ms complaint but was taking a slightly different approach to our investigator in terms of 
what One Insurance should do to put things right for Ms M.
Ms M hasnt responded to my provisional decision. One Insurance has accepted it. So       
Ms Ms complaint has now come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and for the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, Ive decided to 
uphold Ms Ms complaint. I explained those reasons in that decision as follows:
One Insurance accepts there were delays in booking Ms Ms car in for repairs and failures 
in keeping her updated on her claim. It has offered Ms M £350 for the distress and 
inconvenience this has caused her. From everything Ive seen, I think thats fair and
reasonable.
Turning now to the issue of loss of use, Ms Ms car insurance policy says if she has a
comprehensive policy (which she did) and needed the use of a car while her own was
undergoing repair by one of One Insurances selected repairers, they (the repairer) would
provide her with a temporary replacement car.
In Ms Ms case, that didnt happen. So I need to consider the impact this had on her and
whether Ms M should be compensated for the loss of use of her car.
We only tell an insurer to pay compensation for loss of use when were satisfied its actions
mean a consumer hasnt been able to use his or her car. We also look at whether the
consumer couldve done anything to reduce the inconvenience this caused them and
whether they could limit their loss. And our general approach is to award £10 a day for loss
of use  but this does depend on how being without a car affects a consumer.
In Ms Ms case, the information we have about the length of time for which she didnt havethe use of her car isnt clear. Weve asked Ms M for some more information about this but,
so far, she hasnt got back to us. So what follows is my estimate of what her loss of use
might be. This is based on assumptions Im making because of the limited evidence.
1. Between October 2021 and the end of February 2022, I dont intend to award Ms M
any compensation for loss of use of her car. Thats because I have no evidence, so
far, that Ms M didnt have the use of her car at any point in this period. If Im wrong
about this, please could Ms M or One Insurance let me know and give me evidence
to support what they say.
2. On 1 March 2022, Ms M referred in an online chat with One Insurance to the repairer
not having a courtesy car available for her. This is the first time theres any reference
in any information Ive seen about Ms M needing the use of another car. On 25 April
2022, One Insurances internal records refer to Ms M collecting her car and keeping it
until the repairs were authorised.
On the assumption that, between these dates, (i) Ms Ms car was with the repairer
the whole time and (ii) she didnt have the use of a courtesy car, I intend to award her
£10 a day for loss of use. Again, if Im wrong about this and if, for instance, Ms Ms
car (which it seems was driveable until towards the middle of May 2022), wasnt with
the repairer all this time, please could either Ms M or One Insurance let me know. If
thats the case, then Id be looking to reduce the amount of compensation payable for
loss of use in this period to reflect the actual time Ms M was without the use of her
car.
3. I dont intend to award Ms M compensation for loss of use from 28 April 2022
onwards. Thats because, on that date, Ms M declined One Insurances offer to
instruct a different garage to carry out the repairs to her car. Nor, for the same
reason, do I think it would be fair and reasonable to direct One Insurance to pay for
the second car Ms M decided to buy at this time.
As Ive mentioned, Ms M hasnt given me any comments on my provisional decision, while 
One Insurance has accepted it. Having looked at everything again, I see no reason to 
change any of the findings or conclusions I set out in my provisional decision, which now 
form part of this final decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Ms Ms complaint and direct One Insurance Limited to
pay Ms M:
£350 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has caused her; and
£530 in compensation for the loss of use of her car, being £10 a day for the period
from 1 March 2022 to 22 April 2022.
One Insurance Limited must pay both of these amounts within 28 days of the date we tell it 
Ms M accepts my final decision. If it doesnt, One Insurance Limited must pay Ms M simple 
interest at the rate of 8% a year from the date of my final decision to the date of payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman