DRN-3416854
The complaint
Mr O complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) provided unsuitable advice to 
invest £50,000.
What happened
In August 1998 Mr O sought advice from Barclays about investing the proceeds from the 
sale of his late parents house. Mr O held cash deposits of £103,000 and was advised to 
invest £50,000 split between £6,000 into a PEP and £44,000 into a Unit Trust. The balance 
of £53,000 was held on deposit.
Mr O surrendered the investment in November 2003, by which time the capital value had 
reduced to £44,164.15. Mr O complains that the recommendation was unsuitable for his 
needs in that he was advised to invest too much money and was advised to take too much 
risk for a first-time investor.
Barclays say the recommendation was suitable, given Mr Os medium attitude to risk, 
objective of growth, his circumstances and that just over half of the available funds were 
invested.
Our investigator considered the complaint. At the outset she set out her reasoning as to why 
the complaint had been brought in time. Barclays have not disagreed with these findings, so 
I will not address this aspect any further.
Our investigator thought that the advice was suitable as Mr O was looking for capital growth 
over a five year period and had been assessed as having a medium risk appetite. He had 
retained a significant cash reserve and had no debts.
Those acting on behalf of Mr O disagree with the view and say that whilst Mr O wanted the 
potential for greater returns, it was unnecessary to expose 48% of his available capital into 
medium risk areas with no real diversity.
As the parties do not agree, the matter has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im mindful that it isnt fair and reasonable to make an assessment with the benefit of 
hindsight, so Ive considered Mr Os circumstances at the time the recommendation was 
made. Mr O was 52 years of age, married with no dependants. He had no debts, owned his 
home valued at £230,000 and had personal assets of £20,000 along with £10,000 in 
business assets. After expenses he had a disposable income month of £500, life cover was 
in place and he had made arrangements for his pension and retirement.
Mr O held £103,000 on deposit after inheriting and selling his parents home. He was looking 
to achieve some capital growth over an investment term of 5 years or longer. At the time,    
Mr O was recorded as having a medium attitude to risk, defined as:
You are a more typical investor, requiring a proportion of your savings to be in cash form, 
but less than that of the low risk investor. Again, you are prepared for fluctuations in the 
value of the remainder of your investment, to obtain the prospect of higher long term returns 
to match your investment goals.
Barclays recommended investing £6,000 into a PEP to utilise Mr Os tax allowance with the 
balance of £44,000 to be invested into a managed growth fund for a minimum of 5 years. 
£53,000 was retained in cash.
In my view the assessment of Mr Os attitude to risk appears to be in line with his 
requirements at the time and Ive seen that those acting on his behalf acknowledge that     
Mr O was looking for greater returns. Had Mr O disagreed with the assessment of his risk 
appetite I would have expected him to have raised concerns at the time the recommendation 
was made.
The funds were invested into a managed growth fund across a range of unit trusts. The 
funds were invested for capital growth in line with his objectives and substantial funds were 
also retained on deposit, with less than half of available funds being invested. Mr O also had 
disposable monthly income and no planned expenditure, so Im satisfied that he had a 
capacity for loss. Taking all these factors into account I do not think Mr O was exposed to 
more risk than he was willing to take.
The fact that the risk of fluctuations in value materialised, does not mean that the 
recommendation was unsuitable. Ive also taken into account that Barclays gave no 
guarantees about likely returns. So, whilst I appreciate that Mr O was disappointed with the 
performance, it doesnt follow that the original recommendation was unsuitable for his needs.
Ive seen that Barclays apologised to Mr O for the time taken to respond to his complaint and 
paid £100 in compensation.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr O, but I wont be asking Barclays to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Sarah Tozzi
Ombudsman