DRN-3021314
The complaint
Mr C complains that AJ Bell Securities Limited (AJ Bell) allowed him to incorrectly sell units 
in a fund which he no longer held following an ISA transfer from his old ISA provider. He 
feels AJ Bell should absorb him of any debt owed to it as it was AJ Bells error and not his. 
What happened
On 28 May 2020 Mr C initiated a full in-specie transfer of his stocks and shares ISA to AJ 
Bell. AJ Bell received a valuation from Mr Cs old ISA provider on 30 July 2020 which said 
Mr C held 12,799.84 units in a fund. I shall refer to this fund as Fund A. AJ Bell set up an 
expectation on its system so the units would be automatically allocated to Mr Cs ISA when 
they had been received from his old ISA provider. Whilst the units should have been visible 
in Mr Cs ISA account, he shouldnt have been able to sell the units until AJ Bell had 
received these from his old ISA provider. 
On 13 August 2020 AJ Bell received an updated valuation from Mr Cs old ISA provider 
which said that Mr C had sold the majority of his units in Fund A and now only held 0.84 
units. AJ Bell said it ought to have amended the previously set up expectation to reflect this 
change but, due to human error, it failed to do so. As a result, Mr C was able to sell 
12,799.68 units in Fund A with AJ Bell on 25 August 2020 receiving £24,254.20 in sale 
proceeds.
AJ Bell emailed Mr C on 4 September 2020 to explain that it had discovered the error. It said 
it would need to reverse the sale of these units and this would result in Mr C having a 
negative balance on his ISA account. AJ Bell also explained that, as Mr C didnt have any 
remaining ISA allowance to allow him to deposit cash into his account, he had the following 
two options to put things right:
Transfer over the £14,724 cash from his old ISA provider to cover the reversal of the 
sale, and place further sales on his ISA account to cover the remaining £10,000 (AJ 
Bell would arrange for these trades to be placed free of charge), or
Make more cash available with his old ISA provider to transfer over, meaning AJ Bell 
could cover the full amount of the reversal using the transferred cash.
Mr C complained to AJ Bell as he didnt think he should liable to pay back the funds from the 
sale of the units. He said hed made investment decisions based on the fact he was able to 
sell the units in Fund A. He said, but for AJ Bells error, he wouldnt have made the 
investment decisions he did and so AJ Bell should clear the debt it says he owes.
AJ Bell looked into Mr Cs concerns. In summary it said:
It accepts it caused the error and apologised for this.
It believes Mr C was aware he didnt hold the number of units with AJ Bell which he 
sold on 25 August 2020.
It reserves the right to reclaim the money from his account without his authority and 
could also reverse all purchased he places using the funds from the incorrect sale of 
his units in Fund A.
Whilst it appreciates that Mr C should not have been able to see the units, these 
didnt belong to him and so it wouldnt be appropriate to cover any perceived financial 
loss. 
It acknowledges the poor service received and offered £100 in recognition of this. 
Mr C didnt accept AJ Bells findings and so he referred his complaint to our service for an 
independent review.
An investigator at our service looked into Mr Cs complaint but didnt uphold it. In short, he 
said:
The role of our service is to put a consumer back in the position they wouldve been 
in had the problem not happened. In Mr Cs case, the problem was AJ Bell didnt 
update the expectation on its system, which allowed him to trade units which he 
didnt hold. So, if the problem hadnt happened, it would mean he wouldnt have been 
able to trade the units as he did.
He didnt think it would be fair for Mr C to benefit from AJ Bells mistake and said the 
action it had taken to recover the money from Mr C was reasonable. 
He acknowledged that Mr Cs point regarding him being financially disadvantaged, 
but he didnt agree as Mr C had previously sold the majority of the units in Fund A 
prior to his ISA transferring.
He felt AJ Bells offer of £100 fairly recognised any distress caused by its error.
Mr C disagreed with the investigators opinion. He was adamant that hes been financially 
disadvantaged as he wouldnt have made the investment decisions he did on the basis that 
the units in Fund A were available to sell. 
The investigator responded to Mr Cs comments. He said that he understood Mr C chose to 
take investment actions following the sale of his units in Fund A. However, he explained that 
Mr C had previously sold the same holding via his old ISA provider and so, considering the 
high value of this sale, he would have been aware he didnt hold the untis with AJ Bell at the 
time of making those investment decisions.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons. 
AJ Bell has acknowledged that it caused the error in incorrectly allowing Mr C to sell units in 
Fund A. And it has explained this was due to human error. Therefore, my decision will focus 
on whether AJ Bells actions following it realising its error were fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of Mr Cs case. 
AJ Bells terms and conditions explain what action it can take when a consumers account 
has been incorrectly credited. These explain:
2.10 We reserve the right to reclaim without Your authority a Payment or 
Contribution or Subscription or Transfer or Government Bonus (whether in part or 
whole) made in error to or from Your Account.[]
8.9 We may deduct Cash from and/or sell any of the investments in Your Account to 
realise Cash if:
[]
8.9.2 Your account has been credited in error;
AJ Bell deducted what was available in Mr Cs account as a result of the error and as this 
has left him with a negative balance, AJ Bell is attempting to reclaim the outstanding amount 
from Mr C. Im satisfied that these actions are all in line with the terms and conditions Mr C 
agreed to when opening the account. 
The above terms also make it clear that AJ Bell has the right to sell any of Mr Cs 
investments in his account to realise the cash owed to it. Whilst AJ Bell couldve taken this 
immediate action, Ive seen that it provided him with alternative options instead. It said that 
on reversing the sale of units in Fund A, Mr Cs balance would be in a negative balance and 
so AJ Bell would need to take one of two actions:
Transfer over the £14,724 cash from his old ISA provider to cover the reversal of the 
sale, and place further sales on his ISA account to cover the remaining £10,000 (AJ 
Bell would arrange for these trades to be placed free of charge), or
Make more cash available with his old ISA provider to transfer over, meaning AJ Bell 
could cover the full amount of the reversal using the transferred cash.
I think these options are fair and reasonable as it would put Mr C back in the position he 
would have been in if AJ Bell hadnt allowed him to sell units. I understand Mr C feels this 
doesnt put him back in the same position as he made investment decisions on the 
understanding that he was able to sell the units in Fund A. And says that if the proposed 
action is taken he will be left out of pocket. Ive thought carefully about this, but I dont think it 
would be fair to hold AJ Bell responsible for any losses as a result of Mr Cs investment 
decisions. Ultimately, Im satisfied he was aware or at least ought to have been aware that 
hed already sold the majority of his units in Fund A with his old ISA provider. As such, I think 
Mr C is responsible for the investment decisions he made. 
Whilst I dont agree AJ Bells error caused Mr C a financial loss, I think that finding out he 
has to pay back the proceeds of sale funds would have caused him so distress. Clearly 
theres been a loss of expectation for Mr C as he thought he was able to sell the units. 
However, Im mindful that he ought to have known this was a mistake and so I think AJ Bells 
offer of £100 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint against AJ Bell Securities Limited as I think the action it has 
taken respect to Mr C selling units in Fund A which he didnt hold was fair and reasonable. 
And the £100 compensation offered fairly reflects any distress or inconvenience caused to 
him. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2022.
 
Ben Waites
Ombudsman