DRN-2500576
The complaint
Mr M complains that The Mortgage Business Plc (TMB) acted unfairly and unreasonably in 
how it dealt with him regarding his mortgage. He wants matters put right.
What happened
Mr M had a mortgage with TMB and got into arrears. TMB issued possession proceedings 
and Mr M applied for the warrant of possession to evict his family from the property to be 
suspended. Mr M was unhappy that TMB called him about an hour before the court hearing 
on 3 April 2019 and felt it was harassing him; he also felt that TMB didnt properly instruct its 
solicitors. The court issued a suspended warrant for possession, and TMB and Mr M then 
reached an agreement. Mr M said that TMB wrongly sent him letters saying he was not 
complying, and sent texts and emails with incorrect information. Mr M wanted a copy of the 
call recording, but it wasnt received.
Mr M complained to TMB and asked again for a copy of the call recording. It said that it did 
make a mistake in one email, hadnt correctly recorded the details of the court order which 
led to the incorrect messages Mr M was in breach of the agreement, and didnt send a copy 
of the call recording as promised. TMB paid £150 for the trouble and upset caused by these 
failings. 
But it said it had earlier dealt with Mr Ms complaint about the call and denied acting 
unreasonably in the instructions it gave its solicitors. TMB pointed out that before the 
hearing, Mr M hadnt made an acceptable offer to resolve the situation. It wasnt until Mr M 
attended court that he made a better offer to the solicitor, who had to contact TMB to get 
instructions, but in the meantime the hearing about whether a warrant for possession should 
be suspended had taken place and ended in Mr Ms favour. TMB noted it later accepted his 
offer, but didnt accept it was at fault in relation to the instructions given to its solicitors.
Mr M complained to us. The investigator sent him information and a copy of the call 
recording. The investigators view was that the complaint shouldnt be upheld. She said that 
the call wasnt harassing, and was pleasant in tone  it was a standard pre-eviction call to 
see if the situation could be resolved and included TMB giving Mr M information about where 
he could seek help. The investigator explained that the issue of the instructions TMB gave its 
solicitors was outside the jurisdiction of this service. She thought the mistakes which TMB 
accepted it had made had been fairly and reasonably compensated.
Mr M disagreed. He sent evidence and appeared to wish to raise a new set of complaints, 
including that the mortgage had been mis-sold. Mr M added that he felt the core of his 
complaint was about TMB not providing him with information. Mr M said that while the call 
sounded calm, he wasnt. The investigator didnt change her view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im only able to deal with the issues brought to TMB and then this service as part of this 
complaint. Im not able to deal with the new issues Mr M has raised and if he wishes these 
matters to be dealt with, he must complain to TMB and if necessary, bring a new complaint 
to this service. Mr M says that the core of his complaint is TMB not providing him with 
information, but his complaint to this service was as summarised above  the only 
information he specifically complained about not receiving was the call recording, which has 
now been provided.
Having listened to the call, I dont think it was harassing. Such a call is common just before 
eviction, which if Mr Ms court application had failed wouldve happened immediately. While 
Mr M mightnt have felt calm for entirely understandable reasons, I dont think the call was 
inappropriate or bullying. The caller was checking to see what could be done and to confirm 
TMB acting lawfully before taking an extreme measure, and Mr M was given advice. The 
tone was friendly and Mr M was able to make several comments about world events, despite 
the difficulty of his position.
The instructions given by a lender to its lawyers are generally outside the jurisdiction of this 
service, unless the decisions made by the lender are unfair and unreasonable. In Mr Ms 
case, he feels that the solicitor who attended his hearing hadnt been properly briefed. But 
given how fast-changing the position was, that lawyers must get instructions from their 
clients unless told to use their own judgment (which is not common for such matters), and it 
was Mr Ms application to the court, I dont think theres any basis on which I could find TMB 
to be at fault. I also note that Mr M got the order he wanted, so its hard to see any real 
detriment.
TMB has accepted that it made several mistakes in emails and texts due to wrongly 
recording the agreement with Mr M, sending an email with incorrect information, and failing 
to send the call recording as promised. But its paid £150 (though I dont know if Mr M has 
cashed the cheque) for the trouble and upset caused by these errors. Money never truly 
compensates for trouble and upset, but I note much of Mr Ms upset seems to be about 
points which arent part of this complaint. In all the circumstances, I think £150 is fair and 
reasonable and I wont ask TMB to do anything more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. If Mr M is unable to cash the cheque he 
has been sent due to the passage of time, I leave it up to him to ask The Mortgage Business 
Plc to send a new one. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to 
ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman