DRN-3579738
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Aviva Insurance Limited has turned down a claim they made on 
a personal private medical insurance policy.
What happened
In February 2021, Mr and Mrs G took out a personal private medical insurance policy on a 
moratorium basis. 
Subsequently, in September 2021, Mr and Mrs G made a claim on the policy. Thats 
because Mr G had been referred to a consultant cardiologist by his GP to investigate 
symptoms of shortness of breath and chest heaviness. While Mr G ultimately underwent 
valve replacement surgery on the NHS, Mr and Mrs G incurred private consultation and 
diagnostic costs.
Aviva obtained medical evidence from Mr Gs GP and consultant cardiologist. It ultimately 
turned down the claim. It noted that in October 2020, Mr G had undergone an ECG in his 
GPs surgery (albeit while attending for an unrelated matter) and had been referred to a 
cardiologist. So it concluded that the ECG and referral constituted advice which was related 
to Mr Gs condition in 2021. And therefore, it said the claim fell within the scope of the 
moratorium and was excluded from cover.
Mr and Mrs G were unhappy with Avivas decision and they asked us to look into their 
complaint. 
Our investigator thought Mr and Mrs Gs complaint should be upheld. He considered the 
available medical evidence. Both Mr Gs GP and consultant cardiologist provided evidence 
in support of the claim. The GP stated that hed only carried out an ECG in the surgery and 
referred Mr G to cardiology for an echocardiogram because he had little information about a 
heart murmur Mr G had been diagnosed with many years before. That referral had been 
withdrawn and Mr G hadnt undergone an echocardiogram until September 2021. And the 
consultant said that while Mr G had been noted to have a stenotic valve in 2007, it hadnt 
been clinically stenotic. There was no evidence to suggest that Mr G had experienced any 
symptoms of stenosis since. 
So the investigator didnt think there was enough medical evidence to show either that Mr 
Gs referral to cardiology in October 2020 due to his previous heart murmur, nor the previous 
sclerotic valve which had been found in 2007, were related to the clinical stenosis which was 
identified and treated in September 2021. This meant the investigator didnt think it was fair 
for Aviva to rely on the moratorium clause to turn down Mr Gs claim. He recommended that 
Aviva should settle the claim and add interest to the settlement.
Aviva disagreed. It maintained that the heart murmur which Mr G had discussed with his GP 
in October 2020 was a pre-existing medical condition and an ECG was done at that time. 
While an echocardiogram hadnt taken place at this point, Mr G had been referred for one. It 
maintained that Mr G had received advice and tests related to his heart murmur in the five 
years before the policy was taken out. 
Its medical director also reviewed the claim. They stated that Mr G had been diagnosed with 
a sclerotic aortic valve as a young man, but hed ultimately been lost to follow-up. However, 
they noted Mr G had always continued to ask for antibiotics if he underwent dental 
treatment, so hed known this stenosis was significant. This condition had been discussed 
with the GP in October 2020 and the GP had referred Mr G to cardiology as he was 
concerned this hadnt been followed-up. So the medical director thought Mr Gs sclerotic 
aortic valve had been discussed with the GP three months before the policy was taken out. 
Shortly after this, Mr G had become increasingly unwell. Aviva was satisfied therefore that 
the claim was caught by the moratorium.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think it was fair for Aviva to turn down this claim and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Mr and Mrs Gs policy and the available medical evidence, to decide whether Aviva 
handled this claim fairly.
First, Ive considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of the contract 
between Mr and Mrs G and Aviva. Its common ground that this policy was underwritten on a 
moratorium basis. The policy terms set out how the moratorium applies to claims and states:
We do not cover treatment of any pre-existing condition, or any related condition, if you had:
 symptoms of
 medication for
 diagnostic tests for
 treatment for, or
 advice about
that condition in the five years before you joined the policy.
However, we will cover a pre-existing condition if you do not have:
 medication for
 diagnostic tests for
 treatment for, or
 advice about
that condition during a continuous two year period after you join the policy.
Aviva considered all of the available medical evidence and decided that Mr Gs claim was 
excluded by the terms of the moratorium clause. It considered that his condition was related 
to pre-existing medical conditions hed experienced in the five years before he took out the 
policy. So Ive carefully considered the available medical evidence to decide whether this 
was a fair conclusion for Aviva to draw and whether its shown, on balance, that the claim is 
excluded by the moratorium.Mr G accepts that he was diagnosed with a heart murmur several years ago. Medical notes 
from 2007 state that Mr G had an innocent heart murmur. Its also agreed between both 
parties that Mr G underwent an ECG at his GPs surgery in October 2020 and was referred 
for an echocardiogram by his GP at this point. So I acknowledge he did undergo testing only 
a few months before the policy was taken out. However, what isnt agreed is the reason why 
an ECG was carried out, why a referral was made and whether this was either the condition 
causing the claim or related to Mr Gs ultimate diagnosis.
Aviva says that at the appointment in October 2020, Mr G discussed a diagnosis of a 
sclerotic aortic valve hed received previously with the GP. It says this had led the GP to 
request a referral for an echocardiogram, as the condition hadnt been followed up for a 
number of years. 
The GPs notes from Mr Gs appointment dated 2 October 2020 dont refer to Mr G 
discussing a diagnosis of sclerotic aortic valve with the GP. The records of this appointment 
show that Mr G had consulted the GP due to a foreign body which was trapped in his finger 
and had been for some months. The notes say that Mr G had thought he was on the urgent 
NHS list to prevent this area from becoming infected due to a heart murmur. Mr G mentioned 
that he was required to take antibiotics before dental procedures. The GP stated:
I have no records on his murmur and have referred for an up to date echo.
Ive noted too that the record states that one of the interventions was heart murmur  
functional and undiagnosed.
There is simply no reference at all to any discussion about Mr G having a sclerotic aortic 
valve in the contemporaneous record of the GP appointment. And I dont agree that the 
evidence indicates that the GP carried out an ECG and referred Mr G to cardiology because 
of any concerns about a sclerotic aortic valve. On the contrary, in the GPs letter dated 30 
November 2021, Mr Gs GP said:
In Mr Gs notes it was coded that he had a heart murmur in 2007, which was described as 
innocent. No further follow-up appears to have been arranged from this, as there is (sic) no 
documents or letters available on both computer systemsHe was seen in October 2020 
due to a swelling over his finger. On review, it was highlighted that he had a murmur and due 
to the lack of information from his notes a referral was made to the local Cardiology 
department to investigate thisThe Cardiology department responded to that referral and 
planned for routine investigations for an echocardiogram. Unfortunately, this was never 
undertaken and the referral was eventually withdrawn, once an echo was undertaken during 
his admission in October 2021.
In my view, the GPs evidence is not indicative either that Mr G was referred to cardiology 
because of concerns about a sclerotic aortic valve, or because hed sought GP advice about 
any symptoms or concerns about his heart murmur. Instead, the evidence clearly supports a 
conclusion that Mr G had actually sought advice about the swelling in his finger. And that the 
ECG and cardiology referral were simply undertaken because the GP had no records of Mr 
Gs long-standing heart murmur. I agree with our investigator that it seems neither fair nor 
reasonable to conclude that this claim should be excluded because the GP held a lack of 
information about Mr Gs heart murmur.
I havent seen sufficient evidence either to indicate that Mr Gs ultimate diagnosis with 
stenosis of his aortic valve was related to his heart murmur. Ive looked carefully at the letter 
provided by Mr Gs consultant cardiologist dated 9 November 2021. Theres no suggestion in 
that letter that Mr Gs ultimate diagnosis was related to heart murmur. The consultant acknowledges that during a 2007 assessment of Mr Gs heart murmur, his 
aortic valve had been found to be sclerotic. But importantly, he stated:
Indeed, there is no record of him having been documented to have significant valve disease 
when assessed in 2007 and there is no record of valvular disease in his primary care record, 
nor in the correspondence from his cardiologist who assessed him for the murmur. As I 
noted in my letter, the aortic valve was found to be sclerotic at that time but was not 
considered to be clinically stenotic. This valve has become functionally stenotic in the 
interim. However, I can see no mention of clinical concern or recommendation for further 
action regarding the valve mentioned in the records I have reviewed from that time.
So it seems to me that theres no medical evidence from either Mr Gs GP or his consultant 
cardiologist which indicates that Mr G was suffering from symptoms of valval stenosis in the 
five years before the policy began. Similarly, theres no compelling medical evidence from Mr 
Gs treating doctors that he received treatment, advice, medication or diagnostic treatment 
for a sclerotic aortic valve or stenosis in the five years before the policy was taken out. In my 
view, the terms of the moratorium havent been satisfied. As such then, Im not persuaded 
that Aviva has reasonably and fairly demonstrated, on balance, that this condition is 
excluded by the terms of the moratorium or is related to an excluded condition.
Overall, having carefully reviewed the available medical evidence, I dont think it was fair for 
Aviva to conclude that Mr Gs claim was excluded by the moratorium clause. I dont find its 
shown, on balance, that Mr Gs condition isnt covered by the remaining terms of the policy. 
And so I find that the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint is for Aviva to now settle 
Mr Gs claim, in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct Aviva Insurance Limited to settle Mr and Mrs Gs claim, in line with the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy. Aviva must add interest to the settlement at an annual 
rate of 8% simple from the date Mr and Mrs G paid the consultation and diagnostic costs 
until the date of settlement.
If Aviva considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs G how much its taken off. It should also give Mr and 
Mrs G a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman