DRN-1987797
The complaint
Ms W complains that Starling Bank Limited wont refund her £300 after a cash machine 
failed to dispense this amount to her.
What happened
On 21 December 2019, Ms W tried to withdraw £300 from her Starling bank account using a 
cash machine owned by another bank. Ms W says no money came out, but this amount was 
debited from her account. 
Ms W says she was on her way to the airport for a holiday with her friend. And she needed 
to withdraw £300 to pay for the hotel overseas. Shes explained that she put her card in the 
machine, but her card was declined. Ms W contacted Starling who told her that her ATM 
access was blocked. And that she needed to unlock this via her banking app.  She would 
then be able to make her withdrawal. Ms W unlocked the access and then went back to the 
machine to try and withdraw £300. But again, no money came out. Ms W says she waited at 
the machine for a couple of minutes to check, but nothing happened. 
Ms W and her friend then took a taxi to the airport. Within a couple of minutes of starting her 
journey, Ms W received a notification from Starling that £300 had been debited from her 
account. Ms W contacted Starling to let the bank know the cash machine hadnt dispensed 
any money to her. Starling said it would look into things for her and in the meantime 
refunded Ms W the £300.
Starling looked into Ms Ws complaint and asked the bank which owned the cash machine 
for some information. It said the evidence showed the money was dispensed to Ms W. So, it 
held Ms W liable for the £300 withdrawal. Unhappy with this response Ms W brought her 
complaint to our service. She said by re-debiting the money Starling had made things very 
difficult for her and left her short of money to pay towards the cost of her fathers funeral. 
The investigator reviewed the evidence provided by Starling and asked it for further technical 
evidence. Starling didnt provide the information the investigator requested and said it had 
followed the chargeback scheme guidelines. It maintained it had gathered enough 
information to show that the cash had been dispensed to Ms W at the time.
 
The investigator explained that he hadnt seen any evidence that the cash machine had 
been working properly. He also pointed out that the bank hadnt provided the journal roll or 
purge box information. And not shown that the machine had balanced at the time. Starling 
said that the investigator should go and get other relevant information from the ATM owner 
and provided a screen shot which it said showed the cash machine had balanced. But said it 
wasnt sure if this information had been provided by the owner of the cash machine.
The investigator upheld the complaint as he found Ms Ws version of events to be plausible 
and consistent, whereas Starling hadnt given him enough technical information to show that 
the withdrawal went through properly. He said Starling should refund Ms W £300 and pay 
her £75 compensation for the trouble and upset shed suffered. Starling disagreed. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons.
 
Firstly, Im very sorry to hear of Ms Ws loss, she must be going through a very difficult time.
 
In these types of cases, where there is a dispute over whether money was dispensed or not 
there is certain documentary evidence from the cash machine which we consider, such as 
the journal roll, purge bin report, whether the machine balanced and was working properly, 
along with what both parties have told us about what happened. In this case, there is limited 
information so its not been possible to see everything Id expect to see. 
Starling has provided us with a screen shot it say shows the machine was working and that 
the cash was dispensed to Ms W, on 21 December 2019. However, Starling has also said it 
isnt sure it has interpreted the screen shot correctly or that it has actually been provided by 
the owner of the cash machine. So, I dont think I can place much weight on this evidence.
There are also gaps in the banks evidence. I note the investigator asked the bank to obtain 
the purge box report (where unused or damaged notes are returned); details of whether 
there were any reported errors with the cash machine or other claims raised on the same 
day, and any other relevant information to show whether there was a technical fault or any 
other problem with the machine. This means I cant be sure as I would need to be that the 
cash machine correctly dispensed the cash to Ms W. And I have to weigh the totality of the 
banks evidence against what Ms W has told us and her subsequent actions.
Starling told the investigator to contact the cash machine owner directly. It said our service 
normally has better success at obtaining such information. That might be the case. But I 
dont think its unreasonable to expect the bank to obtain this evidence or at least make 
efforts to get it. So, Im not persuaded that the evidence provided by Starling is conclusive 
such that I can safely say the cash was dispensed to Ms W. As Ive already explained, I 
would want to see the purge bin report to exclude the possibility that MS Ws £300 didnt end 
up in there, evidence that the ATM balanced, and that the machine was working properly. 
But this hasnt been provided. So far, Starling has only been able to show some basic 
information from the cash machines owner. 
Whereas Ms W has provided a detailed, consistent and credible explanation. She says she 
didnt receive any cash and then contacted the bank. She also contacted the owner of the 
cash machine herself to try and raise a dispute. And asked for any CCTV footage. I think it 
would be risky for Ms W to ask for CCTV evidence if she wasnt being truthful. And this 
would show she took the money. Ms Ws subsequent behaviour is also consistent with what 
she told the bank. By this I mean she transferred £300 from her savings account into her 
current account to cover her hotel costs. I think its unlikely she would have done this had 
she received £300 from the cash machine. Ms W also says she waited at the machine to 
make sure the money wasnt dispensed. I note too that Ms W has provided us with a 
statement from her friend, who was present at the time, who supports what Ms W has said.  
Based on the available evidence, I think its more likely than not, that Ms W didnt get the 
money she requested. Therefore, Starling will need to refund her. They will also need to add 8% simple interest a year to that amount. Ms W has been without this money for nearly a 
year, so I think thats reasonable. In addition, Im awarding compensation of £75 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold Ms Ws complaint. I require 
Starling Bank Limited to:
 
Refund £300 to Ms W
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per year from the date of the transaction to the 
date of settlement
Pay Ms W £75 compensation for the material distress and inconvenience she 
experienced
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2020.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman