DRN-4043559
The complaint
Mr J has complained that Helvetia Global Solutions Ltd declined a sickness claim he made 
on a mortgage payment protection insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Js original policy covered him for accident, sickness and unemployment. However, the 
policy administrators had written to him in June 2021 to explain that the underwriter was 
changing and that the accident and sickness element of the cover was being removed from 
27 July 2021. 
Mr J became seriously unwell in July 2022 and, unaware of the change to his cover, made a 
claim on the policy. Helvetia declined it on the basis that the policy provided cover for 
unemployment only and not accident or sickness.
As a gesture of goodwill, Helvetia offered to refund the premiums Mr J had paid after the 
point that the cover became unemployment only. This amounted to 12 months of premiums, 
totalling £380.28, at the point that the offer was made in July 2022.
I wrote a provisional decision earlier this month in which I explained that I thought it was 
reasonable that Helvetia declined the claim but that the offer of a refund of premiums should 
be updated to take into account the further premiums that Mr J made before finally 
cancelling the policy. Neither Mr J nor Helvetia provided any further submissions in response 
to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To reiterate what I said in my provisional decision, a number of documents were sent to Mr J 
on 4 June 2021. The main covering letter starts with: IMPORTANT INFORMATION  
PLEASE READ and: CHANGES TO YOUR INSURER AND YOUR PREMIUM, and goes 
on to explain that the accident and sickness part of the cover was having to be removed as 
the new insurer did not have a license to provide such cover. It then clarifies that from 27 
July 2021 the policy would be for unemployment cover only.
Further down the letter, under the title: What is changing on my policy? it says:
Accident & Sickness cover has been removed from your policy and you now only 
have Unemployment cover from 27/07/2021
Mr J was also sent a Schedule of Insurance which set out that the cover was for 
unemployment only.
Mr J has highlighted that he received a number of other documents on the same day, some 
of which stated that accident and sickness cover were included. 
There was an annual review document. But that was looking at the annual period of cover 
that was coming to an end (2020/21) in which the policy did cover accident and sickness.
There was also an insurance product information document (IPID) and policy wording which 
do give the impression that accident and sickness cover would be ongoing. Helvetias 
argument is that the IPID and policy wording are generic documents that set out different 
levels of cover and that it is clearly stated that these documents should be read in 
conjunction with the policy schedule, which is what shows the actual level of cover and 
benefits for that particular policyholder.
I do take Mr Js point that some of the information received at that time was apparently 
contradictory and agree that it might have caused some confusion. Helvetia could probably 
have done a better job of explaining that it is the policy schedule that actually defines the 
level of cover. However, looking at the bundle of papers that Mr J received, I consider that 
the covering letter is the most prominent one. And, having read it, I think Mr J would have 
known (or ought reasonably to have known) that the accident and sickness cover was being 
removed. If the accompanying documents seemed contradictory, then Mr J could have 
contacted the policy administrator for some clarity.
Overall, based on the available evidence, I am satisfied that it was reasonable of Helvetia to 
decline Mr Js sickness claim on the basis that the policy only covered him for 
unemployment.
The offer to refund the premiums from the point where cover for accident and sickness 
ended is also reasonable. However, Mr J continued to pay the premiums after Helvetia made 
that offer in July 2022 and so now the amount due is more than the £380.28. My 
understanding is that Mr J has now stopped the payments. So Helvetia should refund all of 
the premiums from 27 July 2021 until the policy was cancelled.
I take it from Helvetias lack of response to my provisional decision that it doesnt object to 
my proposal that it amend its refund offer. As Id said, I didnt imagine it would have a 
problem with it as the suggestion sensibly follows on from its original offer.
As neither party provided any further comments, I see no reason to depart from the findings I 
reached in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint about the claim being declined. 
However, Helvetia Global Solutions Ltd, should refund all the premiums paid from 27 July 
2021 until the policy was cancelled.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2023. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman