DRN-1957913
 
The Complaint 
Mr M has complained that Advantage Insurance Company Limited unfairly declined a claim 
he made on his car insurance policy.
Background 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in June 2020 explaining that I was intending 
to uphold it.
Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
What happened
Mr M insured his car through Advantage. His policy included third party cover for 
driving other cars (DOC), subject to various conditions.
In July 2019 Mr Ms wife had just given birth. Mr M drove his wifes car to the hospital 
to pick up his family as it was the larger of their two cars. Mr M was involved in a 
collision whilst driving his wifes car, so he made a claim on the DOC cover included in 
his Advantage policy.
Advantage initially confirmed to Mr M that he would be covered for the damage to the 
third-party car. But the following month Mr Ms wife received a letter, from her insurer, 
stating she would be held liable for the damage to the third-party car. At this point, 
Advantage told Mr M he wasnt covered for driving a car belonging to, or hired by, his 
partner.
Mr M disputed Advantages decision. He said the exclusion for driving his wifes car 
wasnt mentioned on the insurance certificate or policy schedule. He says his policy 
information states his cover is based on those two documents, so it isnt fair for 
Advantage to rely on an exclusion buried in a separate 50-page document. He also 
argued that he was initially told he would be covered when he called to make the claim 
and that the police officers on site said he would be covered.
When Advantage didnt change its position, Mr M brought his complaint to our service 
where it was looked at by one of our investigators. She didnt think Advantage had 
acted fairly. She said the exclusion Advantage was seeking to rely on wasnt made 
clear enough to Mr M when he took out or renewed his policy. She said it was a 
significant exclusion so she felt it should have been shown on the schedule of 
insurance so it would be clear and easily found. Because it wasnt, she felt Advantage 
should pay the third-party claim costs and pay Mr M £250 compensation for the 
distress it had caused him.
Advantage didnt agree. It said the term is in the policy booklet and the schedule 
states that other conditions apply. It said the section of the policy booklet that explains 
DOC cover also highlights where in the booklet the full exclusions are listed.What Ive provisionally decided  and why
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt dispute that the DOC section of Mr Ms policy contains an exclusion for driving 
his partners car. The issue I need to decide is whether Advantage can fairly rely on 
that exclusion to decline Mr Ms claim.
An exclusion in the DOC section for driving a car belonging to the policyholder or their 
partner isnt a particularly unusual exclusion. But it is a significant exclusion and, as 
such, it should have been sufficiently highlighted to Mr M in a way which is clear, fair 
and not mis-leading.
Good industry practice is to provide a summary of the key conditions and exclusions of 
an insurance policy. In this case Advantage included a summary of cover on its 
certificate of insurance. This includes a summary of the DOC cover which states:
Driving other cars:
You're also covered to drive someone else's car if:
 You have the owners permission
 It's not owned by you or under a hire purchase or lease agreement
 It's covered by another insurance policy.
 
Other conditions apply  please see your car policy document for details.*
Mr Ms policy document summarises DOC cover on page seven. It states:
Guide to your cover
Am I covered to drive other cars?
Your Certificate of Motor Insurance will show whether you have this benefit. If 
driving other cars is shown on your Certificate of Motor Insurance, your Insurer 
will cover you for damage caused to Third Parties while youre driving cars that 
are not owned or hired to you.
This cover for driving other cars doesnt include damage to the car youre driving 
or the cost of releasing a vehicle that has been impounded by the police or any 
other public or government authority. There must be a valid insurance policy in 
force for the other car youre driving. See section 3 for full details.
Section 3 of the policy is shown on page 17 of the policy document. It lists the various 
circumstances that Mr M wouldnt be covered for DOC. It says:
Driving other cars
Your Insurer will provide this cover, under section 3, if you are driving another 
private car as long as: Your Certificate of Motor Insurance shows that cover is included
 The other car is not a hire, courtesy or rental car, is not owned by you or your 
Partner nor obtained by you or your Partner under a hire purchase or lease 
agreement

Ive carefully considered the arguments put forward by both sides. I accept that the 
certificate of insurance mentions that further conditions apply to the DOC cover, and 
that page 7 of the policy booklet directs the policyholder to section 3. But in my view, I 
dont think this goes far enough to make such a significant exclusion clear enough. 
This is because it requires the policyholder to cross reference information across 
several different sections and documents. 
I think this exclusion is significant enough that it ought to have been made clearer than 
it was. Had this have happened, Mr M would have been aware that he wasnt covered 
for driving his wifes car, and so wouldnt have driven it when he had the accident. I 
say this because Mr M has explained that he only took his wifes car as it was the 
larger of their two cars, but had he known he wasnt covered to drive his wifes car he 
would have taken his own, which was also at home. And based on everything Ive 
seen, I think its most likely that he would have done.
So, I dont think Advantage made the exclusion clear enough, and I think Mr S has lost 
out as a result. Based on this, I dont think Advantage can fairly rely on the exclusion 
to decline Mr Ms claim.
When thinking about how Advantage should put things right for Mr M, Ive considered 
what it needs to do to place him back in the position he would have been in (as far as 
possible) had Advantages policy been clear enough about the exclusion.
Had Mr M taken his own car, rather than his wifes, not only would he be covered for 
the damage to third-party car, but also for the damage to his own. But as it currently 
stands, Mr M has caused damage to his wifes car, meaning hes responsible for the 
cost to repair it. So, in order to fairly put things right, I think Advantage needs to cover 
the damage to both the third-party car and to Mr Ms wifes car. This is because the 
issue has arisen from Advantages policy information not being clear enough, so I 
think the only fairly resolution is for Advantage to cover Mr Ms claim, in full, under his 
policy.
As I understand it, Mr M hasnt spent any money repairing either the third-party car or 
his wifes. But his wifes car has been stored at a garage since the accident and he 
has incurred storage costs for this. So, as well as settling the claim for the damage to 
both cars, I think Advantage should reimburse these storage costs, subject to Mr M 
providing evidence of them, plus interest to compensate him for being deprived of that 
money.
In addition to the above, Ive also considered the level of distress and inconvenience 
Advantage has caused Mr M. When he initially reported the claim, he was incorrectly 
told by Advantage that he would be covered for the damage to the third-party car. He 
only became aware that this was incorrect around a month later, when his wife 
received a letter stating she would be being held responsible. I think this would have 
been understandably frustrating and distressing for Mr M. So, taking everything into account, I think Advantage should pay Mr M £250 to 
compensate him for the unnecessary distress it caused by misleading him to believe 
he was covered for over a month, and its decision to unfairly decline his claim.
I said I was intending to direct Advantage to:
Pay Mr Ms claim for the accident related damage to both the third-party car and his 
wifes car, subject to a deduction of his policy excess.
Reimburse the costs Mr M has paid for his wifes car to be stored at the garage since 
the accident, plus 8% simple interest (subject to evidence of these costs being 
provided).
Pay Mr M £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has caused him.
 
I asked both sides to send me any further comments or evidence they wanted me to 
consider before I reached my final decision,
Both sides responded to my provisional decision, but neither had anything further they 
wanted to add.
My findings
Ive re-considered all the evidence and arguments already sent to us to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of any new evidence or arguments Ive reached the same conclusions I 
reached in my provisional decision, for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Advantage Insurance Company Limited must:
Pay Mr Ms claim for the accident related damage to both the third-party car and his 
wifes car, subject to a deduction of his policy excess.
Reimburse the costs Mr M has paid for his wifes car to be stored at the garage since 
the accident, plus 8%* simple interest (subject to evidence of these costs being 
provided).
Pay Mr M £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has caused him.
 
*If Advantage Insurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to take off income tax from any interest due to Mr M, it should tell him how much 
its taken off. It should also give Mr M a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2020.
Adam Golding
Ombudsman