DRN-4032278
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) wont refund money he lost 
after falling victim to a scam.
What happened
In summary: In 2021, Mr B was befriended by an individual Ill refer to as F. Mr B says that 
contact with F started on a social media website but moved to a messaging app. Prior to F 
making contact, a genuine friend of Mr Bs had been telling him about cryptocurrency and 
the money he made from trading in it. After having messaged extensively with F for a short 
period of time, F started talking to Mr B about cryptocurrency trading. As a result, Mr B made 
10 payments from an account he held with another bank, before making one payment from 
his Nationwide account for £5,000 on 4 March 2021. Mr B thought he was trading in 
cryptocurrency but had actually fallen victim to a very sophisticated scam.
Mr B initially reported the fraud to Nationwide in March 2021, however he initially told 
Nationwide that he hadnt made the transaction of £5,000. He said that hed left his security 
credentials on a desk in his home beside his computer and that his house had been broken 
into.
Nationwide declined to refund Mr B, based on the details he gave them. Nationwide werent 
persuaded that someone had made the transactions without Mr Bs knowledge for several 
reasons. Mr B later contacted Nationwide and let them know that he had made the payment 
but had done so after falling victim to a scam.
Nationwide reconsidered Mr Bs fraud claim based on the new information but declined to 
refund Mr B, saying that he hadnt done sufficient research to check that it was a legitimate 
investment. They contacted the recipient of the funds which was a cryptocurrency wallet 
provider to try and recover the funds and get details about the account held with them. The 
wallet provider responded and told Nationwide that the cryptocurrency wallet was an account 
held in Mr Bs name and that KYC  knowing your customer documentation had been 
obtained prior to them opening the account. They advised that no funds remained in the 
account.
Mr B wasnt happy with Nationwides response, so he brought a complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into Mr Bs complaint and partially upheld it. She felt the transaction of 
£5,000 was sufficiently unusual and out of character that Nationwide shouldve intervened 
and contacted Mr B prior to processing the payment. She felt a conversation with Mr B 
wouldve uncovered the scam. However, she also thought Mr B had failed to do reasonable 
checks to make sure that the investment opportunity he was investing in was legitimate. On 
that basis, she recommended that Nationwide refund 50% of the payment.
Mr B disagreed with the investigators opinion, saying that he only made the payment of 
£5,000 after another bank had reassured him that the trading app he was using to invest 
was legitimate  therefore he should be refunded in full.
As the case couldnt be resolved, it was passed to me to review.
My provisional decision
On 2 March 2023, I issued my provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that I havent included a lot of detail in my explanation about how the scam 
unfolded, whereas Mr B has provided significant information and detail about the scam in his 
submission. However, in this case, Im not satisfied that it is pertinent to the decision I have 
reached, and Ill explain why.
I appreciate that this may be disappointing and confusing for Mr B, but Im not satisfied that I 
can fairly recommend that Nationwide refund him  as Im not satisfied that he has suffered 
a financial loss as the result of the scam. I say this because the payment that Mr B made as 
part of the scam, was funded by money transferred into his Nationwide account by a party Ill 
refer to as D.
From what Ive seen the first payments made to the scammer were sent from Ds account. 
However, after Ds bank blocked her account, D and Mr B wanted to continue sending 
payments so they transferred the money from Ds account to Mr Bs account at another bank 
before he forwarded the funds on to the cryptocurrency wallets and ultimately to the 
scammers. When Mr B reached the daily limit on that other account and couldnt make any 
further payments to the scammer on 4 March 2021, Mr B transferred funds to his Nationwide 
account so he could make the last payment of £5,000.
Also, I have notes from Mr Bs account with the other bank detailing a discussion with Mr B 
which say Cx states that he will be investing approx. 20k on behalf of D.
This means that the funds lost as part of the scam are Ds not Mr Bs, and that Mr B hasnt 
suffered a financial loss in relation to his Nationwide account. And, on the basis that he 
hasnt suffered a loss, I couldnt fairly ask Nationwide to refund any of the £5,000 payment 
he made even if I upheld his complaint - as hes not entitled to it. Any loss needs to be 
assessed in relation to Ds accounts, which are being handled separately under a complaint 
in her name.
My provisional decision was that I didnt intend to uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
Nationwide responded accepting my provisional decision and saying they had nothing 
further to add. Mr B provided a very detailed response.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read Mr Bs full response to my provisional decision, however none of the points hes 
raised are directly in response to my finding that he hasnt suffered a financial loss due to the 
payments made as part of the scam being funded by D.Because of this, I see no reason to depart from the decision I reached in my provisional 
decision and therefore dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this case against Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2023.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman