DRN-4143162
The complaint
Mr S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
HSBC provided Mr S with the following loans:
Loan 1 September 2014 £10,000 over 36 months
Loan 2 June 2015 £15,570 over 60 months
Mr S complained that HSBC lent to him irresponsibly. He said that at the time of applying for 
Loan 1 he had unsecured borrowing of £12,000 and that he was in financial difficulty at the 
time he applied for Loan 2.
HSBC didnt uphold Me Ss complaint. It said it had carried out proportionate checks before 
approving the loan.
Mr S wasnt happy with the response and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said that HSBC hadnt made a fair lending 
decision when it approved Loan 1 because Mr Ss existing loan and debt repayments meant 
that it was unlikely that he would be able to sustainably repay the loan. In relation to Loan 2 
the investigator said that HSBC hadnt carried out reasonable and proportionate checks and 
that the lending decision wasnt fair.
HSBC didnt respond to the investigators view so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering Mr Ss complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, the rules say that HSBC needed to complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks to ensure that Mr S could afford to repay what was being lent in a 
sustainable way. Theres no set list of checks that a lender has to carry out, but checks could 
take into account factors such as the amount of the loan, the total amount repayable, the 
monthly repayment and the borrowers individual circumstances.
Loan 1
HSBC has said that it carried out a full credit and affordability assessment before lending to 
Mr S.
HSBC hasnt provided details of the checks it carried out. So, I dont know what HSBC found 
out about Mr Ss income and expenditure, or his other credit commitments. Because of the 
lack of information, I cant be satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks were 
completed. So, Ive gone on to consider what reasonable and proportionate checks would 
have shown.
Mr S has provided bank statements for the period immediately prior to Loan 1. I think these 
are a good indicator of Mr Ss financial position at the time. HSBC wouldve had access to 
this information because Mr S held a current account with HSBC.
The statements show that Mr Ss current account was £1785 overdrawn at the time Loan 1 
was approved. He had average monthly income of £1464. The balance on Mr Ss credit card 
was £5493.
Based on the assumption that Mr Ss overdraft and credit card repayments were 5% of the 
balance, his debt repayments including Loan 1 were around £710, which is around 48% of 
his monthly income. This is a significant amount of income being used to service debt. We 
know that consumers who use more than 25% of their income to repay debt are more likely 
to struggle to repay debt in the future. Looking at Mr Ss financial circumstances at the time 
of Loan 1, I think there was a real risk that Mr S wouldnt be able to sustainably repay the 
loan without having to borrow further. For this reason, I dont think HSBC ought to have 
approved the loan.
Loan 2
For the same reasons as Ive explained in relation to Loan 1, I cant be satisfied that the 
checks completed before agreeing the loan were reasonable and proportionate.
Ive looked at Mr Ss bank statements for the period immediately prior to Loan 2. Ive also 
looked at a accredit report provided by Mr S.
HSBC has said that it was a condition of Loan 2 that Mr Ss existing loan (Loan 1) and his 
credit card were repaid and that his overdraft was reduced to £500.
Loan 2 was for a larger amount than Loan 1 and was over a longer term.
The bank statements show that Mr Ss average monthly income at the time was £1532. The 
credit report shows that Mr S was making loan repayments to a loan provider of £25 per 
month. The new (loan 2) repayment was £418, So, in total, Mr S was using around 27% of 
his income to repay debt.
This represents a significant proportion of Mr Ss income and (as Ive already said) is at a 
level which meant that there was a risk that Mr S wouldnt be able to repay his debt 
commitments without borrowing further.
Because of this, I cant say that Mr S was likely to be able to sustainably repay Loan 2. For 
the reasons Ive given, I dont think HSBC acted fairly when it approved Loan 2.
Putting things right
To put things right, HSBC should:
Add together the total amount of money Mr S received as a result of being given Loans 1 
and 2. The repayments made by Mr S should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in Mr S having paid more than he received, then any overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest calculated from the date the overpayments were 
made until the date of settlement*
If any capital balance remains outstanding, then HSBC should arrange an affordable 
payment plan with Mr S
Remove any negative information on Mr Ss credit file in relation to Loans 1 and 2
*HMRC require HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must give Mr S a certificate 
showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc must take the steps Ive 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman