DRN-3625991
The complaint
Mr D and Mrs N complain that Nationwide Building Society wont reimburse the money they 
lost when Mr D fell victim to a cryptocurrency investment scam.  
What happened
In late 2020, Mr D was introduced to an investment firm by his brother. Things had been 
going well for his brother and their partner and, encouraged by their experience, Mr D 
decided to invest too. He spoke to an account manager over the phone and by email. The 
account manager guided him though the process of placing trades, including helping Mr D to 
set up an account with a cryptocurrency exchange. Unfortunately, Mr D wasnt dealing with a 
genuine investment company. He was really interacting with a fraudster. 
Between 28 December 2020 and 13 January 2021, Mr D made five payments totalling just 
over £21,000. He sent the money from a joint current account to his new account at the 
cryptocurrency exchange, then moved it on from there. 
Mr D told the fraudster to leave £100 in the balance so that he could check the process for 
withdrawing money without impacting the active positions. When the withdrawal was 
successful, Mr D referred his son and daughter to the fraudster.  
On 10 January 2021, Mr D contacted the fraudster and explained that he had some 
questions about the situation as hed seen some negative reviews online. He was conscious 
that by that point hed invested around £16,000 with a company that he didnt know much 
about. He asked the fraudster to confirm details such as the address of the London office, 
where the brokerage was registered, the protections for the trading account, along with 
details of commission and charges. 
The fraudster replied to Mr D. He said that the bad reviews were fake and posted by 
competitors. He answered each of Mr Ds questions in turn. Mr D said he knew the location 
of the office as he used to work nearby and confirmed he was happy to invest more funds. 
The fraudster said the brokerage would be able to make the planned investment on Mr Ds 
behalf straight away, so he didnt miss out on potential gains whilst withdrawing funds from 
his savings. 
Mr D asked the fraudster if previous funds that had been deposited by the brokerage in the 
short term would remain as they had not been taken back. The fraudster confirmed that they 
would remain as part of Mr Ds trades for now. 
Around the same time, the fraudster contacted Mr Ds son to set up an account for him. 
Nationwide intervened on the payment Mr Ds son wanted to make and provided education 
about investment scams. Mr Ds son decided not to go ahead. Mr D remained in contact with 
the broker and explained that the guy from Nationwide spooked him by telling him it was a 
scam.
On 20 January 2021, the fraudster told Mr D that he would get a call from the firms finance 
department as the sale of cryptocurrency derivatives to retail customers had been banned. 
The finance team had combined all of the accounts held by Mr D and his wider family and 
then told Mr D that he needed to pay 10% up front to get the money released. Mr D was 
uneasy about that arrangement and felt it was not right. When the company stopped 
responding, Mr D realised the situation was a scam. 
Mr D reported the situation to Nationwide, but it turned down his claim for a refund. Unhappy 
with the building societys position, Mr D made a complaint. In its final response letter, 
Nationwide said it was not liable for refunding the money that had been lost. It explained that 
the payments were authorised and had passed security checks. 
Mr D referred the complaint to this service. Our Investigator looked into the matter but 
concluded there was no basis on which he could fairly and reasonably ask Nationwide to 
refund the money that had been lost. He explained that the Contingent Reimbursement 
Model Code (the CRM Code) that was set up to provide protection for customers that fall 
victim to an APP scam did not apply because Mr D was making a payment to another 
account in his own name that he held and operated. He looked into whether Nationwide 
should have done more to protect Mr D from financial harm but concluded there was nothing 
further that Nationwide should have done. He didnt consider the transactions Mr D was 
making would have stood out as being unusual or suspicious. He also felt that it would have 
been difficult for an intervention from Nationwide to have stopped the scam given what Mr D 
had said about the positive experiences of his family members and the fact that Mr D had 
been able to withdraw returns.
Mr D disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint afresh. In summary, 
he said that Nationwide owed him a duty of care under fraud protection regulations and 
considered that the principles from the CRM Code should apply. He suggested that 
Nationwide must have known or reasonably ought to have known that he was dealing with a 
fraudster. He said that the Nationwide account was the first point of contact for the scam and 
that it could have helped to prevent the scam from developing if it had flagged the payments.  
Mr D referred to decisions from other complaints that this service has considered involving 
comparable circumstances and types of transactions and wanted to know why the judging of 
this case was different.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D has referred to other cases considered by this service and pointed out that the 
circumstances of this complaint are similar. But we assess each case on its own merits and 
I am not able to compare the outcomes of complaints as the precise circumstances may be 
very different, even if on the face of it the complaints stem from comparable underlying 
events. 
Mr D says the principles from the CRM Code should be applied here. But payments made to 
a customers own accounts arent covered by the CRM Code. As Mr D was sending money 
from his Nationwide account to his own cryptocurrency wallet, the provisions of the CRM 
Code do not apply.
Although the CRM Code does not apply, that code is not the full extent of the relevant 
obligations that could apply. Nationwide ought to have been on the lookout for unusual and 
out of character transactions. So Ive looked at what I think is the heart of the matter here, 
being; should Nationwide have recognised Mr Ds payments as being suspicious and intervened to try and mitigate the risk of him falling victim to financial harm from fraud.  
Having considered whether Nationwide could, or should, have done more to stop Mr D 
making the payments he did, I am unable to fairly or reasonably ask Nationwide to take 
responsibility to refund the money thats been lost. I can appreciate this isnt the news Mr D 
was hoping for, so I will explain why.
Its not in debate that Mr D has fallen victim to a scam. But that alone doesnt mean he is 
entitled to be reimbursed by Nationwide. Mr D accepts that he made these payments 
himself, albeit under false pretences as he didnt know he was really dealing with a fraudster. 
But Mr D did still authorise the payments. Under the Payment Services Regulations 2017, 
the starting position is that Mr D is liable for the loss and Nationwide doesnt have to refund 
him. 
But, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice 
and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider Nationwide 
should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks and building societies are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
So Ive also considered whether Nationwide should have identified that Mr D was potentially 
at risk of falling victim to fraud as a result of the payments, or otherwise done more to protect 
him. Nationwide did not identify any of the payments Mr D made as being out of character or 
suspicious at the time. When considering what payments should be considered significantly 
out of character, its often a finely balanced matter  and firms have a difficult balance to 
strike between identifying transactions where there are indications of higher fraud risks, and 
allowing customers to utilise their accounts as they want to with minimal unnecessary 
disruptions.
Ive looked carefully at the account statements in the year leading up to the scam to get a 
clear understanding of how the account typically ran. Having done so, I can see that Mr D 
and Mrs N often made transactions for similar amounts to the payments Mr D made to his 
cryptocurrency account as part of this scam. As such, the amounts Mr D was transferring in 
connection with this scam would not have stood out as being unusual. They didnt leave the 
balance of the account at or close to zero, and they were not made close enough together 
so that Nationwide ought to have clearly identified them as being part of a suspicious pattern 
of payments. In addition to this, I am not persuaded that a payment to a cryptocurrency 
exchange is, in and of itself, an immediate cause for concern. Not all activity involving 
cryptocurrency is automatically a scam. 
So I think its reasonable that Nationwide didnt identify that Mr D was potentially at risk of 
fraud as a result of these payments and I dont think Nationwide needed to intervene to ask him any questions before allowing the payments to go through. This means that I do not 
need to go on to consider whether anything Nationwide could reasonably have been 
expected to do would have stopped Mr D from making some or all of the payments. 
I sympathise with the position Mr D has found himself in. Hes lost a lot of money and feels 
strongly that Nationwide ought to have done more to protect him. But, for the reasons set out 
above, I am unable to fairly conclude that Nationwide ought to have done more in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman