DRN-4446129
The complaint
Mr S complains that Yorsipp Limited failed to action a request to sell an investment held in 
his self-invested pension plan (SIPP). He went on to complain that Yorsipp failed to carry 
out appropriate due diligence on that investment before accepting it into his SIPP.
What happened
Mr S applied for a SIPP with Yorsipp in February 2010 through his financial adviser, at which 
time it was an appointed representative of a business Ill call Firm T. The SIPP application 
was accepted and it was opened on 5 March 2010. 
Firm T advised Mr S to transfer £33,000 that he held in another pension plan with an 
alternative provider to the Yorsipp SIPP. This was for the purpose of investing around 
£30,000 (plus fees) in a plot of land ultimately intended for housing development. The 
investment completed in June 2010.
In April 2015 Mr S asked Yorsipp to start the process of selling his share in the investment. 
Mr S provided his agreement to the associated costs of marketing the land in May 2015. By 
this time, his financial adviser was a business Ill call Firm A.
Mr S says he understood that it could take time to sell the land and he didnt have any 
immediate concerns about this. However, in late 2017 Mr S says it became apparent to him 
that in order to sell the investment, at least 75% of the other investors also needed to agree 
to this. In May 2018 he started to complain to the parties involved, including Yorsipp. 
Yorsipp said that Mr S only held a share in the plot through his SIPP, and this land formed 
part of a larger area of land, along with four other plots which were owned by other Yorsipp 
SIPP members. Yorsipp explained that the original intention was for all of the land to be 
cleared and services put in, so that the whole area could be sold for development. It 
understood the land originally had planning permission for housing, so the intention was to 
sell the land to a housing developer.
Yorsipp said that in 2015, Firm A (which was also the adviser firm for a number of other 
SIPP members invested in the land) informed it of the potential to market the land for sale. It 
said Mr S, and other members, had informed Yorsipp of their intention to sell the land. But 
before it could agree to action this, Yorsipp had to seek agreement from the other SIPP 
members as they would also be required to approve the sale and take on the associated 
costs. However, it was unable to obtain many of the other SIPP members agreement, so it 
could not approve the sale. Yorsipp explained it now had agreement from the majority of 
members to proceed with marketing the land for sale.
Mr S wasnt satisfied with the response so he referred the complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. He added he was also unhappy that Yorsipp continues to charge him 
significant fees, even though it does little more than provide valuations of the investment, 
and he is unable to sell the investment in order to close the SIPP down. Mr S wants Yorsipp 
to return the sum he invested, plus growth, and a refund of SIPP fees.
Mr S also made complaints against Firm T and Firm A, which have been considered 
separately by the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Mr S later added that he was unaware hed have responsibility for selling the land as part of 
a syndicate; he was led to believe by Firm T that it would sell the land. Mr A also said that he 
wanted us to consider how such a high-risk investment, which was difficult to sell, was sold 
to him when he wasnt an experienced investor and couldnt afford to lose the money. Mr S 
said he was advised to invest in the land by Firm T and now realises it was very poor advice 
and wasnt at all suitable for him.
Mr S further added that he found out the planning permission attached to the land had 
expired in 2013. He said no one had informed him and it explains why the land couldnt be 
sold. Mr S says that Yorsipp must be responsible for marketing and selling the land and it 
had failed to manage the investment throughout.
Yorsipp thought Mr S had made his complaint too late, more than six years after the event 
hed complained about and more than three years after he was aware or ought reasonably to 
have been aware of his cause for complaint. But our Investigator ultimately concluded the 
complaint had been made in time. Thats because even though Mr S had asked Yorsipp to 
sell the investment in April 2015, it wasnt fair to say that Mr Ss awareness of his cause for 
complaint  that he was unable to sell his share of the plot  started on that day. It wouldve 
been reasonable to allow a period of at least six months for the sale to be completed. So, he 
thought the earliest Mr S wouldve had awareness of his cause for complaint was 
October 2015, and as hed complained to Yorsipp on 13 July 2018, hed made his complaint 
within three years of this. 
Yorsipp accepted this and provided its file on the complaint, including the due diligence it 
carried out on the investment before accepting it.
The Investigator didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. He thought that Firm T was responsible for 
the suitability of the advice to invest in the land, but he said Yorsipp still had a responsibility 
to conduct appropriate due diligence checks on Firm T as the introducer of the investment, 
and the investment itself.
The Investigator said Yorsipp hadnt carried out any specific checks on Firm T, but had it 
done so it wouldve found that Firm T was regulated to provide investment advice and was 
not subject to any restrictions. While the Investigator noted Mr S had said that the specific 
representative of Firm T that he dealt with wasnt permitted to sell unregulated investments, 
he said Yorsipp wouldnt have been party to the agreement between Firm T and its 
appointed representative. In terms of the investment, the Investigator thought it was 
reasonable for Yorsipp to accept the investment into Mr Ss SIPP as it was a genuine asset 
and was not residential property, it was land to be developed, which was permitted to be 
held in the SIPP under HMRC rules. Overall, he wasnt persuaded that Yorsipp had acted 
unfairly by accepting the investment application.
Mr S didnt accept this. He said that planning permission had lapsed in 2013 and he hadnt 
been informed of this. He feels he should have been given the opportunity to sell his share 
before this. He also feels he was duped into giving his consent to sell the property in 2015, 
which wouldve resulted in a loss given the planning permission had lapsed. Mr S added that 
Yorsipp had provided him with misleading property valuations up to 2018; the land was 
worth less than the valuation showed because the planning permission had lapsed. Lastly he 
said it was unreasonable for Yorsipp to leave it until 2021 to take action to sell the land given 
this was intended to be a two to five year investment.Mr S has since instructed a solicitor to represent him in this complaint, who further 
commented:
One of the fundamental issues clearly overlooked by all involved was the lack of liquidity of 
the investment. At no point in the letter or the subsequent transfer into the SIPP was any 
warning provided to our client that the investment lacked liquidity and could not be 
transferred, sold or cashed out. The letter suggested that the investment was for a period of 
1-5 years. It is now 13 years later and our client is of pensionable age. He is unable to 
realise his pension as a result of the manner in which the Yorsipp trustees have managed 
the investment. In particular, this relates to the basis of our clients complaint with regards to 
the allowing of planning permission to lapse without consultation of the SIPP members.
Further there was no explanation at the outset that matters of that nature would be put to 
majority vote of SIPP members. Nor was it made clear at any point that our client would hold 
a percentage share in one plot only. If our clients SIPP holds a share in one single plot with 
a number of other owners in that single plot, then it would appear that our client and those 
other owners would be in a position to decide how to administer that plot with the agreement 
of the SIPP trustees. Despite that, it appears our client has been given conflicting 
information regarding the holding and the basis upon which SIPP members can decide upon 
how to administer their holdings, namely the entire development (all 5 plots) must be 
decided on a majority basis, rather than each individual plot (which appears to be what all 25 
SIPPs hold actual units in).
Despite all of the above, the Trustees have failed to administer the property at all and have 
simply allowed the plots to deteriorate in value due to inactivity. In particular, the letter which 
induced our client to enter into the investment stated that it would be realised within a 
maximum of 5 years for more than a 5% return. There has been no valid explanation as to 
why the investment is still held by Yorsipp a full 8 years beyond the maximum stated within 
the letter of 1st March 2010.
The Investigator didnt change their opinion so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I shared Mr Ss representatives comments with Yorsipp and asked for its response.
Yorsipp said that when Mr S decided to purchase property through his SIPP, decisions were 
made by Yorsipp (Trustees) Limited in accordance with the terms of the Trust Deed. It added 
that the duties and obligations of Yorsipp (Trustees) Limited are set out in the Trust Deed, in 
particular, at clause 11 and clause 14.
Yorsipp explained that although the plots could be sold individually, doing so would reduce 
their marketability. So, Yorsipp (Trustees) Limited made the decision to proceed only in the 
event of a unanimous decision in favour of such sale. Given the discretion at clause 11, as 
qualified by clause 14, Yorsipp states that it was fully within the discretion given to Yorsipp 
(Trustees) Limited to require that, in the event of jointly owned property, all those with an 
interest in it needed to agree to the disposal of such property. Yorsipp says that Yorsipp 
(Trustees) Limited, as it was entitled to do, was acting in good faith pursuant to what it 
regarded as being in the interests of all those that owned property. 
Yorsipp says that if Mr S is unhappy with the way Yorsipp (Trustees) Limited has exercised 
its discretion, that is not something that our Service can consider. That is because Yorsipp 
(Trustees) Limited is not regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) so it does not 
fall within our compulsory jurisdiction. Yorsipp (Trustees) Limited also hasnt joined our 
voluntary jurisdiction.Mr S also made some comments about the company that owned the land prior to selling 
them to the syndicate and asked what due diligence Yorsipp carried out on it.
I issued a provisional decision on 16 October 2023, in which I explained why I wasnt 
inclined to uphold the complaint. I said on balance it was fair and reasonable, considering 
the obligations Yorsipp had to Mr S, for it to accept the SIPP application from Firm T and to 
allow the investment to be held in Mr Ss SIPP. I also said I didnt think Yorsipp was 
responsible for managing the investment thereafter or that it was responsible for the SIPP 
trustees decision not to allow the individual sale of the plots of land.
Yorsipp provided no response to my provisional decision, but Mr Ss representative didnt 
agree with my findings. It said:
The decision had been issued on the misapprehension that the SIPP trustee, Yorsipp 
(Trustees) Limited, was entitled to carry out investment management functions at its 
discretion. And although Mr S had requested Yorsipp to undertake actions on his 
behalf, theres no comment in the decision that Yorsipp put forward Mr Ss 
complaints to the SIPP trustee, sought appropriate answers and then relayed those 
to Mr S.
There does not appear to have been an arms length approach by Yorsipp and 
Yorsipp (Trustees) Limited in light of this.
Mr S purchased a 25% stake in a single plot of land as part of a syndicate of four. At 
no point was it highlighted to Mr S that this could be arbitrarily diluted to a 25th for 
decision-making purposes. This had a fundamental bearing on the liquidity of the 
investment. Given that Yorsipp had access to the advice letter sent to Mr S, it ought 
to have noted this and explained that the advice given to him in relation to the 
mechanics of the investment wasnt correct, or had the potential to become incorrect.
If Mr S SIPP was administered for his benefit then his instructions ought to have 
been dealt with in that manner. Yorsipp had a conflict of interest because it was 
managing 24 other SIPPs, the interests of which were being taken into consideration 
when Mr S gave it instructions.
As the deadline for responses has passed, Im now providing my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have considered Mr S representatives response to my provisional decision 
carefully, Im not upholding the complaint for essentially the same reasons I gave in that 
decision. So, Ive largely repeated my findings below, but I have addressed any new 
arguments put forward.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding
circumstances.
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) 
handbook, are a general statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the 
regulatory system (PRIN 1.1.2G). And I consider that Principles 2, 3 and 6 are relevant to 
my consideration of this complaint. They say:Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care 
and diligence.
Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must take reasonable care to organise and 
control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
Principle 6  Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly. 
Ive also considered the High Court decision in Adams v Options SIPP. In that case, 
Mr Adams had made an investment into storage pods through his SIPP. Since that decision 
the Court of Appeal has handed down its judgment following its consideration of Mr Adams 
appeal. Ive taken both judgments into account when making this decision.
The FCA (and its predecessor, the FSA) has issued a number of publications which remind 
SIPP operators of their obligations and set out how they might achieve the outcomes 
envisaged by the Principles. These are:
The regulators 2009 and 2012 Thematic Review reports;
The regulators October 2013 Finalised SIPP Operator Guidance; and 
The regulators July 2014 Dear CEO letter.
I have considered these publications in their entirety when reaching my decision on this 
complaint. 
Overall, in determining this complaint I need to consider whether Yorsipp complied with its 
regulatory obligations as set out by the Principles to act with due skill, care and diligence, to 
take reasonable care to organise its business affairs responsibly and effectively, to pay due 
regards to the interests of its customers (in this case Mr S), to treat them fairly, and to act 
honestly, fairly and professionally. And, in doing that, Im looking to the Principles and the 
publications listed above to provide an indication of what Yorsipp could have done to 
comply with its regulatory obligations and duties.
Mr Ss relationship with Yorsipp and other connected parties
Yorsipp says it is an execution only SIPP administrator, which means that it only acts on the 
instruction of the investor or any third party professional who has authority to make an 
instruction on their behalf. Yorsipp said it does not provide financial advice so it was not 
involved in the advice given to Mr S as a member of the SIPP, or assessing whether the 
investment was suitable for him. It said these were matters for the financial adviser.
Ive seen the recommendation letter of 1 March 2010 from Mr Ss financial adviser at the 
time, Firm T. This said:
I recommend that you transfer £33,000 of your pension fund which is with [former pension 
provider] over to Yorsipp in order to facilitate your land purchase. Especially as Yorsipp have 
agreed to discount their normal property fee of £600 and allow this fee to be split between 
the syndicate members this reduces the fee in a syndicate of 4 to £150 per member. Yorsipp 
have also agreed to allow syndication of conveyance fees etc.
So, it is clear to me that Firm T gave the advice to Mr S to transfer funds from his existing 
pension to Yorsipp, in order to facilitate the purchase of his share in the plot. As such, I accept that Yorsipp didnt provide any advice here, and so it didnt have an obligation to 
consider the suitability of the investment for Mr S.
Mr Ss representative said that the investment was significantly risky and lacked liquidity. So, 
Yorsipp had an obligation to consider the advice provided by Firm T and further consider 
whether the investment was appropriate for Mr S, based on his attitude to risk, demands and 
needs and other responses. What I think Mr Ss representative is saying here is that Yorsipp 
also needed to take a view on the suitability of the investment for Mr S. However, I think that 
was for Mr Ss adviser to determine.
Nevertheless, I think Yorsipp was required (in its role as an execution only SIPP provider) to 
consider whether it was appropriate to accept business from Firm T and to consider whether 
the investment in the land was an appropriate investment to make within its SIPP. And 
overall, I think Yorsipps duty as a SIPP operator was to treat Mr S fairly and to act in his 
best interests. And taking account of the regulators guidance and what I consider to have 
been good practice at the time, I think it ought to have carried out due diligence to check 
points such as whether:
Firm T was regulated to provide pensions and investment advice and had a clear 
disciplinary history;
it understood how the investment would operate;
the investment was a genuine asset and was not part of a fraud or a scam or 
pensions liberation;
the investment was safe/secure;
the investment could be independently valued and that it wasnt impaired.
What checks did Yorsipp carry out on Firm T
Yorsipp has said that the SIPP was not introduced by an unregulated introducer but an 
appointed representative of a regulated financial adviser  Firm T. It says it was their 
responsibility to manage the clients investments; and all information it received would have 
been communicated through Firm T.
It doesnt appear that Yorsipp had an introducer agreement with Firm T before accepting 
business from it. While it wouldve been good practice to have had an introducer agreement 
in place with Firm T, I dont think the absence of one means Yorsipp should not have 
transacted with it.
At the time of the investment, Firm T was regulated, and the firm acting as appointed 
representative had authorisation to recommend and introduce new SIPPs and investments. 
While it doesnt appear that Yorsipp did any other checks on Firm T and its appointed 
representative, I dont think it wouldve found any adverse information had it done so. There 
were no changes or notices relevant to Firm T between the advice being given and the 
servicing of the SIPP moving to Firm A. 
Furthermore, it is important to note that a land investment is not like, for example, an 
unregulated collective investment scheme (UCIS). So, where an adviser does need to be 
authorised to advise on UCIS investments, a land investment is not a regulated investment 
so an adviser does not need to be authorised to recommend such investments.
So, even though I dont think Yorsipp did enough in terms of checking Firm T and the 
appointed representatives permissions and disciplinary history, I dont think it wouldve 
made a difference here had it done so.Overall, I dont think there were grounds to be concerned about accepting business from the 
appointed representative of Firm T. So it follows that I think it was reasonable in principle for 
Yorsipp to accept the SIPP application. Although, as I will go on to discuss, an important part 
of Yorsipps decision to accept the application from the appointed representative of Firm T 
should also include its consideration of the investment proposition. 
What due diligence checks did Yorsipp carry out on the investment?
Yorsipp says that Mr S has not really complained about the due diligence it carried out on 
the investment. Instead, Mr S was unhappy with how the investment had been managed, 
and his inability to sell his share in it without approval of the other members with shares in 
the plots of land. Furthermore, Yorsipp said that it wouldve expected Mr Ss adviser to carry 
out due diligence on the investment, as part of their duty to assess the suitability of the 
investment for the member.
Nevertheless, Yorsipp has provided the following information:
SIPP application and transfer forms dated 5 March 2010 on the advice of Firm T;
SIPP Master Trust Deed and Rules;
Property purchase questionnaire;
Survey report completed by B;
Disposition in favour of Yorsipp (Trustees) Ltd;
Land Registry Certificate; and
Various correspondence in relation to the property purchase.
Ive considered the checks Yorsipp carried out here and whether it met its obligations to 
Mr S in line with the Principles Ive referred to above and COBS.
Yorsipp said that its role in terms of due diligence was to ensure that the investment was 
genuine and capable of being held in the SIPP (i.e. it was not prohibited by the FCA and 
holding it would not result in HMRC imposing tax penalties on the member and the pension 
scheme). It says that a holding of non-residential property within the SIPP is permitted by 
both the FCA and HMRC, and the documents it provided demonstrates that the land is 
genuine and that Yorsipp (Trustees) Ltd holds the title to it. 
Yorsipp added that the proposed investment was solid property as opposed to an esoteric 
investment that was illiquid in nature; it was a tangible asset of which Mr S would own a 25% 
share. It explained that buying/selling land with an uplift in value for development purposes 
with planning permission is a viable commercial investment for a member-directed pension 
and would remain so today, and the members SIPP holds a share in commercial property 
rather than an unregulated product.
Yorsipp seems to suggest that its due diligence duty in respect of the investment made by 
Mr S was limited to ensuring that it could legitimately be held in the SIPP and was not a 
scam. But that is only partially in line with the Principles, guidance and what I think was good 
industry practice at the time. As the regulator has made plain, SIPP operators have a 
responsibility for the quality of the SIPP business that they administer. SIPP operators 
should undertake appropriate enquiries about the nature or quality of an investment 
proposed before determining whether to accept or decline it into its SIPP. Nevertheless, 
having considered the evidence provided and Yorsipps comments, Im satisfied that it was 
appropriate for Yorsipp to accept Mr Ss investment into his SIPP.
I say this because I think Yorsipp understood the nature of the investment and made sure it 
could legitimately be held in the SIPP. Yorsipp understood that the land was purchased with the intention of establishing services on it before selling it on for profit. The land already had 
planning permission for a number of dwellings on site. So, I think that the investment 
proposition was viable and could legitimately be held in the SIPP.
Furthermore, I think that Yorsipp established the investment was genuine and safe. Yorsipp 
(Trustees) Limited had appointed appropriately qualified experts throughout the transaction. 
This included appointing a surveyor, who was registered with the Royal Institution of 
Chartered Surveyors and whose company specialised in commercial and rural land. The 
report confirmed the market value of the property in line with the purchase price. Solicitors 
were also appointed to carry out the conveyancing, and they carried out appropriate 
searches. It was established that it was a genuine holding of land with good, clear title. The 
purchase of the land proceeded on this basis.
I dont think the investment contained any other concerning features that shouldve led 
Yorsipp to question it further  while it was an illiquid investment, I dont think it was esoteric 
in nature. While any investment in commercial property comes with risks, I dont think the 
specific investment proposed any additional risks such that Yorsipp ought to have refused to 
permit it to be held in the SIPP.
As the investment was being purchased as part of a syndicate, I think it wouldve been good 
practice for Yorsipp to carry out checks on the other syndicate members, given that all 
members were required to consent to the sale of the land. However, Im mindful that the 
other syndicate members also held their investment in Yorsipp SIPPs. So I think its more 
likely than not that Yorsipp wouldve carried out checks on these individuals in the same way 
it carried out checks, such as anti-money laundering checks, on Mr S. And in any event, 
there is no suggestion of any wrongdoing on the part of individual syndicate members. 
Instead, there was a disagreement between members of the syndicate about selling the land 
and this is what had led to the issues Mr S complains of, that he has been unable to dispose 
of the investment without the other members agreement.
Ive thought about whether the investment being part of a property syndicate shouldve given 
Yorsipp cause for concern, given Mr S could not take a decision on his own to dispose of the 
investment. But I dont think this is a particularly unusual arrangement for commercial 
property. And ultimately the terms of the Master Trust gave Yorsipp (Trustees) Limited 
discretion to make decisions in respect of the investment. So, I dont think that the existence 
of the syndicate shouldve been a barrier to Yorsipp accepting the investment into the SIPP. 
Mr Ss representative said in response to my provisional decision that Mr S purchased a 
25% stake in a single plot of land as part of a syndicate of four. And at no point was it 
highlighted to Mr S that this could be arbitrarily diluted to a 25th for decision-making 
purposes because of the other plots purchased by other SIPP members. It says this had a 
fundamental bearing on the liquidity of the investment. And given that Yorsipp had access to 
the advice letter sent to Mr S, it ought to have noted this and explained that the advice given 
to him in relation to the mechanics of the investment wasnt correct, or had the potential to 
become incorrect.
But there is no suggestion that Yorsipp had sight of the advice letter from Firm T to Mr S. 
While I have considered the letter and referenced it in this decision, it was not provided to 
me by Yorsipp. Yorsipp did not request any of the advice documentation before it accepted 
the investment into the SIPP. While it wouldve probably been good practice for Yorsipp to 
have done so, I dont think that having sight of the advice letter wouldve made a difference 
to my decision. As Ive said above, I dont think it was Yorsipps role to determine the 
suitability of the investment for Mr S or highlight the features or risks of it, including that there 
were other syndicate members purchasing connected plots of land  that was Firm Ts 
responsibility.Mr S raised concerns about the seller of the land and asked what diligence was carried out 
on this company. Mr S says that the company that sold the land to the SIPPs had a 
connection with the appointed representative of Firm T. He feels there is a conflict of
interest at the very least here and possibly fraud. But the company Mr S has raised concerns 
about, a director of which has a connection with a director of the appointed representative of 
Firm T, is not the same company that sold the land to the SIPP. The company that sold the 
land to the SIPP is registered in another jurisdiction, whereas the company Mr S has found 
was registered in the UK several years after he made his investment. There is no evidence 
those two companies are connected.
It doesnt seem that Yorsipp directly carried out any checks on the company that sold the 
land to the SIPPs, but the conveyancing process carried out by the solicitors appointed by 
Yorsipp wouldve involved such checks. And as Ive said, Yorsipp carried out appropriate 
and reasonable checks on the land before the sale was completed and the investment 
accepted into the SIPP.
In bringing the complaint, Mr Ss representative described the investment as significantly 
risky and illiquid, but I dont think it was overly complex such that Mr S wouldnt have 
understood the nature of it. Mr S was purchasing a share in a plot of land as part of a 
syndicate, which was part of a larger plot of land that was intended for development. The 
property purchase questionnaire, which Mr S signed, and the recommendation letter from 
Firm T, showed that the land was being purchased as part of a syndicate and came with 
planning permission. And I think that Mr S likely understood that the success of his 
investment largely depended upon the success of the project as a whole. Furthermore, I 
understand the opportunity to invest in the land arose because Mr S was, at the time of the 
investment, employed by Firm T. He also later became an employee of Firm A around the 
time the servicing of his SIPP was moved it. While there is no suggestion that Mr S was a 
financial adviser, I think he clearly had experience in financial services and as such, was 
likely to have understood the investment proposition and the risks involved.
In summary, although Mr S was being advised to invest in commercial land, which might 
generally be considered to be a higher risk investment than many other regulated 
investments, Im not persuaded that Yorsipp shouldve declined to accept the investment into 
Mr Ss SIPP. The investment was not complex and Mr S had received advice from a 
regulated firm to invest in it, of which he was an employee at the time. So, I think it was 
reasonable for it to permit the investment to be held in the SIPP.
Mr Ss concerns about the management of the investment
Im mindful that Mr S originally made this complaint because he instructed Yorsipp to sell his 
investment in 2015 and it was unable to do so because it was unable to obtain consent from 
the other members. Mr S says he was unaware that hed be unable to sell his share of the 
land without the other members consent.
Yorsipp didnt advise on or sell the investment to Mr S, so I dont think it was Yorsipps 
responsibility to explain to Mr S the terms on which Mr S could sell his investment. 
Nevertheless, based on what Ive seen, I think Mr S likely understood he was purchasing 
land as part of a syndicate, and that he was part of a larger group who had shares in the 
larger plot of land that the planning permission covered. I also think that generally he 
wouldve understood that where there is shared ownership of any asset, he would need 
consent from the other owners before being able to sell it.I understand the concerns Mr Ss representative has raised about Mr S being unable to sell 
his share of the plot he partially owns, even if the other owners of the same plot also agreed 
to sell. But, according to clause 14.1 of the Master Trust Deed:
The Scheme Trustee may in its absolute discretion from time to time impose restrictions on 
particular classes of descriptions of investments or other transactions;
So, it seems that the decision to only allow for the sale of all of the plots of land together (as 
opposed to individually) falls within the SIPP trustees discretion. The explanation given for 
this was that while the plots could be sold individually, doing so would reduce their 
marketability. So, Yorsipp (Trustees) Limited made the decision to proceed only in the event 
of a unanimous decision in favour of such sale.
Mr Ss representative suggests that this gives rise to a conflict of interest, because Yorsipp 
couldnt act on Mr Ss instructions alone, it also had to take into account the interests of 
other investors in accordance with the SIPP trustees discretion. But I dont think that this is a 
conflict of interest, it is simply a feature of joint property ownership. And in any event, it 
seems to me that the decision not to sell in 2015 following Mr Ss instruction was in his 
interest as well as the other members. While Mr S may not have appreciated at the time that 
any sale of his share of land could be connected to the sale of others, I still dont think that 
this was something Yorsipp had to warn Mr S about or that it shouldve refused to permit the 
investment to be held in the SIPP because of this. 
For the avoidance of doubt, Mr Ss complaint that I am considering here is about Yorsipp 
Limited  the operator and administrator of his pension scheme. Whereas his concern about 
the restriction placed on the sale of his investment falls within the discretion of the SIPP 
trustee, Yorsipp (Trustees) Limited. Yorsipp (Trustees) Limited is not regulated and as such, 
does not fall with the Financial Ombudsman Services jurisdiction. So, I cant comment on 
this point further.
Mr Ss representative says that Yorsipp ought to have passed on his complaint to Yorsipp 
(Trustees) Limited and then relayed the response to him. But Im mindful that Yorsipp 
(Trustees) Limiteds position on the issues raised by Mr S have been relayed to him during 
the course of this complaint. So, I dont think Yorsipp needs to do any more here. But Mr S 
can still raise his concerns with Yorsipp (Trustees) Limited directly if he wishes to do so.
Mr S has also complained that he wasnt aware that planning permission attached to the 
land expired in 2013. He feels he shouldve been given an opportunity to sell his investment 
before then. He also feels Yorsipp shouldve reapplied for planning permission sooner as it 
appears it did not take any further action to attempt to sell the land until 2021.
I should say here that I dont think Yorsipps role was to manage the investment for Mr S or 
the other SIPP members. As Ive said above, Yorsipp is the SIPP administrator. Maintaining 
planning permission for property held in the SIPP is something I consider to be an 
investment management issue. And this would be a matter for the syndicate to deal with, or 
for another party the syndicate had appointed to deal with on their behalf.
Mr S had a financial adviser who was appointed to service the SIPP  Firm T, and later, 
Firm A  but I also think Mr S had some responsibility to check on and ensure the 
investment remained as per his expectations. I think Mr S wouldve understood that planning 
permission is not given indefinitely, and that it would be required to ensure the land could be 
sold in future. I dont think that it was Yorsipps responsibility to ensure that planning 
permission remained in place, not least because that would involve costs that would have to 
be agreed to by the SIPP members. So, as Ive said, it seems to me that this was most likely 
the SIPP members responsibility rather than Yorsipps.Mr S also said that he feels he was duped into agreeing to sell the land in 2015  at that 
point the planning permission had expired so had the sale gone through he wouldve made a 
loss. But its evident that the sale did not go ahead, so I dont think Mr S has been impacted 
by this.
Mr S also complains that Yorsipp continues to charge him fees. But Mr Ss investment is still 
held in his SIPP and Yorsipp is entitled to charge fees in line with its agreement with Mr S.
Overall, while I understand this will be very disappointing for Mr S, Im not upholding his 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman