DRN-3135734
The complaint
 Mr S complains that Nationwide Building Society blocked his account for almost a year. He 
says this caused him severe financial distress and resulted in defaults applied to his credit 
file. Mr S would like compensation.
What happened
 Mr S held an account with Nationwide. In January 2020, Nationwide blocked Mr Ss 
accounts which meant he couldnt use it. Mr S raised a complaint.
Mr S tried to get in touch with Nationwide on a number of occasions, but it didnt help resolve 
things, Nationwide wrote to Mr S in August 2020 and referred to the relevant section of the 
terms and conditions which allow them to suspend accounts.
In January 2021, Nationwide unblocked Mr Ss account so he could access it fully.
Mr S brought the complaint to our service. He explained hed faced defaults and had his car 
repossessed due to the account block so wanted Nationwide to pay compensation. 
Our investigator who reviewed Mr Ss complaint thought Nationwide should do something to 
put things right. He recognised the impact the overall situation had on Mr S  and while he 
agreed Nationwide blocking the account was fair, he thinks they should have removed the 
block sooner which would have reduced the impact on Mr S. So, he asked Nationwide to do 
the following;
write a letter confirming the dates of the unnecessary block which Mr S could show 
his creditors to confirm the reason he missed payments;
pay 8% simple interest on the full balance of the account from March 2020 (when our 
investigator thought Nationwide could have removed the block) until January 2021 
(when Nationwide did remove the block);
pay Mr S £1,000 for the trouble and upset.
Nationwide accepted the investigators recommendations. Mr S didnt  he thinks the impact 
the overall situation had on him is more than the compensation offered.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review.
I got in touch with Nationwide and Mr S to let them know I thought compensation nearer to 
£3,000 was a more accurate reflection of the distress caused to Mr S.
Nationwide agreed to pay this in full and final settlement of the complaint, but Mr S asked for 
a significantly increased level of compensation. Mr S explained that as most of his debt had 
now been sold on to creditors, he didnt think the letter the investigator had suggested would 
be helpful. Mr S asked that Nationwide pay off his outstanding debt of around £170,000.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I appreciate the significant impact this situation has had on Mr S. But having considered 
everything, I cant reasonably agree that a compensation offer of around £170,000 is 
warranted. Ive explained further below.
The account block
Nationwide are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal 
and regulatory obligations. Theyre also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of new and 
existing relationships. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers accounts  
either in full or partially while they carry out their review. I can see thats whats happened 
with Mr Ss account.
In order for me to be satisfied that Nationwides actions were appropriate in the 
circumstances, Id need to see evidence of why their review was initiated, and what actions 
they took during the review. 
Nationwide has shared information with us that we consider should be kept confidential. I 
appreciate this isnt helpful for Mr S as this means some of the information weve received 
we wont be able to share with him. But our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. 
We may treat evidence from banks as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if 
it contains information about other customers, security information or commercially sensitive 
information.
While Im sorry I cant go into more detail with Mr S, based on the evidence received from 
Nationwide, Im satisfied the account block was reasonable. So Im not going to ask 
Nationwide to do anything to put things right in relation to the initial block in January 2020.
Ive then gone on to consider whether the time the account was blocked was reasonable  
and I dont think it was. Nationwide didnt remove the block until January 2021 but having 
reviewed the full circumstances of this complaint, I think they could have been more 
proactive in their review. I think its reasonable that Nationwide could have taken the 
necessary action sooner than they did  and at around one month after the initial block. This 
means Mr Ss account block could have been removed around the end of February 2020 
and no later than the beginning of March 2020. Because of that, I think Nationwide should 
pay Mr S compensation to recognise the unnecessary delays in their review.
The impact the block had on Mr S
Mr S held around £27,000 in his Nationwide account  so I appreciate the inconvenience 
and distress this would have caused by not having access to it. Mr S has supplied evidence 
to our service to show he couldnt pay certain bills because of his account block and the 
impact this has had on his credit file.
Ive reviewed Mr Ss statements and Im satisfied he had a number of direct debits set up 
from his Nationwide account. The creditors of these direct debits coincide with the creditors 
who have resulted in applying defaults to Mr Ss credit file for non-payment. Mr S says he 
couldnt make these payments from other accounts as his money was tied up in his 
Nationwide account. Therefore, I think its more likely than not, Mr Ss financial obligations 
werent met because of the block on his Nationwide account.
Mr S not being able to make certain payments on time resulted in a number of arrears and 
defaults applied to Mr Ss credit file. Im aware Mr S had other accounts which were also 
blocked, and while the circumstances of those arent entirely relevant to this complaint, I have had to consider that I cant place full responsibility of the arrears and defaults on 
Nationwide. But Nationwide blocked Mr Ss account for almost one year and Im satisfied the 
block should have only been in place for around one month. Therefore, I do agree 
Nationwide has played a part in majority of the arrears and defaults and so, should do 
something to put things right.    
Our investigator thought the impact of the block lessened after June 2020. I can understand 
why our investigator has considered this, but I dont agree. Mr S had other accounts with 
other banks, and one of his accounts was unblocked in June 2020. So its reasonable that 
Mr S had access to money from one of his other accounts after June 2020 so he could have 
done something about the arrears he was faced with. While I partly agree with this, I dont 
think that means there was no further impact from his Nationwide account remaining 
blocked. Mr S held a significant amount of money in his Nationwide account  and most of 
his direct debits were set up from the Nationwide account. So while I recognise the impact 
would have reduced after June 2020, I still think Mr S was wrongly inconvenienced by the 
account remaining blocked. So I think Nationwide should pay more compensation than what 
the investigator initially suggested.
Putting things right
I recognise Mr S now has access to his money and therefore I hope he has been able to 
reduce some of the arrears and any further lasting impact. However, defaults are placed on 
a credit file for six years  so, this situation could affect his financial future for a significant 
period of time.
Our investigator asked Nationwide to provide a letter confirming Mr Ss account was 
unnecessarily blocked between early March 2020 up until January 2021. While I consider 
this letter could be helpful, I cant safely say all of Mr Ss creditors will accept it and remove 
any defaults, so Ive had to consider the lasting impact on Mr S when deciding on the 
amount of compensation. Ive also thought about Mr Ss comments  that some of his 
creditors have already sold on the debt. And therefore, he doesnt think the letter will be 
useful to those debts. I emphasise completely with the situation Mr S finds himself in 
because of this  but I cant reasonably ask Nationwide to pay off all of Mr Ss outstanding 
debt because of it. Mr S has rightfully explained that he has had fair use of the funds  but 
he doesnt think hes responsible for having his credit agreements terminated. I do accept 
Nationwide played a big part in this and because of that, I think an increased level of 
compensation is warranted. Ive seen from Mr Ss credit file that majority of the defaults 
applied were after the date in June 2020 when one of Mr Ss other accounts was unblocked. 
So, while I recognise a lot of Mr Ss money was still held by Nationwide, I consider Mr S 
could have mitigated his losses once he had other money available to him.
Overall, Mr S suffered an unnecessary account block for around 11 months and his credit file 
has severely suffered  and so I consider £3,000 compensation is a fair reflection. I 
appreciate Mr S will be severely disappointed with my decision  and Im sorry I cant uphold 
his complaint in the way he would like me too. But based on the full circumstances of this 
complaint, Im satisfied £3,000 compensation is a fair reflection of the distress caused.
I also consider 8% simple interest should be added to the full balance of Mr Ss account from 
the time it could have reasonably been unblocked (early March 2020) up until the time it was 
unblocked. I think this fairly reflects the loss of use of the money.
Mr S has explained why he doesnt think the letter to his creditors will be useful. But I still 
think Nationwide should supply one. They should make it clear in this letter that payments 
were missed due to an unnecessary block.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold Mr Ss complaint. Nationwide Building 
Society should do the following to put things right: 
Supply a letter which Mr S can show his creditors to confirm he missed payments 
after 2 March 2020 due to an unnecessary block.
Calculate interest at 8% simple per year on the money they withheld from Mr S. They 
should calculate this from the date they reasonably could have unblocked Mr Ss 
account  2 March 2020  to the date they did unblock it. 
HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide Building Society to withhold income tax 
from the aforementioned interest. Nationwide should give Mr S a certificate showing 
how much is taken off if Mr S asks for one.
Pay Mr S a total of £3,000 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2021.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman