DRN-3843017
The complaint
Mr T complains that Options UK Personal Pensions LLP (formerly Carey Pensions) 
(Options) shouldnt have accepted a transfer of his occupational pension scheme into a 
self-invested personal pension (SIPP).
What happened
In early 2012, Mr T says he was approached by a representative of an overseas 
incorporated unregulated pensions advisory company, Caledonian International Associates. 
The representative made promises of providing a better return on his pension than Mr Ts 
current scheme. As a result, Mr T transferred his armed forces pension to an Options SIPP.
Ill set out below a high-level background to what happened, although as the parties are both 
fully aware of the details to this complaint, I dont intend to repeat everything that has already 
been rehearsed in correspondence between them and set out in our investigators opinions.
Mr T had a defined benefit armed forces occupational pension following his time in military 
service. In 2012, Mr T was living in the UK. Mr T doesnt appear to have had any interest in 
changing his pension at the time until he spoke with Caledonian. He says he was told he 
could have a much better pension for retirement than hed get with his current scheme.
Mr T had no financial expertise. He wasnt an experienced or sophisticated investor, nor was 
he a high net worth individual. Mr T was guided and influenced by Caledonians advice to 
transfer his pension to an Options SIPP. Mr T signed the pre-completed paperwork in 
November 2012. The new SIPP was set up shortly afterwards and the investments were 
processed by Options in or around February 2013. The investments into which Mr Ts money 
went are held in a bond wrapper provided by Friends Provident International (FPI), a 
regulated entity.
Mr T is unhappy because he thinks that Options should have recognised that Caledonian 
had been providing him with advice to transfer a defined benefit pension to a SIPP, 
something that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), views in most 
instances to be inherently unsuitable. Mr T was unaware that Caledonian wasnt regulated 
by the FCA (then the Financial Services Authority (FSA)), to provide financial advice and 
thinks Options should have made him aware of the risks of this - and so not accepted the 
transfer. He just signed the pre-completed forms he was given by Caledonian, trusting the 
advice to transfer that hed been given.
Mr T signed conflicting paperwork with Options in which he confirmed in one document that 
hed been advised by Caledonian and in others that he hadnt had any advice. Options has 
described this as a clerical error on its part. And it says that it provided execution only 
services to Mr T, made it clear to him that it wasnt providing any advice and recommended 
that he approach an independent financial adviser. 
Mr Ts investments havent achieved the returns promised and carried high fees. Mr T now 
knows the investment is unlikely to provide him with a better return than his original armed 
forces pension. And the benefits are likely to be worse.
Options says that it wasnt permitted to provide Mr T with advice. It was his decision to use 
Caledonian as his introducer. He signed a direct client application form in which he 
confirmed hed not been advised and that he was to be a direct client. Options says that at 
numerous points in its application forms it told Mr T that he should get advice and he 
confirmed by signing them that hed not been advised.
Options says that with the SIPP, Mr T is better able to benefit from pensions freedoms, can 
take his pension at 55 rather than 60, will be able to leave his pension pot to his chosen 
beneficiary after his death and be able to take a 25% tax-free lump sum on reaching 
retirement age. So, it doesnt think hes suffered a loss and it thinks he would have 
transferred his pension even if Options had intervened. In any event, it disagrees that its 
done anything wrong in terms of the due diligence it carried out on Caledonian and the 
actions it took on Mr Ts direct instruction.
Options says that it was acting on an execution only basis for Mr T. It gave him warnings 
about what this meant and told him that he should seek independent financial advice. 
Options also says that it agreed with Caledonian that Caledonian wouldnt provide any 
advice to customers. And it didnt think that it was.
Our investigator thought that the due diligence that Options undertook on Caledonian was 
deficient. If Options had carried out its obligations properly, it would have recognised that 
Caledonian was likely to be providing unsuitable advice to Mr T, contrary to regulation. It 
should also have seen that there was a significant risk of consumer detriment in accepting 
instructions from Caledonian - and hence it shouldnt have accepted any business from it. 
So, he recommended that Mr Ts complaint be upheld. And compensation be paid. Mr T 
accepted the opinion. But Options didnt respond. So, the matter has come to me for a 
decision.
Ill summarise below the relationship between the various parties and how that led to Mr Ts 
pension being transferred to the Options SIPP.
The entities involved
Options UK Personal Pensions LLP
Options is a SIPP provider and administrator. It was regulated by the FSA at the time of the 
events complained about  now the FCA. It was  and still is  authorised to arrange (bring 
about) deals in investments; deal in investments as principal; establish, operate and wind up 
a personal pension scheme; and make arrangements with a view to transactions in 
investments.
Caledonian
Caledonian was the trading name of MMG Associates which was registered in the British 
Virgin Islands. Caledonian wasnt authorised in the UK to undertake regulated activities and 
it doesnt appear on the FCAs Financial Services Register. There is no evidence it was 
authorised to carry out such activities in any other jurisdiction.Business C
Business C is an investment manager based in the Isle of Man. The evidence is that 
Business C agreed to manage or provide oversight of investments taken out by Caledonians 
customers after they had transferred their pensions. I shall call the individual representing 
Business C, who is mentioned in this decision, Mr P.
Friends Provident International (FPI)
FPI is registered in the Isle of Man. It provided a bond wrapper which allowed investment in 
several funds with different fund providers. Mr T invested in a few investments within that 
bond.
The relationship between Caledonian and Options
Options relationship with Caledonian began in early 2012. Options has confirmed there 
were 509 introductions to it made by Caledonian between 27 April 2012 and 20 May 2013.
Options has said that it carried out due diligence checks on Caledonian and has provided 
supporting evidence of the checks it made.
I have set out below a summary of what I consider to be the key events and/or actions 
during the relationship between Options and Caledonian, which I have observed from the 
available evidence (this includes evidence from Mr Ts case file and generic submissions 
Options has made to us about its due diligence on, and its relationship with, Caledonian).
March 2012
A business profile was completed which recorded Options first meeting with Mr David Clark 
of Caledonian. This set out Caledonians proposed business model as follows (redacted as 
appropriate):
Dave Clark detailed his business model,
He was preferred adviser for the Armed Forces occupational pension scheme for individuals 
who had left the armed forces and were taking up positions in close security work in places 
such as Iraq/Afghanistan/lran etc... and also anti piracy positions.
The profile of the clients were described as:
30 to 50 year olds
Had been in the armed forces for between 6 to 10 years
Had left the armed forces and wanted to transfer their pension arrangements
They had no expectation of long life expectancy
They were living today so wanted to access funds earlier then they could if their 
pension stayed in the armed forces pension scheme
They were generally still resident in UK but some were now living abroad in various 
countries such as Thailand, Germany, Spain etc.
They were now earning quite large salaries circa £70k plusDave Clark was provided referrals from the armed forces pensions contact he had and also 
he received enquiries as a result of his clients speaking to other ex-armed forces personnel.
He had been doing large volumes of QROPS business with a provider called (business M) 
but recognised the fact that a UK SIPP was probably more appropriate for the majority of his 
clients.
He was currently putting them into an international Friends Provident Bond, the underlying 
investments were regulated.
Dave Clark himself was not a regulated adviser, he was a consultant to these clients and 
advised (my emphasis) them on their armed forces transfers only, he was a qualified 
accountant and was a member of the Chartered Institute of Accountants.
His company was trading as Caledonian although the holding company was a BVI company 
called MMG Associates.
He was developing a relationship with (Mr P), and may consider [Business C] as an 
alternative investment provider in due course. Although he was currently wanting a 
relationship with a SIPP provider.
Dave Clark was looking at volume business in the region of 50 schemes a month.
16 March 2012
Mr Clark of Caledonian signed and dated Options Non-Regulated Introducer Profile. The 
form set out its purpose as follows:
As an FSA regulated pensions company we are required to carry out due diligence as best 
practice on unregulated introducer firms looking to introduce clients to us to gain some 
insight into the business they carry out.
On the Non-Regulated Introducer Profile, Caledonian responded to a number of questions. 
The key points were:
Under the section headed Company Information the following was recorded:
It had branches in Chile, Peru, Columbia, Argentina, Brazil and Switzerland.
It had been trading since 1997.
Under the section headed Product Information, in response to the question, what products 
does the firm promote/distribute the answer noted was:
Offshore savings plans + investment bonds  Friends Provident International + ..
Caledonian set out that the products had been accepted by other SIPP providers, including 
Options, and they hadnt been declined by other product providers.
Under the section headed Sales and Marketing Approach, in response to the question as 
to how Caledonian would obtain clients, the answer was:Referral
In response to a request to describe the sales process adopted by Caledonian, it was set 
out:
Referral  Visit  Analysis  Visit.
When asked to describe the average profile of the type of client Caledonian took on, the 
answer was:
Income £70,000, Age 36, Self employed in the security industry.
When Caledonian was asked how much business would be sold through pension 
arrangements the answer given was:
50/50 Pension Transfer/Regular Savings Plan
In response to a question about the typical commission structure the answer was:
7% up front from bond  0.5% Trail.
Under the section headed, Training and Information, in response to the question, what 
training was provided to its agents the answer was:
Ongoing product training and accompanied meetings.
In response to a question about what specific pension training was delivered to its agent the 
answer was:
Visits to providers directly.
In response to how the business by its agents was monitored, the answer was:
Fully administrative structure  Caledonian, Careys  Compliance.
In response to a question about the kind of service it sought from a SIPP provider, the 
answer was:
Administrative & Compliance.
Under the section headed, Legal and Regulatory Information the following was recorded:
Caledonian did not work with any FSA regulated company or adviser.
It wasnt a member of any professional or trade body.
It had no PI cover in place at the time.
It hadnt been subject to any (or ongoing) FSA supervisory visits or censure.
In response to a question about what measures were in place to:
ensure the Firm engage legal advice on the activities it carries out to ensure regulated 
activities are not carried out?
The following answer was given:Majority of business carried out in unregulated jurisdictions but where regulations apply we 
are licensed to carry out our activities.
In response to the question as to how Caledonian demonstrates it treats its customers fairly 
it said that:
Compliance & Procedures in current alignment with FSA TCF.
In response to a question about what Caledonians objectives were for the coming 12 
months it was noted:
To continue to develop a fully compliant business of PT to HM Forces
With regards to members pension scheme business it was noted that Caledonian was 
seeking a Compliant structure in a Regulated structure.
An email was sent from Options compliance department to Mr Clark, requesting a copy of 
Caledonians latest company accounts and certified copy of the passport for its 
principals/directors.
3 April 2012
Options compliance department sent a chaser email to Caledonian for the documents it 
requested on 23 March 2012. A senior consultant at Caledonian replied on the same day 
and provided a copy of Mr Clarks passport. The consultant said she would speak with Mr 
Clark when he returned from a trip, regarding the company accounts.
4 April 2012
David Clark says hes been in Iraq and will send documents once hes back
27 April 2012
Options started to receive introductions from Caledonian.
1 August 2012
An Options employee sent an internal email to another Options employee, who it seems 
was responsible for managing the relationship with Caledonian. The first employee said to 
the second employee that Options still required certified passports for the principals/directors 
and company accounts, and that compliance would raise it in the audit that was being 
completed on that day.
The second employee confirmed on the same day that they had spoken with Mr Clark. It was 
noted that Mr Clark had said the company secretary was on holiday, but he would send an 
urgent request for the outstanding documentation.
4 September 2012
A Non-regulated Introducer Agreement Terms of Business document between Options and 
MMG Associates Ltd T/A Caledonian International Associates was signed and dated by Mr 
Clark. That agreement included:
The Business Introducer undertakes that they will not provide advice as defined by the Act 
in relation to the SIPP  for the avoidance of doubt this includes reference to advice on the 
selection of The SIPP Operator, contributions, transfer of benefits, taking benefits and HMRC rules:
Options has said that these terms of business were actually received by Caledonian on 21 
March 2012.
1 November 2012
Options conducted a World Check (a risk intelligence tool which allows subscribers to 
conduct background checks on businesses and individuals) on two Caledonian employees - 
Mr [C] and Mr David Clark. This check did not reveal any issues.
Undated document likely to have been created in March 2013
Options has provided an undated document called the Overseas Introducer Assessment 
Proforma. The document listed several criteria and assessed its internal measurement 
criteria as low risk, medium risk or high risk with supporting notes.
This document isnt dated but the earliest this is likely to have been completed is around 
March 2013 when Options appears to have been looking more closely at its compliance 
requirements for Caledonian, having also received some recent business that didnt fit the 
armed forces profile.
I have set out below what the sections of this document recorded and the level of risk that 
was noted:
Google Search and FCA
This section was assessed as low risk. The notes set out that there were no adverse 
comments.
Regulatory
This section was assessed as high risk. The notes said that: Cannot find any regulatory 
information from the details held.
Company
This section had a mixture of assessments which were mainly medium risk. It was set out 
that Caledonian had:
No UK branch. Cannot see any EEA regulatory details. And this was classed as high risk.
Caledonians trading history was recorded as medium risk. The notes set out that: 
Unknown company establishment time  cannot find any details from information received. 
It was also noted in relation to Caledonians accounts that:
No accounts requested ?.
Articles of Association
It was noted that this was medium risk and that: No articles of association 
requested/received
AdviceThis section was assessed as high risk and it was noted:
Unregulated  No details of how advice given. No regulatory bodies / permissions seen. 
Although suggested on email that advice given in Jordan?
And:
Advice possibly given in Jordan, although not sure if true for UK based clients.
Transfer / Switches.
This section was assessed as high risk and in particular it was noted that the funds for 
investment within the SIPP were to be generated from:
Transfers from Armed Forces Pension occupational scheme.
Client Profile
This section was assessed as high risk. The notes set out:
Client Profile: 30-50 years old. Part of armed forced 6-10 years. Generally still UK residents, 
some abroad. Now working in security earning £70k pa. HOWEVER, recently received 
business outside of profile.
Acceptance  Result 1
This section was assessed as medium risk. The notes dont explain the reason for this. 
However, the measurement criteria explanation under medium risk set out that:
company details are a mixture of green and amber raise with technical review committee 
before proceeding.
Acceptance  Result 2
This section was assessed as a mixture of high risk and medium risk. It is set out under 
the high-risk section that if the section was a mixture of red and amber this section should 
be declined.
Professional Qualification was recorded as high risk. The notes recorded:
No qualifications documented other than meeting notes from March 2012 where David 
Clark stated he was a qualified accountant and member of Chartered Institute of 
Accountants.
Meeting was recorded as medium risk. The notes recorded: Meeting held at Carey 
Pensions UK office March 2012.
7 March 2013
An internal email was sent by an Options manager to other Options employees summarising 
a call Options had held with Caledonian (David Clark). The summary said:
Options had noted that following recent FSA (now FCA) review and guidance all 
SIPP operators were being asked to look at the business received from their 
introducers against their expectations surrounding the type of profile.Options understanding was that the introductions from Caledonian would be ex-
military, aged approximately 36 years old and who were self-employed in the 
security industry with earnings of approximately £70,000. However, out of the seven 
new business cases that they reviewed on 6 March 2013, three of them had moved 
away from the expected profile.
Options had asked Caledonian if its profile was changing/extending. Caledonian 
explained:
predominantly the members were in the close protection industry which as @ 5 years ago 
they all went into. He said that foreign operatives were now coming in in a more organised 
structure. Some were getting promoted into senior positions. Many were previously divers in 
the military and so going into Diving elsewhere.
Options had asked Caledonian to put together a note to update its file as to the 
business it would receive.
20 March 2013
Options sent Caledonian an email. Options noted that it was waiting for Caledonian to 
provide an update to the changes in its profile. Options also noted it had received further 
business that day which was against the expected profile. One was a taxi driver with 
earnings of £15,000 and the other was a tutor with earnings of £23,000.
26 April 2013
An Options employee in its compliance department sent an email to several Options 
employees. She raised concerns about Caledonians business practices. She said:
We have a responsibility to proactively monitor our distribution channels to ensure our 
products do not end up with customers for whom it is not suitable. Based on recent 
correspondence with Caledonian I am increasingly concerned by their business practices 
and therefore believe we should review our relationship with them and the business they 
have introduced. I will arrange a meeting for next week to discuss. In the meantime we need 
to determine the answers to the questions below to help facilitate our discussions.
The employee asked in April 2013 for answers to several questions, the responses to which 
I have set out below.
Overview of business
Date relationship commenced: April/May 2012
What is the agreed profile of clients introduced by Caledonian: Ex Armed Forces, Approx 
age 38, working in the Close protection industry (security), earnings of Approx £70k
Number of clients introduced: 497 (363 now invested, 134 ongoing) Value of investments 
held: £16m
Nature of investments, i.e. any alternative investments: Friends Provident Int. (Funds) or.
Investment Platform with [Business C] acting as DFM. Number of complaints from 
Caledonian introduced clients: None
How many transfers were also accompanied by a TVAS? Who has provided the TVAS? 37 - Only TVs over £100k (from Armed Forces Pension) or any amount no matter how small on 
other TVs. TVAS provided by (Mr P) [Business C]
Overview of Caledonian:
What due diligence was undertaken on Caledonian prior to establishing the relationship?
- Unknown but AML was received.
Location of head office: Geneva, Switzerland
Do they have a business address in the UK? They confirm that they do not have a 
permanent place of business in the UK, however they have a business address for 
correspondence and David Clark is based in the UK.
Where do they meet with clients, i.e. in the UK? Unknown.
What is Caledonian's regulatory status, i.e. are they regulated in their home jurisdiction? 
David Clark - The Chartered Insurance Institute - ID Number [ redacted ]. David Clark 
certifies all ID and signs the investment Application Form.
Are they regulated to provide advice in their home jurisdiction? Unknown
They have confirmed that they provide advice in Jordan. How does this work? Do they have 
a place of business in Jordan? Do they need to be regulated in Jordan to provide advice? 
Unknown - Caledonian provide a Non Solicitation Letter which is sent to Friends Provident 
with the investment App. A copy of a Non Solicitation Letter is attached
How did we establish Caledonians knowledge of SIPPs and UK pension rules? Unknown
Based on our contact with Caledonian and reviewing the illustrations they provide to clients, 
do we have concerns that Caledonian is providing poor advice/ information? Yes due to 
illustrations
Do Caledonian provide advice on investments within the SIPP? Caledonian send to us the 
Friends Provident Investment Applications with the Application to set up the SIPP. The funds 
table in the investment App is pre-populated by Caledonian. The Member does see a copy 
of this document - which we send to them prior to investing their funds.
What due diligence did we undertake on (Business C)? Unknown
30 April 2013
An email reply was provided internally by Options in response to some of the queries in the 
previous email (see above):
Where do they meet with clients? Generally abroad depending on where their next 
assignment is, they will also hold meetings in the UK
Are they regulated to give advice in their home jurisdication (sic)? No because they are not 
regulated they are introducers of business
They have confirmed they give advice in Jordan? When they mean advice they are talking 
about consultancy they are not regulated in any jurisdication (sic)
How did we establish their knowledge of UK Pension and SIPP marketplace? By meeting with them twice and by running a workshop for them output from which is attached
Based on our contact with Caledonian and reviewing the illustrations they provide to clients, 
do we have concerns that Caledonian is providing poor advice/ information? I am not sure it 
is our place to comment on this maybe on the information but not on advice, if we 
commented on whether we thought even our regulated advisers were providing poor advice I 
would probably think we would say yes. Think we need to be careful what questions we are 
looking to answer comfortable on the information piece but not on the advice piece
Do Caledonian provide advice on investments within the SIPP? No they don't, they consult 
with the client on the feasibility of transferring their Armed Forces Pension Scheme into a 
SIPP and their partner to manage the investment is [Business C]
10 May 2013
Options sent Caledonian an email requesting further information. The email confirmed 
Options were reviewing the terms of business in light of recent announcements from the 
FCA.
Options said it was keen to continue to do business with Caledonian, but it must be within 
the regulatory framework and that it must satisfy the regulators should they come in and 
review this area of our business, so we must start with ensuring we understand each stage 
of the process, to enable us to develop a robust and compliant process for this business 
moving forward. Options asked Caledonian a number of questions, which I have set out 
below.
1. Can you provide your organisational structure and the jurisdiction in which each is 
registered and the regulation/regulator that each company operates within. If you are 
relying on any exemptions please state which exemptions and the reasons you believe 
you can operate within those exemptions
2. Are you giving advice and if so in what capacity and under what regulatory environment 
are you providing this advice.
3. What offices do you have and where, do the jurisdictions in which you have offices have 
a regulatory regime, if so can you provide details of the regulators in those jurisdictions.
4. On what basis are you providing illustrations and the reasons for this basis
5. Do you meet all your clients in Jordan, if not why do your Non Solicitation forms signed 
by yourself confirm the advice was given in Jordan
6. Please confirm the profile of your clients
7. Please confirm how you receive introductions to your clients
8. Can you update information about your team their background, expertise in dealing with 
pensions
9. On the Non Solicitation letters you note that Caledonian does not have a permanent 
place of business in the UK. However, you request correspondence to be sent to The 
Pensions Service Centre, .. Please can you clarify Caledonian's presence in the UK 
and the nature of the office in ..
Options said that from 1 May 2013 it had implemented changes to its requirements, and Caledonian must have a UK FCA regulated adviser providing the TVAS and the sign off for 
the suitability of transfers from occupational schemes of any values.
15 May 2013
Options sent an internal email which was a summary of a telephone conversation with Mr P 
of Business C. The summary recorded that:
Mr P confirmed that an FCA Regulated Adviser would be providing the TVAS 
reports on all Caledonian introduced clients. This adviser would be placed in 
their Milton Keynes office for a period of time and would produce TVAS 
reports on the back book of business with Caledonian.
On this understanding Options had agreed they would continue to process 
applications where the TVAS report was currently being issued by Mr P.
20 May 2013
Options says this was the date of the last introduction made to it by Caledonian.
23 May 2013
A handwritten summary was made of a meeting between Caledonian (Mr P and Mr David 
Clark) and Options. This included the following.
Mr Clark said he was a consultant to armed forces and not an adviser in the FCA 
sense.
The [.] address was a postal address and not a working office.
Mr Clark said he meets with clients in the UK. It was noted that the profile 
document said that he met them in Jordan. So, a letter was needed about where 
advice was given.
The initial contact was abroad. The client contacts Caledonian if they want to 
transfer their pension.
Caledonians website didnt mention that it would give advice. And their 
documents made it clear that no advice was given and that clients should take 
advice from a regulated adviser.
Caledonian explained that the reason for lots of transfers was because of the 
market and their relationship with the providers.
The proposal going forward involved an appointed representative of a 
Manchester IFA being a pension specialist and it had the necessary 
qualifications. Going forward the Manchester IFA would deal with business.
Options agreed to allow Caledonian a four-week window to put measures in 
force.
The question about providing Options with a letter if advice was being given was 
irrelevant as Caledonian didnt provide any advice.
Caledonian said its illustrations were provided to facilitate the transfer of the pensions. Options query was whether this was advice.
There also appears to be an internal note which said it should be established if 
there was a Caledonian terms of business.
I have not seen evidence that any of the agreed actions were completed.
May 2013
Options decided to review its relationship with Caledonian. Options has provided a copy of 
its document headed, Caledonian Relationship Review 2013. I have reviewed the 
document in full, but have only quoted below what I consider to be the key part:
  Following a detailed review of the process and documentation concerns were raised 
regarding whether the clients [of Caledonian] could be deemed to be receiving advice 
through an unregulated entity.
Following a request for further clarification on these points we have not been able to satisfy 
ourselves that this is not the case.
We have insisted that they move to a model that all cases are fully advised by an FCA 
regulated firm/individual, which has been accepted 
Following a meeting in the Milton Keynes office  where [Mr C] from Caledonian, and [Mr P] 
of [Business C] explained their current process and documentation and described their 
future process, [and] further discussions  it was decided that they had not satisfied us 
enough with their current processes for us to continue to allow taking on new business in the 
interim without the use of a UK regulated firm or individual who was suitably qualified.
[Options] has instructed the team of this decision so from week beginning 28th May any new 
business received will be rejected unless it comes through an FCA regulated firm.
It set out a detailed process by which Caledonian proposed to move to a model where all 
clients would be fully advised by an FCA regulated firm/individual, and it highlighted the 
benefits of this new approach as being:
All schemes are coming in on an advised basis
Brings the process and clients into the UK regulated process
Brings the clients into the FSCS and FOS protections
Ensures all occupational schemes undergo analysis and advice
I have not seen evidence that this advised or regulated process described ever came into 
effect for any applications made by Caledonian.
Mr Ts dealing with Options and Caledonian
Ive set out above the background to how Mr T came to deal with Caledonian, so I wont 
repeat that again.
Mr T was promised a better return than hed get by staying with his then Armed Forces 
Pension. He trusted Caledonian and accepted its advice to transfer into the Options SIPP 
and FPI investments. He wasnt financially knowledgeable.Ill refer below to the correspondence that Mr T signed, although he says this was all pre-
completed.
2 November 2012 - Mr T completed Options SIPP application form. In brief this confirmed 
his age, permanent address in the UK, employment status, details of his armed forces 
pension and the intended investment.
The front page of the SIPP application stated the following:
The Carey Pension Scheme Application Form For Direct Clients. (SIPP 
to be established on execution only).
This Form should be used if you are a client establishing a SIPP without advice. You have 
made this decision independently and are aware of the implications of this decision
Please read the Key Features Document, Terms & Conditions and Fee Schedules prior to 
completing this application form
Carey Pensions UK LLP, and Carey Pensions Trustees UK Ltd have not provided any 
advice and are not responsible for the suitability or appropriateness of your decision to 
establish a SIPP"
Page 4 under the section headed Transfers it said that:
"Please Note, whilst we cannot give advice, we recommend that in these circumstances 
you seek appropriate advice"
Page 5 under the section headed Investments it said that:
"As you do not have a Financial Adviser, your investment choices are your sole 
responsibility. You will instruct us and we will act on those instructions as long as it is an 
accepted investment in the Carey Pension Scheme."
Carey Pensions UK LLP and Carey Pension Trustees UK Ltd will not at any time review 
any aspects of your appointed Investment Manager's financial status or investment and 
risk strategies nor have any involvement in your investment choices and selection, nor 
give advice on the suitability of your investment choices. We would always recommend 
independent advice be obtained from a suitably qualified adviser.[my emphasis]
You are responsible for the ongoing review and monitoring of the investments you have 
chosen - and remember - all investments can go down in value as well as up. Carey 
Pensions is not responsible for any investment choices or decisions."
Page 9 under the section headed Declaration (which was signed and dated by Mr T on 2 
November 2012) it said that:
I hereby apply for membership as a direct client of the Carey Pension Scheme
I acknowledge and accept the Terms & Conditions of the Carey Pension Scheme and 
agree to be bound by the Scheme Rules of the Carey Pension Scheme.
I confirm that I have read and understand the relevant Key Features Documents, 
Terms & Conditions and all aspects of the application form.I confirm that all details provided are true and complete to the best of my knowledge and 
belief.
I hereby consent to Carey Pensions UK LLP requesting the transfer of my policies listed 
in the application form.
I confirm that I will instruct Carey Pensions UK LLP to make the investments as 
detailed in the application form.
I understand that it is my sole responsibility to make decisions relating to the purchase, 
retention or sale of any investments held within the Carey Pension Scheme.
I understand that Carey Pensions UK LLP and Carey Pension Trustees UK Ltd are not in 
any way able to provide me with any advice.
I confirm that I am establishing the Carey Pension Scheme on an execution only basis.
I confirm that I understand that the value of my pension scheme can go down as well as up 
depending on the performance of the investments chosen."
2 November 2012  Mr T also signed and dated Options member declaration form. 
This confirmed the following:
I the above named write to instruct Carey Pensions UK LLP to establish a Self Invested 
Personal Pension (SIPP) and Carey Pension Trustees UK Ltd to proceed with the 
transfer of Occupational Pension Scheme benefits from The Armed Forces Pension to 
the Carey Pension Scheme.
I confirm that I have received full and appropriate advice from Caledonian 
International and following this advice I wish to proceed with the transfer. 
[my emphasis]
I am fully aware and understand that by giving an instruction to proceed with the transfer 
of my Occupational Scheme Benefits to the Carey Pension Scheme I may lose 
substantial benefits.
However, being of sound mind and in full possession of the facts I have considered the 
matter of the transfer and as an individual confirm my decision and instruction to both 
Carey Pensions UK LLP and Carey Pension Trustees UK Ltd to proceed with the transfer 
of the Occupational Scheme Benefits.
I am fully aware that in acting on my instructions both Carey Pensions UK LLP and 
Carey Pension Trustees UK Ltd act on an Execution Only Basis.
Neither Carey Pensions UK LLP nor Carey Pension Trustees UK Ltd have provided any 
advice whatsoever in respect of this transaction.
Should any tax charges be deemed by HMRC to apply in future these will be paid 
directly from the fund or by me as the member of the Scheme.
I do not hold Carey Pensions UK LLP or Carey Pension Trustees UK Ltd responsible for 
any fluctuations in value of either of the Occupational Pension Scheme or the Carey 
Pension Scheme.I agree to provide Carey Pension Trustees UK Ltd with any further information and/or 
documentation they may require prior to completing this transaction.
I fully indemnify both Carey Pensions UK LLP and Carey Pension Trustees Ltd at all times 
against any and all liability arising from this transaction.
2 November 2012  Mr T signed a letter giving Options authority to give information to 
Caledonian.
12 November 2012 - a Certificate of Non-Solicitation was signed and dated by Mr Clark of 
Caledonian. This document, which was addressed to Friends Provident International and 
was on Caledonian headed paper, confirmed that:
We have today submitted an application for a policy on behalf of the above named client, 
where the life assured is also resident in the UK. Since the life assureds address is / the 
client has signed the proposal form in the United Kingdom we understand that under the 
Rules of the Financial Services Authority you must treat the application as business 
regulated by the Financial Services and Markets Act.
Accordingly you will send post-sale information and notice of the right to cancel the 
contract to the client following issue of the policy.
The company is not authorised to conduct investment business in the United 
Kingdom. We acknowledge that this means that you are only able to accept the 
introduction from us if we have not been carrying on investment business in the 
United Kingdom.
We therefore certify that:
(i) We do not have a permanent place of business in the United Kingdom; and
(ii) We did not approach the above named client.
(iii) The advice was given in Jordan.
(iv) The client approached us directly and requested us to give him advice.
On or around 20 November 2012  Options received all the application paperwork for 
Mr Ts SIPP from Caledonian.
On or around 20 November 2012  Mr Ts SIPP was established
23 January 2013  The armed forces pension scheme wrote to confirm that the transfer 
value of Mr Ts pension of around £25,700 would be paid to Options within 21 working days.
6 February 2013  Options (then Carey) Trustees signed the FPA application form. This 
had also been signed by Mr Clark of Caledonian on 12 November 2012 in his position as 
adviser.
11 February 2020  Mr Ts representative wrote to Options to raise a complaint about its 
role in accepting his pension transfer and facilitating the investments through FPI.
3 April 2020  Options sent a final response letter to Mr T in which it didnt uphold his 
complaint.
28 April 2020  Mr Ts representative brought his complaint to this Service.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything carefully, Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator 
and for substantially similar reasons. Ill explain why below.
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, I have 
taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
The Principles
The FCAs Principles for Businesses are of particular relevance to my decision. The 
Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs handbook are a general statement 
of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 1.1.2G). And, I 
consider that the Principles relevant to this complaint include Principles 2, 3 and 6 which 
say:
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care 
and diligence.
Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must take reasonable care to organise and 
control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
Principle 6  Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly.
Regulatory publications
The FCA (and its predecessor, the FSA) has issued a number of publications which remind 
SIPP operators of their obligations and set out how they might achieve the outcomes 
envisaged by the Principles:
 The 2009 and 2012 thematic review reports.
 The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance.
 The July 2014 Dear CEO letter.
I have set out below what I consider to be the key parts of the publications.
The 2009 Thematic Review Report
The 2009 report included the following statement:
We are very clear that SIPP operators, regardless of whether they provide advice, are 
bound by Principle 6 of the Principles for Businesses (a firm must pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers and treat them fairly) insofar as they are obliged to ensure the fair 
treatment of their customers. COBS 3.2.3(2) states that a member of a pension scheme is a 
client for COBS purposes, and Customer in terms of Principle 6 includes clients.
It is the responsibility of SIPP operators to continuously analyse the individual risks to 
themselves and their clients, with reference to the six TCF consumer outcomes.We agree that firms acting purely as SIPP operators are not responsible for the SIPP advice 
given by third parties such as IFAs. However, we are also clear that SIPP operators cannot 
absolve themselves of any responsibility, and we would expect them to have procedures and 
controls, and to be gathering and analysing management information, enabling them to 
identify possible instances of financial crime and consumer detriment such as unsuitable 
SIPPs. Such instances could then be addressed in an appropriate way, for example by 
contacting the member to confirm the position, or by contacting the firm giving advice and 
asking for clarification. Moreover, while they are not responsible for the advice, there is a 
reputational risk to SIPP operators that facilitate the SIPPs that are unsuitable or detrimental 
to clients.
Of particular concern were firms whose systems and controls were weak and inadequate to 
the extent that they had not identified obvious potential instances of poor advice and/or 
potential financial crime. Depending on the facts and circumstances of individual cases, we 
may take enforcement action against SIPP operators who do not safeguard their clients 
interests in this respect, with reference to Principle 3 of the Principles for Businesses (a firm 
must take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with 
adequate risk management systems).
The following are examples of measures that SIPP operators could consider, taken from 
examples of good practice that we observed and suggestions we have made to firms:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that intermediaries that advise 
clients are authorised and regulated by the FSA, that they have the appropriate 
permissions to give the advice they are providing to the firms clients, and that they 
do not appear on the FSA website listing warning notices.
Having Terms of Business agreements governing relationships, and clarifying 
respective responsibilities, with intermediaries introducing SIPP business.
Routinely recording and reviewing the type (i.e. the nature of the SIPP investment) 
and size of investments recommended by intermediaries that give advice and 
introduce clients to the firm, so that potentially unsuitable SIPPs can be identified.
Being able to identify anomalous investments, e.g. unusually small or large 
transactions or more esoteric investments such as unquoted shares, together with 
the intermediary that introduced the business. This would enable the firm to seek 
appropriate clarification, e.g. from the client or their adviser, if it is concerned about 
the suitability of what was recommended.
Requesting copies of the suitability reports provided to clients by the intermediary 
giving advice. While SIPP operators are not responsible for advice, having this 
information would enhance the firms understanding of its clients, making the 
facilitation of unsuitable SIPPs less likely.
Routinely identifying instances of execution-only clients who have signed disclaimers 
taking responsibility for their investment decisions, and gathering and analysing data 
regarding the aggregate volume of such business.
Identifying instances of clients waiving their cancellation rights, and the reasons for 
this.
The later publications
In the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance, the FCA states:This guide, originally published in September 2009, has been updated to give firms further 
guidance to help meet the regulatory requirements. These are not new or amended 
requirements, but a reminder of regulatory responsibilities that became a requirement in 
April 2007.
All firms, regardless of whether they do or do not provide advice must meet Principle 6 and 
treat customers fairly. COBS 3.2.3(2) is clear that a member of a pension scheme is a 
client for SIPP operators and so is a customer under Principle 6. It is a SIPP operators 
responsibility to assess its business with reference to our six TCF consumer outcomes. The 
October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance also set out the following:
Relationships between firms that advise and introduce prospective members and 
SIPP operators
Examples of good practice we observed during our work with SIPP operators include the 
following:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that: introducers that advise clients 
are authorised and regulated by the FCA; that they have the appropriate permissions 
to give the advice they are providing; neither the firm, nor its approved persons are 
on the list of prohibited individuals or cancelled firms and have a clear disciplinary 
history; and that the firm does not appear on the FCA website listings for un-
authorised business warnings.
Having terms of business agreements that govern relationships and clarify the 
responsibilities of those introducers providing SIPP business to a firm.
Understanding the nature of the introducers work to establish the nature of the firm, 
what their business objectives are, the types of clients they deal with, the levels of 
business they conduct and expect to introduce, the types of investments they 
recommend and whether they use other SIPP operators. Being satisfied that they are 
appropriate to deal with.
Being able to identify irregular investments, often indicated by unusually small or 
large transactions; or higher risk investments such as unquoted shares which may be 
illiquid. This would enable the firm to seek appropriate clarification, for example from 
the prospective member or their adviser, if it has any concerns.
Identifying instances when prospective members waive their cancellation rights and 
the reasons for this.
Although the members advisers are responsible for the SIPP investment advice given, as a 
SIPP operator the firm has a responsibility for the quality of the SIPP business it administers. 
Examples of good practice we have identified include:
conducting independent verification checks on members to ensure the information 
they are being supplied with, or that they are providing the firm with, is authentic and 
meets the firms procedures and are not being used to launder money
having clear terms of business agreements in place which govern relationships and 
clarify responsibilities for relationships with other professional bodies such as 
solicitors and accountants, and
using non-regulated introducer checklists which demonstrate the SIPP operators 
have considered the additional risks involved in accepting business from non-regulated introducers
In relation to due diligence the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance said:
Due diligence
Principle 2 of the FCAs Principles for Businesses requires all firms to conduct their business 
with due skill, care and diligence. All firms should ensure that they conduct and retain 
appropriate and sufficient due diligence (for example, checking and monitoring introducers 
as well as assessing that investments are appropriate for personal pension schemes) to help 
them justify their business decisions. In doing this SIPP operators should consider:
ensuring that all investments permitted by the scheme are permitted by HMRC, 
or where a tax charge is incurred, that charge is identifiable, HMRC is informed 
and the tax charge paid
periodically reviewing the due diligence the firm undertakes in respect of the 
introducers that use their scheme and, where appropriate enhancing the 
processes that are in place in order to identify and mitigate any risks to the 
members and the scheme
having checks which may include, but are not limited to:
oensuring that introducers have the appropriate permissions, 
qualifications and skills to introduce different types of business to the 
firm, and
oundertaking additional checks such as viewing Companies House 
records, identifying connected parties and visiting introducers
ensuring all third-party due diligence that the firm uses or relies on has been 
independently produced and verified
good practices we have identified in firms include having a set of benchmarks, 
or minimum standards, with the purpose of setting the minimum standard the 
firm is prepared to accept to either deal with introducers or accept investments, 
and
ensuring these benchmarks clearly identify those instances that would lead a 
firm to decline the proposed business, or to undertake further investigations 
such as instances of potential pension liberation, investments that may breach 
HMRC tax-relievable investments and non-standard investments that have not 
been approved by the firm
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter provides a further reminder that the Principles apply and an 
indication of the FCAs expectations about the kinds of practical steps a SIPP operator might 
reasonably take to achieve the outcomes envisaged by the Principles.
The Dear CEO letter also sets out how a SIPP operator might meet its obligations in 
relation to investment due diligence. It says those obligations could be met by:
Correctly establishing and understanding the nature of an investment
Ensuring that an investment is genuine and not a scam, or linked to fraudulent 
activity, money-laundering or pensions liberationEnsuring that an investment is safe/secure (meaning that custody of assets is 
through a reputable arrangement, and any contractual agreements are 
correctly drawn-up and legally enforceable)
Ensuring that an investment can be independently valued, both at point of 
purchase and subsequently
Ensuring that an investment is not impaired (for example that previous 
investors have received income if expected, or that any investment providers 
are credit worthy etc)
I acknowledge that the 2009 report (and the 2012 report and the Dear CEO letter) are not 
formal guidance (whereas the 2013 finalised guidance is). However, I dont think the fact that 
the reports and Dear CEO letter didnt constitute formal (i.e. statutory) guidance means 
their importance or relevance should be underestimated.
The publications provide a reminder that the Principles for Businesses apply and are an 
indication of the kinds of things a SIPP operator might do to ensure it is treating its 
customers fairly and to produce the outcomes envisaged by the Principles. In that respect, 
these publications also go some way to indicate what I consider amounts to good industry 
practice at the relevant time. Im therefore satisfied its appropriate to take them into account.
I dont think the fact that the later publications (i.e. those other than the 2009 and 2012 
Thematic Review Reports), post-date the events that are the subject of this complaint mean 
that the examples of good industry practice they provide were not good practice at the time 
of the relevant events. It is clear from the text of the 2009 and 2012 reports, (and the Dear 
CEO letter published in 2014), that the regulator expected SIPP operators to have 
incorporated the recommended good industry practices into the conduct of their business 
already. So, whilst the regulators comments suggest some industry participants 
understanding of how the standards shaped what was expected of SIPP operators changed 
over time, it is clear the standards themselves had not changed.
The later publications were published after the events complained about, but the Principles 
that underpin them existed throughout, as did the obligation to act in accordance with those 
Principles. I am required to take into account good industry practice at the relevant time. 
And, as mentioned, the publications indicate what I consider amounts to good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
That doesnt mean that in considering what is fair and reasonable, I will only consider 
Options actions with these documents in mind. The reports, Dear CEO letter and guidance 
gave non-exhaustive examples of good industry practice. They did not say the suggestions 
given were the limit of what a SIPP operator should do. As the annex to the Dear CEO 
letter notes, what should be done to meet regulatory obligations will depend on the 
circumstances.
To be clear, I do not say the Principles or the publications obliged Options to ensure the 
pension transfer was suitable for Mr T. It is accepted Options was not required to give advice 
to Mr T, and could not give advice. And I accept the publications dont alter the meaning of, 
or the scope of, the Principles. But they are evidence of what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time, which would bring about the outcomes envisaged by 
the Principles.
I would also add, that even if I took the view that any publications or guidance that post-
dated the events complained of dont help to clarify the type of good industry practice that 
existed at the relevant time (which I dont), that doesnt alter my view on what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. Thats because I find that the 2009 and 2012 
reports, together with the Principles, provide a very clear indication of what Options could 
and should have done to comply with its regulatory obligations that existed at the relevant 
time before accepting any introduction from Caledonian, setting up the SIPP and facilitating 
the pension transfer into the SIPP.
Ultimately, in determining this complaint, I need to consider whether Options complied with 
its regulatory obligations as set out by the Principles to act with due skill, care and diligence, 
to take reasonable care to organise its business affairs responsibly and effectively, to pay 
due regards to the interests of its customers, to treat them fairly, and to act honestly, fairly 
and professionally. And, in doing that, Im looking to the Principles and the publications listed 
above to provide an indication of what Options couldve done to comply with its regulatory 
obligations.
COBS2.1.1R
Ive taken account of the judgment of the High Court in the case of Adams v Options SIPP 
[2020] EWHC 1229 (Ch) and the Court of Appeal judgment in Adams v Options UK Personal 
Pensions LLP [2021] EWCA Civ 474.
Im of the view that neither of the judgments say anything about how the Principles apply to 
an ombudsmans consideration of a complaint. But, to be clear, I dont say this means 
Adams isnt a relevant consideration at all. As noted above, I have taken account of both 
judgments when making this decision on Mr Ts case.
I acknowledge that COBS2.1.1R (A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its client) overlaps with certain of the Principles and 
that this rule was considered by HHJ Dight in the High Court case. Mr Adams pleaded that 
Options SIPP owed him a duty to comply with COBS 2.1.1R, a breach of which, he argued, 
was actionable pursuant to section 138(D) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 
(FSMA) (the COBS claim). HHJ Dight rejected this claim and found that Options SIPP had 
complied with the best interests rule on the facts of Mr Adams case.
Although the Court of Appeal ultimately overturned HHJ Dights judgment, it rejected that 
part of Mr Adams appeal that related to HHJ Dights dismissal of the COBS claim on the 
basis that Mr Adams was seeking to advance a case that was radically different to that found 
in his initial pleadings. The Court found that this part of Mr Adams appeal did not so much 
represent a challenge to the grounds on which HHJ Dight had dismissed the COBS claim, 
but rather was an attempt to put forward an entirely new case.
I note that, in Adams v Options, HHJ Dight found that the factual context of a case would 
inform the extent of the duty imposed by COBS 2.1.1R. HHJ Dight said at para 148:
In my judgment in order to identify the extent of the duty imposed by Rule 2.1.1 one has to 
identify the relevant factual context, because it is apparent from the submissions of each of 
the parties that the context has an impact on the ascertainment of the extent of the duty. The 
key fact, perhaps composite fact, in the context is the agreement into which the parties 
entered, which defined their roles and functions in the transaction.
However, the facts in Mr Ts case are very different from those in Mr Adams cases. There 
are also significant differences between the breaches of COBS 2.1.1R alleged by Mr Adams 
and from the issues in Mr Ts complaint. The breaches were summarised in paragraph 120 
of the Court of Appeal judgment. In particular, HHJ Dight considered the contractual 
relationship between the parties in the context of Mr Adams pleaded breaches of COBS 
2.1.1R that happened after the contract was entered into. In Mr Ts complaint, I am considering whether Options ought to have identified that the introductions from Caledonian 
involved a risk of consumer detriment and, if so, whether it ought to have ceased accepting 
introductions from Caledonian prior to entering into a contract with Mr T.
I think it is also important to emphasise that I must determine this complaint by reference to 
what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. And, in doing 
that, I am required to take into account relevant considerations which include: law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. This is 
a clear and relevant point of difference between this complaint and the judgments in Adams 
v Options SIPP. That was a legal claim which was defined by the formal pleadings in Mr 
Adams statement of case.
To be clear, I have proceeded on the understanding Options was not obliged  and not able 
 to give advice to Mr T on the suitability of its SIPP, the pension transfer or the subsequent 
investments made for him personally. But I am satisfied Options obligations included 
deciding whether to accept particular investments into its SIPP and/or whether to accept 
introductions of business from particular businesses.
I note for completeness that Options wasnt granted permission to appeal the Court of 
Appeal judgment to the Supreme Court. 
Section 27/28 FSMA
The Court of Appeal overturned the High Court judgment in Adams on the basis of the 
claim pursuant to S27 FSMA.
S27 FSMA provides that an agreement between an authorised person and another party, 
which is otherwise properly made in the course of the authorised persons regulated 
activity, is unenforceable as against that other party if it is made in consequence of 
something said or done by another person (the third party) in the course of a regulated 
activity carried on by the third party in contravention of the general prohibition.
S27(2) provides that the other party is entitled to recover:
(a) any money or other property paid or transferred by him under the agreement; and
(b) compensation for any loss sustained by him as a result of having parted with it.
s28(3) FSMA provides that If the court is satisfied that it is just and equitable in the 
circumstances of the case, it may allow
a. the agreement to be enforced; or
b. money and property paid or transferred under the agreement to be retained. 
The General Prohibition is set out in S19 FSMA. It stipulates that:
.
No person may carry on a regulated activity in the United Kingdom, or purport to do so, 
unless he is  
a) an authorised person; or 
b) an exempt person.In Adams, the Court of Appeal concluded that the unauthorised introducer of the SIPP had 
carried out activities in contravention of the General Prohibition, and so S27 FSMA applied. 
It further concluded that it would not be just and equitable to nonetheless allow the 
agreement to be enforced (or the money retained) under the discretion afforded to it by 
S28(3) FSMA.
At paragraph 115 of the judgment, the Court set out five reasons for reaching this 
conclusion. The first two of these were:
i) A key aim of FSMA is consumer protection. It proceeds on the basis that, while 
consumers can to an extent be expected to bear responsibility for their own decisions, 
there is a need for regulation, among other things to safeguard consumers from their own 
folly. That much reduces the force of Mr Greens contentions that Mr Adams caused his 
own losses and misled Carey;
ii) While SIPP providers were not barred from accepting introductions from unregulated 
sources, section 27 of FSMA was designed to throw risks associated with doing so onto the 
providers. Authorised persons are at risk of being unable to enforce agreements and being 
required to return money and other property and to pay compensation regardless of 
whether they had had knowledge of third parties contraventions of the general prohibition;
The other three reasons, in summary, were:
The volume and nature of business being introduced by the introducer was such as 
to put Options on notice of the danger that the introducer was recommending 
clients to invest in the investments and set up Options SIPPs to that end. There 
were therefore reason for Options to be concerned about the possibility of the 
introducer advising on investments within the meaning of article 53 of the Financial 
Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001 (the RAO).
Options was aware that: contrary to what the introducer had previously said, it 
was receiving high commission from the investment provider, there were 
indications that the introducer was offering consumers cashback and one of 
those running the introducer was subject to a FCA warning notice.
The investment did not proceed until after the time by which Options had reasons 
for concern and so it was open to Options to decline the investment, or at least 
explore the position with Mr Adams, but it did not do so.
I shall address later in this decision how I consider S27 FSMA to be an additional and 
alternative ground upon which this complaint should be upheld. But before that, Ill address 
below what I think Options should have concluded from the information it had on 
Caledonian and what this should have meant for Mr Ts proposed pension transfer and 
investment.
what did Options obligations mean in practice?
In this case, the business Options was conducting was its operation of SIPPs. I am satisfied 
that meeting its regulatory obligations when conducting this business would include deciding 
whether to accept or reject particular investments and/or referrals of business.
The regulatory publications provided some examples of good industry practice observed by 
the FSA and FCA during their work with SIPP operators including being satisfied that a 
particular introducer is appropriate to deal with and a particular investment is an appropriate 
one for a SIPP.Im satisfied that, to meet its regulatory obligations, when conducting its business, Options 
was required to consider whether to accept or reject particular referrals of business, with the 
Principles in mind.
the due diligence carried out by Options on Caledonian and what it should have 
concluded
I have considered what a level of due diligence consistent with Options regulatory 
obligations and the standards of good practice at the time ought to have revealed. And what, 
with those same obligations and standards in mind, Options ought to have concluded about 
Caledonian. And, when doing this, I have taken into account the evidence I have mentioned 
above.
As set out above, the 2009 Thematic Review Report deals specifically with the relationships 
between SIPP operators and introducers or intermediaries. And it gives non-exhaustive 
examples of good practice. In my view, to meet these standards, and its regulatory 
obligations, set by the Principles, Options ought to have identified a significant risk of 
consumer detriment arising from business brought about by a business introducing 
consumers to Options which appeared to be specialising in pension transfers from one 
occupational pension scheme purporting to be on an execution only (that is, non-advised) 
basis. And so Options ought to have ensured it thought very carefully about accepting 
applications from Caledonian and, therefore, Mr T.
I think it is fair and reasonable to say such consideration should have involved Options 
getting a full understanding of the business model of the introducer, the nature of the 
investments to be made and putting a clear agreement in place between it and the 
introducer and ensuring careful thought was given to the risk generally posed to consumers 
by the introducer.
Options did gain some information about Caledonian, as I have detailed earlier in this 
decision. In my view, if Options had carried out adequate due diligence on Caledonian, and 
drawn reasonable conclusions from this, it ought to have been aware of several points of 
concern and to have concluded it should not accept this business from it in respect of Mr T.
Its clear that Options understood and accepted that it had a responsibility to carry out due 
diligence on Caledonian  something that weve seen on other complaints that have been 
brought to us and is confirmed on its statement in the Non-Regulated Introducer Profile form 
of 16 March 2012 that Ive referred to above.
I acknowledge Options did take some steps  initially and on an ongoing basis  which it 
could be argued did amount to good practice consistent with its regulatory obligations.
But I think, with its regulatory obligations and good industry practice in mind, Options ought 
to have done more at the outset of its relationship with Caledonian and didnt, in any event, 
draw fair and reasonable conclusions from the information available to it by the time of Mr 
Ts application. Had Options done more at the outset and/or drawn fair and reasonable 
conclusions from what it knew, it ought in my view to have concluded that it shouldnt accept 
Mr Ts application from Caledonian.
Ive set out my reasons for this in more detail below.
Should Options have been aware that Caledonian was providing advice to Mr T?
In my view, acting fairly and reasonably, including a reasonable level of investigation and 
due diligence on Caledonians operation, and based on the information available to it, Options ought to have concluded at the outset of its relationship with Caledonian and 
certainly before the conclusion of Mr Ts application, that Caledonian was providing advice 
as to the benefits of transferring his pension to the SIPP.
At the very least there was information that should have caused it to suspect that advice was 
being given and it shouldve carried out further investigation into that. If it had done so, I 
believe it likely that it would have discovered that Mr T had been advised by Caledonian to 
transfer his pension.
Taking account of the available evidence, I consider that Caledonian did provide advice to 
Mr T as to the benefits of transferring his pension, selecting the SIPP to do so and the 
investment in the FPI bond to follow. 
Caledonians representatives promised a greater return on Mr Ts pension than he would 
obtain if he were to stick with the armed forces scheme. I consider Mr Ts testimony to be 
credible. There would have been no other reason for Mr T to consider a transfer to the Carey 
SIPP, the FPI investment or anything else connected with this transaction had he not 
received advice from Caledonian to do so.
I consider it to be highly unlikely that Mr T came to his own conclusion to make this transer 
and the subsequent investment. Mr Twasnt financially knowledgeable. And enterring into an 
execution only relationship with Options would only have happened if hed been advised to 
do so.
Options argue that it treated Caledonian as a business which was not giving advice. It has 
submitted that, as far as it was aware, it was receiving introductions from Caledonian on an 
execution only (non-advised) basis.
Options terms of business with Caledonian was signed in September 2012; however, 
Options says this was provided to Caledonian in March 2012. I note the terms made it clear 
that no advice would be given by Caledonian:
The Business Introducer undertakes that they will not provide advice as defined by the Act 
in relation to the SIPP  for the avoidance of doubt this includes reference to advice on the 
selection of The SIPP Operator, contributions, transfer of benefits, taking benefits and 
HMRC rules:
I also note on the SIPP application form which was signed and dated by Mr T it was stated 
that:
This Form should be used if you are a client establishing a SIPP without advice. You have 
made this decision independently and are aware of the implications of this decision.
And:
As you do not have a Financial Adviser, your investment choices are your sole 
responsibility. You will instruct us and we will act on those instructions as long as it is an 
accepted investment in the Carey Pension Scheme.
However, there is a significant degree of inconsistency between these documents and other 
documentary evidence.
As highlighted above, in Mr Ts Options members declaration dated 2 November 2012, it 
was confirmed that:I confirm that I have received full and appropriate advice from Caledonian International and 
following this advice I wish to proceed with the transfer.
The members declaration is in clear conflict with the SIPP application form. As a minimum, 
these contradictions should have alerted Options to the possibility that Mr T may very well 
have been given advice  and therefore further steps to clarify this were required. I know that 
Options considers this to be a simple clerical error. But I think that the fact that there are 
conflicting statements in the documentation just lends to the assertion that Options attention 
to detail was lacking in so far as what was happening between its clients and Caledonian 
went. I also note that the FPI application signed on behalf of Options trustees clearly 
indicates that the documentation was signed, and advice was given, in the UK.
If Options had undertaken a reasonable level of due diligence it should have been aware 
that there was a significant risk that advice had been given to Mr T to transfer his pension by 
Caledonian. Similarly, the available evidence also shows that Options should have 
concluded at the start of its relationship with Caledonian that it may be providing advice as to 
the benefits of transferring pensions.
In addition, the certificate of non-solicitation document signed by Caledonian recorded that:
We therefore certify that:
We do not have a permanent place of business in the United Kingdom; and
We did not approach the above named client.
The advice was given in Jordan.
The client approached us directly and requested us to give him advice. (my emphasis)
This clearly creates, at the very least, the impression that Mr T had received financial advice. 
Options was privy to the information contained in the investment application and non-
solicitation document  and clearly this should have given it cause for concern as to whether 
advice was being provided by Caledonian.
I would also comment that it is unusual for individuals such as Mr T, with no particular 
financial understanding or background, to want to carry out what is quite a complex transfer 
of occupational pension scheme benefits without receiving advice or a recommendation. 
Given all the evidence, I believe Options should have been aware that there was significant 
risk that advice was being provided by an unregulated business.
Had Options sought clarification from Mr T, which would have been a reasonable course of 
action in the circumstances, I think it would likely have been made aware he was receiving 
advice from Caledonian. Alternatively Options could have simply declined to proceed with 
the application  given the obvious conflicts (discussed above) about the provision of advice.
So I think Options ought reasonably to have been aware advice was being given to Mr T by 
Caledonian.
I also think it was reasonably clear from the outset of Options relationship with Caledonian 
that Caledonians business model meant there was a risk that advice would be given on the 
merits of transferring out of the armed forces scheme to an Options SIPP and on the 
investments to be made within that SIPP.
In March 2012, Mr Clark described Caledonians business model to Options. It was recorded: 
He was (sic) preferred adviser (my emphasis) for the Armed Forces occupational pension 
scheme for individuals who had left the armed forces and were taking positions in close 
security work in places such as Iraq, Afghanistan/Iran etc.and also anti-piracy positions
Dave Clark himself was not a regulated adviser, he was a consultant to these clients and 
advised them on their armed forces transfers only (my emphasis), he was a qualified 
accountant and was a member of the Chartered Institute of Accountants.
He was currently putting them into an international Friends Provident Bond (my 
emphasis), the underlying investments were regulated.
This describes an advice process. It indicates that Caledonian was advising consumers on 
transfers out of armed forces schemes and putting them into an investment bond. I think 
the only reasonable conclusion which could be drawn from that description was that advice 
was likely being given. Given these statements, it would be difficult to imagine a situation 
where Caledonian were giving that kind of tailored guidance without giving advice on the 
merits of transferring.
In the Non-Regulated Introducer Profile signed and dated in March 2012, Caledonians 
sales process was described as:
Referral  Visit  Analysis  Visit
That clearly involved more than just a simple introduction. It is a description that also 
supports my finding that Caledonian were involved in an advice process.
At the very least this should have led to further questions being asked by Options of 
Caledonian and Mr T. In terms of Mr T, a reasonable line of enquiry would have been to ask 
him if he thought he was receiving advice as to whether to set up a SIPP and/or transfer his 
pension benefits to it and/or then make subsequent investments within the SIPP. And I think 
given Mr Ts subsequent testimony, the answers to those questions would have led to the 
conclusion that advice was being given.
On 26 April 2013 an Options employee in its compliance department sent an email to a 
number of Options employees. She raised concerns about Caledonians business practices. 
She said:
We have a responsibility to proactively monitor our distribution channels to ensure our 
products do not end up with customers for whom it is not suitable. Based on recent 
correspondence with Caledonian I am increasingly concerned by their business practices 
and therefore believe we should review our relationship with them and the business they 
have introduced. I will arrange a meeting for next week to discuss. In the meantime we need 
to determine the answers to the questions below to help facilitate our discussions.
There are a couple of different answers to those questions, one expressing more concern 
than the other. But of critical importance is that following the ensuing internal discussion, 
Options asked questions on 10 May 2013 (that Ive set out in the history above) about any 
advice given by Caledonian.
Although we havent been provided with a copy of the actual response to this e-mail, a 
discussion of Caledonians responses to these questions led Options to conclude:
Following a detailed review of the process and documentation concerns were raised regarding whether the clients could be deemed to be receiving advice through an 
unregulated entity.
Following a request for further clarification on these points we have not been able to satisfy 
ourselves that this is not the case.
And this effectively ended the relationship with Caledonian.
In my view these are investigations and questions, which Options, acting fairly and 
reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations and good practice at the time, ought to have 
been undertaking or asking at the outset of its relationship with Caledonian. The need to ask 
these questions was clear based on the information available to Options before Mr T was 
introduced to it. Options clearly had its own concerns about Caledonians operation in 2013 
 and this was something that it should and could have explored and interrogated much 
earlier and certainly before accepting Mr Ts introduction and making the investments.
I believe the knowledge that Caledonian was providing advice  whether acquired at the 
outset of the relationship with Caledonian or before or during the course of Mr Ts application 
 shouldve been a red flag and given Options significant cause for concern. I say this 
because it suggests a number of risks/issues, including:
The potential for breaches of the Principles, regulations and/or law.
There being no evidence to show Caledonian had competency to give advice, 
particularly with respect to pension transfers.
There being nothing to show proper advice processes were being followed.
The risk of obvious significant detriment to large numbers of individuals to 
forgo guaranteed pension benefits.
I think these are all things which, acting fairly and reasonably to meet its regulatory 
obligations and good industry practice, Options should have factored into its thinking.
Where were the activities taking place?
I havent seen evidence that, prior to May 2013, Options established where Caledonian 
would be conducting business. It was therefore in no position to know what, if any, regulatory 
regimes applied.
The business profile completed at the outset of Options relationship with Caledonian 
records that Caledonian said its clients, were generally still resident in UK but some were 
now living abroad in various countries such as Thailand, Germany, Spain etc.. The 
introducer profile completed at the outset of the relationship records that Caledonian had 
branches in Chile, Peru, Columbia, Argentina, Brazil and Switzerland.
Options noted in 2013 that, as to the question of where Caledonian was meeting with clients 
and its regulatory status, the position was, unknown.
So it is fair to say Options wasnt in a position to know whether Caledonian was following 
any applicable regulations and laws as it simply didnt know where it was carrying out its 
activities or, at the very least, was aware the activities were potentially being carried out in 
several different jurisdictions. And then it didnt take sufficient steps to ascertain what 
regulations and laws applied in each of those countries and whether Caledonian was acting 
within them.In this case, I think Options shouldve been particularly concerned about whether advice was 
being given (or any other regulated activity carried on) in the UK as Caledonian wasnt 
authorised by the FSA or, later, the FCA.
On the Non-Regulated Introducer Profile form completed in March 2012, in response to the 
question asking what measures were in place to ensure the Firm engage legal advice on 
the activities it carries out to ensure regulated activities are not carried out?, the following 
answer was given by Caledonian:
Majority of business carried out in unregulated jurisdictions but where regulations apply we 
are licensed to carry out our activities.
But, as mentioned above, Options was also made aware that generally consumers who 
would be introduced to it were UK residents. So its not clear how the Caledonian business 
model worked logistically - how could Options be satisfied, on a general basis, that the 
relevant activities would not take place in the UK? I think Options shouldve been alive to the 
risk that in some of the cases at least, some of the activities might take place in the UK.
Rights under a personal pension scheme are a security and a relevant investment. Under 
Article 25(1) RAO, making arrangements for another person to buy and sell these types of 
investments is a regulated activity. And under Article 25(2) RAO, making arrangements with 
a view to a person who participates in the arrangements buying and selling these types of 
investments is also a regulated activity.
So, in this case if Caledonian made arrangements  i.e. assisting in the completion of the 
SIPP application form for onward investment in the FPI bond in the UK, that would be a 
regulated activity. It is clear Caledonian did undertake this activity in this case and so 
Options should have been aware a regulated activity had been undertaken by Caledonian in 
the UK even if it assumed any advice had been given in Jordan or otherwise overseas.
Furthermore, if Options accepted the advice was given in Jordan or overseas, Ive not seen 
any evidence to show it checked that Caledonian had any required authority to undertake 
this activity in Jordan. And theres no evidence whatsoever that Mr T had any connection to 
Jordan or ever met anyone from Caledonian there. In fact, his evidence is that he was 
contacted by Caledonians representative in the UK. And the FPI application form signed by 
Options Trustees on 6 February 2013 confirms that the SIPP application was signed in the 
UK, although it too states that advice was given in Jordan.
Caledonians competence to undertake pension transfers
The proposed business model involved former members of the armed forces who worked in 
security related jobs in hazardous areas. The business model was not one involving, say, 
former financial advisers or other finance professionals.
There is therefore no reason to think that the typical client Caledonian was proposing on 
introducing had a good level of understanding of pensions or were in a position to work out 
for themselves if a pension transfer was in their best interests. They would be reliant on 
Caledonians advice.
The introductions involved transfers out of a defined benefit pension scheme into a UK SIPP 
for investment in several investments within an FPI bond. As discussed, the transfer of 
defined benefit (final salary) pensions are usually not in the customers best interests, are 
complex and present a variety of consequences and matters which the ordinary individual 
would be hard pressed to understand without professional financial advice.Given that Options knew that the intention was to introduce around 50 individuals a month, I 
think its fair to say Options shouldve satisfied itself that there was no risk of detriment to 
these consumers. In any event, as I will refer to later in this decision, it should have had 
concerns that a small business such as Caledonian could competently deal with such a 
volume of business.
However, the information Caledonian disclosed to Options revealed that it didnt have any 
particular qualifications or expertise in pension transfers.
On the Non-regulated Introducer Profile document completed in March 2012, under the 
section headed Training and Information, the following response was given to a question as 
to what training was provided to its agents:
Ongoing product training and accompanied meetings.
In response to a question about the specific pension training that was delivered to its agents 
the answer given was:
Visits to providers directly.
There is no mention of any type of professional qualification (whether that be in the UK or 
any other territorial jurisdiction) relating to pensions.
On the undated Overseas Introducer Proforma Document, the section headed Professional 
Qualification was recorded as high risk. The notes said that:
No qualifications documented other than meeting notes from March 2012 where David 
Clark stated he was a qualified accountant and member of Chartered Institute of 
Accountants.
I think it likely this post-dates Mr Ts application, but it demonstrates that Options didnt know 
if any of Caledonians staff had any qualifications to give advice on occupational pension 
scheme transfers.
So Options was aware that Caledonians employees didnt likely have any qualifications to 
give advice as to pensions. And it seems that any steps to ascertain whether any 
qualifications were held would have revealed they werent. The steps taken in May 2013, 
where Options belatedly made enquiries of Caledonian, which as outlined above I think it 
should have actioned much earlier, and certainly before accepting Mr Ts application, 
resulted in Options requiring all the transfers to be reviewed by a UK FCA regulated adviser. 
To my mind, this indicates that when Options did ask further questions about Caledonians 
expertise in dealing with pensions, it would appear that not only did it become aware that 
Caledonians staff did not possess adequate expertise but it also took steps to try and 
address that.
So, acting fairly and reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations and good practice, Options 
shouldve concluded at the outset of its relationship with Caledonian, or at the very least by 
the time of Mr Ts application, that Caledonian was proposing to give advice to bring about a 
large volume of business relating to a complex product for which it didnt have the 
appropriate qualifications.
The transfer process
As mentioned above, a defined benefit transfer is a complex transaction. It also involves many risks, and potentially the loss of significant guaranteed benefits. For this reason, 
advice on such transactions is tightly regulated in the UK and there are standards of good 
practice that those giving the advice are expected to follow. This means several steps need 
to be taken as part of the advice process and documentation such as fact-finds, suitability 
reports, transfer value analysis reports (TVAS), and illustrations, all of which generally 
feature in the advice process. The purpose is to ensure any advice given takes into account 
all relevant factors, is suitable, and the recipient of the advice is in a fully informed position, 
where they understand the benefits they are giving up and the risks associated with the 
transfer.
Although the relevant UK regulatory requirements only apply in the UK, I think Options, 
acting fairly and reasonably, should have satisfied itself that a similar process was being 
followed here, even if it thought the advice was being given outside the UK. I say this 
because, given that Caledonians starting point appears to have been that the consumers it 
dealt with would be transferring out of the defined benefit scheme (i.e. it seems to have 
taken the view a transfer was suitable for all) there was a clear risk of consumer detriment if 
consumers were not in a fully informed position and therefore able to understand the risks 
associated with the transfer.
I do not say Options should have checked any advice that was given  but it should have 
taken steps to ascertain if a reasonable process was in place and consumers were taking 
these steps on an informed basis. And I think if it had undertaken such steps and carried out 
even a cursory investigation of the individuals being introduced to it, then it would have 
become aware no reasonable process was in place and consumers were not fully informed 
of the risks. As discussed, I think it would have also quickly discovered that at least some of 
the individuals being introduced to it, including Mr T, had received what amounted to advice 
about the transfer from an unregulated introducer. And that this advice may well have been 
provided, at least partially, in the UK.
It seems Options took these steps, to an extent, belatedly in May 2013. And, in common with 
the other steps taken in May 2013 that appears to have led it to the conclusion that what was 
in place was insufficient. However, acting fairly and reasonably to meet its regulatory 
obligations and good practice, Options should have concluded at the outset of its 
relationship with Caledonian, or at the very least by the time of Mr Ts application and 
subsequent investment, that there was a significant risk of consumer detriment, that 
Caledonian didnt have a process in place which supported suitable advice being given or 
that ensured consumers were fully informed of the risks.
Other issues Options ought to have identified and considered
There were also further issues Options ought to have identified and considered, based on 
what it knew or ought to have known by the time of Mr Ts application. In summary, Options 
shouldve considered that:
The high volume of business being proposed and brought about by Caledonian 
suggested a risk of consumer detriment.
Caledonian was taking a high level of commission, which may not have been 
disclosed.
Caledonian failed to provide its company accounts, despite repeated requests for 
copies of them from Options.Volume of business
Prior to accepting Mr Ts introduction, Options was told that Caledonian would be introducing 
about 50 applications a month. I also note that Caledonian introduced around 40 
applications a month over the course of its relationship with Options and Options would 
therefore have been aware a similar volume was being seen in practice.
Its clear that Options kept a good level of management information about the number and 
nature of introductions that Caledonian had made. I think this is an example of good 
practice. However, I dont think it was fair and reasonable to simply keep records rather than 
evaluating that information and taking steps based on it. As highlighted in the 2009 Thematic 
Review Report, the reason why the records are important is so that potentially unsuitable 
SIPPs can be identified.
I think that Options should have been concerned that such a high volume of introductions 
from only occupational pension schemes was being referred to it, and according to Options, 
on an execution only basis. As discussed above, as a professional in the pension industry, 
Options ought to have known about the following guidance in the FSA (later FCAs) 
handbook in 2012:
COBS 19.1.6 G
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits 
occupational pension scheme whether to transfer or opt out, a firm should start by assuming 
that a transfer or opt out will not be suitable (my emphasis). A firm should only then 
consider a transfer or opt out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary 
evidence, that the transfer or opt-out is in the clients best interests.
I accept this aims to define the expectation of a regulated financial adviser when determining 
suitability of a pension transfer, but it emphasises the regulators concern about the potential 
detriment such a transaction could expose a consumer to. And, being a regulated firm with a 
requirement to ensure its clients were being treated fairly, Id expect Options to have been 
familiar with the guidance contained in COBS  even if it didnt apply to it.
Caledonians business model, as set out to Options, appears to run counter to this, insofar 
as the starting point appeared to be an assumption that the transfer was suitable. When 
considered alongside the high volume of business being brought about by Caledonian, 
Options, acting fairly and reasonably, shouldve identified a significant risk of consumer 
detriment.
Options ought to have been aware that the introduction of such a large volume of 
applications for pension transfers (an estimated 50 a month), including Mr Ts application, on 
a non-advised basis was unusual. I think Options should have been concerned about the 
motivations and competence of Caledonian and have had adequate risk management 
controls in place to have allowed it to conclude very quickly that there was a high probability 
that much, if not all, of the business introduced by Caledonian (which was transfers from 
occupational pension schemes) carried with it a high risk of significant consumer detriment.
Was it really reasonable to believe that all these introductions would be from non-advised 
individuals and that significant consumer detriment wouldnt result? And not make further 
enquiries on that assumption? I dont believe so and I dont believe Options was fulfilling its 
duties under the Principles by accepting introductions on that basis, and with that 
knowledge, without interrogating the matter further.Commission
I also think the level of commission that was being paid to Caledonian was anomalous, given 
what limited service Caledonian said to Options it was providing. I think this should have 
given Options cause for concern. In Mr Ts case, a fee of £500 was payable to Caledonian. 
In addition to this it is likely that commission of 7% was paid to Caledonian by FPI out of the 
approximately £25,000 transfer value of his pension. So thats a total of approximately 
£2,250 for what was an apparently non-advised introduction.
It isnt clear, from the evidence I have seen, that Mr T was made aware of the commission at 
the time. I think Options would have been privy to the details of this commission at the time, 
and would have known about similar levels of commission on other applications it dealt with.
In my opinion, the commission paid on what was a relatively small pension pot, was very 
high for an introduction and shouldve given Options cause for concern, given the nature of 
the business being introduced. As noted earlier in my findings, there is no evidence to show 
Caledonian carried out any of the usual work associated with a defined benefit transfer that 
would justify such a fee. Nor have I seen any other evidence to show there was any 
justification for such a high level of commission in the circumstances. I think this level of 
commission ought to have been another cause for Options to be concerned that Caledonian 
was putting its own interests ahead of the interests of the customers.
Overall, when considered alongside the high volumes of near identical introductions of 
business being made by Caledonian, I think this level of commission raises questions about 
the motives and role of Caledonian and shows an additional risk of consumer detriment.
Caledonians Accounts
I note that Options made repeated requests for Caledonian's accounts. It sent several emails 
to Caledonian between March and August 2012. Options also explained in its email of 23 
March 2012 that in order to comply with its own compliance procedures this was needed. 
Options started accepting introductions (including Mr Ts) from Caledonian having not 
received its requested company accounts or the passports of all its directors. This is 
something that was discussed in August 2012 by Options employees as being required. The 
undated document, but likely of March 2013 - the Overseas Introducer Assessment 
Proforma - set out that Options had noted that Caledonian had no UK branch or EEA 
regulatory details and it could not discover how long it had been trading. It also noted that it 
still hadnt received any accounts from Caledonian.
But I havent seen any evidence that the accounts were ever provided. In my opinion, it is 
fair and reasonable that Options should have met its own standards and should have 
checked Caledonians accounts at the outset before accepting any business from it. And, 
based on Caledonians conduct, it seems very unlikely accounts would ever have been 
forthcoming.
Caledonians reluctance to provide basic information should also have been a further factor 
which ought to have led Options to question whether it should enter into or continue a 
relationship with Caledonian. It calls into question the competence and motivations of 
Caledonian and the ability of Caledonian to organise its affairs. It also meant Options was 
missing information which might be critical to the decision as to whether to enter into 
business with Caledonian. It isnt clear why Options accepted introductions without it.
Its also notable that Options accepted and set up Mr Ts SIPP when it was still waiting for 
this information from Caledonian.In conclusion
Taking all of the above into consideration  individually and cumulatively  I think in the 
circumstances it is fair and reasonable for me to conclude that Options ought reasonably to 
have concluded, had it complied with its regulatory obligations which required it to conduct 
sufficient due diligence on Caledonian before accepting business from it, and to act on 
information received about the conduct of Caledonian before continuing to accept business 
from it, that it should not accept business from Caledonian, including Mr Ts.
I therefore conclude that it is fair and reasonable in the circumstances to say that Options 
shouldnt have accepted Mr Ts application from Caledonian.
I say this because, as discussed in more detail above:
Options says that at the outset of its relationship with Caledonian the arrangement 
was to accept introductions on the basis they would be non-advised/execution only. 
But the evidence should have caused it to question that, including in the case of Mr 
T.
Options says it acted on the basis that all of the introductions made by Caledonian 
would be made so that individuals could transfer pensions from an occupational 
defined benefit pension scheme.
Options was aware that there was to be a significant number of such introductions  
around 50 a month.
Options shouldve undertaken a reasonable level of due diligence as to the 
introductions to be made and the introductions it was receiving. If it had done so, then 
it would have likely discovered that Caledonian was giving advice as to transferring 
pensions and the investments to follow, something Options says was not the basis on 
which it was to accept introductions.
Options shouldve been aware that Caledonian was undertaking one or more 
regulated activities in the UK, without authorisation. And there was no evidence to 
show it was meeting any relevant regulations or laws, if activities were taking place 
outside the UK.
Options should have been, or were, aware that Caledonians staff didnt have the 
qualifications  and therefore expertise  to give advice on defined benefit scheme 
transfers.
There was no evidence to show a proper advice process had been followed and Mr T 
was therefore not able to make a fully informed decision about the transfer.
Caledonian was taking a very high level of fees and commission for what it said was 
an execution only service.
Options hadnt obtained a reasonable level of information about Caledonian as a 
business before it started accepting introductions  and this persisted for most of its 
relationship with Caledonian.
Each of these points shows a high risk of potential consumer detriment, and calls into 
question the motivation and competency of Caledonian. So I think that, acting fairly and 
reasonably, Options shouldve declined to accept Mr Ts application because of any of these 
points  and certainly should have done so when considering them cumulatively.Did Options act fairly and reasonably in proceeding with Mr Ts instructions?
In my view, for the reasons given, Options simply shouldve refused to accept Mr Ts 
application. So things shouldnt have got beyond that. Had Options acted in accordance with 
its regulatory obligations and best practice, its fair and reasonable in my view to conclude 
that it should not have accepted Mr Ts application to open a SIPP.
I acknowledge Mr T was asked to sign an Options members declaration on 2 November 
2012 and it would have put some reliance on that. I note this document does give clear 
warnings about the loss of benefits that would result in the transfer to the Options SIPP. The 
indemnities also sought to confirm that Mr T wouldnt hold Options responsible for any 
liability resulting from the investments.
But I dont think this document demonstrates Options acted fairly and reasonably when 
proceeding with Mr Ts instructions.
For the reasons set out, I dont think Options shouldve accepted the application from 
Caledonian. So, Mr T shouldnt have got to the point of signing a member declaration as the 
business shouldnt have come about at all. Furthermore, asking Mr T to sign a declaration 
absolving Options of all its responsibilities when it ought to have known that Mr Ts dealings 
with Caledonian were putting him at significant risk wasnt the fair and reasonable thing to 
do. I also note that the declaration was based on Mr T having received full and appropriate 
advice from Caledonian International where, for the reasons I have given, Options ought to 
have been aware Caledonian didnt have the competency to give such advice.
My remit is, of course, to make a decision on what I think is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. And my view is that its fair and reasonable to say that just asking Mr T to 
sign declarations wasnt an effective way for Options to meet its regulatory obligations to 
treat him fairly, given the concerns Options ought to have identified about his introduction.
Im also satisfied that, had Options not accepted Mr Ts application to open a SIPP 
introduced from Caledonian, the arrangement for Mr T wouldnt have come about in the first 
place, and the loss he suffered couldve been avoided.
Mr T wasnt actively looking to do anything with his pension. And Caledonian was clearly 
reliant on Options to facilitate things  but for Options acceptance of the application, Mr Ts 
business wouldnt have been able to proceed.
In any event, I think it fair to say Mr T should simply have been unable to complete this 
transaction. I dont think any SIPP operator, acting properly, would have dealt with 
Caledonian.
Options might argue that another SIPP operator wouldve accepted Mr Ts application, had it 
declined it. But I dont think its fair and reasonable to say that Options shouldnt compensate 
Mr T for his loss on the basis of speculation that another SIPP operator would have made 
the same mistakes as Ive found it did.
I think its fair instead to assume that another SIPP provider would have complied with its 
regulatory obligations and good industry practice, and therefore wouldnt have accepted the 
application from Caledonian, or would have terminated the transaction before completion.
For all the reasons Ive set out, Im satisfied that it would not be fair to say Mr Ts actions 
mean he should bear the loss arising as a result of Options failings. In the circumstances, 
I am satisfied that Options should not have asked him to sign the declaration at all. For the reasons I have set out, I am satisfied that the application should never have been 
accepted in the first place.
S27 and S28 FSMA
Furthermore, I am satisfied S27 FSMA offers a further and alternative basis on which it 
would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr Ts complaint should be upheld. Im satisfied 
that S27 FSMA applies here, as regulated activities were undertaken by Caledonian, in 
breach of the General Prohibition. So, Mr T is entitled to recover any money or other 
property paid or transferred by him under the agreement (i.e. the SIPP), as well as 
compensation for any loss suffered. I am also satisfied that, in the circumstances, a court 
would not exercise its discretion to allow the agreement to be enforced; or money paid or 
transferred under the agreement to be retained.
I have set out the key sections of S27 and S28 above and have considered them carefully, 
in full. In my view I need to apply a four-stage test to determine whether S27 applies and 
whether a court would exercise its discretion under S28, as follows:
1. Whether an unauthorised third-party was involved;
2. whether there is evidence that the third-party acted in breach of the General 
Prohibition in relation to the particular transaction and, if so;
3. whether the customer entered into an agreement with an authorised firm in 
consequence of something said or done by the unauthorised third-party in 
the course of its actions that contravened the General Prohibition; and
4. whether it is just and equitable for the agreement between the customer 
and the authorised firm to be enforced in any event.
Test 1 is clearly satisfied here  Caledonian was an unauthorised third party. Test 2 is also 
satisfied  for the reasons I have set out above, I am satisfied Caledonian carried out 
activities in breach of the General Prohibition  and any one regulated activity is sufficient 
for these purposes so this test would be met if Caledonian had only undertaken arranging 
(which, for the reasons I have set out, I do not think is the case as advice was clearly 
provided as well). Test 3 is satisfied too  the SIPP was opened in consequence of the 
advice given, and arrangements made, by Caledonian.
That brings me to the final test, 4. Having carefully considered this, I am satisfied a court 
would not conclude it is just and equitable for the agreement between Mr T and Options to 
be enforced in any event. I think very similar reasons to those mentioned by the Court of 
Appeal in the Adams case apply here:
A key aim of FSMA is consumer protection. It proceeds on the basis that, while 
consumers can to an extent be expected to bear responsibility for their own 
decisions, there is a need for regulation, among other things to safeguard 
consumers from their own folly.
While SIPP providers were not barred from accepting introductions from 
unregulated sources, section 27 of FSMA was designed to throw risks associated 
with doing so onto the providers. Authorised persons are at risk of being unable to 
enforce agreements and being required to return money and other property and to pay compensation regardless of whether they had had knowledge of third parties 
contraventions of the General Prohibition.
For all the reasons set out above, Options should have concluded Caledonian 
was giving advice, or have suspected it was (and it seems it did belatedly draw 
this conclusion); and it was giving advice to consumers who were not 
necessarily financially sophisticated.
As set out above, Options was aware, or ought to have been aware that:
 Caledonians staff did not have the qualifications  and therefore expertise  to 
give advice on defined benefit pension transfers.
 There was no evidence to show a proper advice process had been followed and 
consumers such as Mr T were therefore unable to make a fully informed 
decision about the transfer to the SIPP and investment.
 The high volume of business being proposed/brought about by Caledonian.
 The high level of commission Caledonian was taking, which may not 
have been disclosed.
 That Caledonian had failed to provide its company accounts, despite 
repeated requests for copies of them by Options.
The investment did not proceed until well after all these things were known to 
Options and so it was open to it to decline the investment, or at least explore 
the position with the consumer.
I have therefore gone on to consider the question of fair compensation.
Putting things right
My aim is to return Mr T to the position he would now be in but for what I consider to be 
Options failure to carry out adequate due diligence checks before accepting his SIPP 
application. I appreciate that Options has said that it doesnt think Mr T has suffered a loss. 
But it cant know that until the requisite calculations have taken place. And I doubt very much 
that the benefits Mr T will get from the SIPP are equivalent to what he would have got from 
his armed forces pension.
In light of the above, I require that Options should calculate fair compensation by comparing 
the current position to the position Mr T would be in if he had not transferred from his 
existing pension.
In summary, Options should:
1. Calculate the loss Mr T has suffered as a result of making the transfer.
2. Take ownership of any investments that cannot be surrendered if possible.3. Pay compensation for the loss into Mr Ts pension. If that is not possible pay 
compensation for the loss to Mr T direct. In either case the payment should take 
into account necessary adjustments set out below.
4. Pay £500 for the trouble and upset caused to Mr T.
Ill explain how Options should carry out the calculation set out at 1-3 above in further detail 
as well as explaining my reasons for awarding 4:
1. Calculate the loss Mr T has suffered as a result of making the transfer (the loss 
calculation)
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new defined benefit (DB) transfer 
redress guidance and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-
calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice.
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/19 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance - https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come 
into effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
In advance of this decision, our investigator asked Mr T whether he preferred any redress be 
calculated now in line with current guidance or if he wanted to wait for the new 
guidance/rules to come into effect.
Mr Ts representatives didnt indicate a choice either way, so Ive assumed in this case that 
he doesnt want to wait for the new guidance to come into effect. So, his complaint should be 
settled now in line with the existing guidance in FG17/9. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr T. And, having reviewed the FCAs consultation and 
policy statement, Im satisfied that the changes still reflect a fair way to compensate Mr T in 
this case.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time the new rules 
come into effect, Id expect Options to carry out a calculation in line with the updated rules 
and guidance in any event.2.Take ownership of any investments held within the SIPP which cannot be surrendered
In order for the SIPP to be closed and further SIPP fees to be prevented, the investment(s) 
need(s) to be removed from the SIPP. To do this, Options should calculate an amount it is 
willing to accept as a commercial value for any investments that cannot be surrendered and 
pay that sum into the SIPP and take ownership of the relevant investments. This amount 
should be taken into account for the loss calculation.
If Options is unwilling or unable to purchase the investment(s) the value of them should be 
assumed to be nil for the purposes of the loss calculation. Provided Mr T is compensated in 
full, Options may ask Mr T to provide an undertaking to account to it for the net amount of 
any payment the SIPP may receive from the investment(s). That undertaking should allow 
for the effect of any tax and charges on the amount Mr T may receive from the investment(s) 
and any eventual sums he would be able to access. Options should meet any costs in 
drawing up the undertaking and any reasonable costs for advice required by Mr T to approve 
it.
If Options doesnt take ownership of the investment(s), and it/they continue to be held in Mr 
Ts SIPP, there will be ongoing fees in relation to the administration of that SIPP. Mr T would 
not be responsible for those fees if Options hadnt accepted the transfer of his personal 
pension into the SIPP. So, I think it is fair and reasonable that Options must waive any SIPP 
fees until such a time as Mr T can dispose of the investment(s) and close the SIPP.
3. Pay compensation to Mr T for loss he has suffered calculated in (1).
Since the loss Mr T has suffered is within his pension, it is right that I try to restore the value 
of his pension provision if that is possible. So, if possible, the compensation for the loss 
should be paid into his SIPP. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance. Payment into the pension should allow for 
the effect of charges and any available tax relief. This may mean the compensation should 
be increased to cover the charges and reduced to notionally allow for the income tax relief 
Mr T could claim. The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Ts marginal rate of 
tax.
On the other hand, Options may not be able to pay the compensation into the SIPP. If so, 
compensation for the loss should be paid to Mr T direct. But had it been possible to pay the 
compensation into the pension, it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore, the 
compensation for the loss paid to Mr T should be reduced to notionally allow for any income 
tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional allowance should be calculated using 
Mr Ts marginal rate of tax in retirement. For example, if Mr T is likely to be a basic rate 
taxpayer in retirement, the notional allowance would equate to a reduction in the total 
amount equivalent to the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr T would have been able to 
take a tax-free lump sum, the notional allowance should be applied to 75% of the total 
amount.
If Options believes other parties to be wholly or partly responsible for the loss, it is free to 
pursue those other parties. So, if Mr Ts loss does not exceed £160,000, or if Options 
accepts my recommendation below that it should pay the full loss as calculated above, the 
compensation payable to Mr T should be contingent on the assignment by him to Options of 
any rights of action he may have against other parties in relation to his transfer to the SIPP 
and the investments if Options is to request this. Options should cover the reasonable cost 
of drawing up, and Mr Ts taking advice on and approving, any assignment required.If the loss exceeds £160,000 and Options does not accept my recommendation to pay the 
full amount, any assignment of Mr Ts rights should allow him to retain all rights to the 
difference between £160,000 and the full loss as calculated above.
4. Pay £500 for the trouble and upset caused.
Mr T transferred his pension away from a valuable defined benefits pension to a SIPP and 
had to suffer the loss of those benefits.
I think its fair to say this would have caused Mr T some distress and inconvenience. Hes 
clearly upset about how this has all affected him and will have been worried about the value 
of his future retirement provision. Mr T has also had some personal difficulties of late which 
will have meant concerns about his finances were worse than they might otherwise have 
been. So, I consider that a payment of £500 is appropriate to compensate for that.
determination and money award: my final decision is that I require that Options pay Mr T 
compensation as set out above, up to a maximum of £160,000 plus any interest payable.
As Ive said above, until the calculations are carried out, I dont know how much the 
compensation will be, and it may be nowhere near £160,000, which is the maximum sum 
that Im able to award in Mr Ts complaint. But Ill also make a recommendation below in the 
event that the compensation is to exceed this sum, although I cant require that Options pays 
this.
The compensation resulting from the loss assessment must, where possible, be paid to Mr T 
within 90 days of the date Options receives notification of his acceptance of this final 
decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% a 
year simple, from the date it is told of the acceptance of my final decision by Mr T to the date 
of settlement, for any time in excess of 90 days that it takes Options to pay Mr T this 
compensation.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90-day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time, where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP, may be added to the 90-day period in which interest wont apply.
I will also add here that income tax may be payable on any interest paid pursuant to this 
award. If Options deducts income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr T how much has 
been taken off. Options should give Mr T a tax deduction certificate for any interest if Mr T 
asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds
£160,000, I also recommend that Options pays Mr T the balance. I further recommend 
interest to be added to this balance at the rate of 8% a year simple for any time, in excess of 
90 days, that it takes Options to pay Mr T from the date it receives notification of his 
acceptance of the decision, as set out above.
If Mr T accepts this final decision, the money award and the requirements of this decision will 
be binding on Options. My recommendation wont be binding on Options.
Further, its unlikely that Mr T will be able to accept my determination and go to court to ask 
for the balance of the compensation owing to him after the money award has been paid. Mr 
T may want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept 
this final decision.My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold Mr Ts complaint. I require that Options UK Personal 
Pensions LLP calculate and pay the award, and take the actions, set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
James Kennard
Ombudsman