DRN-4249661
The complaint
Miss M complains that PDL Finance Limited, trading as Mr Lender (Mr Lender), lent to 
her irresponsibly. 
What happened
Miss M was advanced one loan of £200 on 22 April 2023. Miss M was due to make six 
monthly payments of varying amounts, with the largest monthly repayment being £74.56 and 
the smallest being £40.62. Miss M has had some problems repaying this loan and an 
outstanding balance remains due. 
Mr Lender issued its final response letter on 5 June 2023, and it explained that it thought it 
was reasonable to have relied on the information given to it by Miss M. Mr Lender also 
explained that it had carried out proportionate affordability checks so it did not think that it did 
anything wrong in lending to Miss M. It also confirmed that at this time Miss M was repaying 
the loan through a repayment plan. 
Unhappy with this response, Miss M then referred his complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint and issued his view explaining why he 
wasnt going to uphold Miss Ms complaint. He thought the checks Mr Lender carried out 
showed that Miss M would likely be able to afford her repayments. 
Miss M didnt agree with the investigators assessment, saying Mr Lender hadnt conducted 
a credit search before lending and she went onto explain she had significant debts that she 
is struggling to manage. 
The investigator explained why these comments hadnt changed his mind and as no 
agreement could be reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Lender had to assess the lending to check if Miss M could afford to pay back the amount
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances.
Mr Lenders checks couldve taken into account a number of different things, such as how
much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Miss Ms income and expenditure.
I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks might have been
proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Mr Lender should have done more to
establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss M. These factors include:
Miss M having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Miss M having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period
(reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss M coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss M. But I dont consider that this
applied to Miss Ms circumstances given only one loan was advanced. 
Mr Lender was required to establish whether Miss M could sustainably repay the loan  not
just whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Miss M was able to 
repay her loan sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Miss Ms complaint. Having considered everything that 
Mr Lender did before it lent this loan  along with the comments Miss M has provided, I am 
satisfied that a proportionate check was carried out by Mr Lender which showed it, that 
Miss M would likely be able to afford the repayments, and Ive explained my reasoning 
below. 
For this loan, Mr Lender asked Miss M to declare her income and expenditure and it also 
carried out a credit search with one of the three credit reference agencies. Miss M declared 
her net monthly income was £1,900 a month and Mr Lender says this was checked using a 
tool provided by a credit reference agency. 
Miss M says that her income wasnt as high as Mr Lender was told and she can provide a 
payslip to show this. In some situations, it is appropriate for a lender to verify the income 
declared by a loan applicant. But I dont think that wouldve been proportionate in this 
complaint, given it was the first loan and Mr Lender couldve solely relied on what it was told, 
but it took additional steps to check the income via the tool I mentioned above, and I 
consider that to be reasonable.   
Miss M was asked to declare monthly outgoings across a number of different categories 
including mortgage / rent, credit commitments, utilities and travel to name a few. 
My understanding of Mr Lenders lending practices means it is likely that it used information 
it received from the credit report and data from the Office of National Statistics (ONS). 
Mr Lender hasnt said whether it carried out these further checks as part of its affordability 
assessment. But whether it did or didnt compare what Miss M declared against the ONS 
data, or her credit file, doesnt change my mind about the complaint because it was 
proportionate to either accept what Miss M was saying or to have done the extra checks. 
What I can say, is that for the affordability assessment Mr Lender used a monthly outgoing 
figure of £1,368. Based solely on the income and expenditure information Mr Lender 
gathered, Miss M had potentially enough disposable income to afford the largest repayment 
for the loan. I accept that Miss Ms actual circumstances may not have been fully reflected in the 
information Mr Lender obtained at the time the loan was granted. But Mr Lender could only 
make reasonable decisions based on the information it had available and I am satisifed that 
it did. 
Before the loan was approved Mr Lender also carried out a credit search and it has
provided the Financial Ombudsman with a summary of the results it received from the credit 
reference agency. I want to add that although Mr Lender carried out a credit search there 
isnt a regulatory requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific standard. 
This can mean that the results a lender may see could be different to the information that a 
consumer may be able to view in the credit report they can download from any of the credit 
reference agencies. 
If information was given to Mr Lender which indicated that Miss M was either in financial 
difficulties or couldnt afford the loan, then I would expect it to react to that and possibly take 
a different course of action. However, if the credit check results didnt show that Miss M had 
on-going repayment problems  as she has stated she did, I wouldnt at this early point in 
the lending relationship have expected Mr Lender to have known about them. 
Having looked at the credit results summary Mr Lender has provided, there wasnt anything 
in my view, that wouldve led it to have carried out further checks. It knew Miss M wasnt 
insolvent either through an Individual Voluntary Arrangement, bankruptcy or had a County 
Court Judgement within the three years preceding the loan. 
It was also told that Miss M didnt have any outstanding AAI  which means advanced 
against income which is another name for a payday loan. So superficially, the information 
Mr Lender received suggested that Miss M wasnt reliant on other payday loans.  
Miss M has also said that at this time she had problems managing her wider finances, but 
she hadnt told Mr Lender this and I wouldnt have expected Mr Lender to have assumed 
that she was having problems managing her money either. Importantly, these wider issues 
werent reflected in the information Mr Lender gathered. 
Overall, it was reasonable for Mr Lender to have relied on the information that Miss M 
provided about her income (which was cross referenced) and expenditure as well as the 
credit check results that it received. The checks showed that Miss M should be able to afford 
the repayments. There also wasnt anything else to suggest the loan would either be 
unaffordable or unsustainable for her. 
I am therefore not upholding Miss Ms complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, I am not upholding Miss Ms complaint.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman