DRN-3423613
The complaint
Mrs T has complained that the Society of Lloyds (SoL) limited the amount of medication 
they paid for under the terms of an insurance policy she bought to cover her horse.
What happened
Mrs T has a horse, for whom she held an insurance policy to cover the costs of, amongst 
other things, vets fees.  
In late 2020, the broker through whom she bought the policy, wrote to her about renewal.  
They told Mrs T that, due to increasing costs, theyd found an alternative policy with another 
insurer (SoL) at a lower premium.  The broker said the cover wasnt identical.  So Mrs T 
should read the policy wording and summary document (IPID) to check it met her needs.  
Mrs T accepted the new policy.
A few days after renewal, Mrs T had to seek treatment for her horse.  Her vet diagnosed 
asthma.  Three days after that, the horse was also diagnosed with gastric ulcers.  He was 
treated for both conditions and claims for vets fees and medication were submitted.
SoL declined cover for both claims.  Mrs T complained and SoL investigated the complaint. 
In relation to the asthma claim, SoL said that the policy hadnt been in place for 14 days 
when Mrs T first consulted her vet  so it was excluded under the policy term.  And in 
respect of the gastric ulcers, SoL relied on a term which said there was no cover for the 
condition and the policy had been in place for 90 days.
Mrs T wasnt satisfied with SoLs response and brought her complaint to us.  She said that 
she understood that cover for her horse would be continuous  so it was unfair to decline her 
claims due to a qualifying period.  And she said the term was a significant limitation so 
should have been highlighted in the IPID.
Before we could investigate, SoL reviewed their previous complaint response and revised 
their view of Mrs Ts complaint.  They agreed the 90 day qualifying period was a significant 
limitation, which should have been highlighted in the IPID.  So they said theyd agreed with 
the underwriters that both claims would be reconsidered and, if paid, would have 8% interest 
added to the settlement.  And SoL said Mrs T would be sent £50 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience shed suffered.
Following a reconsideration of the claims, a settlement of £3,526.03 was paid for the asthma 
claim.  £3,015.02 was paid for the gastric ulcer claim.  But £602.46 was deducted from this 
claim because SoL said there was a 60 day limit on medication for this condition, which had 
been exceeded.
Mrs T asked us to investigate SoLs decision to decline the claim for the full costs of 
medication.  She said the limitation on medication was also a significant term, so should 
have been highlighted in the IPID. 
Our investigator did this and concluded SoL didnt need to do any more to resolve the 
complaint.  They explained the FCAs Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) 
sets out what an IPID should contain.  That includes basic information about a policy, 
including the main exclusions  which the investigator thought included the 90 day exclusion 
for treatment of gastric ulcers.  But they said the cover for medication for the condition was a 
limitation, not an exclusion  which ICOBS doesnt say should appear in the IPID.  So they 
couldnt say SoL had been unfair to Mrs T by applying it.
Mrs T didnt agree with the investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mrs Ts complaint.  Ill explain why.
Im pleased that SoL were able to resolve the majority of the complaint to Mrs Ts 
satisfaction before our investigator started their investigation.  So Ive only looked at the part 
Mrs T doesnt think has been satisfactorily resolved  that SoL limited her claim for 
medication to 60 days of the policy term.  She says that information should have been 
included in the IPID.
Ive looked at the relevant section of ICOBS (ICOBS 6 Annex 3, paragraph 2.1R).  That says 
the IPID should provide:
(1) information about the type of insurance;
(2) a summary of the insurance cover, including the main risks insured, the insured sum and, 
where applicable, the geographical scope and summary of excluded risks;
(3) the means of payment of premium and the duration of payments;
(4) main exclusions where claims cannot be made;
(5) obligations at the start of the contract;
(6) obligations during the term of the contract;
(7) obligations in the event that a claim is made;
(8) the term of the contract including the start and end dates of the contract;
(9) the means of terminating the contract.
As our investigator said, that doesnt refer to any time limitation.  And I think this makes it 
clear the IPID highlights the main terms  not necessarily everything that may be of concern 
to a policyholder.
This is consistent with the IPID Mrs T received.  At the top it says:
This document provides a summary of the key information relating to this Equine Insurance 
Policy. Complete contractual information on the product is provided in the full policy 
documentation which contains the full terms, conditions, limitations and exclusions, which 
you should read and check that it meets your insurance requirements. If you have any 
questions about your coverage or special requirements, please contact your Broker.
I think this statement makes it clear that a buyer shouldnt rely only on the IPID for details of 
the cover.  And Ive seen the renewal documents Mrs T received from the broker, which 
made it very clear that theyd found a different policy to reduce the costs, that the terms 
werent identical and that Mrs T should read all the documents to satisfy herself the cover 
met her needs.
And the policy document itself says: Reimbursement for ulcer medication prescribed for treatment of gastric ulcers shall not 
exceed a period of sixty (60) days during the Period of insurance.
I understand Mrs T is an experienced horse owner and she has said that, from her 
experience, 60 days medication is unlikely to be sufficient to resolve this condition.  Im not 
an expert, so I cant comment on that.  
But its up to insurers what to cover and for how long.  Im satisfied the limitation on the cover 
for medication for gastric ulcers is clear  and that information was provided to Mrs T as 
required before she bought the policy.  And for that reason, I dont think SoL need to do any 
more to resolve her complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs Ts complaint about the Society of 
Lloyds.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman