DRN-3110402
The complaint
Mr G complains about Paragon Bank Plcs (Paragons) actions since they took charge of 
his account.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr G, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr G acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it. 
I dont think Paragon have been unreasonable when pursuing Mr G for the debt on his 
account.
Ive seen a signed copy of the finance agreement Mr G entered into in September 2016 and 
I can see he agreed to be bound by its terms. Those terms entitled the business to transfer 
the ownership of the account and Mr G was informed of that transfer of ownership in a letter 
sent in September 2018.
When Mr G voluntarily terminated his agreement with the previous owners of his account in 
July 2017 he agreed that he would be fully responsible for the payment of any balance that 
remained outstanding once the sale proceeds of the car were credited to his account.
I think its reasonable to suggest that he agreed to the balance that remained after the 
voluntary termination because I can see a payment plan was established and Mr G was 
making regular payments until he cancelled his direct debit in 2018.
Collection of payments was delayed when the account was transferred but regardless of 
these delays I dont think Paragon were unreasonable to pursue the debt as it was still 
outstanding. 
I can see that Paragon agreed to remove some reports they had made to Mr Gs credit file 
as they accepted these had been made late. I think they were reasonable to take that action 
but, overall, I dont think they need to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman