DRN-2438106
The complaint
Mr K complains about how One Insurance Limited have settled his claim following the theft 
of his vehicle.
What happened
Mr K had a car insurance policy with One Insurance. In May 2020 his car was stolen and 
wasnt recovered. He made a claim on his insurance. 
One Insurance initially valued Mr Ks car at £19,000. However it later reassessed this and 
offered a revised valuation of £20,490.
Mr K didnt think this was fair. He said he wouldnt be able to buy a car of the same make 
and model for that amount. He said the true value was around £10,000 more than what One 
Insurance had offered. He made a complaint.
One Insurance didnt uphold his complaint. It said it had based its valuation on trade guides 
that are used across the insurance industry and therefore it was satisfied that the valuation 
was fair.
Mr K disagreed. He provided a number of adverts that showed similar cars to his being 
advertised at around £30,000, so he said he didnt think One Insurance were valuing the 
correct model of the car. He brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend Mr Ks complaint be upheld. She said she had checked 
the trade guides herself and was satisfied that One Insurance had made its decision fairly 
based on the information.
Mr K didnt agree and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ks policy states that in the event of the theft of the car it will: 
Make a settlement payment based on the cost of replacing your car at the time of the loss or 
damage, taking into account its make, model, age, mileage and circumstances of its 
purchase by you. 
So I can see that  the policy requires One Insurance to base its settlement on the cost of 
replacing the car at the time of the accident. 
It isnt the role of this service to value vehicles. Instead we look to see how an insurer has 
reached its valuation in order to determine if it has acted fairly and reasonably and in line 
with the policy.
One Insurance has provided quotes from trade guides it used to make an assessment of the 
value of Mr Ks car. This service considers these to be the most reliable guide of the market 
value of cars, because the quotes are based on likely sales achieved, not just advertised 
prices. 
I have considered these valuations, alongside the valuations carried out by our investigator, 
also using trade guides. And Im satisfied that the value of £20,490 is an average of these 
valuations. So I dont think One Insurance has provided an unfair valuation.  
Mr K has provided a number of adverts that show cars that are similar to his own, advertised 
at much higher prices. While I can understand Mr Ks frustration that the settlement wont be 
enough to purchase these cars, I dont agree this means One Insurance has offered an 
unfair amount. 
Trade guides base their values on the exact details of Mr Ks car at the time it was stolen. 
This includes the date of manufacture and the mileage at the time. Whereas this isnt 
something that can be reflected in adverts. Also, trade guides base their valuations on prices 
that cars were sold at and not just the price they are advertised for. So for these reasons Im 
satisfied that One Insurance has reached its valuation fairly and reasonably by relying on 
trade guides.
Mr K has also expressed concern that One Insurance has based the valuations on an 
incorrect specification of the vehicle. I want to reassure Mr K that I have checked the 
valuations that One Insurance carried out against the make, model and specification detailed 
in his log book that hes provide photos of. As well as carrying out my own valuations using 
the trade guides. And Im satisfied that the values given are based on the same make, model 
and specification as Mr Ks car.
For these reasons Im satisfied that One Insurance has acted fairly when valuing Mr Ks car. 
I therefore wont ask it to do anything differently. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I wont require One Insurance Limited to do anything differently.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman