DRN-1387992
The complaint
Mr D complains about Legal and General Insurance Limiteds (L&G) settlement of a storm 
claim under his home insurance policy. He also complains about its handling of the claim.
What happened
Mr D had buildings insurance with L&G. In February 2019 he made a claim because he 
believed parts of his property had been damaged during a storm. The claim included £600 
for the removal of some trees, damage to the flat fibreglass roof of his extension, internal 
damage to the ceiling below, and damage to the barn roof.
L&G sent a loss adjuster to inspect the damage. The loss adjuster told Mr D that in order for 
the fibreglass roof to be considered, hed need to show where the water was getting in. He 
noted the barn is in a poorly maintained condition and the loss is a result of wear and tear. 
He commented the corrugated iron on the barn is in a poor state and areas have started to 
decline therefore causing gaps in the corrugated iron allowing the wind to get in which has 
caused the damage. 
Mr D recalled the loss adjuster told him the claim would be settled in cash, but the following 
day he was told there would be no settlement. He complained about the loss adjuster to L&G 
and so it sent out a second loss adjuster who initially said there was no storm damage, but 
then agreed the internal damage would be covered. Reporting his findings to L&G, the loss 
adjuster stated on inspection of the fibreglass roofno storm damage related to this area of 
the main building. He also commented inspections revealed no evidence of storm related 
damage to grip edges, flashingsall seem to be intact.
L&G subsequently accepted thered been a storm and offered £481 for the damage to the 
ceiling. But it refused to pay for any of the external damage. It also declined to pay for the 
trees to be removed, stating this was excluded because the trees hadnt caused any 
damage to property.
Mr D wasnt satisfied and so he complained to L&G, sending in photographs taken by 
a roofer, who had stripped the roof back to uncover a crack. He explained the roofer 
believed this damage was caused by the storm. He also said that if he hadnt paid to remove 
the trees, they wouldve fallen onto the house, causing more damage. 
L&G increased the amount it was willing to pay for the internal damage to £841.94. But it 
maintained its position with respect to the external damage. It said that, based on the fact 
there was no damage to the top surface of the roof, there was no physical damage to the 
external section of the fibreglass roof that was consistent with storm. It said Mr D had been 
unable to show what had caused the damage and suggested there might be a defect with 
the roof from when it was installed five years ago. It maintained the damage to the barn was 
excluded because it wasnt in a good state of repair prior to the storm. And, regarding the 
trees, it maintained there was no property damage, therefore any costs associated with 
safeguarding the trees would need to be met by Mr D.
Mr D wasnt satisfied and so he complained to this service. He sent in photographs of the 
fibreglass roof, explaining there was a crack/tear nearly half the length of the flat roof. The boards were wet along the cracked area which he believes shows the problem wasnt pre-
existing or caused by poor workmanship. He argues the flashing was perfect and that his 
builder told him the storm winds most probably lifted the whole fibreglass element of the roof. 
Our investigator didnt feel the complaint should be upheld. He felt L&Gs decision not to pay 
for the trees to be removed was fair, and, regarding the flat roof, he accepted thered been 
poor workmanship and that this was excluded under the policy. He also noted the loss 
adjuster had concluded the main cause of the damage to the barn was wear and tear, which 
was excluded under the policy. He accepted the barn hadnt been properly maintained, 
therefore he was satisfied L&Gs decision to decline this element of the claim was 
reasonable. Finally, he considered L&Gs handling of the claim, but he didnt think Mr D had 
been treated unfairly.
Mr Ds asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. He doesnt accept the 
external damage is a result of wear and tear or poor workmanship. Hes unhappy L&G 
changed its mind about whether to uphold the claim, and the amount it was prepared to pay 
for the internal damage. He said the first loss adjuster was only at the house for ten minutes 
and failed to undertake a thorough inspection. And he wants to know why it was possible for 
the loss adjuster to change his mind with no further evidence once hed been told his claim 
would be settled.
Mr D believes the photographs clearly show there was damage to the flashing at either end 
of the fibreglass roof, and that this wasnt due to poor workmanship or wear and tear.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
tree removal
I understand Mr D is frustrated that L&G hasnt paid for the trees to be removed, but the 
policy only provides cover if trees are causing or have caused damage to property, and 
thats not the case here. Therefore, Im satisfied the decision not to pay for the trees to be 
removed is fair. I accept the removal of the trees means theres no possibility of 
them causing any future damage, but the policy doesnt require L&G to fund preventative 
measures.
internal repairs
Having accepted there was a storm, L&G agreed to pay for the internal repairs to damage 
caused by the water that entered through the flat roof. Im satisfied thats fair and I havent 
seen any evidence that the settlement wasnt reasonable.
the fibreglass roof
Im satisfied there were storm conditions. But for there to be a valid storm claim, this service 
will consider whether there is damage which is consistent with it having been caused by a 
storm, and whether the storm was the main cause of the damage. 
Neither of the two loss adjusters recorded any external storm damage to the fibreglass roof, 
and when Mr D later produced photographs showing damage the roofer had located, L&G 
didnt accept it was caused by the storm. L&G acknowledged there was a crack in the lead 
flashing, but it argued it was hidden beneath the surface of the roof, and there was no damage to the top surface, meaning it was likely to have been a result of poor workmanship 
which was present since the roof was built.
L&G didnt inspect the crack, and Mr D hasnt submitted any expert evidence (for example, a 
report from a roofer/builder). However, based on the nature of the damage, the fact the 
external section of the roof was undamaged, and the fact theres no expert evidence to 
contradict L&Gs argument that it was a result of poor workmanship, Im not satisfied Mr D 
has shown the roof was most likely damaged by the storm. So, while I understand he will be 
disappointed, I dont think L&Gs decision to decline that element of the claim was unfair.
the barn  
I havent seen any evidence which supports the barn having sustained any damage thats 
consistent with storm damage. The first loss adjuster said the barn was in a severe state of 
disrepair and the damage wouldnt have occurred if it had been maintained to a reasonable 
standard, concluding the damage was excluded because it was a result of wear and tear.
The policy excludes cover for damage resulting from wear and tear. Ive seen photographs 
of the barn and, in the absence of any evidence to contract the loss adjusters opinion, Im 
not satisfied Mr D has shown the claim was unfairly excluded. Consequently, Im satisfied 
L&Gs decision not to pay for any repairs to the barn was fair.
compensation
Mr D has explained the first loss adjuster asked if hed be happy with a cash settlement, but 
then contacted him to say the claim wouldnt be upheld. I accept this initial confusion 
resulted in the loss of Mr Ds expectation that the claim would be settled, but L&G agreed to 
send a second loss adjuster and Im satisfied this was fair. I accept the outcome of the claim 
was frustrating but, as Ive concluded above, the settlement was fair, and L&G wasnt bound 
by the comments of the first loss adjuster.
The second loss adjuster offered £481 for the internal repairs, and this was increased 
following Mr Ds further submissions. I dont consider L&Gs decision to increase the 
settlement upon receipt of further evidence was unfair and so I dont think L&G needs to do 
anything else.
My final decision
I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 February 2020.
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman