DRN-3728488
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Lex Autolease Ltd unfairly recorded a default on her credit file after the 
early termination of a contract hire agreement due to the quality of the car. 
What happened
In October 2018 Mrs C entered into a 49-month contract hire agreement for a new car. The 
agreement had a 5,000 annual mileage limit with a contract mileage of 20,416. Under the 
agreement if the car exceeded the contract mileage allowance on termination, then an 
excess mileage fee of 14.35p per mile (plus VAT) would be applied to those additional miles.
Mrs C says that between December 2020 and July 2021 the car developed a number of 
faults that required repairs. These repairs were carried out under the cars warranty save for 
a repair to the rear brake pads and discs which was undertaken in January 2021. Mrs C paid 
for this repair which amounted to £598.99.
In June 2021 Mrs C complained to Lex Autolease about the quality of the car and asked to 
either terminate the agreement or swap the lease. Lex Autolease upheld her complaint. It 
said that it would support terminating the contract hire agreement at zero cost to Mrs C. Lex 
Autolease said in addition that it would provide £250 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. It advised that the car would be checked for damage and excess 
mileage when returned. 
Mrs C responded to Lex Autolease that she accepted immediate termination but considered 
imposing any excess mileage fee would be unfair and as compromise she would waive the 
£250 compensation offer and not seek further costs she said she had incurred dealing with 
the faulty car.
The car was collected in August 2021 and the mileage was recorded as 25,240. An excess 
mileage fee invoice was raised for £1,574.84 as the pro-rata mileage limit had been 
exceeded by 10,973 miles. The invoice stated that payment was due immediately and was 
sent to Mrs C and was also available online. Another invoice was also sent to Mrs C 
regarding a monthly hire payment that was said to be outstanding.
Mrs C responded to the excess mileage invoice by email. She said that she disputed the 
excess mileage fee due to the expenses and inconvenience shed faced dealing with the 
faulty car. She asked that this invoice was credited in full and the matter closed so that 
compensation didnt need to be pursued.
Lex Autolease responded that the excess mileage fee was a standard charge and wouldnt 
be withdrawn. Mrs C replied that she was rejecting the £250 compensation that had been 
offered but said she would agree to the termination and to dropping any legal pursuance of 
the costs she had incurred if the excess mileage fee was waived. Lex Autolease didnt reply 
to this email.
No further payments were made by Mrs C. Lex Autolease sent out a number of letters to Mrs 
C in respect of the outstanding amount for the excess mileage and a rental payment. In 
November 2021 Lex Autolease sent Mrs C a default notice warning that if the missed 
payments werent made by a set date, a default would be recorded on the account. Mrs C 
didnt respond to this notice and the default was recorded and reported to the credit 
reference agencies.
Mrs C says she was only made aware of the default having been recorded when she looked 
at her credit file in January 2022 having applied for another credit product. She contacted 
Lex Autolease to complain. She raised the additional costs she had faced dealing with the 
faulty car and that she hadnt been notified of the arrears as these letters had been sent to 
an old address. 
Lex Autolease agreed to partially uphold Mrs Cs complaint. It disagreed that it had acted 
unfairly in recording the default as it said Mrs C hadnt informed it that her address had 
changed. Lex Autolease said the various reminder letters had gone to the address registered 
on Mrs Cs her account. But Lex Autolease did agree to reduce the outstanding balance to 
£707.59 by crediting back some of the costs Mrs C had incurred dealing with the faulty car. 
Lex Autolease said it had, during its investigation into Mrs Cs complaint, located two phone 
calls with her in January and February 2022 where Mrs Cs new address had been accepted 
as part of its security checks. It said this had been an internal data breach and more should 
have been done at that time to verify her address. Lex Autolease said feedback had been 
provided in respect of this. But said that as these calls had occurred after the default had 
been registered, it was satisfied that it had been recorded on Mrs Cs credit file correctly.
Mrs C disagreed with Lex Autoleases decision and complained to this service. She said that 
Lex Autolease had acted unfairly in registering the default on her credit file because:
She disagreed Lex Autolease hadnt been informed of her new address.
That she had agreed the termination of the agreement on the basis that the excess 
mileage fee was waived.
That under the contract hire agreement Lex Autolease wasnt entitled to register a 
default in these circumstances.
That the amount said to be outstanding was incorrect as Lex Autolease should have 
reimbursed the cost of the brake repairs in accordance with a technical bulletin 
issued in 2016 in respect of faulty rear brakes.
Mrs C requested that the default was immediately removed and that she was compensated 
for the impact it had had on her credit file.
Our investigator didnt recommend Mrs Cs complaint should be upheld. He said that he 
didnt think Lex Autolease had acted unfairly.
Our investigator said that in respect of the address issue, that Mrs C had confirmed her old 
address as being current in a phone call to Lex Autolease in June 2021 and that although 
Lex Autolease had been copied into documents that showed a different address and the car 
had been collected from a different address, this wasnt sufficient for it to have changed her 
address without being specifically asked to do so.
Our investigator also said that while Lex Autolease had accepted Mrs C new address as part 
of its security checks in January and February 2022, this had been a mistake and was after 
the recording of the default. In respect of the default, our investigator said he thought Lex Autolease had been entitled to 
record this on Mrs Cs credit file even though the amount had been reduced. He said that 
although there had been a dispute as to the outstanding amount, it was reasonable to say 
Mrs C had been aware there was an outstanding balance on the account. And as the 
balance went unpaid, despite Lex Autoleases attempts to contact her, that it was reasonable 
for this information to be reported. 
In respect of the brake repairs, our investigator said that the technical bulleting didnt apply, 
and it was likely the issue had arisen through fair wear and tear. He said he didnt think Lex 
Autolease had acted unfairly in not crediting this amount to the outstanding balance.
Mrs C disagreed with the view of our investigator. She said any letters about the arrears 
should have been sent by recorded delivery to prove they had been sent and received. Mrs 
C also said that there had been more than one call between herself and Lex Autolease in 
June 2021 and that she had raised her new address during one of those other calls. She 
said the fact that her new address had been accepted as part of a security check for the 
account twice in 2022 was evidence that Lex Autolease had actually recorded her new 
address before it had recorded the default.
Mrs C also said she didnt accept Lex Autolease was entitled to register the default as it was 
a situation set out in clause 10 of the agreement which covered defaults.
Mrs C said that the technical bulletin had applied to the brakes repair carried out in January 
2021, as this bulletin concerned the same part that had been replaced. She said the repair 
hadnt been due to wear and tear as it had involved only the rear brake.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs C has raised a number of issues in her complaint about Lex Autoleases handling of the 
termination of the contract hire agreement and the recording of the default. She has provided 
a number of emails that were sent between herself and the Lex Autolease. Where evidence 
is missing or contradictory then its for me to decide what I think is the most likely thing to 
have happened.
Changing the address on the account
Lex Autolease says that it has been unable to find any evidence that Mrs C requested that 
her address be changed on her account. Mrs C says that she did so during one of the phone 
calls that took place in June 2021, though she isnt able to say when. However, Mrs C says 
this is supported by Lex Autolease accepting her new address during its security checks that 
took place over the phone in January and February 2022.
Though I accept there may have been more than one call between Mrs C and Lex Autolease 
in June 2021, Im satisfied that Mrs C confirmed her old address during a call that took place 
near to the end of June. And as Mrs C was still giving her old address at that time, I think its 
more likely than not that she didnt correct her address during any other calls with Lex 
Autolease. I also think, looking at the evidence, thats been provided that most of the contact 
between Mrs C and Lex Autolease was actually via email. And I havent seen any email that 
refers to her having moved address.While I accept Lex Autolease received a document giving another address for Mrs Cs 
husband and that the car was collected from different address to that registered as her 
home, I dont think either of those things were sufficient for me to say that Lex Autolease 
should have proactively enquired into Mrs Cs address or change it without a direct request. 
This is because the car could be collected from any place not just Mrs Cs home address 
and the document wasnt in Mrs C name. I think its reasonable to say that it was Mrs Cs 
responsibility to ensure her contact details were up to date and correct on her account.
Ive seen that it isnt disputed Mrs Cs new address was accepted on two occasions by Lex 
Autolease when it undertook its security checks during calls in January and February 2021. 
Mrs C says this supports that she had updated her address, and this had been recorded by 
Lex Autolease. But Lex Autolease says this was actually an internal data breach and was 
accepted by mistake. It says it has given feedback to those involved.
While this will be of disappointment to Mrs C, Im afraid I dont agree with her view about 
these errors supporting that Lex Autolease had her current address. I accept Lex 
Autoleases explanation as to what happened here as I have seen no corroborating evidence 
that Mrs C had notified her change of address. Ive also seen that Lex Autolease hasnt 
sought to conceal these errors and investigated them of its own volition.
Im therefore satisfied that Mrs C didnt request that her address was changed for her 
account with Lex Autolease. And any letters sent out to Mrs C regarding her account were 
sent to the address registered on that account.
Termination accepted on the basis that the excess mileage would be waived
Ive seen that when Lex Autolease agreed to terminate the contract hire agreement at no 
cost to Mrs C that she said she accepted this on the basis that the excess mileage fee was 
waived. However, looking at the email exchanges between Mrs C and Lex Autolease, I think 
it was clear that Lex Autolease didnt agree with this condition. Both its final response and in 
the subsequent emails it states that the excess mileage fee will be applied if appropriate. 
While I appreciate her final email in August 2021 went unanswered, I think its fair to say Mrs 
C should have been aware that there was an outstanding balance on the account following 
the termination of the agreement.
Excess Mileage and recording the default
Mrs C has both disputed the amount charged for the excess mileage and that Lex Autolease 
was entitled to record the excess mileage as a default on her account when it wasnt paid. 
She has raised clause 10 of the contract hire agreement which covers default and 
termination and says this doesnt apply to this situation. 
Firstly, looking at the amount charged for the excess mileage, Ive seen it isnt disputed that 
the cars mileage exceeded the set limit by over 10,000 miles. Mrs C has said this was due 
to her husband using the car as she had lost confidence with it due to its faults and it was 
dangerous to drive. She says her husband needed to drive more miles than she did. 
While I accept it may not have been Mrs Cs use that caused the mileage allowance to be 
exceeded, it was still her responsibility as the car was in her possession. This is because 
under the terms of the contract hire agreement its clearly set on page two that the hirer is 
liable for any excess mileage fee and sets out the applicable cost per mile if that limit is 
exceeded.
Mrs C raised that some of the mileage was incurred taking the car into garages for repairs. 
And Ive seen Lex Autolease did make a reduction for that, which I think was fair. I would agree with Lex Autoleases view that it wouldnt cover every visit to the garage since some 
maintenance and repairs would be expected. 
Ive seen that there were a number of letters sent to Mrs C over the outstanding balance 
remaining on the account following the termination of the agreement. These were not 
received due to the address issue as set out above. And as explained above, I think that on 
looking at the email correspondence between Mrs C and Lex Autolease, that its reasonable 
to say that she should have been aware that Lex Autolease didnt agree the excess mileage 
fee should be cancelled by it.
While I accept the excess mileage fee doesnt feature in clause 10, this doesnt mean Lex 
Autolease couldnt record a default when this was unpaid. This is because clause 10 
concerns the default and termination of the agreement following non-payment of the rental 
hire payments. However, even though the excess mileage fee doesnt form part of clause  
10, it is still a term of the agreement which may apply when the agreement has been 
terminated (depending on the cars mileage) so I dont think clause 10 is relevant here. As 
excess mileage is a contractual liability, then I think Lex Autolease was entitled to issue a 
default notice when this wasnt paid and to later record the default when the deadline for 
payment had passed. 
The default notice and arrears letters
Mrs C says these should have been sent recorded delivery to prove they were sent and 
delivered. But this isnt a requirement and its usual for such correspondence to be sent via 
standard post so I cant reasonably say Lex Autolease acted unfairly in not sending letters 
and notices by recorded delivery. On the evidence Ive seen, I think Lex Autolease sent Mrs 
C a number of letters requesting payment of the amount that was outstanding and warning 
of the consequences in not doing so.
Fairness of the default when the amount was reduced
Mrs C says it wasnt fair to record a default against her when Lex Autolease later reduced 
the amount outstanding to £707.59. However, I disagree this reduction means that the 
original recording of the default was unfair. This is because there was an amount 
outstanding on Mrs Cs account following the termination of the agreement. Mrs C didnt 
respond to Lex Autoleases attempts to contact her nor did she make any payments. There 
was therefore an outstanding balance on the account and Lex Autolease was obliged to 
record Mrs Cs management of that account even though the actual amount was latter 
reduced.
Reimbursement of the cost of the brake repairs 
Mrs C says the costs of the repairs undertaken to the rear brakes in January 2021 should be 
reimbursed as they were to fix a fault with the car. She has raised a technical bulletin issued 
in 2016 that concerned corrosion of the rear brakes. However, Lex Autolease has provided 
an email from the manufacturer which confirms that there is no bulletin relating to this vehicle 
and says this technical bulletin isnt therefore relevant as it doesnt apply to this particular 
model. It also says that in any event the repairs were to the brake pad and disc and that 
there was no report of any corrosion being found which is the subject of the bulletin.
I dont have sufficient information about the repairs to say that the brakes were faulty, and 
Im satisfied that the technical bulletin wasnt issued to cover the model of car that Mrs C had 
acquired under the contract hire agreement. Ive also seen that these repairs were carried 
out after Mrs C had the car for over two years and driven nearly 15,000 miles in it. There can 
be a number of reasons for brake wear including the driving style, so I think its fair to say that its more likely than not that these repairs were due to wear and tear from use. Im not 
therefore going to ask Lex Autolease to reimburse the cost of these repairs to Mrs C.
Other reimbursements for costs incurred
Mrs C raised a number of expenses she said she had incurred dealing with the faulty car 
including having to use annual leave taking the car to be repaired. I think Lex Autoleases 
response to these additional costs was fair. Ive seen it agreed to reimburse various items 
including accommodation and travel costs that had incurred getting the car repaired. I think 
its approach regarding the use of annual leave was reasonable as I wouldnt expect that to 
be covered by Lex Autolease. The compensation payment of £250 was for the distress and 
inconvenience of having to deal with the faulty car. I think this amount was fair and Im not 
asking Lex Autolease to reimburse any other costs than those set out in its final response 
letter to Mrs C.
I am sorry that my decision will be of disappointment to Mrs C, but Im not upholding her 
complaint and Im not going to ask Lex Autolease to remove the default recorded on her 
credit file. I think it had acted fairly in registering due to the outstanding balancing on her 
account.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im not upholding Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman