DRN-3289620
The complaint
Mr L complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has unfairly declined a claim hes 
made on his contents insurance policy following the theft of some items from his house.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this matter on 19 January 2022, an extract of which is 
detailed below.
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties and has been 
comprehensively documented by our investigator so I have provided a summary of 
what happened.
Mr L has a contents insurance policy underwritten by UKI.
There was a burglary at his house and a number of items were stolen. The 
police investigated the incident and Mr L reported the loss to UKI.
The following day, Mr L says the burglars returned and stole further items. The 
police investigated again but thought Mr L may have been confused about the 
second burglary.
Later in the month, Mr L advised UKI of other items that had been stolen in 
addition to those reported originally and provided some revised valuations.
UKI investigated the claim and said there were discrepancies between the list 
of items stolen he had reported to the police at the time of the incident (which 
Ill call List A) and the list he submitted under his claim (List B).
It also said there were some inconsistencies in Mr Ls story including where he 
was when the burglary happened and about the whereabouts of the keys to the 
property.
UKI concluded Mr L hadnt met the claim condition in the policy and it declined 
the whole claim. Mr L complained but UKI maintained its position and so he 
brought his complaint to this Service. 
Following this Services involvement, UKI agreed to settle the claim for the items 
on List A but declined the remainder of the claim. It also accepted that Mr L had 
provided explanations and clarification about the majority of its concerns.
Our investigator said she understood why Mr L might not have immediately 
identified all the stolen items so soon after the burglary. She was also satisfied he 
had provided an updated list of stolen items to the police and it had received 
these.
She decided that UKI should reassess the claim for the additional items stolen in 
the first burglary and pay Mr L 8% on top together with £350 for the distress and 
inconvenience UKI had caused. But she didnt think UKI needed to pay the claim 
relating to the second burglary.
She did say, if further information was subsequently received from the police, 
UKI should reconsider the claim for the items stolen in the second burglary and 
it confirmed it would do this.
Mr L accepted her recommendations. But UKI remained concerned about the 
difference in the loss lists and that it hadnt been given evidence of the updated 
list being sent to the police until four years after the burglary, and then only after 
this Services involvement.
It asked an Ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whats still in dispute
As I explained above, following our involvement, UKI has now agreed to pay the claim 
for the stolen items on List A.
Mr L has accepted the Investigators conclusion that UKI doesnt need to pay the part of 
the claim relating to the items he said were stolen in the second burglary. Mr L has 
complained to the police about its report of the incident. UKI has confirmed it will look at 
this aspect of the claim again if further relevant information is received from the police 
following this complaint.
So, what remains in dispute is the items stolen in the first burglary that werent reported 
to the police at the time, only sometime later. So that will be the focus of my decision.
The reason for the claim decline
Its important to set out that when an insurance claim is made, the policyholder will need 
to substantiate the loss theyre claiming for. So, in a theft-related claim likes this, its for 
the policyholder to be clear about which items have been stolen and to show that they 
owned them. This is to ensure insurers arent exposed to exaggerated or dishonest 
claims
Mr L blames some of the inconsistencies on the police report completed at the time of the 
burglary, which he says contained errors. While I acknowledge, Mr Ls concerns about the 
report, I can see why UKI initially took the stance it did as there are a significant number of 
differences in what the report showed he said to the police and what he said to UKI. I think 
it was reasonable UKI placed significant weight on the police report in reaching its 
decision to decline the claim as, on the face of it, these notes represented a 
contemporaneous record of what happened and the items stolen and were from an 
apparently reliable source.
The concerns about the loss lists
As I explained above, UKI seems to have accepted Mr L has now provided clarification on the majority of the inconsistencies. But its still concerned about the difference in the 
items on List A and List B.
List B contained a significantly higher number of items not originally reported to the 
police but which were reported to UKI subsequent to the first burglary. The value of 
these additional items was also significantly higher.
While UKI says it only received confirmation the updated loss list had been supplied to the 
police following our involvement and some years after the original claim, the evidence 
shows Mr L did submit the updated list to the police in 2017 and received an 
acknowledgement the list had been received, and updated.
So, Ive gone on to think about the circumstances of the burglary and whether theres a 
reasonable explanation for the difference in the loss lists. In my experience, its not 
uncommon for the victims of a burglary to experience shock in the aftermath. I note that 
the police attending the incident said Mr L was severely sleep-deprived and not 
functioning properly after the incident. The report went as far as to say Mr Ls mind may 
have been playing tricks on him and there may have actually only been one burglary. For 
these reasons, I understand why Mr L may not have immediately been able to identify all 
the items that had been stolen.
But I need to balance this with the responsibility Mr L had to report accurately and 
consistently the items that had been stolen, both to the police and to UKI. Theres 
undoubtedly a large discrepancy between the two lists so Ive gone on to think 
carefully about this.
When considering the two lists, I think there are some items it would be understandable 
Mr L didnt notice were missing immediately. These are items that perhaps wouldnt be 
used every day or are smaller such as jewellery or watches and so I can understand why 
Mr L might not have notified the police of these at the time. Given that Mr L has provided 
everything UKI asked for in relation to these items, I think it should reconsider this aspect 
of the claim.
But what I find less easy to understand are the larger items such as the other musical 
instruments particularly as from Mr Ls testimony, these were in the same room as the 
guitar he did report as stolen to the police at the time. Given that Mr L plays musical 
instruments and has a good knowledge of their value, I think it would be reasonable to 
expect him to have noticed all these items missing at the same time and to have reported 
them to the police accordingly.
Even accepting that, according to the police report, Mr Ls home was in a general state of 
untidiness, with personal possessions all over the property, Im satisfied these items 
should have been obviously missing. And because of this, Im not persuaded UKI should 
include these in its reconsideration of the claim.
I concluded UKI should reconsider the part of the claim relating to the items on List B 
stolen in the first burglary, apart from three guitars and a saxophone, in line with the 
remaining policy terms and conditions. Together with interest at 8% on the items in List A 
if UKI decided to cash settle and an award of £350 to Mr L for the distress and 
inconvenience UKI caused. 
UKI responded to say it broadly accepted my provisional decision. Mr L responded and 
provided further comments which Ive summarised below:
Hes a collector of various different types of items and often has things laying around the house. Its therefore easier for him to not notice items are missing. He 
provided a recent photo to demonstrate this. 
He no longer played the saxophone so its understandable he didnt notice it was 
missing.
The likely location of the guitars in the hallway means he wouldnt have noticed 
them missing by the time the Police arrived.
He only had a short period of time to assess what was stolen before the Police 
arrived and its not fair UKI refused to pay items not on this list.
He reiterated the alleged discrepancies in the Police report and his complaint to 
the Information Commissioners Office (ICO).
He also reiterated that a second burglary did happen.
He said he reluctantly accepted the Investigators reccomendation that UKI is 
allowed to wait for the outcome of the ICO complaint before considering the claim 
relating to the second burglary.
He offered a home visit to understand better the state of the property.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Home visit
Mr L has offered a visit to his house to see the environment and surroundings he lives in. 
This kind of inspection is outside of the usual scope of this Service, and Im satisfied I can 
fairly decide this complaint based on the available evidence, so I wont be taking him up on 
this offer.
The stolen items 
Mr L pointed out he only had a relatively short time to assess what was missing before the 
Police arrived so its understandable he missed some items from the initial list and a only 
added them when submitting his claim to UKI. So, Ive borne this in mind when considering 
this part of the complaint.
I acknowledge what Mr L says about being a collector of various items and that he has many 
of them lying around the house at various times. Hes provided a recent photograph which 
he says demonstrates this. And I agree this photo does show a large number of items in one 
of his rooms. But this photo was taken in January 2022. And while it shows the room to be 
extremely cluttered, it is of course from some years after the burglary so is not necessarily 
representative of the time of the burglary. 
So, Ive revisited other evidence Ive been provided with, and there are other photos taken 
by the Police shortly after the burglary. These show the same room, and it does still contain 
multiple items but a level of untidiness thats only a fraction of whats shown in the photos 
from this year. I acknowledge that the photo was taken after the items were stolen so there 
are less things lying around than there would have been. But many of the items Mr L 
identified as stolen were small in size such as jewellery, watches and rings so I dont think 
their absence would have made a significant difference to the extent of the untidiness, nor 
made it that much more difficult to see the alto saxophone was missing from this room as he 
has suggested.Mr L points out the Police noted there were some guitars in the hallway together with a 
number of amplifiers. Mr L says he wouldnt have noticed items missing from this area in the 
time before the Police arrived. I acknowledge what Mr L says here but to me, on balance, I 
think the absence of three guitars from a hallway would have likely been noticeable.
Overall, I remain of the view that, on balance, the alto saxophone in the living room and the 
three missing guitars in the hallway of the house would more likely than not have been 
reasonably obviously missing. So, Im still not persuaded they should be included in UKIs 
reassessment of the part of the claim related to List B.
The second burglary and the ICO complaint
In my provisional decision, I referenced the Police view that Mr L may have imagined the 
second burglary but I expressed no opinion about whether I thought this was right or not. I 
acknowledge Mr L firmly believes there was a second burglary and disagrees with the 
opinion expressed by the police officer saying it was misleading and insulting. And as Ive 
explained before, hes made a complaint to the ICO. 
I also said Mr L had accepted our Investigators view that UKI could wait for the outcome of 
his complaint to the ICO and any subsequent response from the Police before reconsidering 
the claim for the items he said were stolen in this second burglary. I didnt make any findings 
on this aspect of the complaint because of this but noted UKI had agreed to do this.
Mr L clarified that he had reluctantly accepted the Investigators view but felt UKI should 
reconsider this part of the claim irrelevant of the outcome of the complaint to the ICO and 
any further response from the Police. I note from the file that the ICO has now responded to 
the complaint but its not clear whether Mr L has provided this to UKI so he may wish to do 
this for UKI to consider what its said. Its also not clear whether the Police have responded 
following the ICOs conclusions but if they have, Mr L may wish to forward this to UKI to 
consider too.
Overall
In summary, Ive thought very carefully about this complaint and Mr Ls additional comments. 
And having done so, I remain satisfied the way I said the complaint should be settled in my 
provisional decision is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances so I wont be changing 
my direction to UKI.
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive explained, I think UKI needs to do more than it has in this case.
It should reconsider the claim relating to the items in List B stolen in the first burglary, but not 
included in List A, apart from the three guitars and the saxophone, in line with the remaining 
policy terms and conditions. 
The issue of possible underinsurance seems to remain although Ive not seen anything from 
UKI which explains where its total loss figure came from. UKI may want to take into account 
the possible underinsurance when reconsidering the claim and if it does, it should explain 
clearly to Mr L how it reached this conclusion, providing evidence to substantiate it and a 
clear explanation of how it reaches its eventual settlement figure.
UKI accepted it could have settled the part of the claim relating to List A much sooner, by 
25 September 2017. If it cash settles this, it should additionally add 8% simple interest per 
annum* from that date to the date it makes the settlement. I explained in my provisional decision Mr L has found dealing with the claim over and 
extended period very difficult. I think UKI could have settled the claim much more quickly. It 
should pay him £350 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience it caused him because 
it didnt.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct UKI to settle it in line with what Ive 
said above. 
UKI must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr L 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
* If UK considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, 
it should tell Mr L how much its taken off. It should also give Mr L a tax deduction certificate if he asks 
for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or  
reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman