DRN-3339551
The complaint
Miss M complains that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans provided her 
with loans that she was unable to afford to repay. 
What happened
Miss M took out the following loans from Everyday Loans:
Reference Date taken 
outAmount Term - 
monthsMonthly 
repaymentAmount to 
be repaidDate 
repaid
1101216338 
(loan one)09/09/09 £3,000 60 £125.99 £7,559.40 16/08/13
1105030935 
(loan two)  16/08/13 £3,000 48 £136.76 £6,564.48 02/05/17
Loan two was taken out in part to pay off the remaining balance of loan one. For both loans 
Everyday Loans carried out a credit check, and obtained recent bank statements and 
payslips to establish Miss Ms ability to pay the loans. In respect of loan one, it said Miss M 
had a disposable income after accounting for the loan repayment of around £427 per month. 
For loan two it said she had a disposable income of around £160 per month. In both cases it 
said that the checks it had carried out established at the loans were affordable in both cases. 
It pointed out that she had made all the regular payments for both loans, and wasnt in 
default in respect of any of her loans/credit.
On review our adjudicator said that for loan one Everyday Loans should have made more 
checks, but as Miss M hadnt supplied information to show what any such further checks 
might have revealed, he determined that he couldnt uphold her complaint regarding this 
loan. For loan two he said it was clear, taking into account Miss Ms substantial credit 
commitments that the loan repayments were unsustainable without Miss M having to 
continue borrowing. He said Everyday Loans should refund all interest and charges on the 
account.
Everyday Loans responded that there had been an error in the affordability calculation sheet 
it had sent in, the actual one showed that Miss M had a disposable income of around £160 
per month rather than the £62 originally shown. It believed the loan to be affordable - Miss M 
hadnt defaulted on any payments.
Our adjudicator still thought the loan was unsustainable. The matter has been passed to me 
for further consideration.
I issued a provisional decision. In respect of both loans one and two I didnt think Everyday 
Loans had made a fair lending decision.
Neither party responded to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional findings were as follows:
loan one
Ive seen the bank statement Miss M supplied in respect of this loan application. From this it
could be seen that she was running a substantial overdraft, which didnt appear to be
reducing. She also had several credits from her employer on top of her normal salary, which
might not have been regular. Even so, over the period covered by the bank statement Miss
M was paying out more than she received. Miss M had a number of credit cards with
balances on them, and in Everyday Loans assessment of her credit commitments it allowed
for only the minimum payment in respect of each credit card.
In light of the information in her bank statement, I think Miss M was likely to have been
unable to afford the loan, noting that she continued to take on further credit commitments in
the course of the loan, and had to take out a further loan out to pay it off. In my view as
Everyday Loans affordability calculation was so at odds with what was shown in the bank
statement, it should have been on notice that Miss M was likely to struggle to repay the loan.
I dont think it made a fair lending decision in respect of this loan.
loan two
By the time Miss M applied for loan two, her credit commitments had increased substantially,
according to Everyday Loans calculations, by over £260 per month. However her income
had remained roughly the same (a difference of £12 per month), so in real terms had
decreased. She had taken on a substantial hire purchase loan and had borrowed substantial
amounts on store credit since loan one. She still had several credit cards with balances on
them. Her credit repayments - £651 out of an income of £1,482 amounted to some 44% of
her income.
Everyday Loans says its disposable income calculation showed that Miss M had sufficient
disposable income after accounting for the loan. However when considering whether the
loan was sustainable we dont just look at the pounds and pence calculations. Ive noted that
over the course of the loan Miss M continued to borrow, taking out a number of payday
loans. I think the information Everyday Loans obtained in its checks should have led it to
make further checks to ensure the new loan didnt have adverse consequences for Miss M.
Taking into account the substantial increase in Miss Ms commitments against an income
which had scarcely increased in four years, I dont think Everyday Loans carried out
sufficient checks to assure itself that Miss M would be able to sustain payments on the loan
without resorting to further borrowing. So I dont think it made a fair lending decision.
As neither party has responded to my provisional findings, those findings are now final and 
form part of this final decision.
Putting things right
Everyday Loans should:refund all interest and charges Miss M paid on loan one (1101216338) and loan two (ref 
1105030935)
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement. *
remove any negative information about loans one and two from Miss Ms credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans to
take off tax from this interest. It must give Miss M a certificate showing how much tax its
taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans to 
provide the remedy set out under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman