DRN-4048852
The complaint
Mr M complains that Brazier Consulting Services Ltd (Brazier) failed to pursue a mis-sold 
payment protection insurance (PPI) complaint which meant hes lost the opportunity to have 
his claim investigated.
What happened
Mr M said he was cold called by Brazier about making a complaint about mis-sold PPI. He 
said he signed their forms and waited to hear about his claim. But despite calling, emailing 
and texting Brazier hadnt given him a resolution to his claim. Mr M said the odd time when 
hed get a response from them, they just said there was a backlog because of high volumes 
and the pandemic. Mr M said hed instructed Brazier to pursue a mis-sold PPI complaint with 
a lender who hed taken out a loan with in 1990, and he just wanted an answer whether his 
claim was successful or not. Mr M complained to Brazier, but they didnt respond. He said 
after contacting the lender they told him they hadnt received a complaint from Brazier. Mr M 
referred his complaint about Brazier to us.
Our investigator asked Brazier to provide their business file so that we could consider what 
theyd done for Mr M in pursuance of his mis-sold PPI claim. But Brazier didnt provide the 
requested information. Our investigator said he couldnt say whether Mr M claim would have 
been successful but said Mr M had suffered a loss of opportunity. He asked Brazier to  
compensate Mr M £250 for this. 
Brazier didnt respond to our investigators outcome, so Mr Ms complaint has been referred 
to an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its unfortunate that Brazier hasnt engaged with our investigation. They havent provided for 
example any instruction authority from Mr M, nor any case notes, call recordings or lender 
responses. Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I reach my 
decision on the balance of probabilities - in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened or not considering the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Having done so I uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr Ms main dispute centres around the potential for a mis-sold PPI claim with his lender.  
Mr M said he was hopeful of success as hed had a loan account with them in 1990. 
Firstly, Mr M said Brazier had cold called him to make a claim that hed been mis-sold PPI. 
As Brazier havent engaged with us I cant see how contact was made with or by Mr M. The 
Claims Management Code of Business sourcebook (CMCOB) sets out guidance provided to 
claims management companies (CMC) by the regulator the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) for CMCs to follow. CMCOB 2.1.5 R says:
A firm must not carry out a cold call in person.
The FCA deemed 29 August 2019 as the deadline for PPI claims to be made. For some 
lenders the submission of a letter of authority signed by the complainant instructing a CMC to act 
for them was accepted as a claim for mis-sold PPI and no further information was needed for 
them to investigate the mis-sold PPI claim.  But for others a formal complaint with supporting 
information was required. Any claim received after the 29 August 2019 deadline wouldnt have 
been accepted by the lender(s) unless there were exceptional circumstances for doing so.
Mr M said his lender told him they hadnt received a complaint about mis-sold PPI from Brazier. 
But his lender has since shown us that they did receive a complaint from Brazier about mis-sold 
PPI on 12 September 2019 but were unable to locate Mr Ms account. They said they responded 
to Brazier via a spreadsheet, to confirm they were unable to locate an account for Mr M. And that  
they hadnt heard anything from Brazier since they responded to them in 2019.
Mr Ms lender can only show they received a mis-sold PPI complaint from Brazier in 
September 2019, after the deadline for making such complaints. And as I outlined above for 
a complaint to be accepted after the August 2019 deadline there had to be exceptional 
circumstances. Mr M said he was called by Brazier to make a claim for mis-sold PPI. I think 
this was unlikely to have happened after the August 2019 deadline had passed. So, on 
balance I think Mr M would have instructed Brazier to act for him before the deadline for 
making such claims had passed.
Mr Ms lender said they told Brazier, in October 2019, they couldnt locate an account for   
Mr M. I would have expected, as Mr M s lender couldnt find an account for Brazier to seek 
further information from Mr M to help identify his account details. I havent seen any 
evidence that shows Brazier took any follow up action to establish the details of the loan 
account Mr M said hed with his lender in 1990.  CMCOB 6.1.4 R says:
The firm must pass on to the customer:
(a) any information received from a third party which is addressed to, or meant for, the 
attention of that customer; and (b) any request received by the firm from a third party for the 
supply of information by the customer that the firm does not already hold.
 Also
The firm must pass on the information or request: 
(a) promptly, and in any event within ten business days of receiving the information or 
request; and (b) in a durable medium.
CMCOB 6.1.9 says:
A firm must provide each customer with an update on the progress of the claim at least 
once every six months, in a durable medium.
Mr M has shown that Brazier sent a general update notification to him in February 2020 
about the high volumes of complaints received by lenders before the August 2019 deadline 
and that this would cause some delay. I think Mr M would take from this that Brazier had 
submitted his claim to his lender before the August 2019 deadline. And that Brazier were 
waiting for his lender to investigate his claim. I can also see an automated acknowledgement 
sent to Mr M after he emailed Brazier in August 2022, But I havent seen any updates to    
Mr M about the status of his mis-sold PPI claim, requests for information, or to say his claim 
had been submitted too late or couldnt be investigated.So, on balance I think Mr M would have instructed Brazier to submit a letter of authority to 
his lender before the August 2019 deadline. As Brazier havent provided any evidence of the 
actions they took I think its most likely theyve caused Mr M to lose the opportunity for a mis-
sold PPI complaint to be investigated as they either submitted his mis-sold PPI complaint 
after the August 2019 deadline. Or theyd failed to seek sufficient information from Mr M 
about the loan account hed with his lender for them to locate his loan account. 
Putting things right
I cant know or speculate whether Mr M would have had a successful mis-sold PPI claim with 
his lender or not as there are several factors that lenders would have needed to consider.
But Brazier havent provided any evidence to show they acted fairly and reasonably. And on 
the evidence, Ive seen Im not persuaded Brazier carried out Mr Ms instructions to pursue 
his mis-sold PPI claim with his lender. And I think this means Mr Ms lost the opportunity for 
a mis-sold PPI claim to be fully investigated as its now over three years since the deadline 
has passed for these claims to be made. I think Brazier should compensate Mr M £250 for 
this.
I understand Mr M probably wont feel as though this addresses his potential financial loss or 
feeling of being let down by Brazier. But I hope he can understand my thinking for reaching 
my decision.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask Brazier Consulting Services Ltd to compensate Mr M for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by paying him £250 for loss of opportunity.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2023.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman