DRN-3142220
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn) irresponsibly granted her a 
loan she couldnt afford to repay. 
  
What happened
In November 2014, Mrs W acquired a car and financed that deal through a conditional sale 
agreement with Moneybarn. Mrs W was required to make monthly payments of £305.08 over 
60 months after which she would take ownership of the car. The total repayable under the 
agreement was £21,449.72 and an initial payment of £3,450 was made by Mrs W towards 
the agreement. The agreement has now been repaid in full.
Mrs W says that Moneybarn didnt complete adequate affordability checks. She says if it 
had, it would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Moneybarn didnt agree. It said 
that it carried out a thorough assessment which included verifying Mrs Ws income through 
wage slips and checking her credit file.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. She thought Moneybarn ought to 
have realised the agreement wasnt affordable for Mrs W.
Moneybarn didnt respond to our adjudicators view so the case has been passed to me for a 
final decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneybarn will be familiar with all the rules, regulations, and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
The payslips Moneybarn reviewed showed them that Mrs W was earning about £1,284 per 
month on average. The repayments on the loan she was applying for therefore represented 
a large proportion of her income. Moneybarn have explained they noted some historic 
defaulted debt on her credit file but hasnt provided a copy of the credit check it completed. 
Mrs Ws bank statements show that she had other loans at the time, I think its likely they 
would have shown on the credit check Moneybarn reviewed, and I think given the defaulted 
debt, the presence of other credit commitments and the amount of the loan, it ought to have 
indicated that Mrs W was likely to be struggling financially. It therefore would have been 
proportionate for Moneybarn to have dug deeper and got a more thorough understanding of 
Mrs Ws financial circumstances before lending.
I think it would have been proportionate for Moneybarn to have found out more about       
Mrs Ws committed expenditure, such as her living costs. I cant be sure exactly what 
Moneybarn would have found out if it had asked. In the absence of anything else, I think it 
would be reasonable to place significant weight on the information contained in Mrs Ws 
bank statements as to what would most likely have been disclosed. 
Ive reviewed three months of bank statements leading up to the lending decision. These 
show that Mrs W was paying about £1,100 towards her committed living expenditure 
including mobile phone, insurances, council tax, and household costs. She also had credit 
card debt and was making payments towards a payday loan. Her income was about £1,284 
so this left a disposable income of about £184 from which to pay the £305.08 monthly 
instalment on this motor agreement. This demonstrates that Mrs W didnt have enough 
disposable income to afford the additional borrowing. Moneybarn therefore didnt act fairly by 
approving the finance.
  
Putting things right
As I dont think Moneybarn ought to have approved the lending, I dont think its fair for it to
be able to charge any interest or charges under the agreement. Mrs W should therefore only 
have to pay the original cash price of the car, being £13,450. Anything Mrs W has paid in 
excess of that amount should be refunded as an overpayment. 
To settle Mrs Ws complaint Moneybarn should do the following:
Refund any payments Mrs W has made in excess of £13,450, representing the 
original cash price of the car. It should add 8% simple interest per year* from the date 
of each overpayment to the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Ws credit file regarding the 
agreement.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Moneybarn to take off tax from this interest. Moneybarn 
No. 1 Limited must give Mrs W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if Mrs W 
asks for one.
  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Moneybarn No. 1 Limited to put things right in the manner 
set out above. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman