DRN-4060995
The complaint
Ms H complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) wont refund money 
she claimed under the direct debit indemnity scheme.
What happened
Ms H made several claims from Halifax under the Direct Debit Indemnity (DDI) scheme. All 
were declined. She included three claims relating to three utility companies (which I cant 
name here for reasons of confidentiality).
Ms H complains that Halifax have declined her claims, which she says is unfair. She said the 
payments were made in error and wants a refund. The payments were made between 2010 
and 2021.
She said she hadnt signed any agreements to make the payments to the companies 
concerned. And payments over the period were changed without warning or her consent. 
She said that the three utility companies do not create or supply gas/electricity and so the 
payments are fraudulent. Ms H said by law, everyone should be entitled to free water, gas, 
and electricity.
Halifax said the claims were denied because the claim wasnt valid and didnt meet their 
criteria for a refund. Payments had been made since 2010 and Ms H hadnt challenged the 
payments during that time. They referred Ms H back to the originating companies.
Ms H brought her complaint to us and our investigator looked at what had happened.
Halifax told us that Ms H had made 55 claims for refunds, but none of those included the 
three utility companies which were the subject of the complaint Ms H brought to this service. 
But looking at Ms Hs other claims, our investigator said Halifax had reviewed the claims in 
line with the DDI rules  and found there hadnt been an error, so declined the claims. There 
wasnt a reason for a wet signature to be provided  as the DDs were set up electronically. 
She said Halifax declined the claims properly.
Ms H didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at her complaint. She said the 
ombudsman doesnt defend people, only companies.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen Ms Hs comments so let me say at the outset that we are not a consumer group  
we dont take sides. We are independent and impartial and our role is to listen to both sides 
of a complaint, take evidence from both parties, and then decide on a fair and reasonable 
outcome.
Halifax told us that Ms H hadnt put claims to them for the direct debits to the three utility 
companies. So here  I cant comment on Halifaxs decision on those claims. Because 
simply, claims havent been put to Halifax.
So  if Ms H wishes to put those claims to Halifax, she should do so.
However, in reviewing her complaint, I would note (and ask Ms H to consider this):
- A wet signature isnt needed to set up a direct debit. In most cases, the direct debit is 
set up electrically, online.
- A wet signature isnt needed if the amount claimed by the direct debit originator 
varies  it is part of the DD scheme that amounts claimed can be variable and can be 
changed by the companies concerned.
- Any claim where payments have been made for a long period of time (without being 
challenged) isnt likely to be successful. And in the case of the three utility 
companies, Ms H told us theyd been paid from 2010 to 2021.
Halifax told us that Ms H had made 55 claims for other DD originators  and theyve been 
declined. And I can see that on those, Halifax correctly followed processes in reviewing them 
and came to reasonable and fair decisions.
So  it is up to Ms H if she wants to put the further claims to Halifax, but Id advise her to 
consider what Ive said before she does so. I hope she finds that helpful.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman