DRN-1869936
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M say they say they were mis-sold a mortgage payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy by Yorkshire Building Society (YBS). 
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed this case and told Mr and Mrs M it was unlikely to be 
upheld. They disagreed and asked for it to be passed for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done this, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint. 
The company acting for Mr and Mrs M put forward a large number of reasons as to why the 
PPI was mis-sold. However, Im afraid Ive found no evidence to support the allegations. Im 
sorry to disappoint them.
I can see, for example, that they originally took out their joint mortgage in 1984, but the PPI 
doesnt appear to have been added until 1989. Having operated their mortgage without PPI 
for 5 years, Mr and Mrs M would have therefore been able to see it wasnt something they 
needed to have. It also looks that when they took the policy out, they filled out a number of 
forms to agree to it and their additional mortgage offer portrayed the PPI policy as them 
having specifically agreed to it.
So, whilst I accept Mr and Mrs M may honestly believe now that the cover was mis-sold to 
them, obviously I need to consider that the sale was over 30 years ago. Everything Ive 
seen points to them having consented to buy the policy in the appropriate way.
After such a long time, I cant that Mr and Mrs M were told everything they ought to have 
been told during the sale process. But I think they would have known that getting the 
mortgage was their own decision and they would have been able to see the costs involved 
for the PPI policy. Overall, I think they probably had enough information on which to make 
an informed decision about what they wanted to do. And even if I think more could have 
been done to make things clearer for them, Im afraid this doesnt alter my view.
This is because Mr and Mrs M appear to have been eligible for the cover and not caught 
by any of the main exclusions we sometimes see in these policies. The price seems to me 
to be comparable with similar policies from around that time period and at around £ 8 -11 
per month over the time they had it, Ive seen nothing that suggests it wasnt affordable for 
them. I cant say why they opted for this type of protection, but their mortgage was secured 
against their home and it was clearly a long-term and important financial commitment. So 
the consequences of them not being able to keep up payments could have been serious. In 
the event of a successful claim, the PPI protection was payable for up to 12 months at £200 
per month. This would have been in addition to any other means they already had in place 
at the time. I therefore think the policy was of use.
In summary, I think theres solid evidence that Mr and Mrs M probably engaged in 
discussions about this sale and went through a number of steps to get the policy. I accept 
they could have forgotten about this after so long but theres nothing substantive for me to 
uphold their complaint with.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. And I dont direct Yorkshire Building Society to do 
anything. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 September 2020.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman