DRN-4413512
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complaint that Barclays Bank UK PLC delayed their mortgage application. As 
a result, they lost out on the interest rate they wanted.
What happened
On 26 July 2022, Mr and Mrs K applied to Barclays to take out a two-year interest rate 
tracker product, 0.75% above the Bank of England base rate (base rate). They said Barclays 
handled the application poorly and delayed it. As a result, their mortgage reverted to the 
standard variable rate (SVR).
Mr and Mrs K said they had an offer from another lender for an interest rate of 3%. But that 
offer expired because of Barclays delays and they ended up taking a five-year fixed rate of 
4.14% instead. They consider Barclays should pay the difference between what they paid 
and what they would have paid had the 3% interest rate gone ahead.
I issued a provisional decision upholding the complaint in part. My provisional findings, which 
form part of this decision, were:
Barclays has accepted that between the application being received and the offer being
issued there was a two-week delay  and that was outside its usual timescales.
It later came to light that Mrs K sometimes used a different name from what was on the
application and that required further checks. There were also issues around whether another
mortgage Mr and Mrs K had was repaid. I accept these were legitimate queries for a
mortgage lender to have and Barclays was entitled to look into them.
But some of the information Barclays requested wasnt needed or had already been
provided by Mr and Mrs K. That caused some delays. Mr and Mrs K also said that they
received poor service from Barclays throughout that period and I cant see that has been
disputed. A new mortgage offer was issued on 14 October 2022. But by that time Mr and
Mrs K had already switched rates with their existing lender.
While the time taken was only a few weeks, I accept that there was an avoidable delay of
around three or four weeks. So if Barclays had acted fairly and reasonably it could have
issued the new mortgage offer or been ready to proceed between 8 and 15 September.
Where I find that a business had not acted fairly and reasonably, I look to put the affected
party back in the position they would have been in had they been treated fairly.
If Barclays had dealt with Mr and Mrs K fairly and reasonably, it would have issued the new
mortgage between 8 and 15 September. But its not clear if that had happened that Mr and
Mrs K would have taken the Barclays mortgage or that they have suffered a financial loss by
not doing so.
The difficulty I have is that on 29 September 2022, Mr and Mrs K received a mortgage offer
from their existing lender. It said theyd received advice from a mortgage broker  it is not
clear when they received that advice. The statements theyve provided show that the new
rate was in place on 5 October 2022. So the starting point is that Barclays is responsible for
the interest paid at SVR between 15 September and 5 October. But I dont think that is fair in
the circumstances here. Ill explain why.
First, it is not clear that Mr and Mrs K have actually suffered a loss as a result of Barclays
delay. As I explained, I would look to put them in the position they would have been in had
Barclays acted correctly and they took the Barclays tracker interest rate. If they had taken
the tracker rate, their mortgage payments would have tracked the base rate. On 15
December 2022, the base rate increased to 3.5%. So the tracker interest rate from that point
would have been higher than they actually paid from 5 October  and it has remained higher
since. Over the fixed term they will pay considerably less interest than if they had gone
ahead with Barclays.
Second, Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs K would have gone ahead with the tracker rate
with Barclays even if there were no delays. I say that because Mr and Mrs K told us they
chose not to proceed with Barclays as the offer was no longer viable. We know that Mr and
Mrs K had made that decision by 29 September 2022 and are likely to have received
mortgage advice some time before that. The base rate had increased once since Mr and Mrs
K applied to Barclays on 4 August 2022. Presumably they expected it to do so again. So
they made the rational decision to choose a fixed rate instead. I dont see how I could fairly
say that Barclays should compensate Mr and Mrs K for their decision.
Overall, I dont consider it would be fair for me to say that Barclays should compensate Mr
and Mrs K for the time they paid SVR.
I note Mr and Mrs K said that they would have taken an earlier fixed rate offered by their 
lender if Barclays hadnt delayed things. I havent seen any evidence any rate was offered. 
And I cant see how Barclays is to blame for their decision not to take that rate.
I need to decide what is a fair amount of compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
Mr and Mrs K suffered because of the delays. I accept that reverting to SVR between around 
8 and 15 and September and 5 October will have caused Mr and Mrs K some worry and 
theyve said the process overall caused them incredible stress. There was also the 
uncertainty and inconvenience of the three or four-week delay, along with the poor service 
they received.
In all the circumstances and considering our approach to compensation, I consider that 
Barclays should pay Mr and Mrs K £300 for any avoidable distress and inconvenience it has 
caused to them.
Mr and Mrs K and Barclays both accepted my provisional decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from the 
findings set out above. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr and Mrs K £300.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to accept or reject my decision before 21 November 2023.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman