DRN-4344167
complaint
Mrs R is unhappy that Zopa Bank Limited is holding her liable for a personal loan she says 
she didnt take out.
Background
In 2021, Mrs R fell victim to an investment scam. She was looking for investment 
opportunities online and found a company that appeared to be endorsed by a well-known 
media personality. She entered her details on that companys website and received a call 
from someone who persuaded her to invest her money. That call wasnt from a genuine 
investment manager, but a fraudster.
The fraudster told Mrs R that, in order to help her with the process of making her 
investments, she should download a piece of remote access software. This enabled the 
fraudster to take control of her computer and show her how to carry out the steps he said 
were necessary to make the investments.
She says that the fraudster would sometimes access her computer using that software and 
she thinks he also had access to her email account. Some of the money that was lost to the 
fraud was funded by a loan granted by Zopa Bank. Mrs R says that she didnt take out the 
loan and that the fraudsters must be responsible. She contacted Zopa and asked that it 
cancel the loan, but Zopa didnt agree.
Mrs R was unhappy with that response and so she referred her complaint to this service. It 
was looked at by an Investigator who thought it was most likely Mrs R was, at the very least, 
aware that the loan had been taken out. Mrs R disagreed with the Investigators view and so 
the complaint has been passed to me to consider and come to a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I cant know with complete certainty how the loan application was made. And when dealing 
with that uncertainty, I must reach a decision based on the balance of probabilities  that is, I 
need to be persuaded that the available evidence shows its more likely than not that Mrs R 
didnt take out the loan. 
Ive considered the evidence carefully and Im not persuaded thats the case here. I agree 
with the conclusions of the Investigator that its likely that the loan was arranged with Mrs Rs 
knowledge. I can see that the application was submitted using her genuine email address. 
Zopa emailed that address to request that various pieces of supporting documentation be 
uploaded and this request was responded to.
Zopa sent other emails to that same address, including notifications about a direct debit 
mandate being put in place and the first payment being collected. When Mrs R contacted 
Zopa to question the loan, it was this email address that was used to send her query. She 
has speculated about the possibility that her email account was compromised. But she 
hasnt said that she was frozen out of the account and so, even if a third party had gained 
access, I think its likely shed have seen some of the emails that were sent to her by Zopa.
It's also significant that the phone number that was submitted on the application was one 
that appears to be connected to her. If a fraudster had intended to submit a loan application 
without her knowledge, it doesnt seem likely that theyd use her phone number given the 
obvious risk that the lender would call Mrs R and the scam would be exposed. 
I know my decision will be hugely disappointing to Mrs R, but Im persuaded that the weight 
of the evidence suggests the loan was arranged with her knowledge and consent. It follows 
that I dont think Zopa has acted unreasonably by holding her liable for it. Nonetheless, Id 
like to remind Zopa that it has a regulatory obligation to offer forbearance and due 
consideration in the event that Mrs R experiences financial difficulties.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman