DRN-4077277
The complaint
Mr D complained that Skyfire Insurance Company Limited unfairly settled another drivers 
claim against his motor insurance policy
What happened
Mr D was involved in an accident and said that the other driver( the third party) was to 
blame. Skyfire agreed with this at first but then settled the claim with Mr D at fault. They   
said that the overall evidence suggested that Mr D was responsible and their first view on 
liability was mistaken. They offered Mr D £25 in compensation for that, but he rejected it. He 
was also unhappy about Skyfire reducing his no claims discount (NCD) and having to pay 
the policy excess. 
The investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. She thought that 
Skyfire had decided liability fairly and in line with their terms and conditions. Mr D didnt 
agree and so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont decide which party is liable for causing an accident. Thats because that is a matter 
for the courts. But we do consider whether an insurer has acted in line with their policy 
terms, and whether they reached their decision in a fair and reasonable way. In this case, 
Ive checked that Mr Ds policy does give Skyfire discretion to decide liability and take over 
and deal with the defence and settlement of any claim. This means that Skyfire  can decide 
to settle whether Mr D likes it or not. 
Mr D said that he was reversing slowly when he hit the third party driver who had appeared 
from in front of him then unexpectedly cut in behind him, and an independent witness agreed 
that it was the third partys fault. Mr D wanted Skyfire  to take the third party to court. 
However the third party blamed Mr D and, despite several attempts, Skyfire were unable to 
contact the witness as their number was either incorrect or unobtainable. 
Ive seen Skyfires file and its clear that they did investigate and consider Mr Ds account of 
events as well as that of the third party. They looked at all the information Mr D sent them 
about the accident and location and photos of the accidents aftermath and where both 
vehicles were  damaged. 
Skyfire said that under the Highway Code Mr D was liable because hed been reversing, and 
it was up to him to ensure that it was safe. No independent evidence was available, so it was 
one partys word against another. Skyfire said they could not be confident that they could 
successfully defend the case in court if the third party insurer sued. So they made the 
commercial decision to settle it and avoid court costs. 
I think Skyfire made a full and sufficient investigation into the matter before settling it and it 
was reasonable of them to settle as they did, on the evidence they had. They were entitled 
to make an economic decision to settle. And as the investigator explained, even if Skyfire  
had settled the claim on a 50:50 liability basis they would still have reduced Mr Ds NCD, and 
he did not have NCD protection under his policy. As regards any policy excess, thats always 
payable by the policyholder first on a claim under the policy, regardless of fault.  
Further, because Skyfire settled the third party claim on a without prejudice basis, which 
means that they did not admit liability on Mr Ds behalf, Mr D can still take the third party to 
court if he wants. 
Skyfire had offered Mr D £25 in compensation for at first telling him they didnt think him at 
fault. But that was only their initial view after discussing with Mr D, and so it wasnt 
unreasonable of them to change that view later after theyd considered all the evidence, 
including that from the third party. However I would still expect Skyfire to pay Mr D the £25 
compensation if Mr D is willing to accept it now. 
Overall, I think that Skyfire did not act unfairly or unreasonably in settling the claim as they 
did, and so I dont require them to do anything else. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons above, it is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2023.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
