DRN-3609093
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs E complain that BUPA Insurance Limited has turned down a claim they made 
on a personal private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B and Mrs E were members of a group private medical insurance policy. In September 
2020, Mr B and Mrs E switched from their previous policy to a BUPA by You private 
medical insurance policy. The BUPA policy was taken through a broker which Ill refer to as 
U.
Mrs E suffered from a medical condition, which could lead to complications of natural 
childbirth. Her previous insurer had paid for her to undergo a private caesarean section. U 
spoke with BUPA ahead of policy inception to check whether claims would be covered for 
any further caesarean sections Mrs E might need. BUPA told U that it could cover Mrs E for 
the policy switch, but that any claims would need to be assessed when they were made. 
In 2021, Mrs E became pregnant and her consultant recommended that she should undergo 
a second caesarean section. So Mr B and Mrs E made a claim on their policy for the costs of 
surgery.
BUPA turned down the claim. It said the policy specifically excluded claims for pregnancy 
and childbirth and claims for preventative treatment. The policy did cover treatment of an 
acute condition which aimed to return a policyholder to their previous state of health. In this 
case though, a caesarean section wouldnt treat Mrs Es existing condition or the scarring 
from her first caesarean section. Instead, the surgery had been recommended to reduce the 
risk of Mrs Es condition or the scarring worsening.
Mr B and Mrs E were unhappy with BUPAs decision and so they asked us to look into their 
complaint. They said that BUPA had confirmed that Mrs E would be covered for caesarean 
section surgery.
Our investigator didnt think Mr B and Mrs Es complaint should be upheld. She didnt think 
the claim was covered by the policy terms. And having listened to the calls between U and 
BUPA, she wasnt persuaded that BUPA had indicated that any claim for a caesarean 
section would definitely be paid. So she thought itd been fair for BUPA to turn down the 
claim.
Mr B and Mrs E disagreed. They felt that BUPA shouldve specifically excluded the claim 
under the policy terms and conditions.
The complaints been passed to me to decide. I must make it clear that this decision will only 
consider whether it was fair and reasonable for BUPA to turn down Mr B and Mrs Es claim. 
Ive considered a complaint about the sale of the policy by U separately.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr B and Mrs E, I think it was fair for BUPA to 
turn down their claim and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Mr B and Mrs Es policy and the circumstances of their claim, to decide whether 
BUPA handled their claim fairly.
The policy terms and conditions
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of the contract 
between Mr B and Mrs E and BUPA. BUPA has set out the cover it provides for pregnancy 
and childbirth on page nine of the policy. This says that BUPA covers the eligible treatment 
of the following conditions:
miscarriage or when the foetus has died and remains with the placenta in the womb
stillbirth
hydatidiform mole (abnormal cell growth in the womb)
foetus growing outside the womb (ectopic pregnancy)
heavy bleeding in the hours and days immediately after childbirth (post-partum 
haemorrhage)
afterbirth left in the womb after delivery of the baby (retained placental membrane)
complications following any of the above conditions.
Eligible Treatment of the member (mother) that relates to pregnancy or childbirth but only if:
the Treatment is required due to a flare-up of the medical condition, and
the Treatment is likely to lead quickly to a complete recovery or to you being restored 
fully to your state of health prior to the flare-up of the condition without you needing to 
receive prolonged Treatment.
In my view, BUPA has clearly set out the pregnancy and childbirth cover it provides. This is 
broadly for the complications of pregnancy and childbirth, or where treatment for the mother 
is required for a flare-up of a condition, which would likely then lead to their full recovery or 
restoration to their previous state of health. The medical evidence from Mrs Es consultant 
makes it clear that Mrs E didnt require a caesarean section as the result of any of the 
pregnancy complications Ive set out above.
Ive carefully considered whether Mrs E had been recommended a caesarean section to 
treat a flare-up of the condition BUPA already knew about, which would lead to her full 
recovery. Ive looked closely at the letter Mrs E provided from her treating consultant. This 
said:
Because of her medical conditionI would strongly recommend a repeat elective caesarean 
section.
Whilst I dont dispute that Mrs E needed a caesarean section and BUPA accepts it was 
clinically necessary given Mrs Es medical condition, the consultants evidence doesnt 
indicate that Mrs E had experienced a flare-up of her medical condition, or that a repeat 
caesarean section would treat such a flare-up. So I dont think BUPA acted unreasonably when it concluded, based on the medical evidence, that Mrs Es caesarean section wasnt 
eligible treatment for childbirth in line with the policy terms. 
In addition to setting out the pregnancy and childbirth cover it provides, BUPA has also set 
out a list of medical events and circumstances its chosen to exclude from cover. A specific 
exclusion for pregnancy and childbirth is set out on page 30 of the policy and states:
Excluded Treatment
Treatment for:
pregnancy, including Treatment of an embryo or foetus
childbirth and delivery of a baby
termination of pregnancy, or any condition arising from termination.
As Mr B and Mrs Es claim was the cost of the delivery of a baby, I think it was fair for BUPA 
to conclude that the claim was specifically excluded by the policy terms. And having 
considered the remaining terms and conditions of the policy, I dont think there is any section 
of the contract which covers Mr B and Mrs Es situation. Overall then, I find that BUPA was 
reasonably entitled to rely on the contract terms to turn down this claim.
Did BUPA provide misleading information about policy cover?
Like our investigator, Ive carefully listened to the calls between BUPA and U. I think BUPAs 
call handlers made it clear over the course of the calls that Mrs Es previous caesarean 
section didnt make her ineligible for the policy switch and also that further caesarean 
sections would be considered for cover. This was accurate. The policy did provide cover in 
certain circumstances and BUPA didnt exclude all cover for caesarean sections at the 
outset.
And I think the call handlers made it clear enough over the course of the calls that they 
couldnt give a definitive answer as to whether any claims would be paid. I think they made it 
clear too that any claim would need to be assessed at the relevant time, taking into account 
the available medical evidence. So it follows that I dont think the totality of the evidence 
BUPA gave U was misleading or inaccurate.
Overall, despite my natural sympathy with Mr B and Mrs Es position, I dont think there are 
any reasonable grounds upon which I could direct BUPA to pay their claim. Therefore, I dont 
find that BUPA acted unfairly or unreasonably when it turned down this claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 October 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman