DRN-2368335
The complaint
Mr W complains that Cabot Credit Management Group Limited obtained a County Court 
Judgment (CCJ) against him when it shouldnt have done so. 
 
What happened
Mr W is unhappy that Cabot incorrectly applied a CCJ on his credit file five years ago. He 
says that he only found out about the CCJ when he checked his credit file. Mr W wants 
Cabot to compensate him for the impact the CCJ has had on him. 
For ease I will refer to Cabot throughout my decision although I realise that some steps, 
such as the legal action which resulted in the CCJ, will have been taken by others on behalf 
of Cabot.
Cabot bought a debt in the name of Mr W from business Y in 2013. After unsuccessful 
attempts to recover payment from Mr W, Cabot issued legal proceedings in 2014. As Mr W 
didnt reply to the court action, a CCJ was entered against him in default.
Cabot made unsuccessful attempts to enforce the CCJ against Mr W. In 2018, Cabot found 
a new address for Mr W. 
In June 2020, Mr W told Cabot that the original account with Y had been closed previously 
so the debt shouldnt have been sold to Cabot.
Cabot wrote to Mr W in July 2020, to say that Y had bought the debt back and the CCJ was 
being set-aside. Cabot offered Mr W £200 to apologise for not calling him back as agreed. 
Cabot later increased this offer to £450 in recognition of the distress Mr W must have felt as 
a result of the CCJ appearing on his credit file.
The investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ws complaint be upheld. He thought that Cabot 
had bought the debt from Y in good faith. The investigator didnt think it was fair to hold 
Cabot responsible for Ys communication failure. 
The investigator considered that Cabot had done enough to try and resolve matters. He 
thought Cabot reacted promptly to Mr Ws complaint. The investigator thought Cabots offer 
to pay £450 compensation was fair and reasonable.
Mr W disagrees with the investigators recommendation. He is unhappy that Cabot says it 
obtained the CCJ legally when the account had been sold incorrectly. Mr W wonders why 
Cabot has now set aside the CCJ if it wasnt wrong to seek it in the first place.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigator that Cabot has done enough to put things right. 
I dont intend repeating all the details the investigator has already set out to Mr W but I want 
to reassure him that Ive taken them in to account when reaching my decision.
I cant reasonably find that Cabot made a mistake when it bought the outstanding debt from 
Y. At this point in time, Y hadnt upheld Mr Ws complaint about the account so on the face of 
it, there was still a debt to pay.
Cabot asked Mr W to repay the outstanding balance. Cabot doesnt have any record of Mr W 
replying, so I cant say that it was wrong for Cabot to then start legal action against Mr W. 
I appreciate that Mr W told the investigator that he wasnt aware of the court proceedings. 
But Mr W also said that he didnt move to a new house until about 2016 or 2017 which is a 
few years after Cabot started to try and collect the debt. And some time after the CCJ was 
obtained.
It wasnt until 2018 that Y agreed it had mis-sold the account to Mr W so there shouldnt 
have been a balance to sell to Cabot. But as far as Im aware, Y didnt tell Cabot that the 
debt shouldnt have been sold. This appears to have been a failure in communication on the 
part of Y rather than Cabot. So, I dont consider I can hold Cabot responsible for the CCJ 
remaining on Mr Ws credit file for an extended period. 
Once Mr W contacted Cabot to complain about the CCJ on his credit file, it took reasonable 
and prompt steps to get to the bottom of the problem. Y bought the debt back and the CCJ 
was set aside. Although there were some service failings along the way, I consider Cabot 
has offered and done enough to put things right for Mr W. 
I dont want to downplay the impact that the CCJ has had on Mr Ws credit file but for all the 
reasons Ive set out above, I dont find that this was down to a mistake that Cabot made. Im 
sorry that my decision is likely to come as a disappointment.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 
19 February 2021.
Cabot Credit Management Group Limited should pay Mr W the £450 its offered, if it hasnt 
already done so.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman