DRN-4408249
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) unfairly declined a 
claim she made under her home insurance (buildings) policy.
Mrs R is represented in her complaint by her partner, Mr L. For ease, Ill refer to anything 
said by Mr L as being said by Mrs R.
RSA is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agents. As RSA has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the agents, in 
my decision, any reference to RSA includes the actions of the agents.
 
What happened
In April 2022, Mrs R took out a home insurance policy with RSA to cover a property she was 
purchasing as a second home.
In July 2022, a fault with the fire sprinkler system caused the property to be flooded, 
resulting in significant damage.  Mrs R made a claim under her home insurance policy, 
which was accepted by RSA and drying works began. 
However, a few months later, RSA told Mrs R that the claim wasnt covered because there 
was an endorsement in the policy that had been breached. Mrs R raised a complaint. But 
RSA maintained its position to decline the claim. 
RSA noted that there was a delay in a new loss adjuster being assigned after the previous 
one had left, which delayed a report being composed. It apologised that Mrs R hadnt been 
given meaningful updates whilst her claim was being reassigned. It offered her £150 to 
compensate her for distress and inconvenience.
Mrs R remained unhappy and asked our service to consider the matter. 
Our investigator didnt think Mrs Rs complaint should be upheld. He thought it was fair for 
RSA to decline her claim because she hadnt complied with an endorsement on the policy 
which required water mains to be turned off.
Mrs R disagreed with our investigators outcome. Her representative made a number of 
comments regarding the wording of the unoccupancy clause and the policy wording. He said 
the amendment, if valid, only applied when the property was unoccupied for 30 days, so the 
services only had to be turned off after 30 days or 60 days if the policy definition of 
unoccupied applied.
Mr L also commented that his position had been prejudiced by RSA removing fixtures, 
fittings and furniture from the property. He felt it was wrong for RSA to have accepted and 
approved the claim and then changed its mind without any further information coming to 
light.
As Mrs R disagrees with our investigators outcome, the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain 
why.
Im aware that Mrs R has raised concerns about the strip out works carried out by RSAs 
agents. But I havent considered these as part of this complaint. To be clear, in this decision 
Ive only considered RSAs decision to decline the claim and customer service issues 
relating to the delay in assigning a new loss adjuster. 
The policys terms and conditions define unoccupied as:
a) Insufficiently furnished for normal occupation, or
b) Furnished for normal occupation but has not been lived in for more than 60 consecutive 
days.
Mrs R says her property wasnt unoccupied. She says she stayed in the property six days 
before the escape of water was discovered. I can see from photographs her representative 
has provided that there was furniture in the property at the time of the incident. So, I dont 
think Mrs Rs property should be considered as unoccupied as defined in the policys 
terms.
However, when Mrs R took out the policy, she advised the broker that the property would be 
used as a second home. In the statement of fact document under the use of your property 
it says:
The property is left unoccupied up to 6 months during a 12 month period
You confirmed that the longest the property will be unoccupied up to 30 days at any one time
The property is used currently for weekday/weekend/second home
The policy schedule is showing an endorsement which says:
FG19A. UNOCCUPANCY CLAUSE (AMENDED)
The exclusions contained within Section - Buildings A4, A6 and A7 and Section - Contents 
A4, A6 and A7 relating to when the Home is not lived in for more than 30 consecutive days 
are deleted and replaced by the following:
(a) We will not be liable for loss or damage unless:
i. the Home is inspected internally and externally at least once every 7 days by a 
responsible adult
and
ii. the water, gas and electricity supplies are turned off at the mains (and for the period 
November to March inclusive all water tanks, pipes and apparatus are drained) 
unless required to operate an automatically operated central heating system used to maintain a minimum temperature of 58 degrees F (15 degrees C) at all 
times.
Mr L has commented that this endorsement wasnt on there when Mrs R took out the policy. 
However, its showing on the schedule dated 11 April 2022 that Mr L sent to our service. So, 
Im satisfied the endorsement was applied at the start of the policy.
In the Buildings section of the policy A6 is:
Escape of water or oil escaping from a fixed heating system or domestic water installation, 
washing machines or dishwashers.
I understand the property was inspected on a weekly basis by Mrs Rs parents, who live 
nearby. However, RSA declined the claim on the basis that the second part of the 
endorsement was breached. This was because the water wasnt turned off at the mains, and 
it didnt need to be kept on to operate an automatically operated central heating system to 
maintain a minimum temperature of 15 degrees C. The incident happened in the summer. 
And, according to RSAs notes, Mr L said the reason the water and electricity was left on 
was to ensure sprinklers worked in case of a fire.
Given that the water wasnt turned off as required by the policy endorsement when the 
escape of water incident occurred, I dont think it was unreasonable for RSA to decline     
Mrs Rs claim. 
I appreciate Mrs R feels the endorsement shouldnt apply because the property hadnt been 
unoccupied for 30 or 60 days when the incident happened. However, the endorsement 
replaces the unoccupied exclusion next to the escape of water peril in the policy. So, the 
property didnt need to be unoccupied for the endorsement to apply. 
I acknowledge Mr Ls point about there being no time reference on the endorsement and the 
practicalities of turning off gas, electricity and water if the policyholder leaves the house for 
any reason. However, Mr L has also said that nobody was staying in the property when the 
sprinklers went off and the escape of water wasnt discovered for a few days. So, I dont 
think it was unreasonable for RSA to decline the claim under the circumstances.
RSA has acknowledged some communication issues and delay due to a change in the loss 
adjuster dealing with Mrs Rs claim. I think the £150 its offered Mrs R fairly recognises any 
distress and inconvenience she experienced as a result of this. 
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mrs R. However, I think it was fair and reasonable 
for RSA to decline her claim. 
Putting things right
RSA should pay Mrs R £150 for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited has already made an offer to pay Mrs R £150 to 
settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited should pay Mrs R £150.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman