DRN-4267787
The complaint
Mrs and Mr N are unhappy with the amount of time it took The Co-operative Bank Plc to 
produce a redemption statement for their mortgage. They say the delay caused them to miss 
out on a lower rate of interest, leading to a significant financial loss.
What happened
Mrs and Mr N held a standard mortgage with The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op). They 
wanted to take out a Lifetime Mortgage and approached a different mortgage provider (who I 
will call L) for this  because Co-op didnt offer this type of arrangement. 
L initially provided Mrs and Mr N with a mortgage offer in April 2022 with an interest rate of 
5.24%. Mrs and Mr N have told us the initial expiry of the offer was 14 June 2022. However, 
the expiry date for the offer was twice extended  with the last expiry being 5 August 2022. 
In June 2022 Mrs and Mr Ns solicitors (who Ill call A) requested a redemption statement 
from Co-op, with a redemption figure as of 14 July 2022. The letter requesting the 
redemption is dated 14 June 2022, but Co-op says (and the date stamp on the letter 
suggests) it didnt receive it until 24 June 2022. 
A wasnt on Co-ops panel and they needed to be added. Co-op says this happened on 
6 July 2022 and that it notified A of this on the same date. On 18 July, Mrs N contacted Co-
op to ask what was happening with the redemption statement, as she was aware that A 
hadnt yet received it. Co-op told Mrs N that the request had been received and that A 
should receive it in due course. 
On 22 July 2022, A contacted Co-op by phone to say they hadnt received the redemption 
statement and to ask when they could expect it. During this call, the Co-op representative 
said the statement was meant to have been actioned earlier in the month, but hadnt been 
for some reason. They said they would organise to send a new redemption statement and it 
was agreed with A that the new redemption statement would have a redemption figure as at 
15 August 2022. Co-ops representative asked A for the best fax number to use and A gave 
a number to Co-ops representative. Co-ops representative told A that the statement should 
come through by the end of the day on 27 July 2022.  
Co-op says it faxed the redemption statement on 26 July 2022. However, on 
15 August 2022, A contacted Co-op again to say they were having issues with the 
redemption statement theyd just received. They said the statement was dated 26 July 2022 
and said it was only valid for seven days. A was concerned this meant the statement was no 
longer valid and so they asked Co-op if they could send another one. 
Co-ops representative told A that the seven days shouldnt actually cause any issue in a 
practical sense. However, As representative noted that they were having the conversation 
on 15 August 2022 (the date of the redemption figure on the redemption statement) and so 
they asked Co-op if they could generate and send another statement, to which the Co-op 
representative agreed they could and would. 
As representative asked Co-ops representative whether they e-mail or fax the statements? 
Co-ops representative replied that they always fax them. It was agreed that Co-op would 
send another statement that would likely be sent within 24 hours, with a redemption date 
figure at 23 August 2022. As representative gave the fax number to use. 
A contacted Co-op again on 30 August 2022 to request another redemption statement and 
this was faxed by Co-op to A on 31 August 2022. The mortgage with L completed on 
5 September 2022 and the Co-op mortgage was repaid. 
In September 2022, Mrs and Mr N complained that the delay in Co-op providing the 
redemption statement to A had caused them to lose out on the original offer. They said this 
had resulted in them needing to pay a higher rate of interest which could over time amount 
to a substantial amount of money. They also said the delay had resulted in them needing to 
draw-down on their pension to pay their mortgage in July and August which had led to them 
needing to pay more tax. They thought Co-op should also refund this. 
Co-op upheld the complaint about delays, but didnt agree that it had caused the financial 
loss Mrs and Mr N said it had. It said that it had provided a redemption statement to A on 
26 July 2022 and there was enough time for the transaction to be completed before the 
offer/rate expired on 5 August 2022. It also didnt think it was responsible for any tax 
implications of Mrs and Mr N needing to continue to make mortgage repayments until the 
new mortgage was in place. 
It did though offer Mrs and Mr N £200 for its part in the redemption statement delay and also 
for not giving an answer to their complaint within 8 weeks. 
Mrs and Mr N remained unhappy and referred their concerns to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. They still thought that Co-op was responsible for them ending up needing to pay 
more interest on their new mortgage. 
An investigator here issued an assessment saying that they didnt think Co-op was 
responsible for any financial loss. They also thought the £200 offer of compensation was fair. 
Mrs and Mr N disagreed and so the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall outcome as the investigator for largely the 
same reasons. This means I am upholding Mrs and Mr Ns complaint only in part  in that 
Co-op does need to pay them some compensation for its part in the unnecessary distress 
and inconvenience caused to Mrs and Mr N. I realise this will be a disappointment for 
Mrs and Mr N, but I hope my explanation helps them to understand why Ive reached this 
conclusion. 
Before I explain why, I want to set out my role as an Ombudsman. It isnt to address every 
single point thats been made to date. Instead, its to decide whats fair and reasonable given 
the circumstances of this complaint. And for that reason, Im only going to refer to what I 
think are the most salient points when I set out my conclusions and my reasons for reaching 
them. But, having read all of the submissions from both sides in full, I will continue to keep in 
mind all of the points that have been made, insofar as they relate to this complaint, when 
doing that.In order to say that Co-op is liable for Mrs and Mr N ending up with higher costs due to the 
mortgage with L being at a higher rate of interest, I would need to be satisfied that Co-ops 
action or inaction was the direct cause of the loss. I dont find this to be the case.
Whilst Co-op has accepted (and I agree) it did delay things by not responding as it should in 
relation to the original request from A for a redemption statement, I dont consider that this 
caused the loss Mrs and Mr N say it did. 
I say this because based all of the evidence Ive seen (including Co-ops system notes and 
recordings of its calls with A) I find it more likely than not that Co-op did send the redemption 
statement to A by fax (to the number given over the phone by A) on 26 July 2022. Although 
Co-op has said it cannot provide categoric evidence to demonstrate the fax was sent on that 
day, Im mindful that all of the circumstantial evidence suggests this is what most likely 
happened. 
Mrs and Mr N have said that A told them they received the redemption statement in August 
2022 by post. However, in the call between A and Co-op on 15 August 2022, A asked the 
Co-op representative whether they e-mail or fax the statements  there is no mention of 
post. Co-ops representative says in reply that redemption statements are always sent by 
fax. During each of the calls between A and Co-op (including the call on 22 July 2022) the 
Co-op representative asks As representative for their fax number and each time a number is 
given. The number is documented within Co-ops contact notes. 
I find that all of this means it is more likely than not that Co-op did fax the redemption 
statement to A, on 26 July 2022. 
The mortgage offer from L with the original/lower rate of interest didnt expire until 5 August 
2022. This means there was still time for Mrs and Mr N to be able to access that deal/rate.
When reaching this conclusion, Ive borne in mind that when the Co-op mortgage was 
eventually settled on 5 September 2022, this was from a redemption statement sent to A by 
Co-op on 31 August i.e. it took less than a week from when that redemption statement was 
sent, for everything to be concluded. 
So, while Co-ops failure to respond promptly / as it should to the original request for a 
redemption statement didnt help matters - and certainly contributed to the unnecessary 
distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs and Mr N in terms of the overall situation - I cant 
reasonably conclude that Co-op is responsible for the loss Mrs and Mr N think it is. 
In terms of what Mrs and Mr N have said about needing to pay more tax from unexpectedly 
needing to draw down on their pension in July and August, I dont agree this is any kind of 
loss that Co-op would be responsible for. Mrs and Mr N always needed to meet their existing 
mortgage commitment until it was settled and there were no guarantees as to exactly when 
this would happen. Co-ops mishandling of the original redemption statement request didnt 
help matters, but it is not responsible for the overall timescales. 
Finally, I find that the £200 compensation Co-op already offered is a fair amount and in line 
with our approach to such awards. 
Putting things right
Co-op needs to pay Mrs and Mr N £200 in compensation. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct The Co-operative Bank Plc to do 
what Ive said above under Putting things right. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 August 2023.
 
Ben Brewer
Ombudsman