DRN-3023016
The complaint
Miss Y complains about a decision by Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) to reject a 
claim she made to them under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators view of this complaint. Please let me explain.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I dont have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Miss Y made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a fixed sum 
loan, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
In some circumstances this service may consider dismissing a complaint when the same 
issues have been considered by another alternative dispute provider or by a court. Weve 
not been prepared to do that here as, although Miss Y has had court proceedings, the 
business couldnt be traced, and the judge has not reviewed the merits of the complaint. In 
those circumstances, I would agree that this is not a complaint this service would usually, or 
will, dismiss.
So, Ill go on to consider the merits of this complaint.
Miss Y says that theres been a breach of contract here as she says the quality of the work 
has been unsatisfactory. In particular she says a flat window was fitted when she wanted a 
bay window with just one opening and not two. She also says that the window has not been 
fitted satisfactorily as its been extensively filled, is stained, and theres no longer a lintel 
fitted.
Im persuaded there has been a breach of contract here as:
I think its likely Miss Y did want a bay window. I say that because:
oMiss Y complained as soon as she saw the fitted window and I think thats 
consistent with her testimony that its not what she wanted;
oIve seen another quote she had received and in that its clear she was 
looking to keep the bay;
oMiss Y has explained that she had a new sill fitted in preparation for the new 
window. That would not make sense if the new window wasnt of a bay 
design;
oI cant see any merit in changing from a bay to a flat design;
oIve not been presented with a schematic of the design and I think that would 
have been possible had the agreed design have been for a flat window. I 
think thats especially true as this would be a significant change to what was 
already present;
oI think its reasonable to suggest that Miss Y should have been presented with 
a certificate to demonstrate the windows had been fitted to the correct 
standard. It appears that the supplier was a member of a registered trade 
body at the time. As that certificate has not been supplied I think that also 
suggests the work has not been of a satisfactory quality.
Whilst I can see that the supplier did attend to rectify problems I dont think those 
problems were rectified. The extensive filling and staining is still present
Shawbrook say that they believe the reason Miss Y wants the window changing now is that 
shes become aware its a breach of covenant to change the design of the bay. Ive not seen 
any further evidence of that and as Miss Y complained so soon I dont think that suggests 
she subsequently became aware of any design restrictions: there seems limited time 
available in which she could have done so.
Ive noted the comments on the contract that say a flat window is required and Ive also 
noted that Miss Y signed to say she was happy with the work. But Ive also read Miss Ys 
testimony and can understand the pressure she was under at the time looking after 
vulnerable people and that she wasnt living, or in attendance, at the property at the time. Im 
persuaded, on balance, that there has been a breach of contract.
Putting things right
As the supplier have not been able to repair the problems Miss Y complains of I think the 
fairest resolution is now for Shawbrook to arrange for a new bay window to be fitted. 
Shawbrook should liaise with Miss Y to arrange further quotes, or they can obtain them 
themselves, but the quality of the new bay window will need to be of a comparable standard to the ones Miss Y had fitted elsewhere in the house under this contract. The window will 
need to have one opening as Miss Y requested.
I dont think its reasonable to ask the previous supplier to fit the new window as I think the 
relationship with Miss Y has broken down.
When fitting the new window Shawbrook should ensure any damage incurred when the flat 
window was fitted, is rectified. 
The new window should come with a certificate to demonstrate compliance with building 
regulations and Shawbrook should pay for a similar certificate for the other windows that 
have been fitted under this contract.
The finance agreement can continue but if there have been missed payments or adverse 
reports made to Miss Ys credit file whilst her complaint has been in process, Shawbrook 
should remove them.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Shawbrook Bank Limited to:
obtain and fit a new bay window with one opening to replace the flat window that was 
installed incorrectly. The window should be of comparable quality to the others fitted 
at the property under this contract and quotes can be obtained as Ive explained 
above. 
rectify any damage caused when fitting the flat window;
provide a certificate to demonstrate the new bay window and other windows fitted 
within the contract conform to building regulations;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Miss Ys credit file in relation to 
this issue.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Y to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman