DRN-4140706
The complaint
Ms I complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited poorly handled her ISA transfer.
What happened
Around October, Ms I initiated an ISA transfer from a third-party bank (who Ill call M) to her 
Shawbrook account. The transfer initially failed and Shawbrook said this was because Ms Is 
account with M could not be found.
Although the issue was resolved within a day and Ms Is transfer eventually went through, 
she complained about the way Shawbrook handled things. Ms I says Shawbrook didnt 
contact her with enough urgency when the transfer failed, instead it sent a secure message 
to her online account. Ms I says she had no knowledge of this message until she logged into 
her account. Ms I adds that Shawbrooks message caused her panic as she was concerned 
that her lifes savings had been lost.
Ms I raised a separate complaint against M, who says Shawbrook didnt put the transfer 
request through correctly, causing it to fail the first time. M points to its records on the ISA 
transfers database known as TISA and says Shawbrook couldve processed the transfer 
correctly, had it considered this information properly.
Shawbrook says it relied on the information Ms I provided, so it thinks it isnt liable for the 
failed transfer. Shawbrook points out that, once it had the correct information, it was able to 
start the transfer process the next day and complete it within the relevant deadline.
Unsatisfied with Shawbrooks response, Ms I asked this service to review her complaint. She 
wants compensation for the stress and inconvenience she experienced. Our investigator 
concluded that Shawbrook handled things poorly and asked it to pay Ms I £100 
compensation. The bank didnt agree  it says it didnt need to take steps to ensure the 
transfer went through correctly the first time and says Ms I was responsible for ensuring the 
information she provided was accurate.
Because Shawbrook doesnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree that the fairest way to resolve this complaint is for Shawbrook to pay Ms I £100 
compensation  Ill explain why.
Shawbrook says the transfer request was processed electronically with no manual 
intervention and this relied solely on the information Ms I provided. Theres nothing Ive seen 
that suggests anything other than Ms I completed the transfer request as accurately as she 
could, based on the information she held about her other account. Shawbrook says it 
wouldnt have done anything other than act on her request based on the information 
provided.
But Shawbrook seems to be taking the stance that it is absolved of all responsibility because 
it relied on the information Ms I provided. I dont accept this as reasonable. Shawbrook is the 
bank here and its role is to service and support the needs of Ms I. I accept that the bank 
doesnt need to manually review each transfer request as this wouldnt be practical, but in 
my opinion, it needed to act on its own knowledge and expertise here.
M told this service that Shawbrook couldve relied on TISA, which M says includes 
information on its heritage accounts  explaining how to direct transfer requests to M. M also 
says that, had Shawbrook done so, then the error wouldnt have occurred, and Ms Is 
account wouldve been located the first time. 
Shawbrook itself recently told this service that it often re-uploads or corrects ISA transfers 
that have the incorrect details, failed bank checks or failed internally. The bank also pointed 
out that transfers with M are the majority of transfers that the bank re-uploads and that it 
recently re-trained its staff with specific focus on transfers relating to M.
This tells me that Shawbrook is well-versed on the intricacies around ISA transfers from M 
and understands that customers may be unaware on what details are required. So, although 
I accept that Shawbrook doesnt necessarily need to manually check each transfer  where it 
does have prior knowledge of particular issues with transfers from specific firms, it should be 
proactive in ensuring these transfers do not fail due to issues the bank couldve prevented. 
So I think Shawbrook acted unfairly by failing to do so. 
I note that Shawbrook recently sent copies of information from the TISA database  but the 
bank hasnt explained how it used this at the time (if at all) and whether this information is 
relevant to when the transfer was carried out. So I havent been able to give this much 
weight at this time. Moreover, this doesnt nullify what Ive said above  that Shawbrook 
shouldve relied on its knowledge and expertise regarding M to do more in this instance.  
Given the transfer was correctly put through again within the next day and completed within 
the expected 15-day period, Ms I doesnt seem to have experienced a financial loss  so 
Shawbrook doesnt need to reimburse her for anything. But Ms I did experience some 
distress and inconvenience. She says she was left in a panic, because Shawbrooks 
message about her account with M not being found made her think her savings had been 
lost. Ms I also says she spent time on the phone so this issue could be resolved. So Ill be 
instructing Shawbrook to pay her compensation to put things right.
Ms I is unhappy that Shawbrook didnt call her when the transfer failed and thinks sending a 
secure message to her online account was insufficient. However, Shawbrooks terms explain 
that most communications will be via secure message, so I dont find it unfair that the bank 
updated Ms I in this way. 
Shawbrooks terms also point out that an email notification will be sent every time Ms I is 
sent a secure message. Ms I says she never received an email about this particular 
message. Shes shown that she received other emails from the bank around the time, but 
not this one. Shawbrooks internal records indicate that an email was sent at the time, so I 
think its likely that the bank did send it.
Regardless, it seems Ms I managed to review the secure message shortly after it arrived in 
her online account and I can see she first called Shawbrook about this issue a few hours 
after its message was sent. So Im satisfied the bank did enough to inform her that the 
transfer had failed.In summary, Im satisfied Ms I provided accurate information, based on what she knew at the 
time, to enable the transfer. Shawbrook doesnt seem to have relied on the TISA database 
properly, nor did it draw on its knowledge and expertise about M to ensure the transfer went 
through successfully the first time. Ms I didnt experience a loss, but I think Shawbrook 
should compensate her for the distress and inconvenience it caused.
Putting things right
Shawbrook caused distress and inconvenience to Ms I. To put things right, it should pay her 
£100 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons above, Im upholding this complaint. Shawbrook Bank Limited should settle 
this complaint by paying Ms I £100 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms I to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2023.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman