DRN-3129430
The complaint
Mr B and Miss B feel that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) didnt notify them of 
interest and charges that were due to be applied to their overdraft. As a result, they feel the 
interest and charges were applied unfairly, particularly as on some occasions the charges 
took them over their overdraft limit, leading to more charges being incurred.
What happened
Mr B and Miss B complained to NatWest about overdraft interest and charges applied to 
their account. They say they were not aware of when the charges and interest would be 
applied and that these charges therefore sent them further overdrawn, incurring more 
charges.
NatWest looked at Mr B and Miss Bs complaint, it felt the charges applied to their account 
were fair and explained that they had been set out in the terms and conditions of the 
account. NatWest also said that Mr B and Miss B were notified of the charges via online 
banking and gave them some advice about other services that were available to help them 
manage their account.
Mr B and Miss B remained unhappy and so referred their complaint to us.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr B and Miss Bs concerns, she explained that she 
didnt think NatWest had acted unfairly in applying the charges. Mr B and Miss B disagreed 
and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about charges applied to overdrafts -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr B and Miss Bs 
complaint, Ill explain why.
Im satisfied that NatWest did what it was required to do to ensure that Mr B and Miss B 
knew about what was happening with their account. Mr B and Miss B were notified each 
month that they should log onto online banking to view their statements. When doing this, 
NatWest has said they would also have been provided with a charges statement alongside 
their usual bank statements, notifying them of pending charges which were due to be 
applied. I can see that NatWest held an accurate email address for Mr B and Miss B, and 
Ive not seen anything to make me think that they wouldnt have received these emails telling 
them to check their online banking. 
I also must bear in mind that the charges and interest that would apply to any overdraft 
facility on the account were set out in the terms and conditions that Mr B and Miss B agreed 
to when they opened their account. And that charges that had been incurred were applied at 
the same time of the month since at least 2014. Mr B and Miss B were also responsible for 
monitoring their account and so I would expect them to have been aware of when they went 
into an overdrawn position or when items were returned unpaid. With this in mind I think that 
even if they didnt see the pre-notification of charges, they would have been generally aware 
of when charges might debit their account. And the particular timing of when charges were 
taken is a commercial decision for NatWest to make, and so not something that I am able to 
consider here.
With this in mind, I would only be able to find that NatWest had acted inappropriately or 
unfairly in applying the charges if I thought that NatWest was aware  or ought reasonably to 
have been aware  that Mr B and Miss B were experiencing financial difficulties. But from 
looking at their statements, I dont think that NatWest would have seen anything to suggest 
that Mr B and Miss B needed help.
With everything Ive seen, I dont think that NatWest has done anything wrong here. I 
appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr B and Miss B, but Im satisfied that 
NatWest hasnt treated them unfairly, and so I dont think it needs to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Miss B to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman