DRN-3380020
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs S has complained about Motors Insurance Company Limited trading as Car 
Care Plan Insurance. They are not happy that it turned down a claim under their dent and 
cosmetic repair insurance policy.
Other companies have been involved in this complaint, but as Motors Insurance are 
responsible for it, Ive just referred to them in this decision.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S had a scratch on their car and made a claim under their cosmetic repair 
insurance policy. But when Motors Insurance looked into the claim it turned it down. Initially it 
was thought the dent was deeper than 3mm before accepting that the scratch was less than 
3mm in depth. However, as the area was distorted around the scratch Motor Insurance 
turned down the claim as this wasnt covered under the policy.
As Mr and Mrs S werent happy about this they complained to Motor Insurance and then this 
service about this. Our investigator looked into things for them but didnt uphold their 
complaint. He thought that Motor Insurance had acted in line with the policy in turning down 
the claim and hadnt acted unreasonably.
As Mr and Mrs S didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so I dont think the complaint should be upheld. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr and Mrs S, but Ill explain why.
Ive looked at the evidence provided by both sides including the pictures and video provided 
by Mr and Mrs S in support of their claim. And while I understand why they feel aggrieved I 
think the video and photos are clear that there is an indentation or distortion around the 
scratch which would suggest that the repair would require a workshop repair as opposed to 
a repair at their home address which isnt the intention of the policy. 
The terms and condition of the policy say you will not be covered for Minor Cosmetic 
Damage: to any body panel or part of a panel that has been distorted, ripped, torn, or 
perforated. And while Mr and Mrs S feel there isnt a distortion, just a scratch that is less 
than 3mm in depth, I cant agree with them given the evidence before me.
I know Mr and Mrs S argue that by definition a dent in a piece of metal is distorted. So, this 
exclusion is contrary to the cover being provided by the policy. But I think the policy is clear 
and had the scratch just been less than 3mm then the claim would have been met. But it is 
clear there is an indentation or distortion around the scratch which would require a workshop 
repair as opposed to a roadside repair. Indeed, I note the repair was physically inspected by 
a technician so Motor Insurance hasnt just relied on the photos or video provided but have 
considered the technicians professional opinion as well, so I dont think Motor Insurance 
have acted unreasonably here.
The policy only provides cover for minor cosmetic damage which is no larger than 30cm in 
diameter or 3mm in depth anywhere on the car. But the policy is also very clear that if the 
minor dent is to any body panel or part of a panel that has been distorted then it isnt 
covered. And Im satisfied, from the evidence before me that this is the case here. 
Given all of this and the terms and conditions of the policy, I think Motor Insurance have 
acted fairly here. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman