DRN-2798591
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that HDI Global SE has rejected their claim for loss of livestock 
under their combined farm policy and voided the policy (cancelled it back to its start date).
What happened
Mr and Mrs F took out their policy with HDI on 15 February 2019. In September 2019 Mr and 
Mrs F made a claim to HDI for the loss of four horses, who had bolted following a fire on a 
digger in their field. The horses werent recovered; Mr and Mrs F believe they were probably 
stolen. After investigating the circumstances of the loss, HDI told Mr and Mrs F it would be 
rejecting the claim and voiding the policy as they had made misrepresentations when taking 
out the policy. Specifically they had failed to disclose information in relation to previous 
claims, County Court Judgements (CCJs) and a previous conviction.
Mr and Mrs F said that the CCJs related to a company Mrs F wasnt a director of at the time 
the CCJs were incurred. Mr Fs personal CCJ was satisfied and was in the process of being 
dismissed. As regards the conviction, this wasnt a personal conviction but one against a 
former company. Mrs F maintained that they had no need to disclose those matters. HDI 
also said that Mrs F had failed to disclose a previous claim in February 2016. It said that had 
it known about those matters when the policy was taken out, it would have declined to offer a 
policy. So it voided the policy back to its start date and refunded the premiums.
On referral to this service our investigator said that HDI had acted reasonably and that it was 
entitled to void the policy.
Mr and Mrs F didnt agree and the matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Undue the terms of the Insurance Act 2015 when buying insurance a commercial 
policyholder must make a fair presentation of the risk they are asking the insurer to cover. 
This means they must make a disclosure of every material circumstance which the insured 
knows or ought to know.
Now I appreciate that Mr and Mrs F have told us they arent sophisticated buyers of 
insurance. And I think it fair to consider the question asked of them when the policy was 
taken out. This was:
In respect of any insurance to which this enquiry relates and any business conducted at the 
premises or elsewhere, please confirm that all principals, partners or directors havent:
Been charged with (but not yet tried) or convicted of a criminal offence (other than motor 
offences) or with a breach of health and safety legislation.
Had any County Court Judgments against them.
So far as claims were concerned they were asked about claims in the previous three years.
I think, bearing in mind that this was a commercial policy in respect of their business and that 
the wording talks about business conducted, partners and directors, it would have been 
reasonable to expect Mr and Mrs F to disclose information about both themselves personally 
and also about any company for which they had been a director.
HDI relied, when voiding the policy, on the fact that a misrepresentation was made in respect 
of failing to disclose:
 
Mr F had a CCJ registered in his name at the home address. 
One claim made in August 2018 was disclosed. However Mrs F had made a claim in 
respect of a former business for which she was a sole trader on 22 February 2016, 
declined in March 2016.
Mrs F had a conviction for trademark offences in respect of a company for which she had 
been a director at the time.
A CCJ was registered against the same company. 
HDI has said, and produced an underwriters statement to that effect, that it wouldnt have 
issued a policy had it known about those matters. 
In respect of Mr Fs CCJ, I understand that this is a satisfied and that Mr and Mrs F are 
taking steps to have it dismissed. However at the time it was still live, so they should have 
disclosed it.
With regard to the other claim, I understand that Mr and Mrs F arent disputing that it 
happened. However Mrs F tells us that the claim was for her salon where a former manager 
stole everything she had worked for. The claim was rejected as the manager had the keys to 
the salon. She didnt know it had been registered. However it is clear that she had made a 
claim, even if it was rejected. She feels that HDI would have known about this from the 
enquiries it should have made at the start of the policy. But its up to the insurer what 
enquiries it makes and this shouldnt be regarded as a substitute for answering questions 
accurately when taking out the policy.
As regards the conviction, Mrs F has made the point that this wasnt against her personally. 
However the circumstances are that she was said to be the sole director of the company at 
the time and she appeared in Court to answer to the offence for the company, to which she 
pleaded guilty. I understand that although Mrs F later resigned as a director of the company 
she remained the main shareholder. I think that Mrs F should have disclosed the conviction.
As regards the CCJs against that company, one of them was registered whilst Mrs F was still 
a director, so I think it should have been disclosed. Theres no time limit in the question 
regarding CCJs.
HDI has said it wouldnt have issued a policy had it known about more than one claim in the 
previous three years or about the CCJs which were unsatisfied at the time of the application 
for the policy, or about the conviction. As this is backed by an underwriters statement, I think 
it fair to say that it followed its own guidelines. And as Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs F 
misrepresented their position when they took out the policy, I think HDI was entitled to act in 
the way that it did and to reject the claim and void the policy.
Mrs F has made the point to us that she has also made a claim under the legal expenses 
cover in the policy which was accepted.  However that is provided by a different insurer who may have chosen not to make any status enquiries, and doesnt mean that HDI cant carry 
out and act on its own enquiries.
Overall I think that HDI has shown that misrepresentations were made when Mr and Mrs F 
bought their policy and that it acted fairly within its own guidelines in rejecting the claim and 
voiding the policy.
My final decision
 I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 June 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman