DRN-3818977
The complaint
Mr D complains that he was given unsuitable advice by True Potential Wealth Management 
LLP (True Potential) to transfer the benefits from his defined benefit (DB) scheme with 
British Steel (BSPS) to a personal pension.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ds employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). The PPF acts as a lifeboat for insolvent DB pension 
schemes, paying compensation to members of eligible schemes for their lifetime. The 
compensation levels are, generally, around 90% of the level of the original schemes benefits 
for deferred pensions. But the PPFs rules and benefits may differ from the original scheme. 
Alternatively, members of the BSPS were informed they could transfer their benefits to a 
private pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement included that, if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Mr Ds employer would be set up  the BSPS2. The RAA was signed and 
confirmed in August 2017 and the agreed steps were carried out shortly after.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a time to choose letter which gave them 
the options to either stay in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere.
In the same month, Mr D sought advice from True Potential. And in November 2017 it 
recommended that he transfer his pension to meet his key objectives of wanting sufficient 
income in retirement, flexibility and the ability to pass on what remained of his pension upon 
his death to his family. True Potential recommended a pension provider and investment that 
it said was in line with his attitude to risk.
Mr D complained to True Potential in 2021 about the suitability of the transfer advice. In 
essence he didnt think the advice to give up a guaranteed pension income was suitable for 
him. 
True Potential didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. In summary it said the recommendation put 
Mr D in a position to allow him to meet his retirement goals. 
It said hes financially benefitted from the transfer and his family will also benefit significantly 
in the future compared to remaining in the DB scheme. It said there was no evidence to 
suggest hed suffered a loss as a result of the advice it provided.
Mr D referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. And one of our 
Investigators upheld it. They thought the advice was unsuitable as Mr D wasnt likely to 
improve on the benefits he was already guaranteed by transferring. And they didnt think 
there were other compelling reasons to justify a transfer and outweigh this. They said Mr D 
didnt have any firm retirement plans given his age; his income need wasnt explored in 
depth and in any event it would be difficult to determine given his retirement was 19 years 
away; he didnt know hed need flexibility in retirement, but he had this anyway because he 
was contributing to his workplace pension scheme; and different death benefits wasnt a 
suitable reason to transfer. They said Mr D shouldve been advised to opt into the BSPS2.
While True Potential disagreed with the Investigators conclusion that the advice was 
unsuitable, it nevertheless said it was willing to make an offer of settlement to Mr D in the 
interests of settling the complaint. Mr D declined the offer.
True Potential later carried out a further loss calculation and this showed there was no loss. 
But it agreed to pay Mr D £200 for the distress and inconvenience the matter had caused as 
recommended by the Investigator. The Investigator said they thought the calculation had 
been carried out appropriately and that, in this case the calculation shows no shortfall in 
Mr D pension  he has sufficient funds to be able to replicate his DB benefits in retirement.
Because Mr D asked for the matter to be decided by an Ombudsman, the complaint comes 
to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
I understand True Potential still disputes that unsuitable has been given. Nevertheless, they 
have carried out a loss calculation and have agreed to pay Mr D £200 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused as recommended by our Investigator. So I dont see the need to 
address the suitability of the advice Mr D received in detail.
But Id like to note that I agree with the Investigators view that the advice was unsuitable for 
largely the same reasons. And in summary those reasons are as follows:
The transfer value analysis (TVAS) report, that True Potential was required to carry 
out by the regulator, said that the critical yield - how much Mr Ds pension fund would 
need to grow by each year in order to provide the same benefits as his DB scheme  
was 6.19% to match the full pension hed have been entitled to under the scheme at 
age 65. Or to match the maximum tax-free cash and reduced pension the scheme 
would provide at that age, was 5.37%. 
To match the full pension the PPF wouldve paid from 65 the critical yield was 5.13% 
and to match the tax-free cash and reduced pension the PPF wouldve offered, it was 
4.69%.
Given Mr Ds recorded balanced attitude to risk, the discount rate of 4.4% for 18 
years to retirement and the regulators middle projection rate, I think Mr D was 
always likely to receive pension benefits, from age 65, of a lower value that those hed have been entitled to under the BSPS2. And at best, the opportunity to improve 
on the benefits available through the PPF by transferring and investing in line with 
that attitude to risk was limited. For this reason alone, a transfer out of the DB 
scheme was not in Mr Ds best interests.
True Potential recommended the transfer to achieve flexibility for Mr D in retirement. 
But at 46 and with 19 years to go until his retirement, Im not persuaded hed likely 
given any serious thought to his retirement plan or reasonably understood what his 
needs would be so far in the future. I think the reference to flexibility was simply a 
feature or a consequence of transferring to a personal pension rather than a genuine 
objective of Mr Ds.
 
In any event Mr D already had flexibility because he had his workplace defined 
contribution (DC) scheme, which True Potential estimated could likely be worth over 
£100,000 at age 65. I think this couldve provided Mr D with flexibility  the ability to 
take income and/or lump sums as required  if thats what he ultimately needed. 
So I dont think transferring to obtain flexibility was in his best interests.
Mr Ds income need was recorded as being £14,400 a year or £1,200 a month. But 
again, I dont think he could reasonably know at this time what hed need when he 
retired. And True Potential doesnt appear to have carried out a detailed income and 
expenditure in retirement analysis with him to interrogate this figure or challenge how 
realistic a figure it was. 
Without a realistic understanding of Mr Ds true needs in retirement, I dont think it 
was in his best interests to transfer at this time. Mr Ds DB pension was estimated to 
be around £21,800 a year at 65 (or around £15,000 and a circa £100,000 lump sum)  
 a guaranteed and escalating income for life, which wasnt likely to be bettered by 
transferring. I think it wouldve provided a solid income foundation upon which Mr Ds 
other means, including his DC scheme pension, could supplement to likely meet his 
income needs and objectives in retirement. I think this was a more appropriate way 
for Mr D to meet his future retirement needs rather than risking his guaranteed 
benefits in an attempt to do so.
In terms of a transfer providing better death benefits - the priority here was to advise 
Mr D about what was best for his retirement. And the existing scheme offered death 
benefits, by way of a spouses pension, that couldve been valuable to his family in 
the event of his death.
While the CETV figure would no doubt have appeared attractive as a potential lump 
sum, the sum remaining on death following a transfer was always likely to be 
different. As well as being dependent on investment performance, it wouldve also 
been reduced by any income Mr D drew in his lifetime. And so it may not have 
provided the legacy that Mr D may have thought it would. 
If Mr D did genuinely want to leave a legacy for his family, True Potential couldve 
explored life insurance instead. And this couldve been considered on a whole of life 
or term assurance basis  which was likely to be cheaper. Overall, I dont think 
different death benefits available through a transfer justified the likely decrease of 
retirement benefits for Mr D. I dont think that insurance was properly explored as an 
alternative. And ultimately True Potential should not have encouraged Mr D to 
prioritise the potential for alternative death benefits through a personal pension over 
his security in retirement.Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons why it was in Mr Ds best interests to give up his DB 
scheme benefits. And I also havent seen anything to persuade me that Mr D wouldve 
insisted on transferring, against advice to remain in the DB scheme.
Putting things right
Ill focus in this decision on how to put things right for Mr D as no agreement could be 
reached.
The aim is to put Mr D back in the financial position he would have been in at retirement had 
he remained in the DB scheme. True Potential carried out a calculation using a specific 
BSPS calculator provided by the FCA, which is what I would expect them to do in the 
circumstances. 
The calculator uses economic and demographic assumptions to calculate how much a 
consumer needs in their pension arrangement to secure equivalent BSPS retirement 
benefits that they would have been entitled to under either BSPS2 or the PPF (as uplifted to 
reflect the subsequent buy-out), had they not transferred out. 
If the calculation shows there is not enough money in the consumers pension arrangement 
to match the BSPS benefits they would have received, the shortfall is the amount owed to 
the consumer. If the calculation shows there is enough money in the consumers pension 
arrangement, then no redress is due.
The BSPS calculator has been developed by actuaries and is programmed by the FCA with 
benefit structures of the BSPS, BSPS2 and PPF (including the impact of the subsequent 
buy-out) and relevant economic and demographic assumptions which are updated regularly. 
This information cant be changed by firms.
The calculator also makes automatic allowances for ongoing advice fees of 0.5% per year 
and product charges of 0.75% per year which are set percentages by the FCA.
I have checked the inputs that were entered by True Potential, which are personal to Mr D. 
These include Mr Ds personal details, his individual benefits from the BSPS at the date he 
left the scheme and the value of his personal pension. The calculation also assumes that if 
he had not been advised to transfer his benefits from the BSPS, he would have moved to the 
BSPS2 and that he would have taken his DB benefits at age 65. 
Overall, based on what Ive seen, the calculation has been carried out appropriately and in 
line with the rules for calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as 
detailed in the FCAs policy statement PS22/13 and set out in their handbook in DISP App 4:
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter.
I note the valuation date of Mr Ds pension fund has been taken as at 3 October 2023 rather 
than 1 October 2023  the start of the relevant quarter. 
But, because 1 October 2023 fell at a weekend, I dont think it has any material impact on 
things, or it is unfair to use the valuation from 3 October 2023.
The calculation in Mr Ds case shows that there is no shortfall to his pension and that he has 
sufficient funds to be able to replicate his DB benefits in retirement. So, Im satisfied that 
Mr D has not suffered a financial loss by transferring his pension.True Potential has still offered to pay £200 as recommended by our Investigator for the 
distress and inconvenience this matter has caused him.
I think the calculation carried out by True Potential is appropriate in the circumstances and 
no redress for financial losses is due to Mr D. And taking everything into account, including 
what Mr D has said about the emotional impact the unsuitable advice has had, I think their 
offer to pay him £200 for the distress and worry he experienced is fair in the circumstances.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require True Potential Wealth Management LLP  to pay Mr D a 
sum of £200 for the worry he says this matter has caused him. I make no other award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2024. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman