DRN-1697549
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs W are unhappy with Barclays Bank PLCs response to their complaint about a 
scam.
They lost a total of £7,120 to a scam involving the purchase of a camper van. 
What happened
Mr B and Mrs W were scammed when trying to buy a campervan. Theyd found an advert 
online and went to a Barclays branch to make a transfer for the purchase price.
The bank advised them to send a test payment of £1 in order to check the account details 
were correct. The bank emphasised the importance of making sure Mr B and Mrs W were 
dealing with the right people. 
The £1 payment was confirmed as received by Mr B and Mrs Ws contact and so they sent 
the remainder of the money - £7,119. 
They expected to take delivery of the campervan a few days later. When it didnt arrive they 
reported the scam to the bank. It investigated and initially said Mr B and Mrs W would have 
to wait until anything could be done. This was a mistake which Barclays has acknowledged. 
The advice had been incorrectly given on the belief that the transaction was a card payment 
when it wasnt.
Barclays did, after a delay, investigate the scam concern. It contacted the receiving bank to 
see if any money could be recovered. Unfortunately, it had all been removed from the 
account and so there was nothing left to return.
Barclays looked at what had happened when the payment was made in branch. It had a 
record of a conversation which showed scams had been discussed. And it also indicated 
that Mr B had said he had dealt with the payee before. 
The bank said it wouldnt be able to refund Mr B and Mrs W given what had been discussed 
in branch. The bank said it had done what it could to try and warn Mr B and Mrs W about 
scams.
It did offer £225 to settle the delay and misinformation parts of the complaint.
Mr B and Mrs W were unhappy with the response and so brought their complaint to our 
service. One of our investigators considered the case and thought it should be upheld. 
She spoke with Mr B and Mrs W who told her they had no recollection of a discussion 
around vehicle purchase scams specifically. They did acknowledge there was a discussion 
around ensuring the correct account details and that they were dealing with the right people. 
They also said the bank was wrong when it claimed Mr B told them that he had dealt with the 
seller of the campervan before; they hadnt. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded the branch staff had discussed the danger of vehicle 
purchase scams specifically. And so she didnt think the bank had done enough to protect 
Mr B and Mrs W from the risk of financial harm. She thought that, had the bank properly 
informed Mr B and Mrs W about the risks, the scam would likely have been avoided.
The investigator recommended Mr B and Mrs W be refunded in full by the bank. She also 
said it should pay interest on the refund at 8% simple per year. And she said the bank 
should pay a further £200 compensation to Mr B and Mrs W, on top of the £225 already 
offered. 
Barclays disagreed with the outcome and asked that an ombudsman review the case. It 
pointed to the evidence of the branch conversation and also said Mr B and Mrs W had 
clearly bought and sold campervans before and so ought to have been aware of suitable 
checks to carry out. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it. Ill explain why.
Theres little dispute over many of the facts of this case and so I dont intend to go over all of 
the details here. The payments were properly authorised (meeting the definitions set out in 
the Payment Service Regulations and the account terms and conditions) and so the starting 
position is that Mr B and Mrs W are responsible for them, even though they fell victim to a 
scam. 
But, as demonstrated by the events of this case and acknowledge by the bank (and 
established in law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I 
consider to have been good industry practice at the time) there was a responsibility for 
Barclays to ensure its customers werent falling victim to a scam. And theres no doubt that 
Barclays has taken some steps to do that here. It suggested Mr B send a test payment to the 
account details he had and to confirm receipt of the funds before proceeding. Thats 
generally a good idea and can be a useful tool in preventing scams from happening. But, in 
this case, it will have had little effect on the outcome.
 
Such a precaution is useful when trying to stop invoice intercept scams where fraudsters 
hijack a genuine order for goods or services, inserting their own account details into what 
appear to be genuine communications. 
But here Mr B and Mrs W were dealing exclusively with a fraudster. And so contacting them 
to confirm the £1 had been received would have done little to avoid the scam. There was no 
genuine party to call to reveal the detail of what was actually happening.
What ought to have happened was a thorough and probing discussion around the 
prevalence of vehicle purchase scams. Such scams are common and ought to be well-
known and understood by the bank. A discussion ought to directly highlight the danger of 
buying cars online and sending funds direct to a bank account. Questions ought to include 
whether the customer has had sight of the vehicle, whether theyve been able to test drive it 
and so on. Mr B and Mrs W hadnt seen the campervan and hadnt test driven it which ought 
to have caused the bank further concern.  
Mr B and Mrs W have said they found the advert for the campervan on a classifieds site. 
This is a very common place for such scams to originate. But it doesnt seem as though this was discussed with Mr B and Mrs W. Theres no mention of it in the banks records and Mr B 
and Mrs W have no recollection of it happening. So Im not persuaded such a conversation 
took place. 
Barclays has presented some evidence to suggest there was a scam conversation beyond 
the sending of a test payment. But that evidence is limited and, given the circumstances, Im 
not persuaded of its accuracy. Or, at the very least, Im not convinced the bank made sure 
Mr B and Mrs W properly understood what they were being told and the risks involved in the 
transaction they were looking to complete.
I say as much, not just because I think it would have been unlikely they would have 
proceeded if advised properly. But also because the information recorded doesnt reflect 
whats shown in other evidence. Im referring here to the banks note which says the Mr B 
and Mrs W had dealt with the payee before. Mr B and Mrs W have said theyd never dealt 
with that payee before. And, from the records Ive seen, theres no evidence of dealing with 
that payee before. And so it seems unlikely Mr B would have said otherwise. There would 
have been no reason for him to do so. That also should have been quite clear to the bank 
given it was setting up an instruction for a new payee. I dont then find the evidence of the 
branch conversation persuasive. Not in terms of supporting Barclays arguments.
Barclays has also said that Mr B and Mrs W have clearly bought and sold campervans 
before and so ought to have been aware of suitable checks to carry out. From their 
testimony, and the evidence provided, I can see theyve bought a caravan once before. But 
this turned out to be faulty and so they received a full refund for it. I believe this is the 
evidence the bank refers to when it says Mr B and Mrs W have bought and sold campervans 
before. 
Barclays position here appears then to be incorrect. Mr B and Mrs W had bought a 
campervan once before and, whilst it was ultimately returned, the purchase seems to have 
been successful. It seems Barclays intention here was to establish some level of expertise 
on Mr B and Mrs Ws part in the buying and selling of campervans. Whether such an 
argument would be persuasive is somewhat questionable and it would be unlikely to 
extinguish Barclays liability for redress. In this case its ultimately irrelevant given Mr B and 
Mrs W had no such expertise. 
In light of all of the above Im upholding the complaint as I dont believe the discussion in 
branch did enough to properly inform Mr B and Mrs W about the risk of fraud. Had the 
discussion gone as it oughtve Im satisfied Mr B and Mrs W would have acted differently and 
the loss would have been avoided. Its then fair and reasonable that Barclays reimburse 
them now; the bank should refund the loss.
Barclays made no objection to the suggestion of interest or compensation and so I see no 
reason to depart from the investigators findings here. Ill only say its clear Barclays made 
mistakes once the scam was reported. But it was the case the money had already been 
removed from the recipient account by the time Mr B and Mrs W reported the scam.  
Putting things right
Barclays should now refund the full loss of £7,120 to Mr B and Mrs W. It should pay interest 
on that loss at 8%simple per year, from the date of loss to the date of settlement.
Barclays should also pay Mr B and Mrs W £425 in compensation. If the £225 originally 
offered has already been it can be deducted from that sum.  My final decision
 I uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 February 2021.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman