DRN-1097772
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) deducted money from his 
account without informing him of this.
What happened
In July 2019, Mr R contacted Halifax because he had identified some fraudulent activity on 
his account. In June 2019, a retailer had charged £38.64 to his bank account, but Mr R said 
he had not made the transaction. Halifax refunded the money to him. 
Mr R also contacted the retailer to ask why it had debited the money. The retailer apologised 
to him and refunded £13.52 to his account. 
In August, Halifax deducted £13.52 from Mr Rs account because he had now received more 
money than the amount he had initially reported in the fraud claim. It did this without telling 
Mr R it was going to do so. 
Mr R complained to Halifax about it debiting the money without his knowledge. It accepted 
that it should have notified him before removing the funds and offered to pay him £27 
compensation £15 for the trouble and upset caused and £12 to cover the cost of phone calls 
hed had to make. He declined this offer.
Mr R complained to this service. Our investigator thought Halifax had done enough to 
address the issue.
As Mr R did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Rs main concern is that he was not aware that Halifax was going to deduct the money 
from his account. I can understand this concern and, as Halifax has said, it should not have 
done so without telling him that it was going to do so. I agree that Halifax made a mistake on 
this point.
When Mr R contacted Halifax and explained his concerns, it accepted that it had made a 
mistake and offered him compensation which included covering the cost of his phone calls. 
Ive thought about whether the amount it offered - was reasonable.
I can understand that Mr R was very concerned to see that money had been removed from 
his account without his knowledge, particularly as there had recently been fraudulent activity 
on his account. However, deducting the money did not put his account into a debit balance, 
so he did not suffer any additional financial loss. I think that the amount offered by Halifax 
was appropriate in the circumstances and took into account the impact on Mr R for the 
trouble and upset of having to phone Halifax to deal with the issue. In the circumstances,  I 
do not think Halifax needs to pay him any additional compensation.My final decision
My final decision is that what the Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) proposed to do to 
resolve the complaint is fair and reasonable. It should pay Mr R the £27 compensation 
previously offered, if it has not already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2020.
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman