DRN-3820910
The complaint
Mrs K and Mr S complain about how Covea Insurance plc (Covea) handled a claim under 
their home insurance policy for stolen jewellery.
Any reference to Covea in this decision includes their agents.
What happened
In March 2022 Mrs K and Mr Ss property was burgled while they were away on holiday and 
a number of items were stolen, including Asian jewellery, electrical gadgets and watches. 
They reported the burglary to the police and contacted Covea to notify them and make a 
claim for the stolen items.
As part of their assessment of the claim, Covea asked Mrs K and Mr S to provide a list of the 
stolen items, including prices, photographs and proof of purchase (such as receipts, invoices 
or bank statements). Covea also appointed a jewellery expert (L) to provide valuations of the 
jewellery items. Based on descriptions and photographs of the jewellery items provided by 
Mrs K and Mr S, L valued the items at a total of £41,756 (Recommended Retail Price, RRP) 
and £37,560 (at discounted values). Because the value of the items was over 50% of the 
total sum insured for contents (£80,000), Covea also appointed a loss adjuster (S) to 
evaluate the claim and prepare a Valuation at Risk assessment. 
Covea settled elements of the claim, including damage to property doors when the burglars 
forced entry, as well as smaller value stolen items including watches and electrical gadgets. 
However, Covea said they wouldnt cover the high value jewellery items until they had 
further evidence to prove ownership and valuation of the items before they were stolen. 
Covea also said the policy had a limit of £28,000 for high-risk items (which would include 
jewellery) and an individual high-risk item limit of £5,000 (two items on Ls schedule were 
above this limit). However, Mrs K and Mr S said some of the items were gifts from family 
members, so they didnt have receipts or other proof of purchase.
Unhappy at Covea not settling the claim for the jewellery items (and requesting further proof 
of ownership and value) Mrs K and Mr S complained to Covea. However, Covea didnt 
uphold the complaint, confirming their decision to request further substantiation of the 
jewellery items (and allow more time for Mrs K and Mr S to provide the information). Covea 
referred to the policy terms and conditions covering how claims were dealt with and the 
amount of cover. Based on Ls report (and the high-risk limit of £28,000) Covea said they 
also had reason to believe Mrs K and Mr S were underinsured.
Mrs K and Mr S then complained to this service. They were unhappy Covea wouldnt accept 
what theyd provided to support their ownership of the stolen items, so wouldnt cover all the 
stolen items. They thought Covea were being inconsistent in accepting some items 
(watches) under the claim but not the jewellery. Most of the jewellery was either given to 
them as a dowry or as gifts from friends and family. They wanted Covea to pay out for the 
jewellery items.
Our investigator upheld the complaint, concluding Covea hadnt acted fairly in offering 
settlement for some of the stolen items, but not the higher-value jewellery. From photographs 
of Mrs K and Mr S wearing many of the items, she thought it reasonable to accept they 
owned them. The investigator thought it reasonable they didnt have valuations, invoices or 
other proof of value, as the items were given to them as gifts or dowry by family members. L 
had provided estimated replacement costs for the items, based on the photographs and 
descriptions, which Covea hadnt questioned. While there was a potential underinsurance 
issue, this would need to be resolved between Covea and Mrs K and Mr S. The investigator 
thought Covea should settle the claim in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions.
Covea disagreed with the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the 
complaint. They thought Mrs K and Mr S were potentially careless in assessing their 
insurance needs. Having taken out the policy a month before the burglary, they should have 
been aware of the policy terms and conditions, including the high-risk items limit of £28,000. 
And that two of the jewellery items were above the single item limit (so should have been 
specified separately). They also thought Mrs K and Mr S should have been aware of the 
likely value of some of the items, though they accepted they had been gifts and some were 
at least 15 years old. Providing precise weights for other items also suggested Mrs K and Mr 
S would have been aware of the value of the more expensive items. And while L had 
provided valuations based on information from Mrs K and Mr S, this was just a valuation 
exercise  not validating the claim. On the potential underinsurance, Covea said settlement 
of the claim would be proportionate due to this factor, referring to the policy wording.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Covea have acted fairly towards Mrs K and Mr S.
There are two main issues in Mrs K and Mr Ss complaint. First, that Covea have 
acted unfairly in not settling their claim for loss of the stolen jewellery items. They say 
many of the items were given to them as part of a dowry or as gifts from family and 
friends. As such, they dont have proofs of ownership (such as receipts, invoices etc). 
Covea say  while accepting they had been gifts - they are acting in line with the 
policy terms and conditions in asking for more substantiation of the items.
In their final response, Covea refer to the following acknowledgement to Mrs K and 
Mr S when they lodged their claim:
To progress your claim further weve agreed that you will contact me 
when you have the list of the items that were stolen including prices where 
you can, any photographs of the items, proof of purchase (receipts, 
invoices, bank statements).
Looking at this, theres an acknowledgement from Covea that Mrs K and Mr S may 
not be able to provide prices for some items (the reference to where you can). And 
any photographs. Ive looked at the photographs of Mrs K and Mr S wearing the 
items concerned. I think this would be an alternative to specific photographs of the 
individual items. That (at least some of) the photographs appear to be of a wedding, 
that would also be consistent with what Mrs K and Mr S have said about items being 
part of a dowry, or gifts from family and friends. Ive also no reason to doubt (as 
Covea also accept) what Mrs K and Mr S have said about the items being given to 
them as part of a dowry and as gifts from family and friends. And given some of the 
items are of some age, its reasonable to think there wont be the kinds of proof of purchase (of ownership) that might otherwise be available, had Mrs K and Mr S 
purchased the items themselves. So, I think its reasonable to conclude Mrs K and Mr 
S had ownership of the items they listed (and which were used as the basis of Ls 
valuation).
Based on this, I think Covea should assess the claim on the basis Mrs K and Mr S 
had ownership of the jewellery items on the list they provided, in accordance with the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy..
Having reached this conclusion, Ive then gone on to consider the issues around 
valuation of the items. There are several aspects to this question which then lead 
onto the second main issue of the complaint, whether Mrs K and Mr S have 
(potentially) underinsured for the value of the jewellery items (as high-risk items).
Covea raise several points about this issue. They think Mrs K and Mr S have been 
potentially careless in assessing their insurance needs (having taken out the policy a 
month before the burglary). As such, they should have been aware of the policy terms 
and conditions, including the high-risk items limit of £28,000. And that two of the 
jewellery items were above the single item limit (so should have been specified 
separately). They also thought Mrs K and Mr S should have been aware of the likely 
value of some of the items, though accepting they had been gifts and some were at 
least 15 years old. Providing precise weights for other items also suggested Mrs K 
and Mr S would have been aware of the value of the more expensive items.  
In their final response, Covea refer to policy conditions under the heading How we 
deal with your claim:
Youll need to provide us with proof that you own what youre claiming for. 
Well also need to see proof of value (how much it was worth before the 
loss or damage). If you cant provide this, we may reduce your claim 
payment or refuse to pay all or part of your claim.
Make sure you have enough cover
If you make a claim and you didnt have enough cover, we might not be 
able to pay your claim. We may even cancel or treat your policy as if it 
never existed. Or we might lower the amount we pay for the claim.
Looking at the policy documents, the Policy Schedule specifies the following under 
the heading Valuable/High risk items which are covered by this policy:
Total Valuables Limit: £28,0001
Single Article/Item Limit £5,0002
In respect of specified individual valuables, the policy schedule lists four items (gold 
necklace, gold bangle and two gold rings, with sums insured of between £1,000 and 
£1,400). 
When taking out the policy, the onus would have been on Mrs K and Mr S to provide 
all the relevant information required in order for Covea to assess whether to offer 
cover under the policy, as well as the terms and conditions of that cover (including the 
premium to be charged for the policy). Figures for sums assured would be part of that 
1 The maximum amount of valuables allowed in any one claim
2 The maximum amount allowed in respect of any one valuable/high risk item unless specified belowinformation, and the onus would be on Mrs K and Mr S to provide information that 
was accurate and complete. So, it would be reasonable to expect them to have 
considered carefully what sums assured figures to provide. That would include the 
Total Valuables Limit, the Single Article/Item Limit and individual specified items to be 
listed under the policy.
Given this, I agree with the points Covea have made about potential underinsurance, 
given the figures in Ls report about the total value of the jewellery items and 
individual items above the Single Article/Item limit. While it isnt part of the remit of 
this service to assess claims (including whether claims are subject to proportionate 
reduction where there is underinsurance) I think the above points and conclusions 
indicate Covea could (if they chose to) apply the condition set out above where a 
claim is made and there isnt enough cover. On the information Ive seen, Covea have 
not made a decision on this aspect, so it isnt something Im able to consider in this 
complaint.
Ive also considered the point made by Mrs K and Mr S, that Covea were being 
inconsistent in accepting some items (watches) under the claim but not the jewellery. 
Having considered this point, I dont agree. Its reasonable for an insurer to consider 
each element of a claim, as well as the overall claim. Where there are items that are 
of lower value and where its more straightforward to obtain replacement cost, then 
its reasonable for these elements of acclaim to be settled before those items (the 
jewellery items in this case) where they are of higher value or where valuations (or 
replacement costs) are less straightforward to obtain. So, I dont think Covea have 
acted unreasonably in this respect.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mrs K and Mr Ss complaint 
in part. I require Covea Insurance plc to:
Assess the claim for the jewellery items on the basis the items are owned by Mrs 
K and Mr S in accordance with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 January 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman