DRN-2953263
The complaint
Mr Hs complaint is about the price of his pet insurance policy with Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Plc (RSA).
What happened
Mr H took out a lifetime pet policy with RSA several years ago. After receiving the renewal 
documents for the year 2020  2021, Mr H complained about the premium being higher than 
he was previously paying. RSA said it had calculated the premium correctly. However, it also 
paid Mr H £150 compensation, as it acknowledged he had not been prepared for this 
increase. When the policy was due to renew in 2021, Mr H was again not happy with the 
premium set for the following year and complained again. 
Mr H says the policy premium doubled to £1,061pa, a price that he cannot afford and is 
unfair. Mr H says RSA has increased the premium unfairly, knowing he is restricted as his 
cat has pre-existing medical conditions. Mr H also says the complaint has been mis-
managed, as he has received confusing and contradictory correspondence with RSA telling 
him it had cancelled his policy while the complaint was ongoing and then saying it had not 
been cancelled. 
Mr H and has asked that RSA reinstate the policy at a cheaper premium and pay him 
compensation.
RSA reviewed its premium calculation and told Mr H it had calculated the renewal premium 
correctly. It says any pet insurance premium will continue to increase as the insured pet gets 
older, but the level of increase will depend on its view of the risk that is presented at each 
renewal. Previous claims, breed of cat and the vet fees limit will be among the things taken 
into account. RSA offered Mr H the option of downgrading the policy (from premier to 
standard cover) which would have a lower policy limit but would still cover any existing 
conditions, which it said would cost £701.24pa. As Mr H didnt pay the first months premium 
for the renewed policy, RSA cancelled the policy with effect from January 2021 but it also 
told Mr H that it had kept the policy live in case he wanted to take the standard policy cover. 
When he declined that, it cancelled the policy with effect from the renewal date, i.e. 19 
January 2021. RSA also accepted it had not registered Mr Hs complaint as quickly as it 
should have and paid him £75 compensation for that. 
One of our investigators looked into the matter. She did not recommend the complaint be 
upheld, as she thought RSA had acted fairly and reasonably. 
Mr H doesnt accept the investigators assessment, so the matter has been passed to me. 
He says it is not fair to increase premiums like this, in anticipation of claims for these 
lifetime policies; the concept of lifetime cover is meaningless if the insurer make the 
premiums unaffordable over time, and it is clearly not lifetime cover if the insurer can 
increase premiums without actually having a large claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is generally up to insurers to decide what cover they wish to provide and the premium that 
they want to charge for that cover, based on the risk that it thinks a customer presents. We 
have no power to make an insurer lower its charges. Similarly, individual consumers have a 
choice about which policy and which insurer they wish to take insurance with, or not take 
insurance at all  unless its a requirement, legal or otherwise. 
In general, the cost of insuring a pet will increase each year as the pet gets older and the 
cost of medical treatment rises. Standard pet insurance policies usually wont cover any 
medical conditions the pet had, or received treatment, for when the policy was taken out or 
renewed. So ongoing or recurring medical conditions wont be covered. But 'life time policies' 
like the one Mr H took out, will cover any conditions they develop on an ongoing basis for the 
rest of their lives  as long as the policy continues.  The pet is usually covered up to a set 
amount each year, until the policy limit is reached and on renewal of the policy, the limit is 
then refreshed. Providing this cover is expensive and the yearly cost of these lifetime 
policies can go up significantly at renewal. There is no limit to how much the premium could 
be and I cant impose one. 
Normally insurers calculate a base premium rate for a policy that applies to all consumers 
and then other factors they consider relevant to the risk being covered, are applied, which 
might bring that base premium up or down. Different insurers apply different factors but they 
might include an individuals claims history, the cost of claims (e.g. vet treatment) in the 
locality, and the age and breed of the pet, among other things. Mr Hs premium has 
increased significantly in recent years but I havent seen any evidence to suggest RSA has 
treated him differently to how it would have treated any other policyholder in the same 
position. So I cant say it has acted unfairly when pricing the policy. 
As stated, I have no power to direct that RSA charge Mr H less for his policy. So while I 
acknowledge that the increase from £747 in 2020-2021 to £1,061 for 2021-2022 is 
significant and might not be affordable, I do not have the power to require it to charge less. 
This is how much RSA has determined it needs to charge to provide the premier cover for 
Mr Hs cat. I also do not think any compensation is warranted, as RSA had made it 
sufficiently clear to Mr H in response to his earlier complaint, that the premiums would be 
expected to go up each year, given the type of policy it was (i.e. that covers conditions for 
life with no limit, which lots of other policies dont). While Mr H may have been disappointed 
by the increase, RSA did not act incorrectly in setting the renewal premium and so I do not 
think it needs to pay any compensation. As stated, Mr H was free to either accept or reject 
the renewal terms. But I do recognise that Mr Ss premium increased by a lot more than he 
expected it to. 
I also do not think RSA needs to reinstate the policy, as Mr H did not renew it. The first 
months premium was due on 3 February 2021 and it was not paid. RSA did keep the policy 
live in order to be able to calculate the premium for an alternative level of cover but Mr H 
didnt proceed with either of the policy options. RSA asked Mr H for confirmation before 
taking any further action and Mr H confirmed he had decided not to continue the policy. 
Given this, I do not think RSA did anything wrong in cancelling the policy, or in holding it 
open to allow Mr H to decide if he wanted to take the alternative level of cover. 
My final decisionI do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman