DRN-4323751
The complaint
Miss M complains that Lendable Ltd was irresponsible to lend to her.
What happened
Miss M took out one loan with Lendable on 20 December 2022 as seen in the following 
table:
Loan Date Amount Term Monthly 
RepaymentDue
1 20 Dec 2022 £3,000 36m £131.81 20 Dec 2025
Miss M says she had significant debt, including a recent mortgage, at the time of the lending. 
She says Lendable had access to her bank account so would have also seen that her 
expenditure exceeded her income. Miss M says that she can now only make minimum 
repayments on her credit cards and her mental health has been affected by the worry of 
losing her house.
Lendable says all affordability, credit and income checks were carried out and Miss M 
fulfilled its criteria. It says there was nothing of concern on her credit file and it verified her 
income before approving the loan. Lendable adds that Miss M made her first two 
repayments on time before complaining in February 2023. It says Miss M should get in 
contact if she wishes to discuss a more affordable repayment plan.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied that 
Lendable had carried out proportionate checks and that there was nothing in the information 
it collected that should have indicated the lending was unsustainable.
Miss M responded to say, in summary, that she had multiple credit accounts at the time she 
applied to Lendable. She says she was using credit cards to make repayments and 
borrowing from family and friends to maintain her credit score. Miss M says that her credit 
file has now deteriorated as she is now out of options for new credit.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice. 
Bearing this in mind, in coming to a decision on Miss Ms case, I have considered the 
following questions:
Did Lendable complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Miss Ms loan application to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way? 
oIf not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? 
Did Lendable make a fair lending decision?
Did Lendable act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
When Miss M applied for the loan, Ive seen evidence to show Lendable checked her credit 
file and verified her income. These checks showed:
A verified income of £2,319 per month;
Miss M says she was using the money for debt consolidation;
12 active credit accounts:
oA mortgage account with a balance of £113,854 and monthly repayments of 
£444;
oTwo current accounts and a telecoms account had a zero balance;
oThree credit cards had a total balance of £4,258 from a £12,650 combined 
credit limit;
oFour loan accounts with a combined balance of £19,592 and monthly 
repayments totalling £610;
oA utilities account with a balance of £97;
There were no missed payments, arrears, county court judgements or defaults on the 
credit file.
Based on the above, I dont consider Lendables checks went far enough. I say that 
because:
The loan was for a term of three years and Lendable needed to be sure the 
repayments were sustainable for that period;
Miss M was already committed to paying over 30% of her income on unsecured 
credit commitments. Adding in her mortgage, this left Miss M with less than 50% of 
her income with which to pay her other regular expenditure.
Of her 12 active credit accounts, six had been taken out in the previous three 
months.
So I consider Lendable should have ensured it had a thorough understanding of Miss Ms 
financial circumstances, including her regular household expenditure, before it agreed to the 
lending.
Ive had a look at Miss Ms bank statements from the time as a reasonable proxy for what 
proportionate checks may have shown. I can see that:
Miss Ms income was around £2,300 in the months prior to the lending;
Her loans and mortgage combined to a monthly commitment of £1,054;
Minimum repayments on her credit card balances and other regular direct debits 
were around £200 per month;There were no costs evident for council tax and utilities, however, as Miss M had only 
just taken out a mortgage on a new address, I have used the figures she has quoted 
of £300 in total for these.
The above analysis leaves over £600 for other regular expenditure once the new loan 
repayment has been taken into account. I can see Miss M spent up to £200 per month on 
food and petrol, but I cant see that proportionate checks would have shown Lendable that 
the loan was unaffordable. In addition, Miss M was well within the limits on her credit cards 
and was regularly repaying more than the minimum, both of which are signs that she was 
not struggling financially at the time.
Finally, I can see Miss M told Lendable that she would be using the loan for debt 
consolidation. I cant see that the money was used to reduce the balance on any of her 
existing credit commitments and, indeed, I note that she took out further loans, and a credit 
card, around the same time or shortly afterwards, the Lendable loan.
So, in summary, although I dont consider Lendable carried out proportionate checks, I dont 
find such checks would have led it to a different conclusion about the lending. As such I find 
Lendable made a fair lending decision and I havent seen any evidence to show that it acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in any other way. That said, having looked at Miss Ms more recent 
credit file, I can see that her financial situation appears to have deteriorated since December 
2022, so I would remind Lendable of its obligation to treat Miss M positively and 
sympathetically when attempting to agree a repayment plan for the outstanding balance.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 December 2023.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman