DRN-4109671
The complaint
Mr U complains Quidie Limited trading as Fernovo (Quidie) provided him with a loan 
without carrying out appropriate affordability checks. 
What happened
Mr U was granted one loan on 19 August 2022 for £400. Mr U was due to make three 
instalments of £146.62 and then a final instalment of £150.86. When Quidie provided its file 
to us, an outstanding balance remained due. 
Quidie considered the complaint and concluded it had made a reasonable decision to 
provide the loan because it had carried out proportionate checks. However, Quidie explained 
that should Mr U withdraw his complaint then as a gesture of goodwill it would reduce the 
outstanding balance to £300. It also said that once the loan is repaid, it would be willing to 
delete the loan from the credit file. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr U referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
The complaint was then considered by an adjudicator, who didnt uphold it. He said Quidie 
had reasonable grounds to believe Mr U could afford the loan and that it had carried out 
proportionate checks. 
Mr U didnt agree and instead asked for an ombudsmans final decision.  As no agreement 
has been reached, the case has been passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Quidie had to assess the lending to check if Mr U could afford to pay back the amount hed 
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to 
the circumstances. Quidies checks could have taken into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Us income 
and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Quidie should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr U. These factors include:
Mr U having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr U having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr U coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr U. The adjudicator didnt consider 
this applied in Mr Us complaint as only one loan was granted. 
Quidie was required to establish whether Mr U could sustainably repay the loan  not just 
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr U was able to repay his loan 
sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and without 
having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, 
that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, then it 
follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Us complaint.
Enquires have been made with Quidie about whether the goodwill offer it outlined in the final 
response letter is still available to Mr U. No response has been received so therefore, not to 
delay the decision, Ive proceeded because I have sufficient information to come to a finding 
on whether Quidie did all it ought to have done before lending to Mr U. Ill leave it up to 
Quidie and Mr U to discuss whether such an offer is still available. 
Before the loan was approved, Quidie asked Mr U for details of his income, which he 
declared as being £2,800 per month. Quidie says the income figure was checked by cross 
referencing information through a third-party report.  
Mr U also declared monthly outgoings of £700 for the loan. As part of the application, Quidie 
used information from its credit search and third-party reports. As a result of this check, 
Mr Us monthly expenditure was increased by a further £150 per month.
After carrying out these checks, Mr Us disposable income was £1,950 per month in which to 
afford the loan repayments of around £150. The loan wouldve looked affordable. 
Before the loan was approved Quidie also carried out a credit search and it has provided a 
summary of the results it received from the credit reference agency. It is worth saying here 
that although Quidie carried out credit searches, there isnt a regulatory requirement to do 
one, let alone one to a specific standard. But what Quidie couldnt do is carry out a credit 
search and then not react to the information it received.
Having reviewed the credit check results there isnt anything that wouldve indicated that 
Mr U was having financial difficulties, for example it knew there were no insolvency markers, 
defaults recorded within the last three years or debt management plans. There also wasnt 
anything within the results that indicated Mr U was reliant on these sorts of loans (or home 
credit loans). 
Overall, there was also nothing else in the information that Ive seen that wouldve led Quidie 
to believe that it needed to go further with its checks  such as verifying the information Mr U had provided. In my view, it wouldve been disproportionate for Quidie to have considered 
bank statements. 
Given the evidence provided, I think it was reasonable for Quidie to have relied on the 
information it received about Mr Us income and expenditure to show he had sufficient 
disposable income to afford the repayments he was committed to making. There also wasnt 
anything else to suggest that Mr U was having financial difficulties or that the loan would be 
unsustainable for him. 
Im therefore not upholding Mr Us complaint. 
My final decision
So, for the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Us complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman