DRN-4020448
The complaint
Mr O has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) failed to sufficiently tell him that he 
was no longer covered by the travel insurance policy provided as a benefit of his Premier 
account.
What happened
Mr O holds a fee-free Premier account. One of the benefits the account provides is 
worldwide travel insurance. The terms and conditions of the worldwide travel insurance say 
that it will cover accountholders up to the age of 69. But once anyone who is insured by the 
policy reaches the age of 70, they are no longer covered by the policy.
Mr O travelled in September 2022 and missed a connecting flight due to a luggage delay. 
This resulted Mr O having to pay an additional sum of money to return home. Whilst 
attempting to claim on the travel insurance policy Mr O discovered that he was no longer 
covered by the travel insurance policy as he was over 70 years old.
Mr O raised a complaint regarding this as he believed this should have been brought to his 
attention. HSBC declined Mr Os complaint as it believed that it had sent letters electronically 
informing Mr O of the age limit of the travel insurance policy and that he had reached this 
limit. 
One of our investigators looked into this matter and they did not think that HSBC had done 
anything wrong in relation to this. Mr O disagreed and therefore his complaint has been 
passed to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Mr O says that HSBC should have sent him notification that he was no longer covered by the 
travel insurance policy by post as it was an important document, he also has suggested that 
he did not receive electronic copies of this notification. 
The FCA handbook states that providers of packaged bank accounts need to send out an 
Annual Eligibility Statements (AES) in writing every year which must contain details about 
the insurance benefits of the account and the main eligibility criteria. It also says that after an 
account holder is no longer eligible for an insurance benefit this must be prominently 
highlighted in the AES.
It has explained that in writing includes e-mail so I dont think that HSBC was required to 
send Mr O the document via post. In this instance, I am satisfied albeit on balance that Mr 
Os contact preferences for documents such as the AES were set to electronic. So I dont 
think that HSBC did anything wrong by sending the AES to Mr O electronically.
I have looked at the letters issued by HSBC and I am satisfied that they were sent 
electronically prior to Mr O reaching 70 years old and the AES clearly stated that to be 
eligible for the travel insurance an account holder had to be under 70 years old. I am further 
satisfied that HSBC also issued a letter again electronically in April 2022 specifically 
highlighting that Mr O was no longer covered under the Premier account travel insurance. So 
overall I think that HSBC did enough to make Mr O aware of the age limit of the Premier 
account travel insurance.
I completely understand that Mr O will be disappointed by this. But I can only recommend an 
award of compensation if HSBC has done anything wrong and in this instance for the 
reasons given above, I dont think it has.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman