DRN-2532213
The complaint 
Mr B has complained that after Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) changed the type of bank 
account he held, it charged him fees for overdrawing his account, where previously it had 
allowed him to overdraw his account by the same amount without paying fees.
What happened
Up to 2017, Mr B held a packaged bank account, called an Additions account with Barclays. 
He paid a monthly fee for this account and received several potential benefits in return. 
Barclays then switched him to a fee-free account but added a similar, though not identical, 
range of potential benefits, which it called a Tech Pack, to his account. It charged him a 
monthly fee for this pack of potential benefits. 
Mr B overdrew his account quite frequently, both while he held the Additions account and 
after Barclays switched him to the Tech Pack. Both parties agree that after Barclays 
switched Mr Bs account, it charged him more in overdraft fees than it had previously. But 
Barclays thinks this increase was fair, Mr B doesnt.
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mr Bs complaint and didnt think that 
Barclays had done anything significantly wrong. Mr B didnt agree with the adjudicators 
findings and asked for an ombudsman to review his case. So, it has come to me to make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked into everything that Mr B and Barclays have told us or sent us about the case, 
and Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Firstly, I would like to explain the background to this case. During the period from 2015 to 
2017, Barclays took a commercial decision to change the range of bank accounts it offered. 
As result, it withdrew the Additions account from its customers and switched Mr B to the 
Tech Pack. Along with other banks, Barclays is allowed to make changes like this, but has to 
treat its customers fairly by giving them notice, telling them what is happening and providing 
them with reasonable choices. 
Barclays has said that the terms it applied to overdrafts were different for customers with 
Tech Packs than for customers with Additions accounts and that it told Mr B about these 
changes. To support its case, it has sent us copies of two letters it says it sent to him during 
late 2016 and early 2017. 
 .
The first letter told Mr B that Barclays intended to switch him to a Barclays Bank Account
with added Tech Pack. It told him how much the Tech Pack would cost (which was less than 
the Additions account) and what features it would provide. It also had a specific section 
called Changes to your fee-free overdraft, which said: 
If you have an arranged overdraft, your limit won't change but the first 250 of your 
overdraft will no longer be fee-free when your account changes. Instead, with Tech 
Pack the first 200 of your overdraft will be fee-free. If you go overdrawn beyond your 
fee-free amount, dally fees will be charged on the whole balance of your arranged 
overdraft, just as they are now. The enclosed booklet sets out more details Including 
the dally fees you would pay. Your overdraft agreement will be amended to reflect 
these changes. You can visit us in any branch If you also wish to reduce your overdraft 
limit. You can sign up for Text Alerts or make changes to alerts you have already set 
up to help you stay in control of your finances and overdraft spending, just pick the 
alerts . and we'll text you, so you always know what's happening with your money. 
The letter also told Mr B that he could opt out of the Tech Pack and that if he did so his 
account would become A Barclays Bank Account. with no monthly account fee.... It 
described how he could opt out either by visiting one of Barclays branches or by calling a 
particular phone number.
Barclays has said that it sent the second letter to Mr B around four months after it sent the 
first. This letter told Mr B that Barclays had changed his account and that it would start to 
charge him for the Tech Pack. The first paragraph also said:
 If you have an arranged overdraft, your limit won't have changed, but your fee-free 
amount may be different. Please see your original letter for details. 
The second letter also told Mr B hat he could remove the Tech Pack from his account at any 
time and so have a fee-free account. 
Mr B had an arranged overdraft of up to £250 with his Additions account, so would obviously 
be affected by these charges, but I think the two letters were pretty clear about what would 
happen, gave Mr B reasonable notice and gave him a choice to opt out of the Tech Pack. 
So, I think that Barclays met its obligations to Mr B. 
Mr B has told us that he doesnt recall receiving either letter, and also that he wrote letters to 
Barclays which it says it didnt receive. I am sorry to hear this. Obviously, I dont know what 
happened to this correspondence. But Barclays seems to have correctly addressed the two 
letters from which I have quoted, and I think its highly likely that Barclays sent them. I cant 
hold it responsible for what happened afterwards. And I do not think that the letters Mr B 
sent to Barclays would have affected this decision as both sides have had ample opportunity 
to tell us about anything they consider to be significant.  
Mr B has also questioned the clarity of some of the text on the bank statements Barclays 
sent him after it charged his account. Hes said that the statements have continue(d) to 
show (his) authorised (overdraft) limit is £250 .so who in their right mind would assume 
that given that figure, fees would be implemented at £200. It is nonsensical and total 
gibberish.
However, the authorised overdraft limit did not refer to the fees, it meant that Mr B could 
overdraw his account up to that amount without seeking further agreements from Barclays. It 
had already told him about the fees in the letters, so I dont agree with Mr B that this text was 
either gibberish or nonsense. I think it was potentially useful information. 
I didnt think that the fees Barclays charged Mr B for overdrawing his account after it 
switched him to the Tech Pack were unfair.In correspondence with us, Mr B has raised a related complaint that Barclays mis-sold the 
Tech Pack to him. We are considering this complaint separately, so I have not mentioned it 
here. Similarly, Mr B has also raised concerns about Barclays declining to extend the term of 
a loan he held and changing his limit on a credit card. I do not know a great deal about these 
two concerns and if or how Barclays has responded to them, and I have not considered 
them here. So, if Mr B wishes, he is free to pursue them further. But I cannot give him any 
advice about this or speculate on the possible outcome of any complaint. Nor do I know if 
any such complaint would fall inside or outside the rules and time limits which determine 
which complaints we can consider. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mr Bs complaint that Barclays 
Bank UK PLC charged him unfair fees for overdrawing his account after it switched him to a 
Tech Pack. 
I am not going to tell Barclays to give Mr B any money back.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2021. 
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman