DRN-4317748
The complaint
Mr R complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC was irresponsible in its lending to him. 
What happened
Mr R says that he received an unsolicited letter from Barclays in 2010 inviting him to apply 
for a loan. He says that at the time he was severely mentally impaired and unable to make 
complex budgeting decisions. He applied for the loan in January 2011 and says that no 
background checks were undertaken other than his credit report and identification. He was 
unable to maintain the repayments and the loan was defaulted in 2013. Mr R says the loan 
shouldnt have been provided and it has had a negative impact on his financial situation and 
credit file.
Barclays issued a final response letter in November 2022 saying that Mr R had raised his 
complaint out of time. 
Mr R wasnt satisfied with Barclays response and referred his complaint to this service.
A decision was issued saying this was a complaint we could consider. Our investigator 
assessed the merits of this complaint and didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt find that 
there was enough evidence to show that Barclays should have been aware that Mr R wasnt 
able to make an informed decision in regard to the loan. While he couldnt say whether the 
checks carried out before lending were reasonable and proportionate, he didnt find that 
reasonable and proportionate checks would have shown the loan to be unaffordable or that 
the lending wasnt beneficial to Mr R.
Mr R didnt agree with our investigators view. He said that he was pre-approved for a large 
loan even though he only had a low income from benefits, his current account was close to 
zero and his credit cards had been at their limits for several years. He said that had his 
medical records from the time been assessed it would be clear that he was unable to make 
an informed decision about the loan. He said that while Barclays wouldnt have been aware 
of his mental health at the time proper checks would have shown that the loan wasnt 
affordable. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R was provided with a £10,000 fixed sum loan by Barclays in January 2011. The loan 
was repayable over 84 months with monthly repayments of around £248. 
When the loan was provided, the relevant guidance was set by the Office of Fair Trading. 
This stated that firms should ensure customers had sufficient information to make an 
informed decision and that firms should make a reasonable assessment of whether a 
borrower could afford to meet repayments in a sustainable manner. Barclays has said that 
the lending assessment was carried out and that Mr R would have had to pass its checking 
criteria to be approved for the loan. Unfortunately, due to the time that has passed there is 
limited information available about the checks carried out at the time of Mr Rs application. 
I note Mr Rs comment that he was sent a letter about being pre-approved for a loan in 2010, 
however Barclays says it has no record of this. Even if this had been sent, Barclays has said 
the loan was taken out at one of its branches and so this would have allowed Mr R the 
opportunity to discuss any concerns he had at that time. The agreement contained the 
information that would be needed to understand the loan, its cost and repayments and so I 
find that Mr R was provided with the information he needed to make an informed decision. 
Mr R has explained his situation at the time in regard to his mental capacity. I am sorry to 
hear of the difficult time he has experienced, and I do not underestimate the challenges he 
has faced. But for me to say that Barclays was wrong to provide the loan I would need to say 
that it should have reasonably realised that Mr R wasnt able to give informed consent to 
enter the agreement. Barclays has said that it was unaware that Mr R didnt have the 
capacity to make an informed decision in regard to the agreement until he raised his 
complaint. Mr R has also said in response to our investigators view that Barclays wouldnt 
have been aware of his mental illness at the time. Therefore, on balance, I do not find I have 
enough to say that Barclays should have been aware at the time the loan was provided that 
Mr R wasnt able to make an informed decision. 
Barclays was also required to assess the affordability of the loan. Due to the passage of 
time, Barclays hasnt been able to show the outcome of any checks it undertook before the 
loan was provided. Because of this, I am unable to say whether its checks were reasonable 
and proportionate. I have therefore considered the evidence that has been provided to 
assess whether I think, had proportionate checks been undertaken, these would have raised 
concerns about Mr Rs ability to make the repayments.
Mr Rs current account was with Barclays and Barclays has said that affordability is captured 
from actual income and expenses in a customers account. I have looked through Mr Rs 
current account statements for the months leading up to the loan and these show he was 
receiving income from benefits of around £850 a month. He had limited regular expenses 
leaving his account. Given this I do not find that the loan repayment would have appeared 
unaffordable.
Mr R has provided evidence to show he had two credit cards at the time. These payments 
arent shown in Mr Rs bank statements, but he was making regular cash withdrawals which 
could have been used to make his repayments. While Mr R has provided some information 
about the credit cards, I have nothing to say that a credit check would have shown any 
issues with the credit card accounts at the time the loan was provided. In terms of 
considering the repayments as part of the affordability check, I note that Barclays said that 
when Mr R took out the loan the reason given was to consolidate debts. Given this, I think it 
would have been reasonable to assume that the loan would be used for this purpose and it 
is likely that the repayments under the loan would be lower than those required on the credit 
card debt. 
Mr R has also said that he was making payments to his family to cover his household bills 
and paying £50 a week for private medical treatment. I have taken this into account. But I 
have to consider what reasonable checks would likely have shown if they had been 
undertaken at the time. Based on the information in Mr Rs bank statements, and noting that 
while he had credit card debt it appears he said the loan was for debt consolidation, I do not 
find I have enough to say that had reasonable and proportionate checks been undertaken 
the loan would have been seen to be unaffordable. 
While I understand the concerns Mr R has raised in this complaint and appreciate this isnt the answer he wants, I do not find I have enough evidence to say that adequate checks 
would have shown the loan to have been unaffordable, or that Barclays did anything else 
wrong by providing the loan. Therefore, I am not able to uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman