DRN-3564615
The complaint
Ms I complains that Evergreen Finance London Limited (trading as Moneyboat) was
irresponsible to lend to her.
What happened
Ms I had three loans from Moneyboat between January 2018 and January 2019 as seen 
below:
Loan Date Amount Term Monthly
RepaymentDue Repaid
1 16 Jan 2018 £400 164d £111.79 29 Jun 2018 On time
2 3 Jul 2018 £500 181d £153.33 31 Dec 2018 On time
3 2 Jan 2019 £450 177d £136.85 28 Jun 2019 Outstanding
Ms I says if Moneyboat had carried out better checks it would not have lent her the money. 
She says she had to borrow from elsewhere to make the repayments and didnt have 
enough money each month for her priority bills. Ms I says if Moneyboat had looked at her 
credit file or bank statements it would have seen credit card debts and a large overdraft, as 
well as late payments and defaults.
Moneyboat says it checked Ms Is credit file to satisfy itself that Ms I could sustainably meet 
the repayments. It says it also asked Ms I to provide figures for her income, which it says it 
verified with payslips, and expenditure. Moneyboat says this showed the repayments to be 
affordable, even after adjustments were made based on its other checks. It adds that it has 
also previously declined loan applications from Ms I which, it says, further supports its 
stance that its checks were reasonable. In conclusion, Moneyboat says it was satisfied its 
checks were proportionate and its lending was not irresponsible.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied that
Moneyboat carried out proportionate checks and there was nothing in the available
information to indicate further checks were required, or that the repayments were
unsustainable.
Ms I responded to say, in summary, that if Moneyboat had carried out proportionate checks
it would have seen that she had a large overdraft, multiple credit cards and loans, missed
payments and defaults. She added that her bank statements would also have shown
regularly spend on gambling, so the lending was irresponsible.
My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision to Ms I and to Moneyboat on 26 May 2022. Ive summarised 
my findings:
I was satisfied that Moneyboats checks for loan 1 went far enough, but I did not 
consider Moneyboat made a fair lending decision because:
oMs Is credit file was showing clear signs that she was already struggling to 
manage her money;
oEven without any loan repayments, Ms I was committed to repaying at least 
£160 per month on her credit card balances. As shed only declared £90 for 
credit expenditure, Moneyboats affordability calculation should have been 
adjusted for this. If this had been done, it would have shown Ms I had around 
£130 of disposable income with which to pay the £112 repayments, and her 
other outstanding loans, for six months;
So I found loan 1 was not sustainably affordable to Ms I;
Ms Is credit file showed a worsening picture when she applied for loan 2:
oMs I now had 14 active accounts, of which seven had been opened in the last 
six months:
All seven of the new accounts were short-term loans (including loan 1) 
and four remained open at the time of the loan 2 application;
oAnother of the three existing loans was showing a default in October 2016;
oThe credit cards had increased further above their limits and one was now 
showing it had become delinquent in April 2018;
With four outstanding short-term loans and further repayment problems, I found 
Moneyboat should have realised it was unlikely Ms I would be able to sustainably 
repay a further loan and should not have approved loan 2;
Moneyboat carried out a further credit check for loan 3 which showed:
oThree further defaulted accounts:
One was the credit card that had become delinquent;
Two of the short-term loans that were open at loan 2 had also 
defaulted;
oA second credit card had become delinquent in July 2018;
oOne of the remaining short-term loans had been repaid, but the fourth was in 
arrears;
oMs I had taken out a new short-term loan in June 2018 which was still 
outstanding at the time of the loan 3 application;
oThe utilities account was now in arrears;
oMs I continued to fully use her £4,500 overdraft and was paying minimal 
amounts to the loan accounts;
There were clear indications that Ms Is financial situation continued to decline and so 
I found Moneyboat was irresponsible to have approved loan 3.
So my provisional decision was that I upheld Ms Is complaint about all the loans.
Ms I responded to accept my provisional decision.
Moneyboat did not respond to the provisional decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ms I accepted my provisional decision and neither provided any additional information, I 
see no reason to depart from the conclusion I reached.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. Evergreen Finance London Limited (trading as 
Moneyboat) should:
A. refund all the interest and charges Ms I paid on loans 1 and 2;
B. pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement*;
C. remove any interest and charges still outstanding on loan 3 and treat all 
the payments Ms I made towards this loan as payments towards the 
capital;
D. if reworking Ms Is loan 3 account as Ive directed results in Ms I effectively having 
made payments above the original capital borrowed, then Moneyboat should 
refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the 
overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of 
settlement* along with the refund calculated (A+B) for loans 1 and 2;
E. remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Is credit file in relation to the 
loans;
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Moneyboat to take off tax from this interest. Moneyboat 
must give Ms I a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms I to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2022.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman