DRN-2823014
The complaint
Miss Rs complaint is that British Gas Insurance Limited didnt repair the damage it caused 
when it accessed and fixed a leak in her property.
What happened
Around August 2020, Miss R asked British Gas to fix a leak in her property under her
Homecare policy. She says the engineer that carried out the repair explained that some of
the bathroom tiles would need removing and, after asking her to sign a form, he proceeded
to remove the tiles to access the leak. Miss R says her bath panel was also damaged in the 
process.
Miss R says she expected British Gas to replace the bathroom tiles and she says this was
agreed when she telephoned the insurer in September 2020. Miss R says she was told that
the damage would be repaired under the £1,000 access and making good cover provided by
the policy. However, a few days after this call, British Gas contacted Miss R and informed
her that the damaged tiles wouldnt be replaced under the policy.
After Miss R complained, British Gas acknowledged that she was given incorrect information
during the telephone call in September. The insurer explained that the terms of the policy set
out that the damage to her bathroom tiles wouldnt be covered. British Gas offered to look in
to the damaged bath panel  Miss R wanted all the repairs covered and asked this service to 
review the matter.
Our investigator agreed that British Gas had acted fairly and in accordance with the terms of
the policy. The investigator felt that the incorrect information Miss R was given over the
phone caused her distress and inconvenience and recommended that British Gas pay
Miss R £100 compensation.
Neither party agreed so the complaint has been passed to me to review
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision, explaining what I didnt intend to uphold the complaint:
Most types of home emergency policies are designed to deal with the issue thats caused
the emergency  such as a leaking pipe. These types of policies arent usually designed to
cover the damage caused by the emergency (the leak) or the damage that may occur as
part of putting a stop to the emergency (the damaged tiles).
The terms of Miss Rs policy do indeed set out that the policy includes £1,000 for access and
making good. The terms explain that this covers things like replacing cabinets or cupboards
that have been removed or covering holes that may have been made as part of the repair.
The terms also explain that the access and making good part of the policy doesnt include
replacing or restoring original surfaces or coverings and specifically lists tiles as an example.
I dont find these terms to be unusual.
So although British Gas removed some of Miss Rs bathroom tiles in order to access the
leak  I dont think it acted unfairly by not replacing these tiles as this isnt what the access
and making good part of the policy is designed to cover.
From what Miss R says now, it seems she didnt understand the extent of the damage that
would be caused in order to access the leak. She also suggests that she wasnt aware at the
time the repair was carried out that British Gas wouldnt replace the damaged tiles.
Ive seen a copy of the authority to proceed form that Miss R was asked to sign at the time of
the repair. Theres a damage waiver section on the form that sets out that the engineer will
need to remove certain items in order to gain access to the emergency. It also sets out that
this may cause damage that the engineer wouldnt be responsible for  damage caused by
removing tiles or bath panels are listed as examples. The box beside this section has been
ticked, indicating that Miss R either read this waiver or the engineer explained it to her.
The customer declaration section of the form says, I understand that making good
afterwards, including any redecoration is not covered under the terms of the Homecare
Agreement. Miss R appears to have signed the form indicating shes aware of and accepts
the information it contains.
So, despite what Miss R says now, I think British Gas did enough at the time to inform her
that the damage to her bathroom tiles caused by accessing the leak wouldnt be replaced
under her policy.
Miss R telephoned British Gas around a month after the leak was repaired  its in this call
that she was given incorrect information by a British Gas representative. British Gas says
that it put this error right within a few days and informed Miss R that the damage wouldnt be
covered under her policy. Miss R feels the insurer should honour what was agreed.
I dont agree, nor do I think compensation for distress and inconvenience is appropriate in
these circumstances. As I explained above, it seems apparent to me that Miss R was given
adequate information before the leak was accessed, informing her that British Gas wouldnt
be responsible for putting right the damage caused by accessing the leak.
Its unfortunate that Miss R was given incorrect advice during her call with British Gas. But
the insurer says this was put right within a short period of time. And the call took place
several weeks after the repair. So Miss R had awareness of British Gas liabilities for the
period up until the telephone call in question. British Gas appears to have mistakenly agreed
to do something that it wouldnt have done anyway. But this hasnt affected Miss Rs position
 shed still have to arrange to have the tiles replaced herself  so I dont intend to ask
British Gas to do anything else because of this.
In regard to the compensation payment, again I dont think the incorrect advice caused 
Miss R additional distress and inconvenience to the point that Id instruct British Gas to pay 
an amount to put things right. The circumstances of Miss Rs emergency would have
understandably been stressful. And having to deal with a bathroom with damaged parts
would of course add to this stress and causes her an inconvenience, as Miss R would need
to arrange repairs.
But the distress and inconvenience caused by the leak is something Miss R would have
gone through, regardless of British Gas incorrect advice. I havent seen enough to persuade
me that it would be fair to ask the insurer to pay compensation to Miss R because of the
distress and inconvenience shes experienced.
In summary, although I empathise with Miss Rs predicament  I cant fairly conclude thatBritish Gas is responsible for making good the damage to Miss Rs bathroom. From what
Ive seen, the responsibility for the damage was explained to Miss R at the time of the repair
and the terms of the policy set out that the type of damage caused in order to access the
leak isnt covered by the policy. Although British Gas acknowledges its error when it
provided Miss R with incorrect information, in my opinion it doesnt need to do anything more
to put things right.
British Gas accepted my provisional findings. Miss R wrote to me mainly reiterating her 
earlier submissions and added:
the engineer advised that the tiles be removed even though Miss R didnt want 
anything damaged. She agreed for this to happen so that the leak could be repaired.
the engineer didnt record the damage that actually occurred on the day
she didnt reject the insurers offer to repair the bath panel  she put this on hold until 
her complaint is resolved
she wants to be compensated to cover the full cost of repairing the damage and to 
cover the stress shes experienced by having to live with a damaged bathroom
she says British Gas was under a duty to keep damage to a minimum and that she 
didnt have time to read the small print in the authority form - given it was an 
emergency
she also thinks the engineer made the wrong decision to remove the tiles and thinks 
she shouldve been verbally informed that the damage wouldnt be covered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my decision remains the same. Ive commented on Miss Rs most recent 
submissions below:
its understandable that Miss Rs initial position wouldve been to avoid any damage 
to her bathroom. And its likely the engineer did suggest removal of the tiles. But as 
Miss R pointed out, she agreed to have the tiles removed so the engineer could 
access and repair the leak.
I havent seen any recorded information about the actual damage that was caused on 
the day. But British Gas arent disputing that Miss Rs bathroom tiles and bath panel 
were damaged, so I dont find that this makes a difference.
I agree, Miss R doesnt seem to have rejected the insurers offer to look in to 
repairing the bath panel. If this is something Miss R wants to go ahead with, then she 
should contact British Gas directly. 
In my provisional decision, Ive set out the reasons why I dont think British Gas 
needs to pay compensation to put things right. I know Miss R would like the cost to 
repair her bathroom covered via a compensation payment  but I dont think this is 
fair in the circumstances.I understand that, on the day, Miss R wouldve wanted the leak repaired as quickly as 
possible. I cant say for certain whether the engineer provided a verbal explanation of 
British Gas liabilities. But, as I explained in my provisional decision, the authority to 
proceed form sets this out with reasonable prominence. 
Although, as Miss R suggests, there is some small print information on the form  
Miss R only had to read and understand the parts that were relevant to her, which is 
the damage waiver and the declaration. By signing it, Miss R expressed her 
agreement and understanding of the contents of the form. 
In regard to Miss Rs comments that British Gas had a duty to keep damage to a 
minimum and that the engineer acted incorrectly by removing the tiles  this appears 
to be new complaint points that havent been considered previously. So I wont be 
commenting on this further. Miss R may raise these points directly with British Gas if 
she wishes to do so. Ive only considered whether British Gas acted fairly but not 
agreeing to cover the repairs. 
Ive considered Miss Rs most recent comments, but it doesnt change my decision. The 
damage caused to Miss Rs bathroom in order to access the leak isnt covered by the policy. 
And despite British Gas misinformation, I dont think the insurer needs to do anything more 
to put things right.
My final decision
For these reasons, Im not upholding Miss Rs complaint against British Gas Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 June 2021.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman