DRN-2042328
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy taken out in 
1999. Mr H says Santander UK Plc, (trading as: Alliance and Leicester), mis-sold him the 
MPPI. 
What happened
Mr H took out the MPPI in a meeting at the same time as mortgaging his home. The 
premiums were about £23 a month. And the monthly benefit payable was £450 which, 
following a successful claim, would have been made for up to 12 months. The policy covered 
Mr H against accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. As Mr H disagreed 
the matter has been passed to me to decide
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection 
insurance on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Hs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint because:
Mr H says that he felt high pressure to take out the policy. He has told us that 
Santanders representative left him in little doubt that his application rested on his doing 
so. And even though Mr H says he couldnt afford the MPPI, he says the representative 
remained overly insistent. I have no reason to doubt that this is how Mr H now recalls 
what happened during the sales meeting. But as this was some 20 years ago, and 
without more detail of what was actually said, I dont think I can fairly and reasonably rely 
solely on Mr Hs recollection and find that Santander put undue pressure on Mr H;
. 
I think Santander made it clear that Mr H didnt have to take out the MPPI and he chose 
to take it out. I say this because Ive seen Mr Hs signed mortgage application. This has 
a section in it dealing with various types of insurance. It says that if the applicant wishes 
cover to be arranged, they should tick the appropriate box and an application form will be 
sent. I can see that the box for MPPI, (together with one for a type of home insurance), 
has a cross (sic) in it, and that there is an amount in the box for the monthly benefit 
required. The boxes have been filled in in print. But Im satisfied that Santanders 
representative must have discussed Mr Hs requirements with him before printing the 
form that way and giving it to him to sign. And, in view of what is printed on the 
application form, I think it was more likely than not that Mr H also had to complete and 
sign a separate application form for the MPPI. Because the sale was a long time ago, I 
can understand why Mr H doesnt remember this.
Santander recommended the MPPI to Mr H, so it had to check that the MPPI was right 
for him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. I say this because:
oMr H was eligible for the MPPI;
oMr H wasnt caught by any of the main restrictions and limitations of the policy - such 
as those affecting someone with a pre-existing medical condition;
 
oMr H says he was entitled to sick pay from his employer and that he also had some 
savings. But, following a successful claim, the policy would have paid out in addition, 
leaving these other means available to help meet his other expenses if Mr H hadnt 
been working. So I think that the MPPI could have been of use to Mr H;
oThe MPPI was competitively priced by reference to other similar polices available in 
the market at the time. And I havent seen anything to suggest that Mr H couldnt 
afford it. In any event, as it was paid for monthly, had he later felt that it was 
unaffordable or that he no longer wanted it, he could have cancelled the policy at any 
time without further cost;
Its possible the information Santander gave Mr H wasnt as clear as it should have been. 
But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems 
like it would have been useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information about the MPPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover. I say this particularly bearing in mind the serious consequences that 
could have arisen had Mr H been unable to make his monthly mortgage repayments.
So, from what Ive concluded above I dont find that Santander has done anything wrong. 
And therefore theres nothing I require it to put right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2020.
 
Ros Barnett
Ombudsman