DRN-1521975
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the way Society of Lloyds (SOL) handled his claim. He feels the poor 
communication from SOL led him to believe the damage to his wall would be covered. So 
SOL should contribute £5,000 towards the repair costs. 
Mr B is being represented by his wife Mrs B  but for ease Ill refer to both their actions as 
that of Mr B.
When I refer to SOL, Im also referring to any of their appointed representatives.
What happened
Our investigator decided the complaint should be upheld, but SOL should only pay £250 in 
compensation to Mr B in recognition of how the claim was handled. She didnt think there 
was enough evidence to show SOL had ever agreed to meet the cost of repairing the wall, 
so it shouldnt have to pay £5,000. 
Mr B disagreed. He said he had no reason to believe the wall wasnt covered. And he 
agreed the cost of the repairs with SOL and their builder. 
SOL also disagreed. It said it hadnt agreed for the work to go ahead when it visited
Mr Bs property. And it didnt think it had caused a delay when reviewing the claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold this complaint in part. But I dont think SOL needs to 
meet the £5,000 being requested by Mr B. I know he feels strongly about this complaint and 
this will come as a disappointment to him, so Ill explain why.
Im satisfied from the evidence that SOL has confirmed it hasnt accepted the claim due to 
wear and tear and that its terms and conditions say this isnt an insurable event. So, I believe 
SOL fairly turned down the claim. 
I believe this claim couldve been handled better by SOL. And that this has caused
Mr B trouble and upset. So I think he should be compensated.  
SOL told Mr B on the phone that he wouldnt be covered for wear and tear when he called to 
make the claim. I cannot be certain what was said when SOL visited the property and spoke 
to Mr B and the builder. But Im not satisfied SOL agreed that the repairs would be covered. I 
think its more likely SOL agreed the builders repair estimates seemed reasonable given the 
extent of the damage. And this wasnt communicated clearly enough to Mr B as he e-mailed 
SOL thanking them for agreeing to cover the cost which wasnt noticed quickly enough.  Putting things right
I note SOL offered Mr B £50 in recognition of the delays. But I dont think thats enough. SOL 
couldve communicated with him more clearly when it visited the property and then there 
was a delay in making him aware of its decision whilst it waited for the surveyor to confirm 
the wall wasnt covered under this claim. Im satisfied £250 compensation would be a fair 
amount. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. Society of Lloyds should pay
Mr B £250 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2020.
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman