DRN-1672261
 
The complaint
 Miss K complains Scottish Widows Limited didn't follow her partners wishes in distributing 
his pension benefits after he died.
 What happened
Miss K lived with her partner Mr S, and their young child. Mr S was a member of his 
employers group personal pension plan with Scottish Widows which came with a 
dependents death benefit. Mr S sadly died in mid-2019 and Miss K made a claim on the 
policy, which was valued at around £15,000. 
Scottish Widows as scheme administrator of the policy exercised its discretion to apportion 
the death benefit equally between Miss K and their child. Miss K says this didn't follow Mr 
Ss wishes as hed intended the entire amount to be paid to her. So she complained.
Scottish Widows said they didn't hold a nomination form naming Miss K. But even so, the 
Scheme rules allowed them to exercise their discretion to distribute Mr Ss policy shared 
equally between both Mr Ss dependents. And as the child was a minor the proceeds could 
be paid to Miss K as the childs legal guardian. 
Miss K said this wasn't what Mr S wanted, so she brought her complaint to this service. One 
of our investigators sympathised with Miss Ks situation but didn't think Scottish Widows had 
done anything wrong in the way it made its decision.
I understand that since the complaints been with this service Scottish Widows has paid the 
remaining half of the money to Miss K, which she can use for the benefit of the child. But 
Miss K says Mr S left clear instructions about his financial affairs and feels Scottish Widows 
abused its powers by not following them, which added to her grief and distress. So the case 
has been passed to me to make a decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by expressing my condolences to Miss K for the sad situation she finds 
herself in, I appreciate she must be going through a very difficult time. But having looked at 
the complaint carefully, Im not going to uphold it. Let me explain why. 
Mr S joined his employers group pension scheme in 2011 which at the time was 
administered by another company not Scottish Widows. As part of the joining instructions he 
completed an employee authorisation form which included a Nomination of Beneficiaries 
section which said that under current legislation Mr S could leave your entire pension 
benefits 100% tax free to your nominated beneficiaries in the event of your death. Mr S 
nominated Miss K. But in 2013 when Scottish Widows took over as scheme administrator Mr 
Ss nomination of beneficiaries form wasn't passed on.The death benefit of Mr Ss policy didn't form part of his estate so could be distributed 
without incurring an inheritance tax liability. But this meant it wasn't bound by any Will Mr S 
left or the usual rules about intestacy.
When Scottish Widows was notified of Mr Ss death they asked Miss K to complete a 
beneficiaries form. She wrote none in section A for Husband/Wife/Registered Civil 
Partnership, her own name in section B Partner (unmarried or not in a Civil Partnership) 
and her daughters name in section C Children (included legally adopted). So Miss K 
acknowledged she wasn't Mr Ss spouse and informed Scottish Widows that both herself 
and the child were potential beneficiaries. 
Ive looked at the Scheme Rules dated 2006 which show that if a scheme member dies 
before taking benefits from the pension the members fund can be used to secure a 
dependents pension through the purchase of an annuity or to pay a lump sum under rule 
9.17. (Rule 9.16 is also mentioned but this relates to protected rights which wasn't applicable 
to Mr Ss pension). 
Rule 9.17 says the members fund can be paid out as a lump sum unless a dependents 
pension becomes payable or there are requirements in law or under a trust, which Im 
satisfied dont apply in Mr Ss case. 
The rule goes on to say at the discretion of the scheme administrator the funds can be paid 
to or for the benefit of any one or more of the following in such proportions as the scheme 
administer decides. 
Six categories of beneficiaries are then listed as below (Ive paraphrased c, e and f as 
theyre not relevant in this case). 
a.Any person, charity, association, club, society or other body.whose name the 
member had notified the scheme administrators in writing prior to the date of the 
members death;
b.The members surviving spouse;
c. [relatives of the member or their spouse]
d.The members dependants
e. [a beneficiary under the members will]
f. [the members legal representatives]
 
A spouse in this context means a husband or wife or legal civil partner. Mr S and Miss K 
were living together as a couple, but they weren't married or in a civil partnership. So Miss K 
wasn't Mr Ss surviving spouse, which is why she didn't name herself as such on the 
beneficiaries form. 
In addition to spouse there are other definitions of dependant in the scheme rules. One is 
a child of the member who has not reached the age of 23, so Mr S and Miss Ks adopted 
child being under 23 met this definition of a dependant. 
The third definition is a person who was not the members spouse or child but was either 
financially dependent on the member or whose relationship with the member was one of 
mutual dependence. On receipt of the beneficiaries form, Scottish Widows asked Miss K for 
evidence of her financial dependence on Mr S, which she did by providing information about 
their joint finances and cohabitation. So by showing financial dependence and mutual 
dependency Miss K also met the definition of a dependant in the scheme rules. Theres 
another relationship of dependency because of physical or mental impairment but thats not 
relevant here. So Ive considered whether Mr S notified Scottish Widows in writing of Miss Ks name prior 
to his death to satisfy the criteria in (a). Mr S signed a nomination form when he joined the 
scheme in 2011 but this wasn't passed to Scottish Widows. And he didn't notify it in 2014 
when his circumstances changed due to the adoption of their daughter. Miss K says this was 
because his wishes hadn't changed - he still wanted her to receive 100% of his benefits. And 
this remained the case at the time of his death. 
But even if Scottish Widows had been in possession of a form nominating Miss K, the 
scheme rules permit the administrator to exercise discretion. They could take it into 
consideration, but weren't bound to follow the nomination form to give Miss K 100% of the 
benefits, as the scheme rules also allow the administrator to decide the proportion each 
beneficiary receives. Miss K made Scottish Widows aware Mr S had two dependents, herself 
and their child. So to ensure that both dependents were provided for, they took the decision 
to distribute the death benefit equally between them. And as Miss K is the childs legal 
guardian, the funds were paid to Miss K for her to use for the benefit of the child.
I understand Miss K feels strongly the decision about who should benefit from the policy was 
Mr Ss alone, and not for Scottish Widows to make, but the scheme rules do enable them to 
make that decision. Its not my role to replace Scottish Widows discretionary judgement with 
my own judgement. And while I understand this will be disappointing for Miss K Im satisfied 
they acted reasonably in the circumstances and in accordance with the scheme rules. 
My final decision
 I don't uphold this complaint. 
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 June 2020.
Sarah Milne
Ombudsman