DRN-2887285
The complaint
The executor of Mr Ws estate is not happy with the service provided by Wesleyan Financial
Services Limited (WFS) when arranging Mr Ws home insurance policy.  
What happened
From December 2003 to the date of his death in 2019, Mr W used WFS, or their
predecessor, to advise him in relation to his home insurance. This complaint relates to a
period between 2012 and 2019.
On his death, his executor reviewed Mr Ws papers and thought that the home insurance
policy was expensive. The premium for 2018/19 was £927.86. He was able to find a suitable
policy for the same property for about a third of the price. He therefore complained to WFS
that he felt Mr W had been overcharged over the years and that they carried out no checks
to see if the policy was suitable for him. Mr W was in his 90s when he died and had a
number of serious health conditions. The executor felt that the late Mr W should have been
treated as vulnerable.
WFS said that they offered Mr W his insurance policies on an advised basis and that they
only had access to a limited panel of insurers. They said that they would look to re-broke
every three years or if the premium increased by 10% or more. They said that they renewed 
the policy every year in line with their terms and conditions which were sent to Mr W with his
renewal invitation. They said that Mr W was not obliged to take up the offer of renewal and
he had the opportunity to find alternative cover. They said this was clearly stated in the
renewal invitation. WFS said that they would not treat customers as vulnerable simply
because of their age. Vulnerability would be determined by their interaction with the
customer.
The executor was not happy with their response and brought his complaint to us. He thought
that the cost of the insurance was too expensive for Mr Ws needs. He thought that no effort
had been made to look at its suitability or to see if Mr W was vulnerable. Our investigator did
not uphold the complaint as she felt that WFS had acted fairly and within the terms of their
agreement with Mr W. She did not think that there was any indication that Mr W was
vulnerable. She agreed that WFS had searched their panel of insurers for the most suitable
policy based on his requirements. She thought that he was given sufficient information and
opportunity should he wish to take out insurance elsewhere. She therefore did not require
WFS to do anything further.
The executor was not happy with this as he felt that Mr W had been treated unfairly. He
asked for the matter to be considered by an ombudsman.  
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 1 June 2021. I said:
WFS is an insurance broker who arrange and advise on insurance policies. They do not set
the premiums charged for insurance. This is done by the insurer. I am not therefore
considering how the price offered to Mr W for the insurance cover was calculated, but the
service provided by WFS and the policies recommended by it. The cost of Mr Ws premiums
is part of a separate complaint to this service.
We are aware at this service that there are a number of customers who place a great deal of
trust in their broker and remain loyal for many years. Many of these customers will not shop
around as they trust their broker to offer the best service and price for their insurance. This
trust and lack of market knowledge can however work to their detriment. After a number of
years it should be apparent when a loyal customer isnt engaging at renewal. If they havent
been told about other products from the insurer, or other insurers on the panel, they may not
have had enough information to make an informed choice about whether or not to renew.
WFS say they started to advise Mr W in 2007 when they took over the business from
another broker. I need to look at the terms and conditions of business to see the service that
WFS offered. I have been provided with copies from 2013 onwards. WFS say these were
sent to Mr W each year on renewal, although I cant see it specifically mentioned in the
renewal letters. I cant consider the original documentation from when Mr W first took out his
policy as this is not now available.
Up until 2018 the terms and conditions were contained in a document entitled About our
Services and Costs. WFS say that they will advise and make a recommendation for you
after we have assessed your needs. In 2018 the document appears to have been updated
to become General Insurance Terms of Business Agreement. This says that when a policy
is due for renewal, WFS will write outlining their personal recommendation. It goes on to say
Our personal recommendation will be consistent with our understanding of your insurance
demands and needs based upon the latest information that you have provided. We may
attempt to contact you by phone to ensure our understanding of your demands and needs
remains correct. It says that they will confirm whether the recommendation was restricted
to products offered by the current insurer or whether they have considered products by other
providers on their panel.
WFSs terms of business have changed over the years but it is clear that they offered Mr W
an advised service with insurance from their panel of insurers only. They did not promise to
find and offer Mr W the best price available on the market. However, they did agree to make
a recommendation for cover taking into account Mr Ws needs and demands.
A clients needs and demands would usually be recorded when the policy is first taken out. It
may then be updated as circumstances change. WFS have said that they do not have any
record of needs or demands for Mr W as they do not have the original documentation.
However, without this information it is difficult to see how WFS could properly advise on what
policies to recommend to Mr W.
I also cannot see that WFS has made any effort to obtain information on Mr Ws needs and
demands over the years. WFS accept that no telephone contact was actually made. I have
seen telephone records that indicate calls were diarised yearly. Calls were attempted in
2014, 2015 and 2017, but no messages left. One answer phone message was left in April
2013 but there is no record of what was said. I note that all these calls were follow up calls
made after renewal of the policy and not before. It would seem, therefore, that they were not
made with a view to seeing if the policy was suitable. Mr W did, however, make contact
himself with WFS in 2011 to make a claim on his policy and requested a call back. An
answerphone message was left for him. This might have been an opportunity to find out
more about Mr Ws needs, but this does not appear to have been followed up further.
I have also not seen any letters asking Mr W to make contact to confirm his needs and
requirements. I accept that WFS wrote to Mr W every year with a renewal quote and thatwithin that letter he is asked to contact them if he has any queries. However, these are
standard letters and not requests for specific contact. I think that it would have been
reasonable to expect WFS to make greater efforts to contact Mr W over the years to find out
his specific requirements. Without this information, I do not think that WFS have provided the
service they offered in their terms and conditions.
WFS say that Mr W was being advised by their Private Client department which was a team
specifically dealing with mid and high net worth clients. They also deal with non-standard
policies which are tailored to the clients individual needs. These policies include greater
levels of cover. I have seen nothing which would indicate to me that Mr W required the level
of insurance offered by the Private Client department. According to probate documents his
estate appears to be relatively modest. It appears that Mr W was moved into this team when
his policy was moved from one insurers standard policy to a different insurers mid net worth
policy in 2012. There is no correspondence available in relation to this but WFS say that they
recommended this move to Mr W as the new provider offered a more comprehensive policy
at a lower premium.
This may well have been the right decision at that time. However, the problem for Mr W
going forward was that his policy was then on a higher level of cover and WFS say they
would never recommend a renewal policy with a lower level of cover. In 2019 this resulted in
WFS not recommending a policy at a considerably lower premium because it provided lower
cover. No checks were made by WFS, however, to see if Mr W required the additional cover.
Mr W was not told about this alternative policy and the renewal letter sent to him in February
2019 states that no other products had been considered. I do not think this was fair. Mr W
had been moved to a higher level of cover without his specific agreement and I cannot see
that the consequences for him in relation to future cover were explained.
WFS did send renewal letters to Mr W every year. I have seen copies of these from 2013
onwards and one from 2008. These letters varied over the years, but they all contained
information on the premium and reminded Mr W to check the information was correct and
that the cover was suitable. From 2018 onwards, the letters also included information on the
increase in the annual premium and that cheaper alternative insurance may be found
elsewhere. I cannot say that these letters were unclear. However, I think it would have been
fair to include details of other policies WFS had considered and why they were not
recommended. In particular, I think Mr W should have been told about the alternative policy
available in 2019. Without this information it is difficult to see how Mr W would have been
able to make an informed choice about renewal.
WFS say that their vulnerable customer policy is based on contact with their customers and
they would not see someone as vulnerable just because of their age. I accept that this is a
fair approach. However, in Mr Ws case they had no contact with him and did not make any
specific efforts to contact him to establish whether there were any vulnerabilities. There were
a few unsuccessful attempts at telephone contact but these were never followed up either on
the telephone or in writing. I accept that there was no indication that Mr W was vulnerable.
However, bearing in mind his increasing age and lack of contact since at least 2007, I think it
would have been reasonable to expect WFS to have made greater effort to assess
vulnerability.
In all the circumstances, I am satisfied that the service offered by WFS to Mr W was not fair
or reasonable. I now have to consider how to put things right.
As I have said, I am not considering the cost of the premiums paid by Mr W, but the service
provided by WFS between 2012 and 2019. Mr W paid an annual fee to WFS for their
services. From paperwork I have seen this ranges between £25 and £30 each year. It is not
clear, however, if this was charged every year. WFS also received commission from theinsurer each time Mr W took out an insurance policy with them. The fees and commission
were taken to reflect the costs of the service WFS offered to Mr W. As I am satisfied that
WFS did not do what it said it would do in its terms of business, I think it would be fair for
these sums to be refunded to Mr W. I would ask WFS to provide the details of all fees and
commission received from 2012 onwards.
Response to my provisional decision
WFS provided details of their fees and commission as had been requested. They received a 
total of £1,268.74. They did not respond with any further comments.
Mr Ws executor accepted my provisional decision and had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither party has provided any new information, I see no reason to change my 
decision. My final decision and reasoning remain the same as in my provisional decision. 
In order to put things right, I require WFS to pay to Mr Ws estate the sum of £1,268.74. This 
represents the commission and fees received by WFS in relation to Mr Ws home insurance 
since 2012.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Wesleyan Financial Services 
Limited to pay the sum of £1,268.74 to Mr Ws estate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman