DRN-4455373
The complaint
Mr C complains about how AXA Insurance UK Plc has handled his travel insurance claim. 
My references to AXA include its claim handling agents.
What happened
Mr C had a standard annual multi-trip travel insurance policy insured by AXA. He bought the 
policy on 27 December 2021. The policy cover started on 27 December 2021 and ended on 
26 December 2022. 
On 27 December 2021 Mr C tested positive for Covid-19 and had to cancel a five week trip 
he was due to start that day. He claimed for the costs of the cancelled trip. 
AXA asked Mr C for various documents in relation to his claim. In September and 
October 2022 AXAs validation team emailed and phoned Mr C asking for a telephone 
interview with him. AXA received no response so in October 2022 it wrote to Mr C saying it 
needed to have a telephone interview with him as it had concerns surrounding when the 
policy was taken out and its proximity to the illness he says caused him to cancel his trip. 
AXA also told Mr C that if it wasnt able to speak with him about the matter it wasnt able to 
make any claim settlement to him.
Mr C says he became aware of AXAs request to interview him only in January 2023 when 
he complained to AXA that it hadnt settled his claim. 
AXA sent a final response letter to Mr C on 11 January 2023. AXA accepted it had delayed 
in assessing the claim from March to May 2022 for which it apologised and offered £50 
compensation for Mr Cs distress and inconvenience due to the delay. AXA detailed its 
attempts to contact Mr C to arrange an interview and why it wanted an interview. AXA said it 
hadnt declined the claim but it couldnt progress the claim if Mr C didnt contact its validation 
team as requested.
Mr C complained to us. In brief he said:
Under the policy terms AXA isnt entitled to require him to attend an interview 
as a condition of deciding his claim. And AXA shouldnt rely on the absence of 
an interview to decline the claim or to put the claim on hold indefinitely. 
He didnt have time for the stress and intimidation of an interview, where he 
said he was likely to be subjected to bullying and other forms of hostile 
questioning. 
AXA appears to allege that he might have already tested positive for Covid-19 
before he took out the policy, which wasnt correct. 
AXAs delay in processing the claim before asking him to attend an interview 
was prejudicial to him. The delay meant his and any witnesses recollections 
may not be correct. And documentary evidence which might have been 
available at the time of the claim may no longer be available. 
He accepts AXAs apology for its delay and the £50 compensation offered.
Mr C wanted us to decide whether AXAs entitled to make him attend an interview before it 
decides his claim. He said he didnt want us to decide his claim as when AXA made a 
decision on the claim he would make a separate complaint if he didnt agree.
Our investigator said AXAs request to interview Mr C wasnt unfair or unreasonable and it 
didnt need to do anything further.
Mr C wants an ombudsman to make a final decision on his complaint. He said his complaint 
had been misunderstood and that while we considered fairness when making our decision 
the terms of the insurance contract were also relevant. By our investigator saying AXA didnt 
need to take any action, if he didnt attend a formal interview AXA wouldnt make a decision 
on his claim that he could complain about. He hadnt finally decided whether he would attend 
an interview with AXA. But he wanted us to make a decision that:
AXA isnt entitled to require him to attend an interview as a condition of settlement.
If he doesnt attend a formal interview AXA should make a settlement decision on the 
basis of the available information, requesting any further information from him in 
writing. 
There should be no adverse inference against him if he decides not to attend an 
interview and/or because hed complained us.
If AXA declined his claim he could make a separate complaint to us about its 
decision.
He be given permission to record the interview (if attended).
Mr C also said AXA hadnt yet paid him the £50 compensation it offered. And he detailed 
why he thought hed already shown AXA that he had valid claim, which he said was for 
context only as he wasnt asking us to decide his claim in this complaint.
AXA said:
It wasnt its intention to bully or interrogate anyone. In the circumstances of the 
claim it could request an interview but the interview wouldnt be the only evidence it 
used to decide the claim and it would take into account all the evidence provided.
As Mr C confirmed his acceptance of its compensation offer it would pay him the £50 
compensation. 
Before I made my decision Mr C confirmed hes received the £50 compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the points Mr C has made but I wont address all his points in my findings. 
Ill focus on the reasons why Ive made my decision and the key points which I think are 
relevant to the outcome of this complaint.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly and 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably.Mr C has asked that I dont make a decision about the outcome of his claim in response to 
his complaint, and Im not going to do so. My decision is about AXAs handling of his claim.
The policy documents say under the claims conditions section:
You must comply with the following conditions to have the full protection of your 
policy. If you do not comply we may void the policy and refuse to deal with any 
relevant claims or reduce the amount of any relevant claim payment
and 
 You or anyone acting on your behalf must  cooperate fully with us in our 
investigations into the circumstance of your claim.
Mr C says AXA isnt entitled to require him to attend an interview as a condition of 
settlement. But AXA wants to interview Mr C as part of its investigations into the claim. The 
policy is clear that Mr C must cooperate fully with AXA in its investigations into his claim and 
if he doesnt cooperate AXA can, among other things, refuse to deal with any relevant claim. 
So I think AXA acted within the policy terms when it told Mr C that it couldnt progress his 
claim if it couldnt interview him as it requested.
I also have to consider whether AXA acted fairly and reasonably, and I think it did. Mr C set 
out why he thinks hes already provided AXA with enough evidence to show he has a valid 
claim. Part of the evidence shows that Mr C took out his policy on 27 December 2021, which 
is the same date he tested positive for Covid-19, which is the same date he was due to start 
the trip he cancelled. 
In those circumstances I think AXA acted fairly and reasonably in telling Mr C that it has 
concerns about the timing of when his policy was taken out and in wanting to speak to him 
about those concerns. I cant fairly say AXA is acting unreasonably in not deciding the claim 
without interviewing Mr C when the policy terms are clear that if he doesnt cooperate with its 
investigations it may refuse to deal with any relevant claim.
Its for Mr C to decide whether or not to attend the interview. He doesnt have to attend if he 
doesnt want to. If Mr C chooses to not be interviewed, I cant tell AXA that it cant take his 
decision not to attend into account. AXA can take into account any evidence it has. Ive no 
reason to believe that AXA would draw adverse inference against Mr C for complaining to 
us.
Mr C says if he does agree to an interview hes concerned that with the passing of time his 
and any witnesses recollections of what happened may not be correct and documentary 
evidence may no longer be available. Thats a possibility, but I dont think AXAs delay in 
progressing the claim in March to May 2022 means its unreasonable for AXA to still want to 
interview Mr C before it decides the claim. AXA tried to contact Mr C requesting an interview, 
using the email and phone contact details it had for him, in September 2022. Mr C says hes 
known that AXA wanted to interview him since January 2023. Also AXA says the interview 
wont be the only evidence it uses to decide the claim and it will take into account all the 
evidence provided, which is reasonable. 
Mr Cs provided no evidence to support that AXA will used bullying and hostile questioning 
in an interview about his claim and AXA says thats not its intention. 
Although Mr C may feel stressed about having the interview, and it will take some of his 
time, those arent reasons for me to say its unreasonable for AXA to want to interview him 
before it progresses his claim.If Mr C decides to attend the interview hell need to ask AXAs permission to record the 
interview. I think its likely that AXA will want to record the interview too.
If Mr C chooses to not attend the interview he may want to tell AXA and ask it to decide his 
claim just on the evidence it has. If AXA does make a decision about the claim, with which 
Mr C disagrees, then he can make a separate complaint to AXA and ultimately to us. But 
AXA doesnt have to agree to Mr Cs request to decide the claim just on the evidence it 
already has. As Ive said, AXA acted within the policy terms and reasonably in telling Mr C 
that it wouldnt progress his claim to the decision stage without an interview with him so it 
could discuss its concerns about the claim.
AXA accepted it delayed in progressing Mr Cs claim from March to May 2022 and Mr C 
accepted the £50 compensation it offered for his distress and inconvenience due to the 
delay, which hes received.  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman