DRN-4240199
The complaint
Mr K complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) wouldnt refund money he lost in a scam.
What happened
What Mr K says:
Mr K is represented by a third-party claims firm, but I will refer to him as the complainant
here.
Mr K had a savings and current account with Lloyds. In March 2022, Mr K was contacted on
Facebook by someone purporting to be an old school friend. He had been in frequent touch
with his friend over the years. But it turned out that his friend was in fact now a scammer
who had hacked into his real friends Facebook account. Mr K thought he was in touch with
his friend, and the scammer even used his nickname  which tricked Mr K into thinking he
was in touch with his real friend.
The scammer gave Mr K the contact and profile of someone who was then put in contact
with Mr K. This person messaged Mr K and said he worked as an agent for the Social
Security Administration in America for the Federal Government. The scammer said Mr K
qualified for a grant and gave him a reference number and a batch number. Mr K checked
the scammers profile and the department concerned and they seemed genuine. He
messaged his friend on Facebook who also confirmed it to be genuine.
The scammer said the grant was for £250,000 and would be sent in a cheque. But to get
this, Mr K had to send £2,400 to clear the cheque. The scammer said the money had to be
sent in cash to an address in the UK, and to a different, named person. Mr K withdrew the
money and sent it.
Two days later, the scammer said the cheque would be increased to £500,000 if Mr K sent a
further £6,000 to the same address. Mr K was wary and said he didnt want to do this but at
the insistence of the scammer, he withdrew cash of £6,000 and sent it.
Mr Ks said the scammer then said further amounts of £9,500; £5,000 and then £20,000
were needed to pay customs fees  as the cheque had been held up at customs. Mr K says
he withdrew these amounts and sent the cash to the address in the UK.
Then, when a further amount of £3,000 was asked for, Mr K became suspicious. He phoned
his real friend  who knew nothing about it. Mr K realised he had been scammed.
The withdrawals were:
Date Amount
1. 16 March 2022 £2,400 (Cash withdrawal from savings account)
2. 18 March 2022 £6,000 (Cash withdrawal from savings account)
(23 March 2022) £9,500 transfer to current account
3. 28 March 2022 £5,000 (Cash withdrawal from savings account)
4. 31 March 2022 £20,000 (Cash withdrawal from savings account)
Total cash withdrawn £33,400 (excluding £9,500 transfer to current
account)
Mr K says the scam was for £42,900. The last amount of £3,000 wasnt paid.
Mr K says he was vulnerable to such a scam at the time. He had taken early retirement in
2020 due to ill-health. He felt isolated during and after the pandemic and lived alone. He said
he withdrew most of the money from his company pension fund and was now left with a
much smaller pension, in addition to his state pension. He was now in financial difficulty and
finding it difficult to make ends meet. He was now suffering from low self-esteem and
depression because of what happened.
He says the branch shouldve done more to protect him when he made the cash
withdrawals. He says they didnt ask him more about what the withdrawals were for, nor had
they taken him into a separate room to speak to him. He made the withdrawals at the
general counter. He says Lloyds shouldve done more to protect him and should therefore
refund the money.
What Lloyds say:
Lloyds said the amount of £9,500 was a transfer into Mr Ks current account and he then
made a cheque payable to a relative for the same amount  so this wasnt considered part of
the scam.
Lloyds said the payments were outside Mr Ks normal spending pattern  but he had given
them false reasons for the withdrawals. He told Lloyds the cash was for his family, and on
another occasion for a car for his daughter. On the second, third and fourth cash
withdrawals, Lloyds read out the branchs high value checklist which included the wording
Have you been told to lie to the bank about reason for payment or told your money is at
risk? Only a fraudster would say this. If Mr K had told the branch the true reasons for the
withdrawals, the scam may well have been prevented.
Lloyds said the story that Mr K would get a grant of £250,000 or £500,000 was too good to
be true. And for someone to say a UK citizen would get money from Social Security
Administration in the USA is a clear red flag which Mr K shouldve seen. He also didnt get
any paperwork to say he was entitled to the money. He sent the cash to another, different
named person in the UK  another sign that something wasnt right.
Lloyds said the Contingency Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) didnt apply as it
doesnt cover cash withdrawals. They didnt refund the money.
Our investigation so far:
Mr K brought his complaint to us. Our investigator agreed the claim was for £33,400 
excluding the cheque for £9,500. She could see the branch had questioned Mr K about the
withdrawals of £20,000, £6,000, and £5,000. But only the high value checklist for the
£20,000 withdrawal could be evidenced. She was satisfied that from the branch records andtestimonies from staff  that Mr K told Lloyds the money was for family purposes. It was also
shown that Mr K was given a fraud leaflet at the time. She could see that the branch
manager spoke to Mr K about the last withdrawal of £20,000.
She considered that Lloyds did all they could to ask the right questions of Mr K  but
unfortunately, it looked like Mr K wasnt honest when he replied to their questions about the
withdrawals. So  she didnt think Lloyds should refund the money.
Mr K didnt accept this. He said the branch shouldve taken him into a separate room and
insisted on asking more questions but didnt. He said that an older person shouldnt be
allowed to withdraw such large amounts of cash without sufficient questioning. The branch
staff shouldve been aware he wasnt telling the truth  as they were professionals and
trained as such.
Mr K asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint. So  it has come to me to do that. I
contacted Lloyds to explain why this complaint should be upheld in part but Lloyds didnt
agree so Im issuing this provisional decision.
I issued a provisional decision which said:
Im sorry that Mr K has lost money in a cruel scam  and its money he cant afford to lose,
and at a difficult time in his life. But this doesnt automatically mean that Lloyds should
refund him. I can only ask Lloyds to do so if I think they should have done more to protect
him when he made the four cash withdrawals. The amount of Mr Ks claim is for the total
cash withdrawals of £33,400  as the amount of £9,500 was transferred to his current
account and a cheque made payable to a family member.
So, in broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the
Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And
I have taken that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story. Taking into account the law, regulators rules and
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time, I consider Lloyds should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism,
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years,
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
The Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) doesnt
apply in this case. That is because it doesnt cover cash withdrawals.
I need to decide whether Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr K when
he made the withdrawals, or whether they should have done more than they did. I have
considered the position carefully.Ive looked at Mr Ks savings account statements  which was where the cash was
withdrawn from. The maximum withdrawal during the six months leading up to March 2022
(when the scam took place) was one for £400  and the only withdrawals were transfers to
his current account, rather than cash. So  it is fair to say that the withdrawals of large
amounts of cash were unusual for Mr K. Therefore, Lloyds were right to intervene and ask
questions of him  which is what they did.
So  the crux of Mr Ks complaint comes down to what questions Lloyds asked, and what
they were told by Mr K  and were these reasonable in the circumstances of what happened.
Lloyds told us that their processes are that a customer should be asked questions about
potential scams for withdrawals of over £5,000. The process is called High Value Checklist
(HVC).
Ive seen Lloyds records and these confirm that HVCs were completed for the second, third
and fourth withdrawals (i.e. £6,000, £5,000, and £20,000). Lloyds can only show us a copy
of the one for £20,000. This includes the questions asked of Mr K at the time  including
handing over Lloyds scams leaflet. The questions asked included:
Did you read anything in the leaflet that matches why youve come into the branch
today? (Answer: no)
Is someone waiting for you nearby to hand them cash. Do you have to tell someone
how your visit here went, either in person or on the phone? (Answer: no)
Are you paying someone you know, like a friend or family? (Answer: yes)
Are you paying someone youve met online but have not met in person? (Answer:
no)
What is the transaction for?...(help family out? Fraudsters may have told the
customer to give certain responses.)
So - the HVC said Mr K told the manager he was paying friends and family.
The manager signed off to say he read out the statement Weve talked about scams. Are
you confident you now know enough to spot a scam? Would you like to double check
anything or are you sure this isnt a scam and want to go ahead?...if you pay and it is a scam
theres a good chance you could lose your cash. People who scam can be very clever and
trick you.
Lloyds took testimonies from members of staff when they investigated Mr Ks complaint. The
manager cant recall any more information about the £20,000 withdrawal. But another
member of staff recalled the one for £6,000  and Mr K said the cash was for his daughter to
buy a car.
Ive considered each cash withdrawal and what I think should have happened separately
below.
16 March 2022 - £2,400: this first withdrawal wasnt subject to Lloyds HVC process. And
therefore, there wasnt any reason for Lloyds to question this transaction.
18 March 2022 - £6,000: This was unusual compared to Mr Ks normal account activity.
Lloyds did question the reason for the withdrawal and were given a legitimate reason 
according to the staff testimony. A HVC was completed  although weve not seen a copy of
it. But  as this was the first high value withdrawal and savings accounts are often used for
one off high value transactions, Im persuaded that it was reasonable for it to have been
allowed.28 March 2022 - £5,000: Here, I dont think Lloyds have been able to demonstrate they did
enough to protect Mr K. We havent seen a copy of the HVC or evidence of Mr Ks answers.
The withdrawal was not consistent with prior account activity and - given the previous two
withdrawals of £2,400 and £6,000 - ought reasonably to have caused concern. I also note
that the HVC for other payments refers to asking for additional information if the reason for
the payment cant be evidenced. I havent been provided with any such additional evidence.
I think its unlikely Mr K would have been able to provide another plausible reason for a
third high value withdrawal. So I think if Lloyds had asked the kind of questions it should
have its more likely than not the payment wouldnt have been made either because the
scam was uncovered or Lloyds had sufficient concerns not to allow it.
31 March 2022 - £20,000: This almost drained the account of remaining funds. Between 16
March 2022 and 31 March 2022, the balance of £43,297 had been withdrawn.
I think the bank shouldve asked more probing questions and not taken what Mr K said at
face value. The HVC form records Mr K said he was paying friends and family  but that was
also the reason given for the prior withdrawal of £6,000. Lloyds couldve asked - why did the
family members want the (further) cash, for example? There is no information to suggest that
Mr K gave a plausible reason for such a significant cash withdrawal or provided any
evidence in support. I think the circumstances of this withdrawal  especially in view of the
prior ones, and the draining of the account  suggests that the bank shouldve asked more
questions. But the HVC form doesnt show this was done. The HVC form was reviewed by
the manager, but he cant recall any further details - so we dont have sufficient evidence to
say that Lloyds did enough.
Lloyds have said to us that even if theyd asked more questions about the reasons for the
withdrawals, theres no evidence to suggest that Mr K would not have made them  that he
wouldve stuck to his story. I accept this is subjective  but I think its more likely than not
that Lloyds wouldve uncovered the flaws in a scheme that promised such a high return 
and/or asked why his family members needed so much support in such a short space of
time.
Therefore, my view is that Lloyds shouldve asked more questions of Mr K about the
withdrawals of £5,000 and £20,000. And had they done so the scam wouldve been
uncovered and I think it is unlikely that Mr K wouldve made the further payments.
But on the other hand, I think its reasonable for me to say that Mr K couldve done more to
protect himself  and ask more questions about the scheme. I say this as:
- He was approached via social media. This is a common approach for a scammer to
take.
- He appears to have been told to lie to his bank about the true reason for the
withdrawals.
- He was prepared to send the cash in envelopes to a named recipient  who was a
different person to the named representative he had been introduced to; and to a UK
address when the scam was about sending money to the USA.
- He did that without seeing anything in writing about the scam, or its benefits, or
confirming that he would receive the money.
- He believed he could get between £250,000 and £500,000 for an investment of
£33,400  even though it was clearly too good to be true.
Because of this, I think Mr K should bear a share of 50% of the withdrawals of £5,000 and
£20,000.My provisional decision is therefore that Lloyds should refund 50% of £25,000, plus interest
at the savings account rate from the time of the withdrawals to the date of settlement.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Mr K agreed with it. Lloyds accepted the findings.
I now need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both Mr K and Lloyds agreed with the provisional decision, my final decision is in line with 
it.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Lloyds Bank PLC must:
- Refund £12,500, plus interest at the savings account rate from the time of the 
withdrawals to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman