DRN-4045223
The complaint
Mr W has complained Starling Bank Limited wont refund money he lost from his account as 
the result of a scam.
What happened
Mr W holds both a personal and business account with Starling. The business account is in 
the name of E and is the subject of a separate complaint.
In 2022 Mr W received a call from someone stating they were from his bank, Starling. He 
was told a payment hed made thinking it was genuine had been increased by fraudsters and 
that his phone had been compromised by spyware. 
Mr W was immediately reassured that the call came from his actual bank as the person he 
was talking too seemed calm and thorough. At the same time he was extremely concerned 
about losing any money from his account. He was told hed need to take action to ensure his 
money was kept safe. Mr W works outside and was distracted by the noise and the stress of 
what was happening.
Mr W then followed the instructions he was given to authorise three transactions. At the 
same time Mr W was being told who was actually trying to compromise him  a 
cryptocurrency company (who Ill call B). He understood that his payments to B would 
enable Starling to trace the payments and provide evidence against B, who Mr W believed 
were the scammers.
After Mr W was unable to get Starling back on the call using the number that had called him, 
Mr W realised something was wrong. He got in touch with Starling and asked them to refund 
him. They told him they wouldnt do so as hed authorised the payments, not exercised 
sufficient caution and these payments werent subject to the Contingent Reimbursement 
Model code for authorised push payments.
Mr W brought his complaint to the ombudsman service. 
Our investigator noted Starling had provided no warnings to Mr W despite these transactions 
being of a high value and out of character for Mr Ws account use.
She asked Starling to refund the two payments made from his personal account, along with 
8% simple interest for the time period Mr W was without his money.
Starling disagreed with this outcome. They felt Mr W should be at least partially liable for the 
transactions as hed not sufficiently challenged the person on the phone. Theyve asked an 
ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Theres no dispute that Mr W made and authorised the payments. Mr W knew the reasons 
why he was being asked to make the card payments. At the stages he was making these 
payments, he believed he was taking urgent action to keep his own money safe and assist 
Starling. He believed once this had been done, hed be able to get his own money back as 
hed been reassured there was a bank insurance scheme to protect his money.
I dont dispute Mr W was scammed but under the Payment Services Regulations 2017, Im 
satisfied the transactions were authorised.
Its also accepted that Starling has an obligation to follow Mr Ws instructions. So in the first 
instance Mr W is presumed liable for his loss. But thats not the end of the story.
Taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider that Starling 
should:
have been monitoring accounts and payments made or received to counter various 
risks, including fraud and scams, money laundering, and the financing of terrorism.
have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which financial institutions are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer.
in some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps or made additional checks before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect its customers from the 
possibility of financial harm.
Mr W fell victim to a sophisticated scam. Unfortunately safe account scams  which is what 
this was  are not massively unusual. Mr W realises how this happened as he responded to 
a fake message supposedly from the NHS. This allowed fraudsters to know Mr W had 
accounts with Starling and meant they could tailor their approach to him and make it 
believable. 
I know Starling have said theyd have expected Mr W to undertake some checks to ensure 
who was calling him was genuine. I disagree. I dont think this takes into account the stress 
that can be caused by these types of calls, and the panic theyre meant to engender in the 
people who receive them. Particularly when I take into account Mr Ws personal 
circumstances.
The fraudster was also able to explain in detail how Mr W should make the payments and 
direct him to the relevant aspects within Starlings app which helped to gain his trust. 
Starling has confirmed they do have mechanisms in place to check unusual transactions, but 
Mr W wasnt doing anything sufficiently unusual to trigger any warnings.
However I find this surprising. Mr W by making a transfer from Es account to his personal 
account, then three payments in quick succession emptied his personal current account and 
Es account. This should have been sufficient for Starling to have taken action as these 
activities strike me as unusual.I have taken into account that Mr W was presented with a warning stating that Starling would 
never contact him and ask him to use the specific screens. However by this time Mr W was 
convinced he was talking to his genuine bank so didnt see anything wrong in doing what he 
did. 
Theres no record of any similar card payments on Mr Ws personal account within the 
preceding six months. I dont believe any argument that this reflects his normal payment 
behaviour would stack up.
For these reasons I believe Starling should have undertaken additional steps to intervene at 
the time the first payment of £4,864.55 was successfully authorised. Financial institutions are 
able to block card payments, and this is the step Id have expected Starling to have taken 
here. This would have brought what was happening to an end as Im sure if Mr Ws card had 
been blocked, the fraudsters would have come off of the phone immediately.
As I say, safe account scams are not unusual. All banks are aware of how these operate. 
The use of a card to send payments to a money transfer service or as here, a cryptocurrency 
company, is particularly prevalent. This limits banks ability to send messages which can be 
done when customers are making online transactions.
Putting things right
As I believe any intervention Starling should have made would have changed what 
happened here, I am going to ask them to refund the two disputed payments Mr W made 
from his current account. They will also need to add 8% simple interest to those amounts.
This has had a massive impact on Mr W, shattering his confidence and impacting his ability 
over the last year to participate in important family events. Im really sorry that this is so. 
Unfortunately I dont believe it would be fair to ask Starling to provide additional 
compensation, although I have considered this carefully,.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is to instruct Starling Bank Limited to:
Refund two disputed payments being £4,864.55 and £1,787.88 to Mr W;
Add 8% simple interest from 18 February 2022 to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman