DRN-2967488
The complaint
Mr B and Miss M have complained that TSB Bank plc wont refund them for a transaction 
they say they didnt make.
Mr B is representing both himself and Miss M in bringing this complaint. So where I have 
referred to them both  Mr B has provided the testimony.
What happened
In September 2019 Mr B and Miss M told TSB that they had noticed multiple transactions 
since July 2018 debiting their account to a car leasing company (the merchant) totalling 
£6,969.27 which they disputed. 
TSB refunded all but the first transaction (£1,031.88). It said this was on the basis that Mr B 
originally confirmed he authorised the first transaction.
Mr B and Miss M say they didnt properly understand the question. Mr B has autism and felt 
the adviser was rushing him and therefore he initially told TSB that he authorised the initial 
transaction. But Mr B and Miss M say after they thought about the conversation, they 
contacted TSB again to confirm they didnt authorise it. Mr B and Miss M say at this point 
TSB told them it would refund the first transaction.
TSB did not refund the initial transaction as it believes Mr B and Miss M authorised it. It said 
the disputed payments were made using several card details and questions how the 
merchant was able to obtain multiple card details. It also considers Mr B and Miss Ms 
recollections of events would be more reliable at the time compared to now.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. She said TSB was entitled to change its mind 
about refunding the initial transaction. She also felt the evidence indicated that Mr B and 
Miss M had authorised the transaction.
Mr B and Miss M didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator for the same reasons. 
Im not going to cover all the points raised in detail. The view of 10 August 2021 covered the 
detailed timeline of the transactions and the details of Mr B and Miss Ms testimony. Whilst 
Ive concentrated on what I think is the crux of the complaint, Ive read and listened to 
everything they and TSB have sent us. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not 
because I havent considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Its important to highlight that with cases like this I cant know for certain what has happened. 
So, I need to weigh up the evidence available and make my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words what I think is more likely than not to have happened in the 
circumstances.
There is no evidence available to clarify whether TSB told Mr B and Miss M it would refund 
the initial transaction. As the investigator explained, even if I could determine that TSB told 
Mr B and Miss M it would refund the initial transaction during a telephone call, it is entitled to 
change its mind. So, Ive gone on to consider whether the transaction was authorised.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im also required to take into account: 
relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
The Payment Services Regulations (PSRs) are the relevant rules here. As a starting point, 
TSB can hold Mr B and Miss M liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence suggests 
that its more likely than not that they made or authorised them themselves. 
So, when I look at whether a bank has acted fairly in rejecting someones fraud complaint, 
one of the things I consider is whether the customer made the transactions themselves or 
allowed them to be made. If they did, then I generally wouldnt ask the bank to refund them. 
To help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what TSB and Mr B and Miss M have told us. Having carefully considered everything that 
both sides have said and provided, I dont think its unreasonable for TSB to conclude that 
Mr B and Miss M authorised the initial transaction thats in dispute. Ive explained why below:
Due to the passage of time, TSBs records dont go back as far as 30 July 2018, when the 
first disputed transaction debited the account. That doesnt mean I should automatically 
uphold the complaint. As mentioned above, where the evidence is incomplete, I reach my 
decision based on what I think is more likely than not based on all the available evidence 
and wider circumstances.
TSB has been able to provide evidence to show that the correct card details were used to 
authenticate the other payments to the same merchant. The electronic records show that the 
correct card details were entered for the other disputed transactions. I think it would be 
unusual for someone elses card to be used for the first transaction and then Mr B and Miss 
Ms card subsequently for the transactions that followed. So, based on the balance of 
probabilities, I think its more likely than not, the first transaction was authenticated the same 
way as the later transactions. 
But a payment out of someones account can only be treated as authorised if the payer has
consented to it. When a customer disputes a transaction, there are three possibilities:
the transaction was completed by an unknown third party, the transaction was completed by 
a known third party or the transaction was completed by the customer.
Mr B and Miss M said that no one had access to their card; the card details were saved on 
their computer. Mr B said that hes the only person that had access to his computer. Mr B 
and Miss M said that they didnt disclose their card details to anyone. In response to the 
investigators assessment, I note Mr B says he now cant recall how he used that card at the 
time. But, even if I only rely on what Mr B and Miss M have directly told us, they havent 
provided us with any possible scenario whereby someone else, either known or unknown to 
them, couldve gained access to their cards or computer where Mr Bs card details were 
stored. 
The card details were used to complete the disputed transactions, and, for the reasons 
explained above, this likely included the first disputed transaction. Theres no point of compromise for Mr B and Miss Ms card details. Theres no explanation how an unknown or 
known third party was able to obtain Mr B or Miss Ms card or card details in order to make 
the first transaction.
Although the other transactions are no longer in dispute, I think it is worth noting that Mr B 
and Miss M were sent regular bank statements from TSB during the 14-month period over 
which the disputed transactions were taken. The amounts were not, in my view, insignificant 
either and therefore ought reasonably to have been noticeable to Mr B and Miss M.
There are also unusually large gaps, between disputed payments. More commonly (and I 
appreciate it may not always be the case) a fraudster will try to take as much as they can, as 
quickly as possible, before they are discovered as delay risks their access being blocked.
Overall, and on the balance of probabilities, I think it is more likely than not that Mr B and 
Miss M authorised the transaction in dispute. It follows that I dont think TSB did anything 
wrong when it declined to refund the payment; even if as Mr B claims, it earlier agreed to 
refund it. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Miss M 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 December 2021.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman