DRN-3430514
The complaint
Mr I complains that a used car he got from Blue Motor Finance Limited (BMF) under a hire
purchase agreement (HPA) is of unsatisfactory quality.
Mr I is represented by a relative but Ill refer to everything thats been said on his behalf as if
Mr I said it himself, to keep things simple.
What happened
Mr I took out this HPA in February 2021. Not long after, he took the car abroad and,
concerned about the software, he asked a main dealer (for this brand) to do some checks.
The dealer found information in the Diesel Particulate Filter (DPF) unit suggested over
180,000 miles of use. This was significantly more than the 84,000 miles on the odometer
at the point of supply and Mr I took the car to another main dealer for checks when he got 
back to the UK - near the end of March 2021. 
The UK dealer found the software was up to date but acknowledged that the control unit for 
the DPF system showed the last regeneration was completed at around 184,000 miles. The 
dealer didnt think the mileage discrepancy was significant however because other control 
units in the car corresponded with the mileage on the odometer. The dealer couldnt 
guarantee the cars mileage but found no sign that it had been altered or the exhaust was 
tampered with. There was evidence of some water ingress and the dealer thought that might 
explain things  if it had affected the electrics.
The supplying dealer agreed to resolve the water ingress and replaced faulty seal but Mr I 
remained unhappy. He complained to BMF in April 2021 and BMF investigated and 
responded a few months later. It considered the supplying dealer had already fixed the only 
fault found (water ingress) and that was fair, in the circumstances. BMF didnt think there 
was enough evidence to conclude that the mileage had been altered so Mr I wasnt entitled 
to reject the car - or anything else.
Mr I disagreed and referred his complaint to our service. In the meantime, the supplying
dealer offered to buy the car back at a reduced price (on account of the distance Mr I had 
travelled) and refund his deposit. Mr I accepted the offer but feels it is unfair that he had to 
make finance payments between April and August 2021 while the car was off the road for 
investigations and repairs.
Our investigator acknowledged that information from the DPF suggested the car had 
travelled around 184,000 miles since the last regeneration but he was satisfied none of the 
other checks revealed any inconsistency with the odometer reading. He reviewed the cars 
MOT history and thought the mileage recorded there was consistent with mileage on the 
odometer. He thought the odometer was probably correct and, given Mr I had fair use of the 
car, it wasnt reasonable to ask BMF to do anything else.
Mr I disagreed. He still thinks the mileage was wrong and he should have payments made
from April to August refunded. Hes also unhappy that BMF hasnt supplied paperwork
relating to the checks carried out. He feels he was treated unfairly and caused a good deal 
of stress and inconvenience so BMF should do more to put things right.
Mr I asked for an ombudsman to look into the matter and it was referred to me for a decision.
Having considered the available evidence, I wasnt minded to uphold the complaint. My 
reasons werent quite the same as the investigators. And I thought it was fair to give the 
parties the chance to see my provisional findings and provide further information (if they 
wanted to) before I made my final decision. I issued a provisional decision on 29 March 
2022. Ive set out what I decided provisionally - and why  below and this forms part of my 
final decision. 
My provisional decision
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach 
my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Mr I brings his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service because BMF supplied this
car under a HPA. And Im looking at BMFs obligations arising under that agreement in this
decision. Im not a regulator. I dont have the power to tell BMF how to operate on a day to
day basis. And Im unable to hold BMF responsible for the actions of third parties - or the
after sales service provided by the supplying dealer.
Im satisfied that BMF was obliged to ensure that this car was of satisfactory quality when Mr
I got it. What amounts to satisfactory quality will vary according to individual circumstances.
I think this car would need to meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider
satisfactory  taking into account things like the price, age and mileage at the point of supply
 as well as any description, such as the mileage at the point of supply.
The car cost about £13,000 and it was over eight years old when Mr I got it, with about
84,000 miles on the odometer (according to the paperwork at the time). I think its fair to say
a reasonable person wouldnt expect a car like this to meet the same standard as a brand
new vehicle - as some parts would be worn and need replacing from time to time. But,
amongst other things, I think Mr I had a reasonable expectation that the mileage shown on
the odometer would be accurate.
I can see that Mr I had some concerns about the cars software fairly early on and he
believes the mileage was wrong because he discovered the miles recorded on the DPF unit
are considerably higher than the odometer. I dont think theres any dispute now that the
DPF is showing a different mileage to the odometer - and I find it understandable Mr I was
concerned about that. Im satisfied however that the main dealer that checked the vehicle in 
March 2021 found the mileage recorded in other parts show the car had travelled the 
distance recorded on the odometer - not the DPF. Like the investigator, I checked the cars 
MOT history as well. And I found the mileage recorded at the MOTs in 2018, 2019 and 2020 
also seem consistent with the miles on the odometer.
I cant explain why the mileage in the DPF is different. I note the main dealer suggested that
water ingress might have affected the electrics. I cant be certain if thats the case. But, Im
satisfied, on balance, that the weight of the available evidence suggests the odometer
reading is probably right. And, on the information I have at the moment, Im not persuaded
that I can fairly conclude that the mileage inaccurate (or, to put it another way, the car was
clocked when Mr I got it).
It looks as if the main dealer did find evidence of water ingress at the end of March 2021.
This was within a few months of supply. Ive seen nothing to suggest this issue wasntpresent at the outset and I think Mr I probably had the right to repair (under the Consumer
Rights Act 2015). As far as I can see, the car was returned to the supplying dealer around 
this time and a faulty seal was replaced at no cost to Mr I  which seems fair. Ive seen 
paperwork that shows the car was ready for collection by the end of April 2021 but
it's not entirely clear to me what happened after that. It looks as if Mr I collected the car and
took it for more checks elsewhere. I can see he told BMF (in July 2021) that the DPF was
disconnected and the EML had been programmed to register that there was no DPF in the
vehicle. But Mr I hasnt sent us any further evidence about that. 
Ive seen nothing to suggest that the repairs undertaken by the supplying dealer were 
unsuccessful - or show that Mr I had further problems with the car. I appreciate the supplying 
dealer subsequently offered to refund the deposit and buy the car back from Mr I for the 
reduced amount of £8,000. But the dealer says this offer was made on a goodwill basis  not 
because it accepted the mileage was inaccurate or the car was otherwise of unsatisfactory 
quality. And, ultimately, I think it was a matter for Mr I to decide if he wanted to accept the 
supplying dealers offer. From the evidence Ive got, I cant fairly conclude that this offer 
alone means the car was of unsatisfactory quality. I appreciate the price was reduced (from 
the purchase price) to reflect the 6,000 miles or so that Mr I had travelled  but that doesnt 
sound unreasonable, given the use he had of the car. 
I understand Mr I has strong feelings about what happened and he feels he was treated 
unfairly. For the reasons Ive explained however, Im not persuaded its likely the odometer 
mileage was wrong. And I think Mr I was offered a reasonable remedy for the only fault 
identified by the main dealer  the faulty seal  which appears to have been resolved fairly 
quickly, at no cost to him. It follows, Im not presently persuaded that there are sufficient fair 
and reasonable grounds to uphold this complaint. So I cant reasonably require BMF to 
provide a refund or compensation or do anything else. 
Responses received from the parties 
I invited the parties to consider my provisional findings and let me have any further 
comments or information by 12 April 2022. I explained that Id consider all the
evidence available after that and make my final decision. 
BMF hasnt made any further submissions. Mr I doesnt agree with my provisional findings. 
Hes provided a detailed response and I hope hell understand that Ive had to summarise 
what he said here. 
I can see that Mr I feels he was scammed because he considers this car didnt match the 
description and it was of unsatisfactory quality. He says he believed the car would have no 
issues because the MOT showed there was nothing to worry about. He refers to the CRA 
and states that the car wasnt free from minor defects - there was a problem with water 
ingress  nor was it fit for purpose or as described. He says the car was sold with 85,000 
miles on the clock and he would never have purchased it if hed been told it had travelled 
over 184,000 miles. He thinks it is wrong that I seem to have accepted what the main dealer 
said. He considers the difference in mileage should have been investigated further. And he 
doesnt see why hes not protected under the CRA in these circumstances.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to thank Mr I for his response. I have considered his comments carefully. I recognise 
his strength of feeling and I understand he would like to have a definite answer as to why the mileage shown in the DPF doesnt match the rest of the car, in particular. 
For the reasons Ive explained already, Im afraid thats not something I can provide here. 
The role of this service is to resolve disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers informally. Its my job to weigh up the available evidence and consider the wider 
circumstances and, where evidence is inconclusive  as some of it is here - I make my 
decision on the balance of probabilities. 
I realise this is likely disappointing for Mr I, but nothing hes said has persuaded me to 
change my mind. He hasnt provided any new evidence or information - and I dont think hes 
raised any new points that I havent addressed already in my provisional decision. For the 
reasons set out, I remain of the view its more likely than not the odometer mileage is 
correct. I consider Mr I was offered a reasonable remedy for the water ingress issue  which 
was resolved fairly quickly, at no cost to him. And I think it was up to him to decide if he 
wanted to return the car to the supplying dealer on the terms offered. 
Taking everything into account, Im not persuaded there are sufficient fair and reasonable 
grounds to uphold this complaint. And I cant reasonably require BMF to provide a refund or 
do anything else. I appreciate Mr I will probably feel let down by this decision, as its not the 
outcome he hoped for. But, hes not obliged to accept what Ive said - in which case, it 
remains open to Mr I to pursue the matter by any other means available. 
If Mr I is having financially difficulties and hes likely to struggle to make any repayments 
due, he should let BMF know about that. Id expect BMF to treat Mr I sympathetically and 
positively  which may include offering a repayment plan, if appropriate. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2022.
 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman