DRN-3441589
The complaint
Mrs W, as executor of the estate of Mrs P, says Pension Insurance Corporation plc (PIC) 
acted insensitively and unfairly when dealing with the death benefits to be assigned to her 
late mother from her late husbands pension plan.
What happened
Firstly, Id like to convey my condolences to Mrs W, who lost both her parents in 2020. I 
recognise this wouldve been a deeply upsetting and difficult time for her.
After a history of illness, both of Mrs Ws parents were hospitalised in June 2019. Sadly, her 
father passed on 27 April 2020. Her mother was discharged from hospital the following day.
Mrs W informed PIC about Mr Ps death  she recalls:
I initially spoke to PIC on May 1st 2020 at 11.45 am to a lady called [Y] who informed me 
that they would send a beneficiary questionnaire. I had explained that I was the daughter 
and would be dealing with the situation and I did have power of attorney. I did inform them 
that Mum had just come out of hospital and was understandably distressed as well as 
being unwell. I did not give them further details of her health.
PIC wrote to Mrs W on 5 May 2020 seeking certain relevant documents such as death and 
marriage certificates. She says there was a small delay in obtaining some of this information 
because:
as you can see my residence address is in France. Unfortunately the registrars office 
with whom I registered Dads death, in error sent the death certificates to France instead of 
the address of my parents which I had requested at the time of the call. This obviously 
caused delays in receiving certificates and I was unable to proceed with any correspondence 
until they arrived.
Mrs W recognises issues with the registrars office were not the responsibility of PIC. But the 
delay caused was beyond her control and meant the certificates werent received as 
promptly as she wanted.
The delay caused wasnt substantial because Mrs W forwarded the relevant documents to 
PIC on 8 May 2020. I note these included a letter confirming she had Power of Attorney for 
her mothers property and financial affairs. The papers were returned to her on 12 May 2020, 
stating the relevant team would be in contact within five working days.
On 14 May PIC wrote to Mrs P. The letter was titled Dependents trivial commutation cash 
lump sum. It notified her about the ways in which she could take death benefits arising 
from her late husbands pension plan. It said:
The value of your pension means that HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) will allow you 
to exchange all of your pension for a cash lump sum. This is known as a trivial 
commutation lump sum death benefit.
By choosing this option, you would be giving up any further benefits from the Policy in 
exchange for a one-off cash payment (see details on the enclosed statement). Please 
note that you will have to pay tax under PAYE rules but the payment is not tested against 
your lifetime allowance (LTA) and you wont have to pay inheritance tax.
Or, you can choose to receive a yearly pension (paid monthly). Please choose which 
option you would like to take by filling in the enclosed dependants decision form. PIC are 
not allowed to offer advice and would strongly suggest that you get independent financial 
advice before deciding which option to take.
Unfortunately, we have already paid the pensions instalments for 1 to 31 May 2020 [in 
respect of Mr Ps pension], which has resulted in an overpayment of £372.50 which needs to 
be refunded.
Mrs W says PICs letter arrived on 16 May 2020. Unfortunately, her mothers health had 
deteriorated further after her husband died, and sadly she passed-away on 17 May 2020. 
A couple of days after this Mrs W informed PIC about what had happened. It requested 
relevant documents and these were sent.
On 3 June 2020 PIC wrote to Mrs W informing her that as Mrs P had passed after shed 
have been entitled to receive her first monthly pension instalment, there were arrears owed 
to her estate. But that these would be offset against the overpayment made to her father. 
So, there would be a net amount outstanding to be repaid.
Mrs W was distressed by the letter PIC sent. And she wrote to it on 8 June 2020 setting out 
her concerns. For example, she thought its communication had been deeply incentive given 
what shed been through in recent weeks. Essentially it was a request to clear the pension 
overpayment her father had received. She was also concerned that it had effectively 
decided her mother wouldve opted to take the death benefits from her husbands plan as 
an annual pension, rather than a lump sum. Given the circumstances she didnt think this 
was fair.
PIC responded to Mrs Ws complaint on 12 June 2020. It apologised for any upset caused 
by its communications. But it said it was unable to make any payments to a dependent 
until it had received the appropriate completed forms. It noted that given the need for 
sensitivity when thered been a bereavement, it wouldnt have set a deadline for 
completion of the forms.
PIC said it was unable to pay the trivial commutation lump sum at any point after a date of 
death, as this would then become an unauthorised payment and incur a tax charge. As 
Mrs P had passed prior to it receiving the completed forms she would only be entitled to 
receive a payment to her estate of one months pension. It also confirmed it would write 
off the balance owed by her mothers estate.
An Investigator upheld Mrs Ws complaint. She thought PIC couldve acted more quickly. 
But ultimately, she was persuaded the exceptional circumstances of the case should be 
taken into account. She considered that the choice Mrs P wouldve made about how to take 
the death benefits from her husbands plan was reasonably clear  that shed have opted 
for a lump sum payment.
PIC disagreed with the Investigator. It said there was no way of knowing what option Mrs 
P wouldve chosen, it wasnt aware of her situation and wouldnt have provided advice. It 
also reiterated its concern about the potential for making an unauthorised payment to Mrs 
W in the eyes of HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) incurring scheme sanctions and tax 
charges.As both parties didnt agree with the Investigators recommendations, Mrs Ws complaint 
was passed to me to review afresh. I issued my provisional decision in April. Im grateful for 
the additional information Mrs W has provided, which Ive carefully reflected on in arriving at 
my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, 
my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of 
probabilities, whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats 
deliberate; ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial 
businesses and their customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive 
concentrated my findings on what I think is relevant and at the heart of this 
complaint.
Im not upholding Mrs Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by PIC for its customers. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for 
businesses, which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G 
in the FCA Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2 - which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care 
and diligence.
- Principle 6 - which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly.
- Principle 7 - which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of it s 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at 
the relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like PIC. As 
such, I need to have regard to them in deciding Mrs Ws complaint.
Its clear there were exceptional circumstances in this case. Ive already summarised 
the chronology of key events.
Its possible that had there been some streamlining of PICs processes between 1 May 
2020 when Mrs W informed it of her fathers passing, and 16 May while his wife was still 
alive, this mayve resulted in Mrs W being able to have assisted her mother in completing 
the necessary death benefit option forms prior to her unexpected passing.
Its also possible that if the registrar had adhered to her instructions about where to send 
her late fathers documentation some time couldve been saved.
In its communications with Mrs W and Mrs P, PIC didnt set out a deadline to which they 
should be working. Not in the phone contacts it had, nor in the correspondence Ive 
seen. PIC told us:When we issue a letter outlining the options available we will wait for a response before 
putting the selected option into payment. Where we do not receive a response we would 
continue to chase the beneficiary for a response and decision. Neither the lump sum or 
the pension payment are a default option, and instead we will always wait until we have a 
clear decision from the beneficiary on how they wish to receive their benefits. This is why 
there is no deadline on the option letter, and we do not want to impose additional 
deadlines at a difficult time for the recipient.
I understand what PIC says, and theres merit in its argument. Mrs W also initially agreed it 
wouldve been insensitive for it to have set deadlines at this time. The downside of the 
approach arises in the rare but not unheard of situation that gives rise to an element of Mrs 
Ws complaint.
If beneficiaries, or those acting on their behalf, arent informed about the importance of 
deciding how to take the death benefits and the implications of any delay in making that 
decision, its a risk they or those representing their interests, cant mitigate through their 
own speedy action.
Mrs W has told us that in hindsight, given her experiences, she now thinks PIC should 
inform families about the need for a prompt response in handling these matters. Shes 
insisted had she known about the requirements she wouldve taken action to push things 
along at her end even more quickly.
Ive considered whether a few days saved in the communications between PIC and Mrs 
W wouldve, more likely than not, made the difference to Mrs P having been able to have 
expressed her wish about how she wanted to take the death benefits she was entitled to.
From what Ive seen in the exchange of key communications, actually both parties acted 
within reasonable time frames and in good faith. On balance Ive concluded that even if 
the exchange of information between the parties had happened even more quickly, I dont 
think matters couldve been concluded before Mrs P died. There were important, complex 
decisions to be made in very difficult circumstances.
Mrs W provided information about Mrs Ps circumstances at the relevant time. At the point 
of her husbands passing Mrs P was entitled to a state and private pension. That meant she 
could rely on an annual income of around £10,600. Im satisfied from what Mrs W has told 
this Service this wouldve covered her modest outgoings. Its also the case that she had 
access to savings of around £25,000, which she couldve drawn on in the case of 
emergencies. Her property was held in trust.
On the passing of her husband, Mrs P was faced with the option of taking a lump sum 
payment estimated to be worth £23,091 after tax, or an annual pension worth around 
£3,299 before tax. The lump sum represented the equivalent of what she might reasonably 
have expected to have received as a pension income.
Mrs W said that given her mother was 84 in 2020, having already achieved the average life 
expectancy of a female in the UK, its clear she wouldve opted for a lump-sum payment. 
PIC says theres no way of knowing what Mrs P wouldve opted for.
In my provisional decision I said I didnt think the choice at the time was a straight-forward 
one. For example, data from the Office of National Statistics shows that someone reaching 
Mrs Ps age in 2020 had an average life expectancy from that point of over seven years. 
And with the possibility of living longer.However, Mrs W has told us about the longstanding poor health of her mother. She had 
significant care needs. Shes also shared information about the community care package 
that was arranged for her mother following her discharge from hospital. This confirms her 
significant support requirements.
Based on the available information, Mrs Ps life expectancy outlook around the time of the 
passing of her husband mayve been less than the average. So, access to a capital sum 
couldve been helpful to ease her situation while she was living. Mrs W has also shared 
with us evidence of capital expenditures that she says wouldve quickly eroded her savings.
On the other hand, Mrs Ps income didnt give her much headroom. And theres an 
argument that a regular boost to her monthly income of around £220 (after tax) would also 
have been helpful in making living more comfortable, including accessing the particular 
care support she needed or more of it. And she did have capital to fall back on for more 
significant one-off expenditures. A pension wouldve provided a boost to her income for as 
long as she lived.
Mr P passed on 27 April 2020. Its not in dispute that from this point Mrs P was entitled to 
pension death benefits. We know that events unfolded in a way that meant she wasnt 
able to exercise her choice about how to take these. But given her circumstances at that 
time, I dont think there was an overwhelming case that she would necessarily have taken 
her benefits as a lump-sum.
In any event, Im not persuaded that whether Mrs P wouldve opted for a lump-sum or a 
regular income is ultimately telling. Thats because sadly Mrs Ps health deteriorated. Mrs 
W has told us that her mother was on end-of-life care by 16 May 2020, which is when 
PICs letter of 14 May was received. She passed the next day.
Fundamentally, this element of Mrs Ws case arises from the exceptional circumstances 
that materialised in 2020  the loss of both Mrs Ws parents within a very short space of 
time. Having considered the available evidence, I cant see PICs actions meant Mrs P was 
unable to express her wish about how to take the death benefits provided by her late 
husbands pension plan.
In responding to my provisional decision Mrs W said that PIC hadnt received a clear 
decision from her about how to pay Mrs Ps pension benefits due to circumstances and 
timing. But it went on to make a decision to make a pension payment (which it initially 
intended to offset against an overpayment to Mr P).
PIC has set out the reasoning behind its decision to make a small payment in respect of 
the pension payment Mrs P accrued between the passing of her husband and her own 
death:
Upon being notified of the subsequent death of Mrs P, we considered the options 
available. We are of the view that paying the trivial commutation after death would 
constitute an unauthorised payment in the eyes of HMRC (Regulation 15 of the Registered 
Pension Schemes (Authorised Payments) Regulations 2009 - SI 2009/1171).
PIC would be required to report this to HMRC and this would incur additional tax charges 
to both the recipient and PIC. In addition to any tax charge to for the unauthorised 
payment, there would also potentially be a scheme sanction charge payable. PIC are not 
willing to make a payment that would be classed as unauthorised.
Therefore in this case PIC only made payment of the arrears due to the estate (which we 
believe to be permitted under Regulation 16 of the Registered Pension Schemes 
(Authorised Payments) Regulations 2009 - SI 2009/1171).PIC isnt saying it selected the option it thinks Mrs P wouldve chosen for payment of 
death benefits from her husbands pension. Rather, its suggesting the only way it could 
pay any death benefits to her estate in the circumstances arising, given the regulations, 
was to provide for arrears of regular pension payments due.
Ive read PICs policy documents. Ive also considered the relevant HMRC regulations:
Pensions continuing to be paid after death
15.(1) A payment which is intended to represent the payment of a pension permitted by 
the pension rules or the pension death benefit rules to or in respect of a member if
(a) the member or dependant concerned (the person) has died;
(b) the payment is made no later than six months after the date of the persons 
death;
(c) the payment would not have been an unauthorised payment if it had been 
made on the day before the person died; and
(d) either of the conditions in paragraph (2) is satisfied.
(2) The conditions mentioned in paragraph (1)(d) are
(a) the scheme administrator or insurance company making the payment (in 
either case, the payer) did not know, and could not reasonably have been 
expected to know, that the person had died before the payment was made;
(b) where the payer knew of the persons death before the payment was made, 
the payer took reasonable steps to prevent the payments being made or its 
being made in that amount.
Had PIC been responsible for Mrs P not being able to have expressed her wish about how 
to take the death benefits from her late husbands pension plan, then I think there wouldve 
been a strong argument to say that the HMRC regulations wouldnt have applied. Thats 
because if matters had unfolded as they shouldve no breach wouldve occurred had it got 
things right. It wouldve had to have approached the tax authorities to make clear what had 
happened  but that wouldve been a matter for it to sort out.
But from the information available to me theres nothing to show PIC did get things wrong 
in how it dealt with Mrs P or Mrs W, in respect of the timings it worked to. So, I think theres 
merit in the argument PIC makes that it would have been caught by the HMRC regulations 
at 15 (2) (a) and (b) in the circumstances of this case.
If PIC had made a lump-sum payment to the estate of Mrs P it wouldve done so in full 
knowledge that she had passed. Any such payment would then have been made outside 
the regulations and therefore unauthorised, opening her estate up to punitive tax charges 
and PIC to tax charges and potentially scheme sanctions.
Mrs W has made very clear that her complaint arose because of the way she was spoken 
to by PIC and the nature of its correspondence. I said in my provisional decision that I 
found PICs communications with her, particularly its letter of 3 June 2020 to have been 
deeply insensitive. I also found its final response failed to deal adequately with this matter.
When Im considering a complaint like Mrs Ws, I usually think about whether its fair to 
award compensation for distress and inconvenience. This isnt intended to fine or punish 
a business  which is the job of the regulator. But when somethings gone wrong, 
recognition of the emotional and practical impact can make a real difference.Usually in this situation I would require a business to pay a complainant an award for the 
trouble and upset it had caused. And in the circumstances here I wouldve awarded £500. I 
was unable to do so in this case because the provisions I work within dont extend to 
complaints brought by executors where they are not also the beneficiaries of a policy.
I asked PIC to consider the impact of its handling of this case on Mrs W. Its reflected on the 
circumstances surrounding the case and recognises it got things badly wrong in its 
communications with her. Its agreed to pay her the compensation Ive suggested. And it is 
liaising with the Investigator to make arrangements for payment in line with Mrs Ws 
preferences.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im not upholding Mrs Ws complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W, as 
executor of the estate of Mrs P, to accept or reject my decision before 4 July 2022. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman