DRN-3266150
The complaint
Mr T complains about the service provided by Wise Payments Limited (Wise) when he tried 
to carry out a transfer.
What happened
In June 2021, Mr T wanted to transfer £150,000 from a Sterling account to a Euro account. 
He said hed been asked to submit a number of documents before the transfer could be 
processed, which would be difficult for him to get. He wanted to know how to proceed. An 
adviser on Wises webchat function said hed pass Mr Ts queries to the large payments 
team.
Mr T further explained that he didnt know what the upper limit was to transfer funds without 
needing to submit so much paperwork. The adviser initially said if Mr T made the transfer in 
two smaller transactions (below £80,000) the documents likely wouldnt be required. Shortly 
afterwards, the adviser contacted Mr T and apologised that he had previously given him 
incorrect information and reiterated that Mr Ts questions would be escalated.
Mr T continued to contact Wise over email and webchat asking for urgent responses. During 
this period, he had also asked how the fees would be affected if he split his transfers into two 
smaller ones. Mr T was repeatedly told by the webchat advisers that his questions would be 
escalated. In the meantime, Mr T began the process of setting up two transfers. He says he 
paused these, given that he was waiting for answers to his questions. However, he says the 
rate then changed. This was because Mr T hadnt clicked through to the next stage soon 
enough, meaning the rate hadnt been secured. And the exchange rate had become less 
favourable during this time. Mr T then continued to monitor the rates before settling on one 
later that day, which was secured for 24 hours.
An adviser from the large payments team contacted Mr T the next day. Mr T says he was 
dealing with an emergency at work at the time, and his card and PIN were at home. So, he 
says he had to rush to get them and make the transfers in just a few hours before his 
secured rate expired. But later that day, Mr T was able to process the transfers at the rate 
hed secured.
Mr T was unhappy about the service hed received. He said that the guaranteed response 
time for the large payments team was up to 48 hours, however a rate could only be secured 
for 24 hours.  He wanted Wise to honour the rate hed tried to secure initially. And, he said 
that the webchat advisers he was speaking with should have told him the rate hadnt been 
secured, and he would need to proceed to the end of the process to ensure this was done. 
Mr T says he was then inconvenienced by having to monitor the rates, and the one he 
eventually secured resulted in a £615 loss.
Mr T also pointed out that Wise offer a discount on their arrangement fees when a customer 
transfers above £100,000 in one calendar month. He says he sent £170,000 in one month 
(£20,000, £75,000 and £75,000) and thinks this shouldve resulted in a discount, which he 
hadnt received. Unhappy about all these matters, he complained to Wise.
Wise reviewed Mr Ts complaint. In summary, it apologised that its service didnt meet Mr Ts 
expectations. It also provided some explanations about its processes, so any future 
transactions he had would go through as expected. 
In relation to the fee, Wise explained that Mr T had previously completed a £20,000 transfer 
in June. But he set up the second transfer of £75,000, before the first £75,000 transfer had 
completed. And the discount took into account completed transfers. So, because he hadnt 
reached the £100,000 threshold at the point that any of the two transfers were set up, and 
the discount is applied at the point a transfer is set up, a discount wasnt applied. Overall, it 
didnt uphold his complaint. 
Mr T brought his complaint to this service. One of our investigators reviewed matters and, in 
summary, thought Wise had responded to Mr Ts questions within the advised timescales. 
He also thought that the advisers Mr T spoke with werent to know his transfers were still at 
the review stage. And, he explained that Wise had since agreed to refund the difference 
between the fee Mr T paid, and the discounted fee he wouldve paid had the £150,000 been 
sent in one transfer  which he thought was a fair resolution to the complaint.
Wise didnt dispute our investigators findings. Mr T did, and mostly repeated his earlier 
points. As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For reference, Mr T has two complaints with this service about Wise. Many of the issues 
overlap. However, this decision will only address his complaint about events of June 2021 
and the issues that I consider to be materially relevant to the crux of that. However, Ive 
given careful consideration to all of the submissions made to date, in relation to this 
complaint.
As I understand it, the webchat function for the large payments team had been switched off 
due to a lack of coverage, and only the general customer support line remained open. Given 
that these advisers werent able to answer Mr Ts questions, they were escalated to the large 
payments team who guarantee responses within 48 hours.
I acknowledge this wouldve been frustrating for Mr T, particularly given the potential for the 
fluctuation in rates during this period and how that might affect that large sum of money he 
was attempting to transfer. Additionally, a rate is secured for only 24 hours, which means 
Mr T might not have had an answer to his questions by the time the rate was due to expire. 
That being said, 48 hours is a fairly standard response time for organisations. And 
importantly, in Mr Ts case, the large payments team did get back to him within the 24 hours 
hed secured a rate for. I appreciate that Mr T said he was busy at the time, and he needed 
to rush to ensure the transfers were processed, as he didnt have the details with him at the 
time. But Mr T had secured a rate for 24 hours and Wise responded to him in that timeframe 
 exceeding the service agreement set. So, I dont think it caused any undue delay.
I note that Mr T wanted urgent answers to his questions. He says that had he received these 
he would have processed the transfers at the more favourable rate hed seen earlier. Wise 
explained that its general customer support team isnt able to answer questions about high 
value transfers, and this is dealt with by its dedicated large payments team. I dont think this 
was unreasonable, given the sum of money Mr T was trying to transfer. Ive also considered 
that Mr T was asking specific questions about how he could avoid having to submit documents for verification checks, and the overall fees charged on large amounts. So, I think 
its reasonable Wise would want to refer this to its specialist team. And, as outlined, the team 
responded to Mr T the next day.
Its unfortunate that Mr T thought the more favourable rate had been secured earlier in the 
day, when this wasnt the case, given that he remained at the review stage. Mr T says the 
advisers he spoke with shouldve told him the initial rate wouldnt be secured unless he 
completed the process. However, from the webchat logs Ive seen, I cant see that Mr T 
made the advisers aware that the transfers were at the review stage at the time. The logs 
Ive seen show that he contacted the advisers once the rate had already refreshed. And, 
given that Wise said it had no visibility of attempted transfers, I can see why it wouldnt have 
been immediately obvious to the advisers that they would need to tell Mr T to continue 
through the process to secure a rate.
Ive also considered that Wise has said instructions on how to complete a transfer are visible 
during the transfer process. And, its website states: Keep in mind that if you remain at one 
step of the transfer setup process for more than 30 minutes, the guaranteed rate will 
refresh, which I think clearly outlines the process here.
So, whilst I acknowledge Mr Ts disappointment when he realised the rate hadnt been 
secured, Im not persuaded that this is due to something Wise had done wrong. 
Overall, the whole process took around one day, and Mr T was able to successfully 
complete the transfers at the rate he had secured. And, having reviewed Wises actions 
during the process, Im not persuaded that it caused any unnecessary delays.
Mr T is also unhappy that a discounted fee wasnt applied to his transfers and found Wises 
explanation about this confusing. Wise explained that it offers a 0.1% discount once a 
customer has completed over £100,000 worth of transfers in a calendar month. Wise further 
explained the discount is automatically applied, where appropriate, at the point the transfer is 
set up. 
Mr T had completed a £20,000 transfer in June before he set up his two transfers of 
£75,000. However, he set up both £75,000 transfers around the same time. The discounted 
fee is applied at the point the transfer is set up and takes into account existing transfers 
which have already completed. Neither of the £75,000 transfers had completed by the time 
the other was set up. So, given that Mr T hadnt reached £100,000 of transfers at the point 
either £75,000 transfer was set up, a discount wasnt applied to these.
However, since the complaint has been with this service, Wise acknowledged that its 
explanation of this on its website could have been clearer  particularly related to concurrent 
transfers. So, as a gesture of goodwill, it has agreed to offer Mr T the difference between the 
fee he paid, and the discounted fee he would have paid, had the transfer of £150,000 been 
completed in one transfer. 
Ive thought carefully about this and I think this is a fair resolution to this complaint, as it will 
put Mr T in the position he would have been in, had he transferred £150,000 in one transfer. 
So, I direct Wise to calculate this figure and pay Mr T the difference between the fee he paid, 
and the fee he would have paid had the transfer been completed in one transfer.
When calculating this figure, Wise should ensure it is mindful of any previously completed 
transfers in that calendar month and ensure this has been factored into its calculations, 
where appropriate, when it pays Mr T.
My final decisionI uphold this complaint and direct Wise Payments Limited to settle this complaint as outlined 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
Hana Yousef
Ombudsman