DRN-3375865
The complaint
Miss P complains that Nationwide Building Society misled her about whether an early 
repayment charge (ERC) would apply when she moved home. She asks that the ERC is 
refunded.
What happened
Miss P wanted to move home. She had a mortgage with Nationwide with a fixed rate product 
that included an ERC. However, she could move home and avoid having to pay the ERC if 
she ported her mortgage product to the new mortgage.
Miss P contacted Nationwide in April 2021 as she wanted to port her mortgage and take out 
additional borrowing. She says she was told to apply online. She did so, only to find at 
completion that Nationwide had applied an ERC of about £2,800.
Our investigator said Nationwide couldnt find the call when Miss P says she was told to 
apply online. The investigator said even if Miss P was wrongly told to apply online, when she 
tried to do so shed have seen warnings that she couldnt apply online to port her mortgage.
Our investigator said while Nationwide had made an error when it said would refund the 
ERC, it corrected this quickly. The investigator said the £50 paid by Nationwide for upset 
caused by this error was fair.
Miss P said she expected to be able to apply online, having been told to do so. And this was 
in the context of lots of processes being different as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Miss P said she couldnt understand why Nationwide couldnt find the call. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Miss P took out her mortgage in 2015 she accepted the terms, including the ERC. The 
amount of the ERC and when it applied was clearly set out in the mortgage offer. Miss P 
repaid the mortgage during the product term. Nationwide applied the ERC, as it was entitled 
to do under the mortgage terms and conditions. 
Miss P says it was unfair for Nationwide to charge the ERC. She says she intended to port 
the mortgage product to the new mortgage and was misled by Nationwide about how to do 
so.
Miss P applied online for a decision in principle in April 2021. She had an existing mortgage 
of about £58,000 and wanted to increase her borrowing to about £210,000. Having had an 
offer accepted for a property, Miss P contacted Nationwide to make an application. She says 
she was told to make an application online.
Nationwide says it searched its records and cant find this call. I understand Miss Ps 
frustration about this. Its difficult for me to reach a firm conclusion about this discussion 
without listening to a recording  for instance whether it was clear to Nationwide that Miss P 
was asking about porting rather than about making a new application. But even if Miss P 
was wrongly told on a call she could make a porting application online, I dont think this 
would itself make it fair to require Nationwide to refund the ERC. 
Nationwide says porting applications can only be made by telephone. It says there are 
warnings online when customers apply for a decision in principle or make a mortgage 
application. Nationwide provided screen shots to support this. These screen shots show that 
there are warnings in bold that customers cant apply online if they want to transfer or port an 
existing mortgage, and this might mean paying an ERC.
I understand Miss Ps point that many processes were different during the Covid-19 
pandemic. But I think the warnings were clear enough to make Miss P aware there might be 
a problem with trying to make a porting application online. And I think she ought to have 
been aware that she wasnt porting her product. The mortgage offer she accepted had a new 
product for the whole balance. This had a different interest rate and term to the product 
Miss P says she thought she was porting.
Miss P asks why shed have incurred an ERC of £2,800 if she hadnt been mis-advised by 
Nationwide. Id note here that Miss Ps previous product had an interest rate of 3.79% with 
six years remaining. Her new five-year product has an interest rate of 1.84%. If Miss P had 
ported her existing product for the balance of about £58,000 the higher rate would have 
resulted in her paying about £1,000 per year more in interest. So, while Miss P paid an ERC 
she now has the benefit of a new mortgage product with a lower interest rate. 
I can appreciate that Miss P was surprised and disappointed to discover there was an ERC 
to pay when she completed her sale and purchase. But I think Nationwide gave her clear 
information that an ERC was payable when she took out the product in 2015. I also think 
there were clear warnings that a porting application couldnt be made online. I think Miss P 
ought reasonably to have known that she hadnt applied to port her 3.79% product. In the 
circumstances, I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Nationwide to refund the ERC 
she paid.
When Miss P called to complain about the ERC, Nationwide initially said it would refund the 
ERC. This was an error, and it must have been disappointing for Miss P to have been told 
the ERC would be refunded and then told it wouldnt be. Nationwide paid £50 for the upset 
caused by this. I think in the circumstances this is fair and reasonable compensation for the 
upset caused.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. This is because I think the £50 paid by 
Nationwide Building Society is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman