DRN-3070705
The complaint
Mr B has complained about an insurance policy he says he bought from Nationwide Building 
Society (Nationwide) and the way it sold the policy to him. He thinks it should refund him the 
premiums he paid for the policy. 
What happened
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mr Bs complaint. The adjudicator thought 
that Nationwide had treated Mr B fairly and didnt recommend that it should give him any 
money back. 
Mr B didnt agree with the adjudicators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review his 
case. So, it has come to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are many points of disagreement between Mr B and Nationwide, so I would first like to 
set out what both parties have said. 
In outline, Mr B has told us that:
Nationwide mis-sold him a life cover policy (*) which it said would pay out £100,000 
to his children if he died. He would also receive a lump sum if he fell ill. He became ill 
and tried to make a claim to Nationwide, which it rejected. 
He was homeless at the time Nationwide sold him the policy and it forced him into 
buying it. 
He initially paid £10 per month for the policy, which Nationwide increased to £13 
without his permission.
The policy also covered things like refunds for lost or stolen items and insurance for 
travel and mobile phones. 
He tried to claim for a lost phone and cancelled airline tickets, but Nationwide 
rejected his claims.
He tried to close the policy, but Nationwide didnt close it and continued to charge 
him the monthly fee for several months.
Hes said that Nationwide sold him the policy during a discussion in one of its branches and 
he feels that it fooled and cheated him. 
(*) Im not sure if Mr B considers that the life cover policy was life insurance or life 
assurance, so I have continued to use the generic term of life cover throughout this decision.
And in outline Nationwide has told us: 
It didnt sell Mr B a life cover policy. 
Mr B originally held one of its fee-free bank accounts, then in 2015, it sold him a 
packaged bank account called a FlexPlus account. It did so during a discussion at 
one of its branches.
It denies forcing the FlexPlus account onto Mr B and cheating or fooling him.
It originally charged Mr B £10 per month for the FlexPlus account but later increased 
the fee to £13 per month. 
In return for Mr Bs monthly fee, the FlexPlus account provided a range of potential 
benefits including insurance for travel and mobile phones and extended warranties 
on some goods Mr B bought with a Nationwide credit or debit card. But it didnt 
provide any life cover. 
Taking these two descriptions together, I havent seen anything to convince me that 
Nationwide sold Mr B a life cover policy, either as part of the FlexPlus account or separately. 
However, I am satisfied that it sold him a FlexPlus account, as this would explain some of 
the common ground between the two description, such as the monthly fees and insurance 
for mobile phones and travel, (which wouldnt usually be included in life cover policies); and I 
also think that Nationwides records about the types of account Mr Bs held are probably 
reliable. So, I have regarded this complaint as being about possible mis-selling of a FlexPlus 
account. 
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts, such as a 
FlexPlus account, on our website, and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to 
do in Mr Bs case. Ive looked into everything that Mr B and Nationwide have told us or sent 
us about the complaint and Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
In 2015, Nationwide, along with other building societies and banks was allowed to sell 
packaged bank accounts in two ways. It could do so without giving personal advice on an 
information-only (or non-advised) basis; or as an advised (or recommended) sale. In both 
situations, as well as giving Mr B a choice, I would have expected Nationwide to tell him 
about the accounts costs and benefits clearly and fairly; and in an advised sale, I would also 
have expected it to check if he needed the benefits which the account could provide. 
Nationwide has told us that it sold the FlexPlus account to Mr B on an information-only basis. 
This was its usual practice in 2015 and I dont think it would have changed its normal 
procedures for Mr B. So, I have considered the complaint as being about a non-advised 
sale.
Mr B has told us that before Nationwide sold him the FlexPlus account he was happily 
satisfied with a free account but as mentioned above he believes Nationwide forced the 
FlexPlus account on him. Nationwide has accepted that it may have discussed the FlexPlus 
account with Mr B at some length. It has mentioned that the discussion may have taken upto 
an hour. I fully accept that it probably talked about the FlexPlus account in positive terms 
during this time. But I doubt that it forced the FlexPlus account on Mr B. Nationwide was not 
withdrawing fee-free accounts form its customers. It has continued to provide them widely, as have other UK building societies and banks. I was very sorry to hear that Mr B may have 
been homeless, but I do not see a clear connection between this and Nationwide being able 
(or wanting) to force him to charge accounts. I think its more likely that Nationwide allowed 
Mr B a choice to keep his fee-free account or to buy the FlexPlus account.
There isnt any dispute that Nationwide told Mr B about the fees for the FlexPlus account, 
and I also think its highly likely that it told him about its potential benefits. After all, it was 
trying to sell the FlexPlus account to him and it was in its own interest to tell him what he 
could get in in return for the monthly fee. As Mr B travelled and used a mobile phone, he 
may have found some of these benefits attractive and potentially useful at the time. 
Turning to the insurance claims Mr B made and how Nationwide responded.
Nationwide did not provide the mobile phone or travel insurance itself. It used separate 
organisations or insurers. When Mr B made his claims, he sent them direct to Nationwide, 
which seems to have referred them on to the insurers and given Mr B their contact details. 
This is how I would have expected it to respond. I do not know what claims, if any, Mr B 
made to the insurers themselves or if they were resolved to his satisfaction. If not, he is free 
to pursue them further, although I cant give him any advice about this or speculate on what 
the outcomes may be. 
Mr B has also told us that he claimed for a lost watch. He may be able to do this under the 
extended warranty benefit of the FlexPlus account. If so, the same applies here as for the 
mobile phones and travel claims. 
If Mr B no longer has the contact details for the insurers and wishes to continue with his 
claims, then I would expect Nationwide to send the details to him if he asks for them.
 
I have very few details indeed about the claim Mr B made for a lump sum when he became 
ill. He has sent us a copy a medical certificate from his doctor and an email he sent to 
Nationwide in which he said he wanted it to  just deal with the claim. I do not know for 
certain how Nationwide responded, but as it has no record of a life cover policy which would 
pay out if Mr B became ill, I would only have expected to tell him that it could take no further 
action. It seems to have done this, so there is nothing further for me to look into. (Obviously, 
if Mr B does hold, or has held, a separate life cover policy - or some other type of insurance, 
such as payment protection - which covered him for illness then he may be able to claim 
against the relevant insurer, but as I have no evidence he had such a policy I wont comment 
further). 
I have also seen some emails from Mr B to Nationwide in which he asked it to close his 
account. Nationwide responded by saying that it wasnt sure the emails were secure. It 
asked Mr B to call a particular phone number so it could deal with his request. It also 
mentioned its webchat and online services. I think that in this case Nationwides desire to 
check things was fair and it treated Mr B reasonably. I understand that it closed the account 
a few months later. 
I accept that Nationwide increased the monthly fee for the account. It was allowed to do this 
provided it told customers what it was planning and gave them reasonable notice and 
choices. It usually did this by writing for all its customers and Ive no reason to think it failed 
to do this for Mr B. I think it behaved fairly when it increased the monthly fee. 
So, in summary, I have considered this case to be primarily a complaint that Nationwide mis-
sold Mr B a FlexPlus account; but I do not think it did. I also believe that Nationwide 
responded correctly (as a seller, not an insurer) to the claims which Mr B made against 
insurance policies which the FlexPlus account provided. I think it carried out its price increase fairly and responded to Mr Bs request to close the account in a reasonable way. I 
have not considered the claim which Mr B says he made for illness against a life cover policy 
as I do not think Nationwide has a connection with such a policy.
My final decision 
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mr Bs complaint about Nationwide 
Building Society. I am not going to tell it to give him any money back.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2021.  
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman