DRN-1622280
 
The complaint
Ms S and Mr S complain that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds trading at the time of sale as TSB) 
mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
Ms S and Mr S bought a regular premium MPPI policy in May 1999 alongside a mortgage in 
a meeting. The MPPI policy covered Ms S and Mr S against accidents, sickness and 
unemployment. The policy was set up so that Ms S would receive 30% of the benefit 
provided and Mr S 70%. The mortgage ended in 2006.
Ms S and Mr S say Lloyds mis-sold the MPPI policy to them. They say there was no reason 
for them to take PPI. They add that they believe at no time was PPI cover discussed or 
signed for.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Ms S and Mr Ss complaint. As Ms S and Mr S dont agree with 
the adjudicators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms S and Mr Ss case.
Ive looked at all of the information provided by both parties and decided not to uphold        
Ms S and Mr Ss complaint because of the following reasons:
Lloyds has been unable to provide any of the sales documentation that was used at 
the time of sale. There is little information available and so I cant be sure how the 
policy was presented by Lloyds to Ms S and Mr S. Ive not been able to see the 
original sales documentation. So its been difficult for me to consider whether Ms S 
and Mr S were given a choice or not as to whether they should have the MPPI policy 
(or whether it was added without their permission).
 
But Im not aware of any known issues with the way Lloyds sold these policies 
around this time. And due to the amount of years that have passed since the sale, I 
have not been able to obtain a detailed recollection of the sale either. It is 
understandable that Ms S and Mr S have been unable to recall details from the sale 
as it took place so many years ago. So with all of this in mind, I cannot fairly conclude 
on this occasion that the policy was added without Ms S and Mr Ss consent or that they were told they had to have it. I just havent seen enough evidence on this 
occasion to make that conclusion. 
 
Moving on, Lloyds has said it recommended the MPPI to Ms S and Mr S and so, as 
this puts additional responsibilities on the business, I will proceed that this was the 
case. So as it did recommend the policy to Ms S and Mr S, it had to ensure during 
the sale that the policy was suitable for Ms S and Mr Ss needs. 
 
After reviewing the very limited information, it doesnt look as if the MPPI policy was 
unsuitable for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. When 
I consider Ms S and Mr Ss provisions at the time of sale (they both would have 
received 6 months full sick pay and 6 months half along with savings), I think the 
benefit provided by the policy would have been of use to them both in a time of need 
and would have paid in addition to any provisions they would have both had. I think, 
on balance, Ms S and Mr S had a need for this cover for any extended period of 
unemployment or sickness. I also couldnt find any other reason such as a significant 
or limiting term that would make the policy unsuitable for them.
 
Lloyds has provided some information about the costs relating to the MPPI policy that 
Ms S and Mr S took out but even though it has provided information detailing how 
much it cost, I cannot be sure that these costs were disclosed to Ms S and Mr S in a 
clear and fair way in the meeting. That said, even if they were disclosed clearly I 
dont think Ms S and Mr S would have done anything different and decided against 
having the policy for the reasons that I have already given for the policy being 
suitable. Its possible Lloyds didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover. 
But its unlikely Ms S and Mr S wouldve been affected by any of these.
 
In conclusion, although I know this will be disappointing for Ms S and Mr S, I dont think 
Lloyds mis-sold them this MPPI policy.
my final decision
I dont uphold Ms S and Mr Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 July 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman