DRN-4069645
The complaint
Miss M complains about delays and poor handling of a claim she made to Admiral Insurance 
(Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) following an accident she was involved in, under her motor 
insurance policy.  
What happened
In mid-September 2022 Miss M was involved in a collision with a cyclist whilst driving down a 
country road at night. She says the cyclist had no means of visibility and the incident was 
very upsetting for her. Miss Ms car was retained by the police. She called Admiral the next 
day to report the incident. A few days later the police had completed their investigations and 
the car was made available for collection. 
Miss M says her claim was handled very poorly from here. She made numerous calls to 
inform Admiral her car could be collected. Despite being told the car would be collected, this 
didnt happen, and she spent long periods on the phone trying to find out what would happen 
next. Miss M says she received a letter saying her car had been collected by a salvage 
agent and would be scrapped if it wasnt collected.  
Miss M says she continued to call Admiral with limited success. This took up a great deal of 
time whilst she was supposed to be working. She was told the car hadnt been collected and 
there was no-one that could assess the damage. Miss M offered to go and take photos of 
the damage due to the lack of progress that was being made with her claim. Around a month 
after the accident Miss M says Admiral told her that her car was going to be scrapped. She 
was surprised that this hadnt been mentioned before. She told Admiral her car was in very 
good condition, and this should be considered in its valuation. 
Miss M says she received a letter in mid-October 2022 telling her she needed to pay a 
cancellation fee. But prior to this she had a conversation with Admiral where she was told 
the policy would lapse without a fee. She made numerous calls to query this with the 
business without receiving a response. Miss M says her claim has still not been settled and 
shes had to use her other car for driving to stables, which she hadnt intended.
In its final response to Miss Ms complaint at the end of January 2023 Admiral upheld the 
majority of the points she raised. It offered £250 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience shed been caused, £15 toward the cost of calls and a further £50 for a delay 
in its complaint response. Admiral acknowledged the poor service Miss M had received 
during her many phone calls. It explained it had a new system that not all agents were 
trained on. It says this is the reason for some of the problems she experienced. 
In its response Admiral says Miss Ms car wasnt collected as advised due to a system error. 
It acknowledges that a lack of monitoring and action on its part resulted in delays in the claim 
progressing. Moving forward it says Miss M will be contacted with a settlement offer for her 
vehicle plus 8% interest on this amount for the delay.  
Admiral says it has no record that it told Miss M her claim was being closed. It asked that 
she provide the letter she had referred to for it to review. It says it obtains a market value 
based on the industry trade guides in order to provide a settlement payment. 
In relation to the outstanding debt chasers, Admiral says it has listened to a call recording 
when Miss M called shortly before the policy was due to renew. It says it agent advised Miss 
M that the policy would renew, and of the cancellation fee that would be payable. It says it 
received no confirmation that she wanted to cancel the policy before the renewal. However, 
it says it will backdate the cancellation (and refund the cancellation fee) if Miss M provides 
proof of alternative insurance, proof of sale or a Statutory Off-Road Notification (SORN) for 
both vehicles she had insured on her policy.   
Miss M didnt agree with this outcome and referred her complaint to our service. Our 
investigator upheld her complaint in part. She says the compensation offered by Admiral for 
the distress caused was fair. But this didnt take into consideration that Miss M had to use 
another car for a purpose she hadnt intended, and this continued for longer than it should 
due to Admirals claim handling delays. Our investigator thought its offer to back date the 
cancellation was fair.
Miss M didnt think this was fair and asked for an ombudsman to consider her complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided to uphold Miss Ms complaint in part. Im not adding to the 
remedy set out by our investigator. I understand this will be a disappointment for Miss M, but 
I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
In my decision I will consider events up to the final complaint response from Admiral. This 
was dated 27 January 2023. I understand Miss M hadnt, at this point, received a settlement 
payment resulting from her claim. If she remains dissatisfied with this or any other aspect of 
her claim post 27 January, she can complain to Admiral about this. However, I wont be 
considering anything beyond this date in my decision. 
Ive read the responses provided by Admiral along with the testimony Miss M has given. The 
business doesnt dispute that Miss M received a poor standard of service. It acknowledges 
long periods when Miss M waited on hold as well as issues with failed call backs. There 
were also times when its agents werent able to provide information due to a lack of training 
on its new system. 
Admiral acknowledges that a lack of monitoring of Miss Ms claim, combined with a system 
error meant it didnt collect her car. This resulted in a delay in it progressing the claim and in 
providing a settlement payment. 
I can see that Miss M had access to another vehicle, whilst her damaged car was 
unavailable. However, I acknowledge her comments that this car wasnt intended for this 
use, which involved driving to stables. She explains that she only used the damaged car for 
this purpose prior to the accident. 
As discussed, Miss M is able to raise a further complaint regarding any damage or costs not 
covered in the final complaint response from Admiral. Im glad Miss M had access to an 
alternative vehicle. But Admirals delays meant she had to use this car for several months. I 
think the claim should reasonably have been settled in a few weeks. She didnt intend using this car for making trips to stables. This was unavoidable given the problems caused by 
Admiral. In these circumstances I agree with our investigator that Admiral should pay 
additional compensation for the inconvenience and worry this caused Miss M. I think £200 is 
fair given the period of the delay caused by Admiral.  
Admiral offered to add 8% interest to the settlement payment once this was provided to Miss 
M to reflect the delay in it making this payment. This is what Id expect to happen in these 
circumstances. 
Ive thought about Miss Ms comments that she has been chased for payment for a debt that 
shouldnt exist. This is about her policy renewing and then lapsing due to non-payment. 
Admiral says its listened to a call from 14 October 2022 when the upcoming renewal was 
discussed. It says Miss M was given the renewal price and the option to allow the renewal to 
continue or to schedule a cancellation for the renal date of 17 October. Admiral says Miss M 
wanted to consider another quote shed received, its agent said it would save the renewal 
quote in the meantime. Other information was discussed relating to a cancellation fee for 
£25 and loss of a multi-car discount. But Admiral says there was no instruction to cancel, 
and Miss M was told before the call was transferred to its claims team, that the renewal 
would go ahead on 17 October. 
Admiral hasnt provided a copy of the call recording discussed here. But it has confirmed that 
it will backdate the cancellation and remove the £25 cancellation fee if Miss M shows she 
either obtained alternative cover, a SORN, or sold the vehicle. I cant independently 
corroborate what was said during this phone call as I dont have the recording. But I think the 
offer to backdate the cancellation is reasonable in these circumstances. 
In summary I dont think Admiral treated Miss M fairly due to its delays in handling her claim, 
and the impact this had on her. It should pay her £200 compensation in addition to the 
payment it has already offered. But I think its offer to pay interest on the delayed settlement 
and to backdate the cancellation, on provision of the information requested is fair.   
My final decision
My final decision is that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited should:
pay Miss M £200 for the inconvenience and worry it caused her for the period she 
had to use an unsuitable vehicle. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman