DRN-3859974
The complaint
Miss G complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) returned her car in a 
damaged state following accident repairs it arranged, under her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss G was involved in a car accident. The repairs were arranged by Admiral and the car 
was returned to her on a recovery truck. After it was returned Miss G noticed scratches on 
the car and a nail/screw that was embedded in a rear tyre. 
Miss G complained to Admiral, but it didnt accept responsibility for the scratches or 
damaged tyre. In its complaint response it says the recovery company it used to return the 
car had checked its records. It says it wasnt aware of any damage caused. 
Admiral says it received a copy of the checklist provided when the vehicle was dropped off. 
There was no mention of any damage on the checklist. It says this was the opportunity for 
Miss G to have highlighted any issues. 
Miss G thought Admirals response was unfair and referred the matter to our service. Our 
investigator decided not to uphold her complaint. He says the checklist provided by the 
recovery company serves as evidence of the condition of the vehicle. It also gives the owner 
the opportunity to highlight any issues or to refuse delivery of the vehicle. He thought the 
checklist indicated Miss Gs car wasnt damaged when it was delivered back to her.  
Miss G maintained her view that this outcome was unfair and asked for an ombudsman to 
consider her complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold this complaint. Im sorry to disappoint Miss G 
but I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
Miss G raised a separate complaint against Admiral relating to the handling of her claim, the 
time taken to effect the repairs and the initial decision to write-off her car. That complaint has 
also been considered by our service. I wont be commenting on any of the same issues here. 
Miss G also refers to ongoing issues with the repairs Admiral arranged in her more recent 
submissions to our service. If there are further issues, she should contact Admiral to 
highlight these points and raise another complaint should she wish. If she remains 
dissatisfied with its response, Miss G can of course refer the matter to our service at this 
point. However, I cannot consider these further issues here.
For clarity, my remit is to consider the damage Miss G noticed to her car after it was 
delivered back to her by the recovery company.   
Ive looked at the photos Miss G sent that show the scratches she complained about. From 
these photos I can see a mark low down on one of the doors. There is also a mark showing 
above one of the wheel arches, along with what appear to be several minor chips possibly 
caused by stones. I havent seen a photo to show a nail/screw embedded in the drivers side 
rear tyre on Miss Gs car. 
Ive also looked at the checklist the recovery company provided. This includes a diagram of 
a car under the heading damage. There is no damage indicated on this diagram. The 
checklist includes a box that has been initialled by the delivery driver. This section of the 
checklist says:
Delivery condition report: Customer accepted delivery in the same condition as recovery.
There is also a check box that has been ticked with the wording, I accept that no additional 
damage has been recorded. 
The checklist includes another box that I understand is for the customer to sign. Under the 
heading, Acceptance Statements there are two checkboxes that are left unticked. These 
say, Unattended Delivery Authority and, Acceptance that a visual vehicle inspection was 
not practical on arrival. Under the Customer Acceptance Miss Gs name and the date of 
delivery are completed in the relevant fields. Underneath it says, Customer unable / 
Refused to Sign.
Its not clear why the checklist wasnt signed by Miss G. But she has made clear that she 
was present when the car was delivered to her. She says it was the delivery driver that told 
her there was a nail embedded in the drivers side rear tyre, and there were several scratch 
marks. I dont dispute Miss Gs recollection, but I must also consider the records provided by 
Admiral that show no damage was recorded when the car was returned. 
The photos Miss G provided are time stamped on the evening of the day after her car was 
delivered back. There are some minor marks showing on the paintwork in the areas 
highlighted, albeit Miss G hasnt shown the damaged tyre. I dont think its likely that the 
marks were caused between the car being returned and the photos being taken. But it is 
possible that these marks were present on the car before it was taken to Admirals repairer. 
Miss Gs car is approximately eight years old. I think its possible that these types of marks 
couldve accrued over the life of the vehicle.    
If Miss G was aware that there was a nail/screw embedded in a tyre and a number of 
scratches/marks on her car when it was delivered back to her, I think its reasonable to 
expect that she would refuse to accept the car back  or at least obtain some documentation 
that proved the damaged condition of the car. I cant see that she did this. As it is the records 
indicate the car was returned undamaged. 
Having considered all of this, based on the information I have seen I cant fairly say that 
Admiral is responsible for the damage Miss G has claimed. So, I cant reasonably ask it to 
do any more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 February 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman