DRN-3050655
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the way Startline Motor Finance Limited (Startline) has dealt with his 
request for a payment deferral as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic.  
  
What happened
In February 2017, Mr C entered into a 60 month hire purchase agreement with Startline for a 
used car. Mr C was required to pay contractual payments of £285 per month. 
In March 2020, Mr C contacted Startline to say that due to the Covid-19 pandemic, he was 
having difficulty finding employment. He said he will need to cancel his direct debit but he will 
make a manual payment for as much as he can afford. Mr C met the contractual payments 
for March and April 2020. 
As Mr C advised his situation hadnt changed, Startline agreed to a payment deferral for  
May and again in June 2020. However when he contacted them about deferring the payment 
for July 2020, Startline said their approach had changed and he was required to undergo an 
affordability assessment. Mr C was unhappy with this because he didnt wish to provide his 
private information because he felt it was intrusive. He said based on the guidance of the 
financial regulator, he should be offered a three month payment deferral. Mr C made a 
partial payment of £150 in July 2020. 
For the next several months, Mr C said he struggled to obtain employment meaning he had 
to borrow money from a family member to meet the contractual payments. From August 
2020 to March 2021 he paid them in full but in April 2021, he made a partial payment of 
£200. Mr C said he doesnt want to end the agreement and give the car back as he needs it 
for when he secures employment and there isnt long left until the agreement ends and he 
will be able to own the car. 
Mr C complained about Julys payment not being deferred. Startline said the payment 
deferral for July 2020 hadnt been approved because Mr C needed to complete an income 
and expenditure review via a designated online platform but he wasnt willing to engage with 
this process. Startline said they had the responsibility to ensure they offered the right 
assistance based on his circumstances but as he wouldnt provide this information, theyve 
been unable to evaluate his financial situation.
Unhappy with their response, Mr C referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
recommended the case was upheld. They didnt believe Startline had treated Mr C fairly. 
They said although it was Startlines intention to consider his affordability to provide support, 
it had the opposite effect and had caused more issues. They said, the payment for July 2020 
should be considered a deferred payment, adverse information from July 2020 onwards 
should be removed from Mr Cs credit file and they should pay £200 compensation. 
Startline disagreed. In summary they said:
- The regulators guidance wasnt specific about how to approach payment deferrals;
- The guidance specified a three month deferral period from March 2020 but Mr C had 
paid March and Aprils instalments;
- They were able to consider a further deferment for July 2020 providing they could 
evidence the short-term impact on Mr Cs finances;
- Mr C experienced financial challenges prior to the Covid-19 pandemic because he 
had been out of work on a long term basis due to a health issue. They wanted to 
offer a long term tailored support that best suited his circumstances;
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this decision, Ive considered whether Startline has treated Mr C fairly in declining his 
request for a Covid-19 payment deferral for July 2020 in light of his financial difficulties. 
Having done so, I dont believe they have so Ive decided to uphold the complaint. 
Ive reviewed Startlines contact notes following their conversations with Mr C. On 17 March 
2020, he contacted them to say due to the Covid-19 pandemic, he was struggling to find 
employment. On 23 March 2020, a nationwide lockdown was imposed by the government. 
When Mr C contacted Startline, there was no specific guidance in place about how 
businesses should deal with financial difficulty arising from Covid-19. Given the unprecedent 
nature of the pandemic, its likely Startline were working through what this would mean for 
their customers and how best to support them. 
 
Nevertheless, there was existing guidance in place which concerned consumers in financial 
difficulty which I wouldve expected Startline to apply. The guidance is found in the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys (FCA) handbook Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) which says   
A firm must treat customers in default or in arrears difficulties with forbearance and due 
consideration. 
In response to Mr C, Startline advised that he could split the contractual payments into three 
but the first payment must be made that month. I dont necessarily believe Startline showed 
the level of forbearance nor due consideration that I would reasonably expect given it was 
clear Mr C wasnt in receipt of any income and he advised he would need to borrow money 
in order to keep the account up to date. For example, they couldve offered a temporary 
break or accepted nominal or reduced repayments.
On 27 April 2020, the FCA released specific guidance titled Motor finance agreements and 
coronavirus: temporary guidance for firms. The guidance stated that a firm should grant a 
customer whose finances had been negatively impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic, a 
payment deferral for three months unless the firm determines (acting reasonably) its 
obviously not in the customers interests to do. The intention was to ensure consumers who 
wouldve otherwise been fine, wouldnt be negatively impacted by Covid-19. At this point in 
April 2020, Mr Cs account was up to date but he made it clear that moving forward he would 
struggle to meet the payments. He said due to the pandemic, he was struggling to find 
employment given the nature of his job as a self-employed joiner. On this basis, I think its 
fair to say Mr Cs financial difficulties were a result of the pandemic so I believe the guidance 
would apply to him. 
On a monthly basis, Mr C proactively contacted Startline to update them but unfortunately 
his situation hadnt changed. Startline agreed to a payment deferral for May and June 2020 
and in the circumstances, I believe it was fair for them to do so. However when it came to 
considering a payment deferral for July 2020, Startline said they needed to assess Mr Cs affordability to see what support they could provide and they requested him to do so via an 
online platform however Im aware Mr C wasnt willing to do so.
I note Startlines comments that the FCAs guidance was not specific about how firms should 
approach payment deferrals and they chose to use an online platform in order to help them 
do so. I believe the guidance intended immediate support in these exceptional 
circumstances without the need for income and expenditure as the primary intention was to 
support those in financial difficulty due to the pandemic. So while I appreciate Startline chose 
to use the online platform to assist them in determining affordability, this wasnt a 
requirement set out by the guidance. Nor was it a requirement to make individual enquiries 
with each customer to determine the circumstances for a payment deferral or whether it was 
in the consumers interest to do so. In my opinion, the online platform shouldnt act as a 
barrier or an obstacle in order to understand an individuals financial circumstances. In this 
case, as Mr C wasnt willing to use it, I wouldve expected Startline to acquire the information 
they needed in another way that was agreeable to both parties. 
Mr C had already told them he wasnt in employment, he wasnt in receipt of any income and 
he was having to borrow money from a family member to meet the contractual payments. Its 
not clear what information wouldve been obtained via the online platform or by review of his 
bank statements that Startline couldnt ascertain during one of the many telephone 
conversations they had with him. Moreover, what Mr C told them about his financial 
circumstances was evidently considered sufficient in order to agree to the initial payment 
deferrals. Given his situation hadnt changed in July 2020, it doesnt seem reasonable that 
they wouldnt agree to another months payment deferral because he wasnt willing to use 
the online platform. I can understand why Mr C was upset and frustrated by this. Although he 
didnt wish to use the platform, based on the call notes, he was letting them know about his 
circumstances and it appears he was open to discuss what was happening.
Above, Ive explained why I believe the FCAs guidance applied to Mr C and given payment 
deferrals were agreed for two months already, it would appear Startline thought so too 
initially. However there is a suggestion by Startline that the FCA guidance wasnt a 
reasonable option to Mr C and they wanted to offer long term support because he been out 
of work for several months and he missed a payment in October 2019. However I dont think 
its fair to say Mr C was in long term financial difficulty before the pandemic. 
I note a payment was missed in October 2019 and Mr C advised he had been out of work for 
six months due to issues with is knees. He said he had been using his savings to make the 
contractual payments to try to keep the account up to date. However due to the missed 
payment, the account fell into arrears of approximately £310. Startline set up a three month 
repayment plan which was followed by Mr C and he has told our service he was able to do 
so because he found a short term job. So at the time of March 2020, when he contacted 
Startline, the account was up to date with no arrears. So I think its unfair for Startline to say 
he had been in long term financial difficulty before the Covid-19 pandemic. Overall, I believe 
it wouldve been fair and reasonable for Startline to have agreed to the payment deferral for 
July 2020 in line with the FCAs guidance. 
Having reviewed the statement of account, with the exception of a partial payments in July 
2020 and April 2021, Mr C has met the contractual payments. At the time of the 
investigators opinion in June 2021, Startline sent communication to Mr C confirming the 
account was approximately £218 in arrears which equates to less than one months 
contractual payment. Had Startline agreed to the deferred payment in July 2020, this amount 
wouldnt be considered as arrears and collection activity wouldnt have started.
Nevertheless, Im aware the reason why Mr C has managed to meet the contractual 
payments during that time is because he has been borrowing money from a family member. So Ive thought carefully about what wouldve happened had Julys payment 
been deferred and the FCAs three month deferral came to an end.
In July 2020, the FCA updated Aprils guidance and said the payment deferral period 
could be extended for a further three months, therefore a maximum of six months. 
Given Mr C remained without employment, I believe its most likely he wouldve asked 
Startline for this additional three month payment deferral. Had that been applied to this 
case, the total payment deferral wouldve covered Mr C for May to October 2020. The 
FCA then published further guidance in October and November 2020, titled Consumer 
credit and Coronavirus: Tailored Support Guidance. It outlined after the maximum six 
month deferral period, the expectation was financial businesses would offer more 
tailored support. In this case, by October 2020, Mr Cs circumstances hadnt changed 
so it wouldve been clear he would require further assistance and I wouldve expected 
Startline to do so in line with the guidance. This wouldve most likely required Startline 
to ascertain a more in-depth understanding of Mr Cs financial circumstances and 
whether he could afford the payments moving forward and in the circumstances I 
believe that wouldve been a reasonable course of action.
I cant say with any certainty what Startline wouldve done but generally speaking, financial 
businesses were expected to consider both short and long term forbearance options. 
Examples may have included a suitable repayment plan based on affordability or providing 
options to end the agreement early in order to avoid accumulating arrears such as voluntary 
termination. Either way, at this point a further discussion wouldve needed to have happened 
between Mr C and Startline. 
Ive considered how this situation has impacted Mr C. He was experiencing financial difficulty 
and he turned to Startline for support. Due to their failure to fairly apply the FCAs guidance, 
its caused Mr C upset and worry during what was already a difficult time. He made 
numerous calls to Startline and he was upset about receiving communication about the 
arrears. In light of the trouble and upset caused, I agree with the investigator that Startline 
should pay £200 compensation. 
Taking everything into account, I dont think it is fair to say that Mr Cs financial difficulties 
were unrelated to Covid-19. Therefore Im satisfied the FCA guidance applied to him and 
Julys payment shouldve been deferred. Startlines failure to do so is likely to have led to 
adverse information being recorded on his credit file therefore I believe any adverse 
information should be removed for July 2020. I believe it should also be removed for April 
2021 as I believe this was also related to the pandemic and Mr C wasnt offered the six 
month payment deferral in line with the FCAs guidance. Startline should also pay £200 
compensation. 
Lastly if Mr C remains in financial difficulty and he continues to struggle to meet the 
contractual payments, I strongly encourage him and Startline to work together to agree the 
best course of action moving forward. I would like to take this opportunity to remind Startline 
of its duty to treat the situation with forbearance and due consideration as set out in the 
FCAs handbook Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC).
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Mr Cs complaint.
To put things right, Startline Motor Finance Limited should:
Treat July 2020s instalment as a payment deferral;Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Cs credit file for July 2020 
and April 2021; 
Pay £200 compensation to Mr C for the trouble and upset caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2021.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman