DRN-2757267
The complaint
Mr M complains that Telefonica UK Limited deducted incorrect amounts from his bank 
account for two consecutive months when collecting payments due on a fixed sum loan 
agreement. He wants compensation.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
 Mr Ms fixed sum loan contract dated 26 November 2019 required monthly payments of 
£28.71. But in December 2019 and January 2020 Mr M received his monthly bills which 
showed that £17.21 would be taken from his account in respect of this aspect. In the event 
the full contractual amount of £28.71 was taken.
 Telefonica acknowledged that it had on these two occasions made a mistake and advised 
Mr M of an incorrect sum which would be taken from his bank account. It took steps to 
correct the fault which had caused the errors. Ive not been informed of any further error.
 Mr M experienced some inconvenience but no financial loss as a result of these mistakes.
 Telefonica paid compensation of £23 (it refunded the difference between the amount of 
deduction it had advised and the amount taken).  There was a one day delay in the time 
advised for the first refund to be processed. Our investigator correctly concluded that this 
refund had still been processed within a reasonable time.
I find that Telefonica acknowledged the errors that had arisen. And that its since taken steps 
to try to ensure these issues dont arise again. 
I feel its payment of compensation together with the apology offered was a fair and 
reasonable resolution of this complaint. I shant ask it to do anything else. Im not upholding 
this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Telefonica UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman