DRN-3627302
Complaint
F, a limited company and law firm, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt do enough to 
protect it when it was targeted by fraudsters. It is represented by Ms F, its only director. For 
simplicitys sake, I will generally refer to Ms F throughout the decision.
Background
F is a law firm and uses an account with HSBC to handle client money. In early 2020, it was
the victim of an email interception scam. It needed to make a payment from its client 
account. Ms F visited a branch to make the payment in person. Unfortunately, the
account details to which this payment was to be made were provided to Ms F by email. That
email hadnt been sent by her genuine client, but by a fraudster who had substituted the
account details for their own.
The following day, the intended recipient of the payment told Ms F that no money had been
received. She realised that she must have fallen victim to a scam and so notified HSBC 
straight away. HSBC said it wouldnt pay a refund. The payment had been authorised. It had
simply carried out its legal obligation to process it.
Ms F had made a simultaneous claim on her firms professional indemnity insurance. The
insurer considered the claim and agreed to settle Fs outstanding liability to its client. HSBC 
later changed its position on the complaint. It wrote to say that it was satisfied that Ms F had 
carried out all necessary checks before making the payment and so it was now willing to pay 
a full refund. It also said that it would pay 8% simple interest per annum on this sum. That 
refund has now been paid and Ms F has provided statements to show it was promptly 
remitted to her insurer.
However, Ms F remained unhappy that HSBC was only offering to compensate her by
paying 8% simple interest on the payment. She doesnt think this genuinely reflects the
impact the scam has had on her business.
Shes pointed out that, when she came to renew her professional indemnity insurance, her
annual premium increased significantly. She says (and has provided supporting
correspondence from her insurance broker and underwriter) that the payment of a claim
under the policy is the principal reason why the premium has increased.
She also says that shes spent a considerable amount of time communicating with HSBC
and this service about the complaint. She thinks she should be compensated for this time
and that the sum awarded should be calculated by reference to her hourly rate as a solicitor
in private practice. She also considers that she should be compensated for the reputational
damage caused by HSBC in failing to prevent the scam.
The complaint was looked at by an Investigator who thought HSBCs offer was fair and
reasonable. She didnt think she could say that HSBC was responsible for the increased
insurance premium. Even if it had paid compensation before the insurance claim could be
considered, F was still required to notify the insurer that an insured event had taken place,
even if there was no intention or need to make a claim.
In respect of the inconvenience caused, the Investigator said that this service doesnt
typically make an award for inconvenience if that inconvenience was the inevitable result of
making a complaint and following it through the normal process  something which is
inherently inconvenient. She didnt think 20 hours of Ms Fs time was outside the bounds of
what one would normally expect. She was also unpersuaded that there was any concrete
evidence that Fs reputation had been damaged. Overall, she wasnt persuaded to
recommend HSBC pay any further compensation.
Ms F responded to the Investigators opinion at length and reiterated her position on the
losses she considers her firm to have suffered. In addition, she was unhappy that, in an
email exchange between the Investigator and the bank, HSBC suggested that she
hadnt paid the refund she received from HSBC back to the insurer and that she could be
said to have benefitted from being a victim of the scam. This claim was not well founded.
Nonetheless, Ms F was very unhappy at the insinuation that she wouldve retained the sum
and thinks HSBC should now compensate her for hurt feelings and damage to her firms
reputation. In total, she thinks this justifies an additional sum of £5,000.
As Ms F disagreed with the Investigators opinion, the complaint was passed to me to
consider. 
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on 23 June 2022. I wrote:
It is common ground that F authorised the scam payments. Ms F was tricked by the
scammers into instructing HSBC to make that payment on the basis that she was 
paying a legitimate client.
This was an authorised payment even though F was the victim of a scam. 
Nonetheless, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 and the terms and 
conditions of the account, F is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes 
of practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I 
consider HSBC should fairly and reasonably:
-Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to 
counter various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the 
financing of terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams.
-Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs 
that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other 
things). This is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and 
scams in recent years, which banks are generally more familiar with than the 
average customer.
-In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or 
in some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect 
customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.The question I have to consider is whether HSBC ought to have recognised the 
increased risk of fraud when Ms F gave it a payment instruction and intervened in 
response to that risk. Ms F says that HSBC shouldve carried out more checks on the 
receiving account and that shed paid a £30 fee for enhanced security protection. 
However, at the time this payment was made, HSBC hadnt introduced a 
Confirmation of Payee process and so it wasnt possible for it to check the name on 
the receiving account. From what HSBC has told me, the £30 fee was a standard 
charge for processing the payment and wasnt connected with any increased security 
provision.
Nonetheless, Im satisfied that the payment was sufficiently out of character that 
HSBC shouldve questioned it before allowing it to be processed. Ive looked at the 
statements for the account. This was the largest payment made from the account 
during the period covered by those statements. The next largest payment was for 
£10,800 on 13 September 2019  roughly half the value of the scam payment. In 
addition to that, the scam payment was made to a new payee. I think the increased 
scam risk ought to have been apparent.
The payment was made in branch and so I think a bank employee ought to have 
taken the opportunity to intervene at that point. If Ms F had been asked about the 
payment and how the payment details had been supplied, its likely the bank 
employee couldve flagged the risk of an email interception scam and recommended 
that Ms F verify the account details verbally before making the payment. I think its 
highly unlikely that shed have agreed to make the payment without first checking. I 
dont think shed have taken a risk with client money.
HSBC should have recognised the risks associated with the payment and intervened 
before processing it. If it had done so, I think the scam wouldve been prevented. 
HSBC has already refunded the money that was lost to the scam, which Ms F has 
transferred to her insurer. But I also think HSBC should compensate F for the 
foreseeable consequences of its failure to intervene.
I can see from the paperwork at the time the account was set up that it was 
designated for us as a client account by a legal practice. I think it was foreseeable 
that a failure to prevent a scam such as this one would entail wider consequences 
than a mere direct loss to the account holder.
Ms F says that the claim has led to a significant increase in her annual premium. Her 
broker set it out in the following terms:
The profile of the firm is considered as low risk and have been paying 
minimum premiums to Insurers for the Professional Indemnity Insurance. In 
the absence of this claim payment, there is no reason why Insurers would not 
have offered renewal terms on the same basis as the previous year  [] 
Another impact was that the Insured had to complete a comprehensive 
presentation to Underwriters to explain the position with regards to the 
wrongful transfer. Without any admission of the banks wrongdoing this had 
resulted in other Insurers not offering alternative terms.
Furthermore, a letter from the underwriter to the broker said:
It is not usual for us to comment on the specifics of a monetary loading but I 
do agree with you that in these circumstances  your assessment of the 
impact of this claim on the renewal premium is accurate.This is persuasive evidence that the claim led to a significant increase in the premium 
and that it was the predominant cause of that increase. It's not straightforward to 
work out exactly how much of that increase was a result of the claim and how much 
was due to other factors.
I also cant know for sure how long the claim will impact the firms annual premium.
Nonetheless, I think HSBC needs to do something in recognition of this increased 
cost. For simplicitys sake, Im intending to recommend that it pay the full increase in 
the insurance premium the firm paid on renewal (but not pay anything for subsequent 
years). HSBC has argued that F chose to make an insurance claim, but thats not the 
case. The terms of the insurance made it clear she was obliged to notify the insurer, 
even if she didnt intend to claim.
Ive also considered whether HSBC should pay the firm compensation in recognition 
of the inconvenience it suffered here. Ms F has set out the exact number of minutes 
shes spent pursuing the complaint and thinks she should be compensated based on 
her hourly rate. Im not minded to agree with this approach for similar reasons to 
those explained by the Investigator. Nonetheless, I dont think HSBC has handled 
matters well. It applied a very narrow interpretation of the complaint when it 
considered it in February 2020 by saying that, as the payment had been authorised, 
the complaint had to be rejected. HSBCs handling of the complaint clearly did cause 
the firm a significant degree of inconvenience. Im inclined to recommend an 
additional sum of £500 in compensation.
Ms F has said she thinks she should be awarded a further £5,000 to reflect hurt 
feelings and reputational damage based on the email exchange between our 
Investigator and HSBC. I accept that the email sent by the case handler at the bank 
was upsetting to Ms F. However, Im not persuaded that the intent of that message 
was to question her integrity in the way that shes suggested. I think it was legitimate 
for it to check that the funds had been repaid to ensure that there was no risk of 
double recovery on the part of F. In any event, I can only make an award that 
recognises HSBCs impact on the eligible complainant. In this instance,
the eligible complainant is a limited company, rather than Ms F. A limited company 
obviously cannot suffer distress and so I cant reasonably make an award in this 
category. 
Finally, Ive not been provided with any evidence to suggest that the reputation of F 
has been harmed by the fact that the HSBC failed to prevent the scam and so Im not 
intending to make any award in that category.
Both parties responded to my provisional decision in detail. Ive summarised those 
responses below.
HSBC argued that:
It should only be liable for (at most) half of the increased insurance costs because F 
shouldve taken greater care to protect itself from fraud.
F ought to have had a general background awareness of the risks of email 
interception scams such as this one and taken steps to guard against them, such as 
calling the intended recipient of the payment to check the account details.
The firms insurance costs havent necessarily increased because a claim was made 
 its possible that the insurer has recognised that the firm didnt have adequate security measures in place and was therefore a higher risk for a potential future 
claim.
No excess should be payable as part of any award. When HSBC paid a refund, F 
paid the value of the claim to the insurer but retained the excess.
Ms F responded as follows:
She didnt think it was reasonable for HSBC to have questioned the evidence she 
provided from her insurance broker and to have been asked to contact the 
underwriter. It wasnt justified to mistrust her professional advisers.
Although the £30 fee was a standard charge for processing the payment in branch, 
the account had a value limit for electronic payments. Payments above that threshold 
had to be processed in branch for security and fraud prevention reasons. In this 
instance, it offered her no protection against fraud. She says there was no other 
reason to have such a limit on the account.
Rather than questioning our Investigator on whether F had paid the refund to the 
insurer, HSBC couldve simply looked at statement data to confirm that it did.
HSBC didnt provide any information about a complaints process nor did it invite her 
to complain  if a pathway to a complaint had been provided sooner, a great deal of 
time and effort could have been saved.
I should increase the award of £500 for distress and inconvenience and include a 
sum to recognise the time Ms F had to spend on pursuing this complaint with HSBC.
Ive reconsidered the complaint in the light of the parties further submissions and Im not 
persuaded to depart from the conclusions I set out in my provisional decision and Ill explain 
why.
Im unpersuaded by HSBCs argument that F should be considered partially responsible for 
its losses on the grounds that it shouldve had a general background awareness of the risk of 
email interception scams or that it must have had insufficient processes in place to protect 
against fraud risk. It is true that solicitors and their clients are often targeted by scams such 
as this one, particularly if theyre involved in the movement of large sums of money relating 
to the transfer of property. But that isnt the case with F. The statements Ive seen show that 
it wasnt regularly handling large sums of client money and so I dont find it surprising that 
Ms F didnt have a detailed knowledge of email interception scams. Despite Ms Fs 
professional background, there was still a significant asymmetry of knowledge between the 
parties here and the onus was on HSBC to protect F from financial harm due to fraud. 
Its correct that a premium can increase for a multitude of reasons.  Nonetheless, the 
evidence that F supplied from the underwriter makes it clear that the claim was the principal 
reason for this increase and I can see that it had been insured for a considerable number of 
years without making a claim. 
I dont agree with Ms F that it was unreasonable for HSBC to question the evidence that 
shed provided from her insurance broker or to ask that she seek confirmation regarding the 
impact on the premium from the underwriter. The pricing of insurance can be highly complex 
and its the underwriter who is responsible for assessing risk and determining the premium. 
Fs insurance broker wasnt necessarily the best placed person to comment authoritatively on why the insurance premium had increased, albeit they had clearly identified that the claim 
being paid was a significant concern for the underwriter. 
I understand that Fs account has a value limit for electronic payments. Such a restriction 
can be useful from a fraud prevention perspective. While it didnt protect F from an email 
interception scam, it could be an effective safeguard if the security credentials associated 
with the account were compromised and fell into the hands of fraudsters.
I appreciate the frustration that Ms F has described about the way HSBC handled things. I 
agree, for example, that it could have checked whether shed remitted the refund to the 
insurer. HSBC did offer an explanation to our Investigator for this oversight and so Im 
satisfied that the request wasnt made in bad faith. In any event, this service doesnt have 
jurisdiction over complaints handling in and of itself. The rules that apply to this service are 
published in the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook and are known as the DISP rules. 
DISP 2.3.1R specifies the activities that this service has the power to consider and 
complaints handling isnt among them and so I cant reach a finding on that point. 
I also dont agree to increase the award to reflect the inconvenience F experienced in 
pursuing the complaint. Its rare that we will make an award for costs incurred in bringing a 
complaint because this service is free to use. Were also disinclined to ask businesses to 
compensate customers for the inevitable inconvenience that is associated with having the 
need to make a complaint. Calculating an award for non-financial loss necessarily cannot be 
scientific. However, this service has published guidelines giving example scenarios and 
indications as to what an appropriate award would be. I considered these examples carefully 
when deciding to recommend £500. Im satisfied that to award a larger sum would be 
significantly out of line with those guidelines.
I accept the observation HSBC has made regarding the excess.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold this complaint.
HSBC UK Bank Plc should now pay F:
The amount of the increase in the annual insurance premium.
£500 in recognition of the inconvenience that was caused to the firm.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2022.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman