DRN-3617603
The complaint
Ms M complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) didnt properly explain the 
implications of a reduced payment arrangement on her mortgage account.
What happened
In 2020 Ms M told Halifax that her income had been impacted a result of the Covid-19 
pandemic. In response to the pandemic, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) released 
specific guidance for mortgage lenders  including allowing customers to defer up to a 
maximum of six-monthly mortgage payments. In response to Ms Ms circumstances Halifax 
agreed a six-month payment deferral. 
In June 2021 Ms M spoke to Halifax as she was still having trouble managing her monthly 
payments. After an assessment of her income and expenditure (I&E), it was agreed that Ms 
M could pay a reduced amount of £93.33 for three months from June to August 2021. 
The FCAs guidance said that after the six-month deferral period had ended, it expected 
lenders to consider tailored ongoing support for customers if needed, but normal credit 
reporting would resume.
Ms M complains that when the arrangement ended, she was pursued for repayment of the 
arrears that had accumulated and threatened with legal action. She says that the 
consequences of the payment arrangement werent made clear to her. She thought the 
payment arrangement would last for longer than it did and that any arrears would be 
capitilised. Halifax didnt uphold the complaint. 
Ms Ms complaint was considered by an investigator at our service. He didnt uphold the 
complaint. He thought Halifax provided clear enough information about the impact of the 
payment arrangement. Ms M didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms M says her circumstances changed due to the impact of the pandemic. It's very
unfortunate that she found herself in this position and I do empathise with her
situation.
When considering everything Im persuaded Halifax acted positively and sympathetically
to Ms Ms circumstances. It offered the right support in 2020 in line with the FCAs guidance
and explored other suitable options based on her circumstances the following year. 
I appreciate Ms M feels she wasnt given clear enough information about the implications of 
the reduced payment arrangement. Ive listened to the call that took place and Im satisfied 
the conditions of the three-month arrangement were made clear. Ms S was told arrears 
would continue to accrue during that time and that she needed to call back when the 
arrangement ended to re-evaluate things. If contact wasnt made, arrears letters would 
commence again. There was no mention of the arrears being capitalised at that time.
Ms M did have difficulties hearing the agent at times, but Im satisfied she heard the key bits 
as she repeated them back to the agent to ensure shed heard correctly. In any event, 
Halifax also wrote to Ms M confirming the terms of the arrangement. I wont repeat the 
content of the letter as the relevant extract has been provided by our investigator already. 
So, when considering everything, Im satisfied adequate information was given in the 
circumstances. If Anything was unclear, Ms M could have asked for clarify. 
Ms M was sent a letter on 3 August 2021 when the payment arrangement ended. She was 
notified of the £2412.31 accrued arrears and next steps. No contact was made as agreed, so 
a follow up regulatory letter was sent later that month, warning of possible legal action. 
In response to these letters, Ms M made contact in early September 2021. She explained 
she could be securing a second job, but shed know more later that month. Halifax asked her 
to complete and I&E and to call back around mid-month, so it could consider possible 
options in light of her current circumstances. Further action was put on hold until then.
Ms M didnt call back as agreed. She made her full monthly payments in September and 
October 2021. But then more arrears started to accrue after that. The most recent balance 
information from April 2022 shows the account arrears are more than £6,500.
Lenders should act fairly towards a customer who is in arrears. The lender should discuss 
the customers circumstances with them and try to get the mortgage back on track. But to do 
so, the customer needs to let the lender know about their circumstances and engage with it.
It doesnt appear Ms M has made contact with Halifax since September 2021, other than to 
make her complaint. I suggest she does so, as Halifax is willing to consider suitable options. 
I also recommend seeking independent financial advice if she hasnt done so already.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman