DRN-4072246
The complaint
Mr R complains about Royal & Sun Alliance insurance Limited trading as RSA Insurance 
(RSA) for declining his claim for water damage to his basement. He wants RSA to settle his 
claim. 
What happened
Mr R held buildings insurance with RSA. His home had a basement which was kept dry by 
two submersible water pumps, powered by the mains electricity supply. 
In November 2022 after heavy rains, the pumps failed and Mr Rs basement became 
saturated with water. He submitted a claim to RSA. 
RSA sent an assessor to his home. The assessor indicated to Mr R that he would not be 
able to claim under the storm criteria of his policy, but may be able to claim for an escape of 
water. 
Mr R did not hear further from RSA for some time, prompting to call and chase progress of 
his claim. During this time, he was promised a call back and this was not done. 
RSA then declined Mr Rs claim in January 2023. It considered that the submersed pumps 
were not part of a fixed water system and so did not fall under the insured perils of the 
policy. It noted that the water back up was caused by the pumps failing. 
Mr R responded to RSA and disputed its decision. 
RSA sent its final response in January 2023. In that letter RSA amended the reason for 
decline. It accepted that the pumps were part of a fixed water system, but then argued that 
the water had not escaped from that system, and rather that the system had failed. 
RSA also pointed to general exclusions which exclude any loss or damage caused by 
mechanical or electrical failure. RSA did acknowledge that there had been failures in service 
and offered Mr R £100 compensation to reflect those issues, including that his call wasnt 
returned.
Mr R was not happy with this and contacted us. 
Our investigator looked into this matter and did not recommend that Mr Rs complaint be 
upheld. They considered that RSA had applied the terms and conditions fairly, and that the 
compensation offered was reasonable to reflect the failings which occurred. Mr R did not 
accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate how disappointing this will be for Mr R, but I agree with my colleagues view and 
do not uphold the complaint. 
I understand that Mr R considers that RSA unfairly concluded that the submersed pumps 
were not part of a fixed water system, and then later changed its stance. He feels that there 
was an escape of water from this system and so it ought to be covered as an insured peril. 
RSA subsequently accepted that the pumps were part of a fixed water system, and I accept 
that second conclusion. 
The terms used in this policy are not defined and so I have applied ordinary understanding of 
the terms and, in my view, it is correct to describe the submersed pump system as a fixed 
water system. 
I do not agree, however, that the claim ought to be covered in this instance as the evidence 
available to me suggests that the water did not escape the system (as for example it would 
from a leaking pipe or faulty connection) but instead the system failed entirely due to the 
breakdown of the two pumps. 
This appears to fall within the general exclusion applied by RSA that the consequential 
damage flowing from mechanical or electrical failure are not covered by the policy. 
I have not seen evidence to suggest that this exclusion has been unfairly applied, and I think 
that the exclusion was reasonably clear and prominent in the policy literature. As a result, I 
do not think that RSA has acted unfairly in applying the exclusion and I do not uphold the 
complaint. 
I note that there were other issues with the service provided by RSA, including a failure to 
return calls, and I agree with my colleague that RSA has done enough to acknowledge those 
failings in its payment of £100 compensation. I therefore do not ask RSA to do anything 
more. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint and do not ask Royal & Sun 
Alliance Insurance Limited trading as RSA Insurance to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 July 2023.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman