DRN-2808980
The complaint
Mr N has complained about Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds service in connection 
with a claim on his motor insurance policy.
Reference to Admiral includes its agents.
What happened
Mr Ns car was damaged in a minor accident. Admiral arranged for one of its repairers to fix 
the car. Mr N was unhappy with the quality of the repairs and the repairer returned the car 
with additional damage. Over the ensuing months the car went back to the repairer to sort 
out ongoing problems with the quality of repairs. After the third repair Admiral moved the car 
to a second repairer but there were still issues with the repairs on a number of occasions. 
Independent engineers inspected the car six times and often found issues with the quality of 
the repairs.
In a series of replies to Mr Ns concerns Admiral accepted that repairs hadn't been up to 
standard. It also acknowledged that Mr N had suffered other issues with its agents, including 
staff being rude to him and problems with hire cars. To address the impact of what went 
wrong Admiral made a number of compensation payments to Mr N totalling around £1,030 
as well as reimbursing his out-of-pocket expenses and making cash-in-lieu payments to 
allow him to address some outstanding repair issues himself.
Mr N didn't think that went far enough and brought his complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into it. He didn't think Admiral had dealt with Mr N fairly. So he said it 
should reimburse Mr N a taxi fare of £360 to attend a funeral and pay Mr N a further £200 
compensation.
I issued a provisional decision on 9 April 2021. For ease Ive copied the relevant extract 
below. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before he brought his complaint to us Admiral was dealing with Mr Ns claim and complaint 
for around nine months. During that period there were numerous developments which gave 
rise to further actions, comments, concerns and complaints. Ive considered everything on 
file. But in this provisional decision I don't intend to refer to each and every event or issue 
raised. Instead I will focus on what I see as being the key outstanding issues following our 
investigators assessment of the complaint
While Mr Ns car was with the original repairer to correct errors with its previous repairs the 
repairer had provided Mr N with a small courtesy car. Mr N told Admiral that he and his 
family would be attending a funeral on a specific date and that the courtesy car was too 
small for that purpose.
The repairer told Admiral it had completed the repairs the day before Mr N was going to the 
funeral. But Mr N didn't want to take the car back until an independent engineer had 
inspected it. And given the repairers had previously given the car back to Mr N with 
substandard repairs I think his position was reasonable. Indeed Admiral clearly agreed his 
position wasn't unreasonable because it said it would offer to pay for a larger hire car so he 
could attend the funeral. But it seems that there were issues with the hire company being 
able to provide a car in time. So Mr N took a black taxi to the funeral and asked the driver to 
wait for around six hours until the funerals conclusion. The taxi then took him and his family 
home at a total cost of £360.
Admiral investigated the issue. The hire car company told Admiral that it had spoken with 
Mr Ns dad, who was dealing with the matter on Mr Ns behalf, on the day before the funeral. 
The hire company said it had told Mr Ns dad that it could provide a car the next morning, in 
time for Mr N to drive to the funeral. But Mr Ns dad had told the hire company they no longer 
needed the car. In contrast Mr N said the hire company told his dad that it couldn't provide a 
car until 2.40pm the next afternoon, which would have been too late for them to attend the 
funeral. And as that was too late for their needs, Mr Ns dad said they didn't need the hire 
car. I don't think Mr N had anything to gain by cancelling a hire car that he clearly wanted. 
So, if the hire company could have provided a hire car in time, I can only assume that there 
was an element of miscommunication between it and Mr Ns dad, that caused him to believe 
a hire car wasn't going to be available on time.
However, whatever the exact reasons for Mr N not having access to a suitable hire car on 
the day of the funeral, I don't think its fair to instruct Admiral to reimburse Mr N £360 for taxi 
costs. Mr N said he used a black cab and instructed it to wait for the funeral events to finish 
and it took him and his family home following it. But that was Mr Ns choice. Mr N could have 
used the small courtesy car to transport himself and his family to the funeral, although I 
understand this might have been something of a squash. Alternatively he could have used 
the courtesy car and also booked minicabs to take some of his family to the funeral and 
booked a second cab to bring them home. And that would undoubtedly have been 
considerably cheaper than paying a black cab for both journeys as well as five or six hours 
of waiting time. So I don't think its reasonable to expect Admiral to cover the full costs of the 
taxi fares, when Mr N could have taken action to reduce those costs. That said the matter 
was clearly a source of additional stress while Mr N was grieving, so this is something I've 
thought about when I've awarded additional compensation below.
Our investigator noted that the mileage on Mr Ns car had increased by around 940 miles 
during the period it was being repaired. Admirals pointed out that there were times during 
the repair process when Mr N was using his car. So its likely that not all of the additional 
mileage was added while the car was being repaired. I agree thats likely to be the case. But, 
apart from the additional mileage added to the car, Mr N didn't have the benefit and 
enjoyment of it for large periods. And while he usually had a courtesy car or hire car to keep 
him mobile, thats simply not the same as having the benefit of the car hed chosen, bought 
and paid for. Admiral has gone some way to addressing much of the impact of its mistakes 
when its paid Mr N compensation for his trouble and upset totalling around £1,030, together 
with other amounts to reimburse him for out-of-pocket expenses. But in the specific 
circumstances of this case, given the numerous issues and justified points of complaint, I 
don't think that goes far enough to address his distress and inconvenience. So, I think it's fair 
and reasonable for Admiral to pay him a further £250 compensation to reflect that.
Developments 
Admiral didn't comment on my provisional decision. Mr N did. Amongst other things he said 
he thought using a black cab for the funeral was reasonable, as Admiral was aware he 
needed a larger car for the event and it left him with no other viable choice. He also said he didn't think Id considered that the initial incident had only caused his car minor damage but, 
owing to the issues with the repairers, his car had work done to about three quarters of it 
over a period of nine months. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to depart from my provisional decision.
I said in my provisional decision that I didn't think Mr N would have refused a hire car that he 
clearly wanted. So I accept that his dad believed he was told that one couldn't have been 
provided in time for the funeral; even if that wasn't the case. But I don't think it was 
reasonable for Mr N to use a black cab and get it to wait for five or six hours and expect 
Admiral to meet the cost of that. Mr Ns said he didn't use minicabs as they can be unreliable 
and it would have required four taxis, two for each journey there and back. But while 
ordering a minicab might have been less reliable than having a taxi waiting I don't think that 
means that it was reasonable for Mr N to choose the latter option.
Further, as I said in my provisional decision, Mr N had the option to use the courtesy car he 
was provided with. That could have taken all of his family in it, even if that was a squash. 
Another, perhaps more comfortable option was to use the courtesy car for some of the family 
and a minicab for the others. That way only one minicab would be required for each journey. 
Another option could have been to see if Mr N could hire a car himself. That would have 
been a fraction of the cost of using a black taxi and paying for it to wait for hours. So I'm still 
not persuaded that Mr N incurred the £360 taxi fare reasonably. It follows that I don't intend 
to instruct Admiral to reimburse that.
Mr N said that when awarding compensation he didn't think Id considered the extent of the 
works to his car or the time that it had taken. But while I didn't comment on those points 
explicitly in my provisional decision those were factors I was aware of. So they were points I 
considered when I decided that further compensation was due. And my award takes the total 
compensation figure up to £1,280. That is a substantial sum. And its a figure I'm satisfied 
adequately reflects the distress and inconvenience Mr N suffered because of Admirals 
shortcomings in dealing with his claim and complaints, as it's in line with awards we make in 
cases of similar seriousness. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance Company 
Limited to pay Mr N additional compensation of £250 to address his distress and 
inconvenience. It should pay the compensation within 28 days of us telling it that Mr N has 
accepted my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also add interest to that amount 
from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple.1
  
1 If Admiral pays interest and considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take 
off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr N how much its taken off. It should also 
give him a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so s/he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman