DRN-3899808
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that Paragon Bank Plc delayed sending him his money after he closed his 
account.
What happened
Mr W gave notice to Paragon that he wanted to close his 120-day notice account. Paragon 
confirmed to Mr W that his account would be closed and that he would receive the funds 
therein on 19 April 2022. But Paragon didnt send the account funds to Mr W until 27 April 
2022, despite Mr W informing Paragon of his urgent need for the money. Mr W wasnt happy 
about what had happened, so he raised a complaint.
Paragon accepted that they hadnt sent the money to Mr W when they should have done, 
and they apologised to Mr W for this and offered him a payment of £30 as compensation for 
any upset or inconvenience he may have incurred. Mr W wasnt satisfied with Paragons 
response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They didnt feel Paragons compensation 
offer took fair account of the trouble and distress Mr W had incurred because of the late 
receipt of his money and recommended that Paragon should increase the compensation 
payable to Mr W to £125. Paragon didnt agree with the recommendation put forwards by our 
investigator, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Paragon dont dispute that they didnt send Mr W his money when they should have done. 
What Paragon do disagree with is the recommendation put forwards by our investigator that 
they should pay an increased amount of £125 compensation to Mr W because of what 
happened. And they reference the information about compensation bands available on this 
services website in support of their position.
However, it should be noted that the webpage of this service that Paragon refers to in 
support of their position includes the following:
The amount we award will depend on the individual circumstances. Here are some 
examples of the range of awards we might make. 
As such, its the circumstances of each complaint that are most important in regard to how 
we calculate compensation for distress and inconvenience. Additionally, it also must be 
noted that this service considers the impact of events on a specific complainant, and not just 
the events themselves. 
In this instance, Mr W had made arrangements for the money he reasonably expected to 
receive from Paragon on 19 April 2022. And the completion of those arrangements was cast 
into doubt by Paragons failure to provide him with his money on the correct date. Mr W has 
explained that this caused him a considerable amount of worry and frustration, and Mr Ws 
testimony here seems reasonable and understandable to me.
As such, Im satisfied that the impact on Mr W of Paragons failure to provide him with his 
money when it should have been provided was greater than would have been the case in 
similar circumstances had Mr W had no pressing need for the receipt of his money. And as 
such, Im satisfied that the £30 compensation that Paragon offered Mr W doesnt fairly 
account for that impact, and so isnt a fair amount of compensation in this instance. 
Ultimately, for the reasons explained above, Im satisfied that the £125 compensation 
amount recommended by our investigator is a fair compensation amount in this instance. 
And it follows therefore that Ill be upholding this complaint on that basis and instructing 
Paragon to make a payment of £125 to Mr W.
Putting things right
Paragon must make a payment of £125 to Mr W.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Paragon Bank Plc on the basis 
explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman