DRN-3360881
The complaint
Ms C complains that Revolut Ltd blocked and closed her account. She would like the funds 
returned and the account reinstated.
What happened
Ms C had an account with Revolut. On 28 July 2020 Revolut blocked the account to carry 
out a review.
Following the review Revolut closed the account with immediate effect and told Ms C 
through the online app. They returned some funds to source. A balance of £155.06 remained 
in the account.
Ms C has told us that she was travelling abroad when her account was restricted, and she 
was upset and inconvenienced by the actions of Revolut. Ms C has said that she wanted to 
know the reason why her account was closed, and her funds reinstated.
Ms C complained to Revolut. They said they were entitled to review and close the account 
and had followed the terms and conditions of the account and complied with their legal and 
regulatory obligations. They had done nothing wrong. 
Ms C complained to our service. Revolut offered £20 as a gesture of goodwill to resolve the 
complaint but Ms C rejected the offer.
One of the investigators looked into the complaint. She thought Revolut had done nothing 
wrong and had complied with the terms and conditions of the account and their legal and 
regulatory obligations. She thought Revolut hadnt acted unfairly when they returned some 
funds to source. She didnt recommend any more compensation. 
Ms S was unhappy with the view she said Revolut hadnt given her a reason for the account 
block and closure. She had been very inconvenienced by the closure of the account and 
wanted compensation and the money returned.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account review and closure 
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Ms Cs account. UK legislation places 
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial institutions must establish 
the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and there 
may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. These 
obligations override all other obligations. I am satisfied Revolut were complying with these 
obligations when they reviewed Ms Cs account. 
I appreciate that the block on the account caused Ms C a great deal of difficulty as she was 
abroad at the time. I can see that in blocking the account Revolut was following an internal 
process which they carried out in order to comply with their legal and regulatory obligations. 
This was a legitimate exercise so I cant say Revolut was unfair. 
Ms C was also unhappy that Revolut closed the account with immediate effect.
As the investigator explained its generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to 
provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless 
theres a good reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep a 
customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had their account closed.
Ive considered whether Revolut acted fairly in closing Ms Cs account. Ive looked at the 
terms and conditions of the account and Im satisfied they did. The terms and conditions 
outline that Revolut in certain circumstances can close an account immediately. In this case 
Revolut closed Ms Cs account without notice. For Revolut to act fairly here they needed to 
meet the criteria to apply their terms for immediate closure  and having looked at these 
terms and all the evidence Im satisfied Revolut has applied the terms fairly. And it was 
entitled to close the account. Revolut had asked Ms C for details of an account so it could 
forward the £155.06 remaining in the account. If Ms C hasnt done so already, I would 
encourage her to do so.
Reasons
Ms C said she wanted to know the reasons for the review and closure of the account. Whilst 
Ms C may have expected to be given the reasons for the closure, Revolut isnt required to 
give her a specific reason for closing the account. So, I cant say Revolut has done anything 
wrong by not giving Ms C this information  as much as shed like to know.
Funds retuned 
Revolut returned £1,000 back to source to an account with another bank. 
Ms C originally said she wanted her funds returned back to her. Later she said that she 
didnt recognise the funds and she didnt know who had paid this money in her account. 
As Ms C originally said she wanted her funds returned I would have expected Revolut to 
have enquired of Ms C about the origin of funds received into her account in order for her to 
provide proof of entitlement to those funds. Revolut werent able to provide evidence of 
those enquiries so I asked Ms C to provide us with proof of entitlement of funds .Ms C has 
now said the funds didnt belong to her and she doesnt recognise them. Ms C has provided 
some information about fraud occurring in her account. I am not persuaded by Ms Cs 
version of events but in any case, as Ms C is no longer saying the funds belonged to her I 
wont be asking Revolut to return these to Ms C. 
In summary on the evidence I have seen Im satisfied Revolut acted fairly when they blocked 
and closed the account. The funds were correctly returned to source. So, I dont think 
Revolut have acted unfairly here and I wont be asking them to do anything. If Ms C hasnt 
retrieved the £155.06 remaining in her account, I encourage her to get in touch with Revolut.My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above I dont uphold the complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2022.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman