DRN-2452798
The complaint
Miss S is unhappy that Sainsburys Bank Plc (Sainsburys) removed the promotional rate 
on her credit card when she paid late once, and charged a higher interest rate instead. 
Miss S would like Sainsburys to re-instate the promotional rate on her credit card.
What happened
Miss S signed up for a Sainsburys credit card with a 0% balance transfer offer for 21 months 
in November 2019. Sainsburys started charging interest on Miss Ss account in February 
2020 after Miss S went over her credit limit.
Miss S complained to Sainsburys. It explained that Miss S hadnt made the required 
minimum payment in January and had then gone over her credit limit in February. It had 
removed the promotional balance transfer offer when Miss S went over her credit limit. It 
explained that this was in line with its terms and conditions. But as a gesture of goodwill it 
refunded the late payment and over limit fees it had charged.
Miss S feels it was unfair for Sainsburys to remove her promotional rate. She says she will 
have to pay a lot of interest that she hasnt budgeted for. She says she only missed one 
payment and has paid on time since then. As she was unhappy with Sainburys response, 
Miss S brought her case to this service.
Our investigator noted that Sainburys terms and conditions provide for the removal of a 
promotional rate if the customer breaks the terms and conditions. He also noted that 
Sainsburys had not removed the rate when Miss S missed a payment in January, but only 
did so when she was in breach of the terms and conditions for a second month by going 
over her limit.
He didnt think Sainsburys had acted unfairly in applying its terms and conditions.
Miss S was unhappy with this and asked for an Ombudsman to look at the case. Miss Ss 
case has now come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will start by saying that I understand Miss Ss distress at being faced with significant 
interest charges on the £11,000 that she transferred to her Sainsburys credit card.
When Miss S took out her credit card in December 2019, she was given a 0% promotional 
balance transfer rate and she hadnt budgeted for paying interest.  But Sainsburys explained 
that it was entitled to remove that promotional rate if Miss S didnt keep to its terms and 
conditions, which say the following:
We may apply the standard interest rate to transactions you make before the end of the 
special promotion period if in any month you do not make at least your minimum payment by 
the payment date or if you exceed your credit limit at any time.
Miss S didnt make a payment towards her December 2019 statement by the January 2020 
due date, so Sainsburys charged a £12 late fee in line with its terms and conditions. It didnt 
remove the 0% promotional rate. As Miss S was in breach of the balance transfer terms, I 
think Sainsburys acted fairly here, as it could have legitimately removed the promotional 
rate at this point.
Miss S paid her January 2020 minimum payment on time but went over her credit limit in 
February 2020. A £12 over limit fee was charged, and this time the 0% promotional rate was 
removed. Miss S was told about this on her February 2020 statement. Sainsburys say that 
the 0% promotional rate was correctly removed due to the breaches of the terms and 
conditions with one late payment and then one instance of going over the credit limit.  As 
Miss S had broken the balance transfer terms, I cant say that Sainsburys acted incorrectly 
or unfairly in applying its terms and conditions.
Miss S says it is unfair that she wasnt given any forewarning about Sainsburys actions as 
the terms say it might take action. She also feels unfairly treated as she says her mistakes 
were small. 
Starting with the question of advance warning, Im satisfied that Sainsburys did give Miss S 
fair notice that it might take this action in these circumstances. Sainsburys terms say that it 
may take the steps in question. This means that it is something it is permitted to do, so it is 
reasonable to expect that it will generally do so. Sainsburys also make it clear when 
customers apply for a credit card, that to keep promotional rates customers must pay at least 
the minimum payment by the due date and stay within their credit limit. 
I can understand that Miss S feels her breaches were minor and that the conduct of her 
account has been good since then. But I cant say that it is unfair for Sainsburys to act in 
line with its terms and conditions when Miss S was in breach of the terms of the balance 
transfer for two successive months. 
 
For the reasons set out above, I dont think Sainsburys has done anything wrong. It has 
refunded the two £12 fees as a gesture of goodwill, and I will not be asking it to do anything 
more. I know this will be disappointing for Miss S, but I think Sainsburys have acted fairly 
and reasonably in the circumstances.
I understand that this situation will be very upsetting and worrying for Miss S. I have seen 
that our investigator provided Miss S with details of debt advice services and I hope she will 
find that helpful.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 March 2021.
 
Rosemary Campbell
Ombudsman