DRN-2812532
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Experian Limited displayed someone elses information on his 
credit file.
What happened
In summer 2020, Mr C complained to Experian as hed found his brothers accounts showing 
on his credit file. Experian apologised, removed the information, refunded some of Mr Cs 
CreditExpert subscription fees, and paid him £150 compensation.
However, the issue happened again a few months later. Experian corrected the file again 
and explained what was happening. Mr C and his twin brother shared the same first and last 
name, date of birth, and address. So unless they gave their creditors their middle name, the 
system couldnt really differentiate them. They advised Mr C and his brother to make sure 
lenders had their middle names or initials, and said theyd sort things out if this happened 
again. They refunded further subscription fees and paid another £25 compensation. 
Mr C didnt feel Experian had done enough. He said hed been declined for credit in the past 
and felt this was probably due to his brothers information being on his file. After his brothers 
information was removed, hed applied for credit limit increases and the increases had been 
granted, which he felt demonstrated that his brothers information had been preventing him 
from getting more credit earlier. He asked for further compensation and for CreditExpert to 
be free to him for at least a year to help him monitor his file.
Our investigator looked into things independently and felt Experian had already resolved 
things fairly. They appreciated why Mr C had been worried, but couldnt see sufficient 
evidence that hed been declined for credit due to the brothers information. They pointed 
Mr C to free services he could use to monitor his Experian file.
Mr C didnt agree. He explained the situation had caused him a lot of stress, and noted that 
his credit score was better without his brothers information on his file. He was unhappy that 
Experian hadnt changed the amount of compensation offered even after he put in effort to 
get further evidence. The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive come to the same conclusions as our investigator  Ill explain why.
First, I can completely understand where Mr C is coming from and why hes felt worried 
about the whole thing  not least as his brothers information got merged with his own again, 
not long after he first reported it.
It looks like as Mr C lives with his twin brother, they share the same first name, last name, 
date of birth, and address. So I can see why Experians system mixed them up  it makes it 
very hard for them to be identified separately without their middle names. Experian has 
explained that if Mr C and his brother ask their financial institutions to record their middle 
names, it should stop this from happening in future. Theyve also committed to stepping in 
and fixing Mr Cs file if it goes wrong in future. Thats good to see.
Of course, when something like this has already gone wrong, I need to think about how best 
to put it right. Experian have already corrected the file, so my main concern is what losses 
Mr C might have suffered in the meantime.
Ive looked at Mr Cs credit file and Experians own records, and for as far back as those go 
I cant see any searches on his file for credit applications. Mr C wasnt able to provide any 
correspondence from lenders whod declined applications, either. He did provide a 
screenshot saying his overdraft couldnt be increased. But the screenshot was undated, so 
its not clear whether it comes from the time when his brothers information was on his credit 
file, or not. And in any case, it also specified that the decline was based on recent account 
activity, rather than credit file data. So I dont have anything which shows that Mr C was 
declined for credit because his brothers information was on his credit file.
I can see that Mr C successfully increased his limit on his credit card and overdraft after his 
brothers data was removed. I understand he feels this demonstrates that he was prevented 
from having more credit before. But according to the correspondence from his bank, he 
applied for each account in 2017 and then only applied for the limit increases in 2020, after 
his brothers data was removed. It doesnt look like hed asked them to increase his limit 
before, so I cant see that he was prevented from increasing his limit in the past. And the fact 
that Mr C could increase his limit in 2020 does not mean that he wouldve got a higher limit 
in earlier years. Its quite normal for lenders to offer a lower limit at first, and then allow 
increases as time goes on and the customer has shown they can run their account well. 
Indeed, Mr Cs initial limits were quite substantial anyway. So I dont think this shows that 
Mr C was prevented from getting a higher limit due to his brothers data. 
Ive also kept in mind that lenders often use other credit reference agencies, rather than 
Experian. So there was no guarantee that any given lender even looked at Mr Cs Experian 
file. Further, while I accept that Mr Cs credit score dipped while the brothers information 
was on it, it was not a drastic decrease, and the brother had broadly good credit  with well-
managed accounts and no missed or late payments, defaults, judgements, insolvencies, and 
so on. So even if a given creditor had looked at Mr Cs Experian file when the brothers 
information was on it, I cant say that the brothers information wouldve necessarily stopped 
Mr C from getting any given credit.
Mr C did pay for several months worth of CreditExpert subscription fees to monitor his file, 
but I can see Experian have already refunded the relevant months, so that loss has already 
been put right. I understand that Mr C would like a free CreditExpert subscription going 
forward, and I completely see the reasoning behind that. Unfortunately, thats not something 
which Experians systems are set up to do. And in any case, there are free alternatives  
which Ill send Mr C the details of  so he doesnt need the paid monitoring service to check 
his file.I understand it would have been frustrating for Mr C to have put in time and effort getting 
further evidence, only for Experian not to have increased the compensation they were 
offering. But while I sympathise with Mr C, I dont think the evidence hes provided 
demonstrates that his brothers information prevented him from getting credit on any 
particular occasion. So I think its fair that Experian didnt increase the compensation.
Of course, its likely that the incorrect information wouldve had some tangible effect on Mr C, 
even if I cant say it was responsible for any particular credit being declined. Further, I do 
understand Mr C was caused unfair stress and upset by the incorrect addition of his 
brothers data, as well as inconvenience in getting it sorted out twice. We cant undo the 
distress thats been caused, but we often tell businesses to pay compensation  to 
acknowledge they got something wrong and the impact it had.
In terms of the amount of compensation, I should explain that were not here to fine or 
punish businesses. And Ive kept in mind that Experian apologised, corrected the matter 
both times quite promptly, and explained what had gone wrong and how to prevent it from 
happening in future.
We have guidelines about what levels of compensation to award, and we need to be 
consistent. Taking everything into account, I agree with our investigator that the £175 
compensation Experian have already paid is fair to resolve the case.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I think Experian Limited have already resolved things fairly, 
which means I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint in this particular case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman