DRN-3521443
The complaint
Mr S has complained that CarCashPoint Limited (CCP) was irresponsible to have 
agreed credit for him.
What happened
CCP provided Mr S with two loans, one in August 2017 and another in February 2018. 
The first was for an amount of £1,500 to be repaid in 36 monthly instalments of £132, a 
total of £4,740. The second was for £500 and the total amount of £2,300 was to be repaid 
in 36 monthly instalments of £64. The loans ran concurrently and I understand that by 
April 2020 both had been repaid.
These were log book loans, in other words they were granted on the basis that Mr S 
provided CCP with a bill of sale for his car. This meant that if Mr S didnt make his loan 
repayments CCP could potentially recoup its losses through the sale of the vehicle.
Mr S said that CCP was irresponsible to have agreed credit for him because it should 
have seen that he was struggling with his finances. Mr S says that he had taken out many 
loans from short term lenders which hed defaulted on months prior to applying to CCP. 
Mr S says that he should never have been accepted for his first loan, let alone been 
allowed to have a second loan within six months when hed struggled to meet his 
repayments.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ss complaint and recommended that it be upheld 
because they concluded CCP had lent irresponsibly. They recommended CCP refund all 
interest and charges paid on the loans and remove adverse information relating to them 
from Mr Ss credit file.
Mr S accepted the recommendation, but CCP didnt agree with it. The case came to me, 
as an ombudsman, to review and resolve. I issued a provisional decision on the 5 May 
2022 explaining why I thought Mr Ss complaint about both of his loans should be upheld. 
I allowed both parties some time to comment on what Id said and provide any new 
information for me to consider. 
Mr S agreed with my provisional decision. CCP agreed that it shouldnt have lent to Mr S 
a second time because his net disposable income wasnt sufficient for the additional 
payment given he was still making repayments for his first loan. However, CCP didnt 
agree that it had been irresponsible when it agreed this first loan for him. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
CCP made a number of points in response to my provisional findings. In summary, it said 
that Mr S earned more than Id allowed and that his partner contributed to his expenses 
so his first loan was affordable for him. I want to reassure CCP that I have carefully 
considered everything its said and reviewed my provisional conclusions in the light of its 
response. Having considered everything again, I remain of the view that it shouldnt have 
areed to lend to Mr S on either occasion. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for 
CCP and I will set out again my reasons for upholding Mr Ss complaint and address 
CCPs additional points where relevant.
As Id said in my provisional decision, CCP will be familiar with the regulations in place at 
the time so I will summarise its main obligations. CCP needed to check that Mr S could 
afford to meet his repayments sutainably before agreeing each loan. In other words, it 
needed to check that he could meet his repayments out of his usual means without 
having to borrow further and without experiencing financial difficulty or other adverse 
consequences. The necessary checks needed to take into account both the nature of the 
credit (amount, term etc.) and Mr Ss particular circumstances.
The overarching requirement was that CCP needed to pay due regard to Mr Ss interests 
and treat him fairly. The Consumer Credit (CONC) handbook paragraph 2.2.2G gave an 
example of contravening this requirement as targeting customers with regulated credit 
agreements which are unsuitable for them by virtue of their indebtedness, poor credit 
history, age, health, disability or any other reason.
With this in mind, my main considerations are did CCP complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ss applications to satisfy itself that he would be 
able to make his repayments without experiencing adverse consequences? If not, what 
would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown and, ultimately, did CCP make 
fair lending decisions?
I said the following about Mr Ss first loan in my provisional decision:
CCP provided this Service with the information it relied on in making its lending 
decisions. This included Mr Ss application form, his payslips and screen shots of his bank 
statements.
When Mr S applied for his first loan, he gave his net monthly income as £1,200 and his 
expenditure as £953. This included a repayment of £180 for an existing debt of less than
£500 with a high street bank. Based on CCPs assessment Mr S would have about £250 
left to meet his loan repayment of £132 and any other unexpected costs that might arise. 
The bank account snapshots provided by CCP cover the period 8 May to 7 August 2017 
and Ive assumed it saw all of the transactions in these dates.
I think CCP was right to ask Mr S about his income and expenditure and independently 
verify this information. Mr S would need to meet his repayments for three years and the 
consequences of not doing so were potentially serious in that he might lose his car. But 
this doesnt automatically mean Ive concluded that CCP made a fair lending decision. Ive 
reviewed the information CCP gathered from Mr S and noted inconsistencies in what hed 
said about his finances and what was shown on his bank statements
The snapshots of Mr Ss bank account broadly support what hed said about his income 
and living expenses and his payslips show his net basic pay was around £1,200 a month.
However, the account transactions also show that Mr S had more debt than hed declared 
with payments of £66 to a high street provider, £25 to a doorstep lender and £17 to an 
online retail account. Mr S was using a high cost running credit account each month  
borrowing between £250 and £300 and repaying about £300 to £350. In addition hed 
taken out a short term loan for £80 within the previous two weeks which hed need to 
repay with interest. Ive also noted a payment to a debt management company of £176 within the previous month, which may have been the repayments of £180 Mr S had 
mentioned to CCP. Irrespective of this, I think CCP should have been concerned that 
Mr S wouldnt have enough money to meet his monthly repayments of £132 when they 
were due.
I also think CCP should have been concerned about how Mr S was managing his money, 
given his recent short term borrowing and his payment to a debt management company. I 
think it would have been a proportionate response for CCP to have looked into Mr Ss 
finances further before lending to him. However, I dont think CCP would have been 
reassured had it done so. Mr S says that his financial situation was very bad at the time 
and he had defaulted on several debts. Hes provided correspondence which shows hed 
borrowed from at least five short term lenders in March and April 2017 (in other words 
within the last six months) and wasnt making repayments to them.
Altogether, I currently think CCP was irresponsible when it agreed to lend to Mr S on this 
occasion.
In response to this, CCP said that although the income and expenditure form for Mr Ss 
application for his first loan stated income of £1,200, it checked Mr Ss actual monthly 
income against his bank statements and payslips for the three months prior to the loan 
date, and estimated that it was an average of £1,420. 
Mr Ss wage slips show his gross salary was £16,000, with a monthly net of about £1,200. 
While he earned more in some months this seems to be because of overtime payments. 
CCP knew Mr Ss income fluctuated. The statements it saw showed a range from less 
than £1,200 to over £1,600 (May, June and July 2017). The regulations in place at the 
time ( CONC 5.3.1G 4(c) ref. the Office of Fair Tradings guidance para 4.13) state that an 
assessment should be based on what is known but lenders should be cautious when they 
assume that supplementary income will continue, for example when they assume that 
the borrower will continue to receive current overtime payments indefinitely and/or of the 
same amount, when these are not guaranteed. So I think CCP needed to be mindful of 
this and consider that the guaranteed income Mr S had could be as low as £1,200 a 
month, which it seems it did. 
For completion, Mr Ss bank statements show the following wages in 2017:
May £1,178
June £1,388
July £1,697
August £1,258
September £1,219
October £1,219
CCP also said that the short term drawdowns Id mentioned were for very small amounts, 
were being serviced and the actual outstanding debt was not increasing during this 
period. I dont disagree with this however, given that CCP estimated Mr S would have a 
disposable income of about £115 left over after meeting his loan repayment each month 
and hadnt taken into account the additional debts Ive mentioned above (in the extract 
from my provisional decision), it seems to me that there was a clear risk here that Mr S 
wouldnt have been able to meet all of his existing committments every month especially if 
he had any unexpected expenses. 
In addition, CCP said that it hadnt noted the payment of £176 to a debt management 
company, but only the small outstanding loan to a high street bank. It also said that Mr S  
was sharing non-discretionary bills with his partner which wasnt unusual and was reasonable to accept. 
Ive checked Mr Ss bank statements again and can confirm that he did make a payment 
to a debt management company of £176 in July 2017. And, while I appreciate that its not 
unusual or implausible that Mr S was sharing non-discretionary bills with his partner, there 
isnt any mention of this in the assessment record CCP provided. It was noted in the 
assessment for Mr Ss second loan that his partner contributed £250 to £300 a month 
towards the rent, which was recorded as £550, £225 more than his rent when he applied 
for his first loan five months earlier. There are some transfers between Mr S and his 
partner in the months before his first loan  I can identify about £120 transferred into his 
account and about £350 transferred out throughout May, June and July 2017. So I dont 
think an examination of this point would have shown that Mr S was receiving additional 
money from his partner to help with expenses prior to his first loan. 
Ill repeat here what I said in my provisional decision about Mr Ss second loan:
The statement of account for Mr Ss first loan shows he incurred late payments in 
September, November and December 2017. He made payments in January 2018 to clear 
his arrears and his account was in credit in February and March. Mr S applied for his 
second loan during this period.
In his second application, Mr S gave his net monthly income as £1,368 and his 
expenditure as £739. This comprised rent, council tax, car insurance and mobile phone 
bills. Mr S said his partner paid between £250 and £300 towards the rent which CCP took 
into consideration. CCP estimated that Mr S would have about £880 left to meet his 
repayments for both loans each month, an amount of £196 approximately.
It seems odd to me that Mr S would have more left over each month than he wished to 
borrow. I think CCP was right to independently verify the information Mr S had given 
about his circumstances, given its estimated surplus and that Mr S was securing yet 
further credit with his car. CCP provided copies of Mr Ss wage slips and bank statements 
from 1 November 2017 to 31 January 2018 and Ive reviewed these.
Mr Ss wage slips confirm that his net basic pay was now around £1,370 a month. 
However, the snapshots of Mr Ss bank account show he was making payments for petrol 
and food, cash withdrawals and cashback withdrawals which werent included in his 
declared expenses. It seems he was left without enough money to meet his bills each 
month. The statements do show transfers into his account from his partner, once prior to 
a rent payment but more often when he reached a zero balance or had a direct debit 
payment returned, which happened several times each month. For example in January 
2018 Mr S had returned direct debits on the 8th, 22nd and 29th for mobile phone and car 
insurance and breakdown cover respectively and his partner deposited money to bring his 
account back into credit.
It seems to me that Mr Ss partner was helping him to manage his money. Having 
considered everything carefully, I currently think Mr Ss finances hadnt improved by the 
time he applied for his second loan and so Ive provisionally found that CCP was 
irresponsible when it agreed to lend to him again.
In summary, having reviewed everything again, Ive found that CCP was irresponsible to 
agree these two loans for Mr S. Hes lost out by paying interest on this money, and 
potentially had his creditworthiness impacted. Ive set out below what CCP needs to do to 
put things right for him. Putting things right
I understand that both loans have now been repaid. In order to put things right for Mr S, 
CCP needs to:
a) Refund to Mr S all payments made above the capital amounts he borrowed, 
including any late fees;
b) Add 8% simple interest* per annum to these amounts from the date they were 
paid to the date of refund; and
c) Remove any adverse information about these loans from Mr Ss credit file; and
d) Revoke the Bill of Sale for Mr Ss car if this is still in place and return any 
relevant documents to him if it hasnt already done so.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires CCP to deduct tax from this interest. It should give 
Mr S a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, I am upholding Mr Ss complaint about CarCashPoint Limited and it 
needs to put things right for him as Ive outlined. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman