DRN-1751453
The complaint
Mrs H complained that Openwork Limited mishandled her mortgage applications. She said 
that as a result she suffered delays, had to pay extra interest, and her credit rating was 
affected. 
What happened
Mrs H was divorcing, and as part of the agreement, she was taking over the marital home. 
She needed a mortgage, for the balance on the mortgage plus an existing £30,000 equity 
loan. The equity loan had been an incentive to buy from the housebuilders when Mrs H and 
her ex-husband had originally bought the property. 
Mrs H met Openworks adviser on 5 July 2019. She told him that she had adverse factors on 
her credit file, including defaults, so she had a low credit score. Mrs H told him she expected 
this would mean shed need a specialist lender. Mrs H also said she wanted to complete on 
the new mortgage before 1 October. If she didnt, there would be financial penalties from the 
equity loan company.
Theres a disagreement about some of the other things which were said at that meeting. Mrs 
H says that the adviser told her it would take an average of six weeks so there was time. 
Openwork says that it told her that an average timescale would be 10 to 12 weeks if there 
werent any unforeseen delays, and noted that Mrs Hs case wasnt straightforward.
Openworks adviser submitted an application in principle to a lender, which Ill call lender A. 
This was provisionally accepted. Mrs H met Openworks adviser again on 10 July, and paid 
a £200 valuation fee and a £495 broker fee. Mrs H provided necessary documents and 
Openworks adviser submitted the full application to lender A on 19 July, for consideration by 
lender As underwriters.
Lender A declined Mrs Hs application on 24 July. Openworks adviser appealed, but on 1 
August, lender A refused the appeal. Openworks adviser rang Mrs H, and said hed explore 
the sub-prime market, which would be more understanding about her poor credit record, but 
it would mean a higher interest rate. He also arranged for lender A to refund Mrs H for lender 
As £200 valuation fee. 
Meanwhile Mrs H had been doing other investigations into possible options. Openworks 
adviser rang her on 8 August to say hed obtained an agreement in principle from another 
lender, which Ill call lender B. Mrs H said she wanted to consider other options, but on 11 
August she told Openworks adviser that she wanted to go ahead with the application to 
lender B. she paid fees to lender B.
Mrs H then went on holiday. On 20 August, lender B told Openwork that it had rejected Mrs 
Hs application. It said this was on grounds of affordability because it couldnt count the child 
benefit for Mrs Hs three children because of their ages. Openworks adviser spoke to lender 
Bs underwriter and pointed out that hed been told the childrens ages wouldnt affect the 
outcome. Lender B replied to Openwork, saying it acknowledged it had made the mistake. 
Lender B also said that it didnt usually return fees, but as it had made the mistake, it would 
return the fees to Mrs H.
Openworks adviser then went on holiday. Mrs H got back from holiday at the bank holiday 
weekend, and spoke to an Openwork administrator on the Tuesday, which was 27 August. 
The administrator told her that lender B had cancelled the survey. Mrs H tried to ring her 
Openwork adviser, who emailed her from his holiday. He said hed spent a lot of time and 
effort trying to get the mortgage accepted and was disappointed that both lender A and 
lender B had gone back on their original agreements in principle. He also told Mrs H that 
hed asked for her to be refunded with the £495 broker fee, the £200 valuation fee to lender 
A, and all fees shed paid to lender B.
Mrs H complained to Openwork. She set out events and said that its advisers delays meant 
it was unrealistic for her to complete a mortgage before her deadline, as she only had four 
weeks left before shed incur penalties. Mrs H said Openwork was responsible for destroying 
what little credit rating she had left, making it impossible to get the mortgage she wanted.
Openwork didnt uphold Mrs Hs complaint. It said that its adviser hadnt given a six week 
timescale but had said it would take an average of 10 to 12 weeks without unforeseen 
delays, and hed said Mrs Hs case wasnt straightforward and could be difficult. Openwork 
also said that its adviser had submitted Mrs Hs applications in good time and had been 
proactive in trying to get the lenders to approve the applications. It said its adviser had done 
nothing wrong and had followed the rules set out in the Mortgage Code of Business. It 
pointed out that two credit searches which had been conducted for the two applications 
wouldnt have destroyed Mrs Hs credit rating.
Mrs H wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. She said shed reminded Openworks 
adviser time and time again about the deadline, and hed told her there was more than 
adequate time. She said hed led her to believe that lender A had agreed a mortgage when it 
hadnt. And after lender B had turned her down too, shed lost patience and decided to 
source her own mortgage. By this point she only had four weeks left but shed sent her 
chosen new broker her documents, and within a week that broker had provided a written 
offer from lender A for the full amount she wanted, and at high street rates. So Mrs H said 
Openworks adviser must have been incompetent and unprofessional. Hed delayed the 
outcome causing her financial penalties and excessive stress, and her credit rating had been 
affected by the two searches.
The investigator didnt uphold Mrs Hs complaint. He pointed out it was the lender which had 
refused the applications, not Openworks adviser. He recognised that Mrs H had found it 
frustrating that lender B had turned down the application because of the ages of Mrs Hs 
children. But lender B had confirmed that it had given Openwork incorrect information when 
Openworks adviser had initially asked about this. The investigator saw that Mrs H had been 
refunded for all costs shed paid, which he thought was fair and reasonable.
Mrs H didnt accept this. She said the investigator hadnt taken into account the fact that 
lender A had accepted her when shed later applied through a different broker. So she said 
that meant Openworks adviser was acting inappropriately, unprofessionally, or was inept. 
She said that there had been no change in her circumstances between the two applications 
to lender A, so it was glaringly obvious that Openworks adviser must have mis-handled her 
application. She said Openworks adviser had given her the wrong advice, and had caused 
delays by not knowing what he was doing. This meant shed ended up with a £6,000 bill for 
interest payments. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise that Mrs H believes that Openworks adviser must have mishandled her 
application to lender A because she subsequently took out a mortgage with lender A through 
a different broker. I dont have any evidence of Mrs Hs application to lender A through the 
other broker, so I cant see whether they were identical. But there could be various reasons 
for the different outcome  for example the application might have been different, or lender A 
might have changed its lending criteria. In any event, the role of this service isnt to compare 
the service received through different brokers. My role is specifically to consider whether or 
not Openwork did anything wrong in the service it provided to Mrs H.
Ive looked in detail at what happened throughout Mrs Hs contact with Openwork. Both 
sides agree that Mrs H told Openwork at the outset that she had a poor credit rating. Also, a 
substantial part of Mrs Hs income came from child maintenance and child benefits. So both 
sides agreed at the outset that Mrs Hs application might not be straightforward.
As Ive set out above, theres a dispute about what Openworks adviser told Mrs H about 
how long it would take to get a mortgage completed in Mrs Hs circumstances. This is a clear 
disagreement between the only two people who were present, and I cant know for certain 
what was said. But timescales for a mortgage to complete always vary and can never be 
guaranteed. What matters is what actually happened, and whether its true, as Mrs H 
believes, that Openworks adviser caused her delay, either through slowness or through 
acting incompetently.
So Ive looked at the events and timescales. For both mortgage applications, the lenders 
agreed in principle, but when the applications went for full underwriting, the lenders turned 
them down.
- For lender A, Mrs H provided final bank statements on 15 July and the full application 
was submitted on 19 July. It was declined on 24 July and the Openwork adviser 
appealed on Mrs Hs behalf, with lender A sending a final rejection on 1 August. 
Openwork notified Mrs H that day. The documentation, and these timescales, show 
no evidence of undue delay or incompetence by Openworks adviser. 
- Openworks adviser then sourced another mortgage and obtained an agreement in 
principle with lender B on 8 August. I consider one week was a reasonable timescale 
to obtain a replacement agreement in principle, in Mrs Hs circumstances.
- For lender B, Mrs H told Openwork she wanted to go ahead on 11 August. Lender B 
asked Openwork about the ages of Mrs Hs children on 13 August. Openworks 
adviser provided the information the same day. He asked lender B if this would affect 
the decision. Lender B incorrectly told Openworks adviser that it wouldnt make any 
difference. This is reflected in the fact that lender B refunded Mrs H with all the fees 
shed paid it. 
- Ive looked at the timescales for letting Mrs H know about lender Bs decision not to 
lend. Lender B notified Openwork on 20 August. Mrs H was on holiday, but it would 
have been possible for Openwork to have let her know sooner than it did. So there 
was a delay of four working days, with Openworks adviser emailing Mrs H from his 
holiday on 27 August. 
Looking at the events, I have seen no evidence of incompetence in processing, as Mrs H 
alleges. In relation to delay, the only area with evidence of delay is the four working days 
delay in letting Mrs H know about lender Bs refusal to lend. Clearly it would have been better if Openwork had told Mrs H the bad news straightaway, even though she was away 
on holiday. But Im not persuaded that a delay of four working days in August, for part of 
which Mrs H herself was away on holiday, made any material difference to whether or not 
Mrs H completed on a new mortgage before 1 October. 
Mrs H has said that she incurred £6,000 in extra interest because of Openwork. She hasnt 
provided evidence of this figure, but said it was interest accrued during the three month 
delay. I havent found that Openwork caused a three month delay, only four working days.  
I also note that all the fees which Mrs H paid  the £200 valuation to lender A; the £495 
broker fee to Openwork; and all fees to lender B, were refunded. I consider that Openwork 
acted reasonably in refunding its fee, despite the fact it had carried out the work to try to 
obtain two mortgages for Mrs H. The real problem was simply that both lenders declined to 
lend after underwriting. Those decisions werent anything Openwork could change.
Mortgage decisions in principle arent a guarantee that an application will be accepted. 
Underwriting follows, during which more questions may be asked, as they were here. Its 
inevitable that more questions are likely to be asked when the applicants situation and credit 
history arent straightforward. So I consider that starting the process in early July, with a 
target date to complete before the end of September, was always going to be a difficult 
timescale.
Finally, Mrs H said that she believes Openwork impacted greatly on and destroyed what 
little credit rating I had left. I find that its most unlikely that the two credit searches 
conducted for the two mortgage applications sourced by Openwork would have had any 
significant impact on Mrs Hs credit rating. Mrs H recognised at the outset that she already 
had a low credit score, resulting from previous defaults and county court judgments. And I 
note that she told Openwork that she had been looking for other options, and these too 
would have involved searches which would have recorded on her credit file. So I dont 
consider Openworks two searches at this time would have been a determining factor in Mrs 
Hs credit score.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2020.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman