DRN-4094643
The complaint
Mr V complains about American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) (Amex)s Know 
Your Customer (KYC) checks. 
What happened 
Amex contacted Mr V on 12 July 2022 and asked him to provide documents to complete 
some KYC checks. Reminders were sent on 5 August 2022, 21 August 2022,19 September 
2022. On 5 October 2022, Mr Vs account was suspended.
Mr V complained. He said he had been a customer of Amex for 32 years and couldnt see 
why the information was needed. He asked Amex why this was the case and was told it was 
due to Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) rules  but Amex couldnt say which ones. He said 
hed contacted the FCA who said there were no such rules. He said Amex may have 
discriminated against him and breached the Equality Act 2010 and Consumer Rights Act 
2015. 
Mr V said - because his account was suspended, he couldnt use it and earn rewards. He 
wants compensation for the stress and anxiety caused, and to reimburse him for the lack of 
rewards he couldnt earn during the suspension. He wants an apology, his account restored 
and an assurance that his credit file hasnt been affected. Overall, he said that Amexs 
dealings with him were might is right  and was typical of a large financial institution.
Amex said they are required to periodically collect, update and review information held for 
customers  to meet regulatory requirements. Theyd written to Mr V on 5 August 2022, 21 
August 2022, 19 September 2022, and 5 October 2022 to request the information, and 
advised him also what would happen if he didnt provide it.
Mr V brought his complaint to us. Our investigator didnt uphold it. He said Amexs checks 
were to comply with regulatory requirements. Amex had written to Mr V four times to set out 
what was needed, and his account was later suspended. It was finally cancelled on 15 
November 2022. He said Amex had given sufficient notice to Mr V about what was needed. 
The checks were non-discriminatory and the length of time a person had banked with Amex 
wasnt relevant  he hadnt seen anything to suggest that there had been any discrimination.
Our investigator tried to mediate a solution with Amex. He asked if they would:
Restore Mr Vs account; confirm there had been no impact on Mr Vs credit file; provide an 
apology; provide an assurance that no discrimination occurred under the Equalities Act 
2010; provide an assurance that actions have not been contrary to the Consumer Rights Act 
2015; pay compensation for Mr Vs time, inconvenience, loss of Membership Rewards; and 
refund late payment charges applied to the account.
Amex didnt agree to this. They said the KYC process must be followed and completed; Mr V 
had been sent many letters setting this out; KYC is carried out routinely for all cardholders, 
so there wasnt any discrimination; the KYC process doesnt impact a customers credit file, 
but in Mr Vs case  he hadnt made some payments to the account, and that will have  
affected his credit file.
Amex said theyd acted reasonably, and didnt feel they should apologise, nor reinstate Mr 
Vs account, or pay compensation.
Mr V didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint. And so it has come 
to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its reasonable to say that all firms, including Amex, have regulatory obligations to 
check customers identity and address verification from time to time.
Mr Vs complaint started when he asked Amex to point to the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) ruling which set out what checks were needed to be made by firms such as Amex. He 
contacted the FCA and he showed us the letter from the FCA. This said As the regulator, 
we set the rules and regulations for authorised firms to follow. When it comes to KYC our 
expectations are set out in our handbook However, we dont have any specific rules which 
state exactly what information or documents the firm request from you. This is usually a 
commercial decision on the firm themselves in order to satisfy general KYC requirements 
In other words, the FCAs letter says it is down to firms (including Amex) what information 
they ask for  to complete identity and address verification. So here  Amex were never 
going to be able to point to a FCA rule as Mr V has asked.
Mr V has said that as a customer of 32 years, it wasnt appropriate for Amex to ask him for 
the information. But  all firms are required to update their records from time to time, and its 
reasonable that they do so. And I think its reasonable that they do so for any customer they 
wish to  regardless of the time theyve banked with Amex. I looked at Amexs terms and 
conditions  and these do give Amex the right to end the credit card agreement  if they 
wished. These say: We may also end this Agreement by giving you at least two months' 
written notice without any explanation being required.
I looked at the communications from Amex - as they must be clear and not misleading. 
Amex wrote to Mr V, firstly on 12 July 2022. The email set out what was needed, the 
documents that were acceptable, and how to send them (which was an upload link). The 
email said that if the information wasnt sent in 60 days from then, Mr Vs account would be 
suspended and may be closed after 90 days.
On 5 August 2022, Amex sent a reminder; on 21 August 2022, Amex sent another reminder. 
This set out what was needed i.e. - proof of address and identity; and the email said Mr Vs  
account would be suspended in 75 days if the documents werent provided; on 19 
September 2022, Amex sent another reminder and said the account would be suspended in 
15 days if the information wasnt provided ; on 5 October 2022  Amex advised Mr V his 
account was suspended.
So  I consider that Amex gave Mr V sufficient, clear and detailed notice of what they 
needed, and set out what would happen if the documents werent provided. They also gave 
sufficient notice of over 60 days to warn Mr V about the account suspension  so they 
complied with the terms and conditions in giving enough notice. I think that was reasonable. I 
dont know why Mr V didnt send in the documents  hasnt said exactly why, other than his objection to doing so because he had been with Amex so long, and he wanted to see the 
FCAs rules. But unfortunately, this has led to his account being suspended and then 
closed.
Mr V has asked whether he was discriminated against. And whether Amex breached the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 and Equality Act 2010. Here, let me say what our role is  which 
is to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of each case, taking a 
number of things into account including relevant law and what we consider having been 
good industry practice at the time. So although ultimately, its for the Courts to say whether 
or not Amex has breached the legislation, were required to take this into account, if its 
relevant, amongst other things when deciding what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
In this context, Amex told us that they update records of many customers from time to time. 
Ive seen no evidence that Mr V was singled out in any way. In other words, many customers 
of Amex were being treated in the same or similar ways  so I cannot reasonably say Mr V 
was discriminated against. I hope that provides him with some assurance that someone 
independent has looked at this.
Mr V has said he wants an assurance that his credit file hasnt been affected. Amex told us 
that the KYC process doesnt do so. But  how Mr V has managed his account is reported to 
the credit reference agencies. I can see that Amex sent default notices (for a late payment) 
to Mr V in December 2022; and again in January 2023 and March 2023. And these will have 
been marked on his credit file. Amex have an obligation to report accurate information to 
credit reference agencies; and so this cannot be removed.
In summary, while I can see that Mr V feels strongly about his complaint, and has argued for 
it forcefully, Im not asking Amex to do anything here. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman