DRN-3747052
The complaint
Mr C complains that Aviva Insurance Limited unfairly declined a claim he made on his 
commercial property insurance policy.
Reference to Aviva includes its agents.
What happened
Mr C holds a commercial property insurance policy with Aviva. He made a claim for damage 
caused by smoke. Aviva declined the claim. It said it hadnt been shown that the damage 
was a result of an insured event.
Mr C complained. He said hed disposed of the evidence of what he thought caused the fire 
because he wanted to rectify the damage and clean the property as soon as possible so he 
could get new tenants in. He also complained that Aviva took too long to reach its decision.
Aviva agreed it took too long. It offered Mr C £125 compensation for delaying the claim for 
five weeks. But it maintained its decline of the claim was fair.
Mr C didnt agree and so brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators thought Aviva 
had fairly declined the claim. And he thought the compensation it had offered was 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr C didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. Ill explain why.
Mr Cs policy covers him for a number of insured events. Hes covered for damage. 
But hes only covered by damage caused by a number of listed events. One of which 
is fire. But when Mr C inspected the property, he said he couldnt find any clear 
evidence of a fire. He said he assumed something had melted and thats what 
caused the smoke. Mr C is also covered for accidental damage. But hes not covered 
for damage caused by gradual deterioration.
But in any claim, the first burden of proof lies with the party making the claim. So, it is 
for Mr C to show that the cause of the damage is something hes insured for. 
Unfortunately for Mr C, because he disposed of any evidence of the cause of the 
smoke damage and didnt take any photos before doing so, hes not able to prove 
this. Hes not been able to show the damage was caused by a fire or any one event 
or whether it built up over time. And as a result, hes not been able to show it was 
caused by an event hes insured for. So, I find it reasonable Aviva dont pay this 
claim.
Aviva did delay action on this claim. That delay would have caused distress and 
inconvenience and I understand Mr C wanted to carry out repairs as soon as 
possible in order to rent the property out again. But Im satisfied Avivas offer of £125 
compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2023.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman