DRN-2352315
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
July 2004. Mr A and Mr L says Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold them PPI. The policy only 
covered Mr A.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr A and 
Mr Ls circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr A and Mr Ls representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr A and Mr Ls. I havent set out that detailed 
information here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr A and 
Mr Ls complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
I think Bank of Scotland made it clear that Mr A and Mr L didnt have to take out the PPI 
and they chose to take it out. I say this because they wouldve had to complete an 
application form specifically for the PPI.
Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mr A and Mr L so it had to check that the PPI 
was right for them. And the evidence about Mr A and Mr Ls circumstances at the time, 
shows that the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. For example 
Mr A was eligible for the cover and although he had existing means he still seems to 
have had a need for cover. 
There was nothing about Mr As employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for him to claim. Although Mr A says he had a medical condition when the PPI 
was taken out I dont think it was wrong for Bank of Scotland to have recommended it. I 
say this because it appears that Mr A was asked some questions about his health at the 
time of sale and didnt mention his condition. So, Bank of Scotland wouldnt have known 
about it to be able to consider if it affected the suitability of the policy. 
Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mr A and Mr L about the PPI wasnt 
as clear as it shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose to take it out - so it looks like 
they wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr A and Mr L 
as I concluded above, or too dissimilar to what they reasonably thought they were buying 
from the information they were given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like 
it would have been useful for them if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think 
Mr A and Mr L would have declined the cover had Bank of Scotland done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mr A and Mr Ls circumstances at the time of sale and despite its 
limitations, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. So I think they 
would have still thought they had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Mr A and Mr L would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could 
provide a useful benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. I also think 
the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were getting. And in 
those circumstances, I think that they would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr A and Mr Ls representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Bank of Scotland should have disclosed the 
poor value and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it 
had on the chances of making a claim.
But Mr A and Mr Ls representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mr A and Mr Ls individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr A and Mr Ls particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint.
This means Bank of Scotland doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My final decisionOverall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr A and Mr Ls complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 September 2021.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman