DRN-2628875
The complaint
Mr U complains that Cabot Financial (Europe) Limited is reporting a default on his credit file 
for a debt that isnt his. 
What happened
In May 2017 a credit card debt in Mr Us name was acquired by Cabot. Both the original 
lender and Cabot sent Notices of Assignment to Mr U to confirm the new arrangement. 
Cabot says that when the debt was acquired, the original lender had already applied a 
default and reported it on Mr Us credit file. Cabot took over reporting the default. 
In 2019 Cabot attempted to enforce the debt in court but the case was dismissed. 
Last year, agents acting for Cabot contacted Mr U about the outstanding debt and he offered 
a partial settlement. Mr U asked for the default to be removed from his credit file. Cabot 
agreed to accept a partial settlement but said the default would remain on Mr Us credit file 
for six years from the date the original lender terminated his account in 2017. 
Mr U referred his complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. Cabot 
provided copies of the Notices of Assignment, credit card statements from the original lender 
that were addressed to Mr U and a copy of a credit agreement in his name. Cabot also 
pointed out Mr U had made settlement offers to repay the outstanding balance. Our 
investigator thought Cabot had acted fairly by asking Mr U to make repayments to the 
outstanding debt and didnt agree the default should be removed. 
Mr U asked to appeal and said he had never received a default notice from the original 
lender or confirmation the debt was transferred to Cabot. Mr U also says the original debt 
wasnt his and that the default should be removed from his credit file. As Mr U asked to 
appeal his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service operates differently to a court. We make our decisions 
on a fair and reasonable basis. Where the parties involved dispute whats happened, Ill 
consider the case on the balance of probabilities. That is what I consider most likely to have 
happened based on all the available information. I can see Cabots case against Mr U was 
dismissed by the court. But Ive looked at whether Cabot is fairly attempting to recover a 
debt from Mr U. 
Mr U has told us he doesnt recognise the debt and that he didnt use the credit card. But the 
original lender sent Cabot a copy of a credit agreement in Mr Us name along with credit 
card statements. I can see the details match those Mr U has supplied to this service. And the 
statements show the credit card was used for a reasonable period for purchases with regular 
payments being made. Im satisfied the original lender sent Mr U monthly statements for the 
credit card to the address it had on file. 
Cabot has provided copies of the Notices of Assignment that were sent to Mr U when it 
acquired the debt in May 2017. Both the original lender and Cabot wrote to Mr U to confirm 
the new arrangement and change of ownership. Again, both letters were sent to the address 
Mr U has provided to our service. 
Cabot has made the point that Mr U made an offer to partially settle the outstanding balance 
which also indicates he is aware the debt is his. I think thats a reasonable point. I 
understand Mr U is keen to get the default removed from his credit file, and Cabots refusal 
has caused him to complain. But I think Mr Us offer does indicate he was the borrower with 
the original lender. 
Taking everything Ive seen into account, on balance, Im satisfied Cabots decision to 
pursue Mr U for the credit card debt is fair. The information Ive seen shows the debt was 
taken out in Mr Us name and the credit card was used over a reasonable period before 
being closed and defaulted. 
As Cabot acquired a debt in Mr Us name in relation to an account that was terminated by 
the original lender and defaulted, Im satisfied its decision to continue to report that on his 
credit file is reasonable. Im sorry to disappoint Mr U but as I havent found that Cabot has 
treated him unfairly, Im not telling it to remove the default from his credit file or take any 
further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 April 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman