DRN-4284074
The complaint
Mrs W is unhappy with how Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited processed the transfer of her
pension to another pension provider. The transfer value paid wasnt based on its value at the
date of transfer, it was based on an earlier date when its value was lower. Mrs W doesnt
think this was appropriate and considers it has resulted in her suffering a financial loss.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 21 July 2023. The background and 
circumstances to the complaint and the reasons why I was provisionally minded to uphold it 
were set out in that decision. But to recap, Mrs W intended to transfer, along with some other 
members of a Group Personal Pension (GPP), the benefits she had built up in her GPP to 
another pension provider. The transfer was intended to be arranged as part of a buddy or 
block transfer. By transferring as part of a block transfer, the members wouldnt lose their 
entitlement to a protected tax-free cash benefit.
Mrs W said that all of the members transfer instructions were sent at the beginning of
February 2021. My understanding was that this was to the receiving scheme provider.
Aviva received an instruction to transfer from the receiving scheme by letter dated
24 March 2021. This 24 March 2021 letter referred to other members, including a member
whose transfer instruction Aviva had received in February 2021. It had already processed
that transfer as an individual transfer (i.e. not on a block transfer basis) using an effective
date of 17 February 2021.
Aviva had said that on receipt of the 24 March 2021 letter and recognising that another
member had already transferred who was supposed to have been included as part of a block
transfer, it attempted to contact the receiving scheme to agree how to proceed. It said it
initially didnt receive a response and so chased the matter on a number of occasions. And
that eventually it discussed the matter with the receiving scheme in a telephone conversation
on 28 May 2021. It said the receiving scheme confirmed to use the 17 February 2021 date
as the effective date for all the policies.
Mrs W received confirmation that her pension benefits had been transferred on 7 June
2021. The amount transferred was £310,534, including £1,022 interest to account for late
payment. The transfer amount was calculated using the value as at 17 February 2021. The
transfer value on 7 June 2021 was £316,414. 
In setting out my provisional findings, I said that in deciding what was fair and reasonable I 
thought the starting point should be to consider the parties obligations as set out in The 
Group Personal Pension Plan Booklet. This set out the general terms and conditions 
applying to the plan. And Section 3.1, Transfer payments provided:
3.10 Transfer payments
If You want to, the value of all or part of the plan can be transferred to another Scheme or
plan which is a Registered Pension Scheme or a qualifying recognised overseas pension
scheme. You can find full details on this in the Scheme rules. The transfer must be made
before retirement benefits are taken. The transfer date will be either:
 the date that We receive all of the information required to enable Us to complete Your
transfer request; or
 any other date allowed and that We agree with You.
You should ask Us for a transfer payment in writing (or by any other means that We may
agree to). The amount of the transfer payment will be worked out in line with section 4.7.
Section 4.7 provided:
If the value of the Total Members Fund is transferred to another scheme or plan the value of
the Total members Fund will be equal to:
the number of Units in each Investment Fund attaching to the plan at the transfer  
date (in line with section 3.10), including those purchased by any contributions due 
up to and including the transfer date; multiplied by
their Unit Price at the next valuation of Units after the transfer date.
The terms You and Your were defined.
You/Your normally means the member specified in the schedule.
However, it can mean the spouse, Civil partner or dependants of the member if they are
receiving an annuity payable after the death of the member.
I said I thought the transfer date would be either the date that Aviva received all the 
information it needed to complete the transfer request, or a date agreed with Mrs W. I said in 
my experience this was a normal type of clause given that there was usually a period of time 
between when a transfer request was made and when the transfer was actually completed.
Aviva had received Mrs Ws transfer request on 24 March 2021. The terms referred to:
the date that We receive all of the information required to enable Us to complete Your
transfer request;
So I said Your was Mrs Ws request. I said on the one hand, on the basis of my 
understanding that it had all the information it required on 24 March 2021, it could be argued 
that Aviva was in a position to complete Mrs Ws transfer request. In theory it could have 
transferred those requests it received on 24 March 2021 as a block transfer  it only required 
two requests.
However on the other, Aviva had recognised on receipt of the 24 March 2021 letter that it 
had already received the transfer request from another member (at least one) which had 
already been transferred. So Aviva was in a difficult position. And through no fault of its own. 
I said it was also worth noting that the receiving scheme had said although the date of the
transfer form Mrs W signed showed 11 February 2021, its records indicated that it didnt
receive the application until 23 March 2021.
I said on receipt of that 24 March 2021 request, I thought Aviva had acted reasonably in 
deciding that it should do something rather than merely process the other requests to 
transfer as a block transfer. I accepted this would have worked for the part of the group that hadnt already transferred - but not the first member who had requested earlier and 
transferred. And I thought if it was addressing that issue (or any other earlier transfers) I 
didnt think it was unreasonable to treat them all as one block transfer.
So I said I thought it was also arguable  if Aviva was taking this other members situation 
into account - that it didnt have sufficient information to complete Mrs Ws transfer on 24 
March 2021 given it needed to check how to proceed. But then I thought it followed that it 
appeared to have had all the information it required on 28 May 2021; the date Aviva said the 
receiving scheme advised it to use the same effective date of 17 February 2021 for all the 
transfers. However Aviva hadnt used the 28 May 2021 date as the effective date either  it 
said it had used the 17 February 2021 date to ensure all the transfers were treated as a 
block transfer. However this 17 February 2021 date wasnt in line with its own terms - it 
hadnt got all the information to complete Mrs Ws transfer at that date - it hadnt even 
received her request at that point - and it also hadnt agreed that date with Mrs W.
Mrs W had said that Aviva didnt need to use the same effective date for all the transfers as
HMRC rules didnt require it. However I said pension providers were required to interpret the 
relevant legislation and HMRC rules and guidance for themselves in order to ensure they 
complied with the requirements. I referred to the relevant guidance which said that to be a 
single transaction it wasnt necessary for the sums/assets to be physically passed on the 
same day. And it also referred to a reasonable timescale. I said I didnt think Aviva deciding 
block transfers (as in at least two of the transfers for them to be block) needed to use the 
same effective date was an unreasonable interpretation.
Neither Aviva nor the receiving scheme had a recording of the 28 May 2021 telephone
conversation call itself. Aviva had said the receiving scheme told it to use 17 February 2021
as the effective date. The receiving scheme had said it was Aviva who said it needed to use
the 17 February 2021 date. I said that I didnt think the original record of the telephone 
conversation or subsequent e-mails were conclusive and clearly showed that it was the 
receiving scheme that advised Aviva to use the 17 February 2021 effective date. However I 
thought Avivas records did show that it tried to contact the receiving scheme on 6 April, 19 
April, and 10 May, before eventually speaking on 28 May 2021. So I didnt think it was 
reasonable to say that Aviva had caused the wider delay in the transfer not being processed 
in a timely manner.
I said I didnt know if the first transfer request (or other earlier requests) had come directly to 
Aviva from the member(s) or from the receiving scheme. However I said I didnt think it 
would have been right for Aviva to merely the process the other members requests given it 
was aware this would have implications for the first member. I think it was right to do 
something.
I explained I was bound by the Dispute Resolution rules (DISP Rules) that are set out in the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook. DISP 3.6.1 provides:
The Ombudsman will determine a complaint by reference to what is, in his opinion, fair and
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
I said I recognised that Aviva was in a difficult position on receiving the 24 March 2021 letter. 
But I thought Aviva should have been mindful of its own terms and conditions and its 
contractual obligations to Mrs W in dealing with the matter.
I said it seemed to me that the two obvious transfer dates would have been 24 March or 28 
May 2021. I said it was arguable that Aviva had all the information it required to complete 
Mrs Ws transfer on 24 March 2021. However I didnt think Aviva was responsible for the 
delay from 24 March to 28 May 2021. The alternative as provided for in the terms was another date allowed and that Aviva agreed with Mrs W. But it seemed to me that Aviva 
agreed an alternative date with the receiving scheme.
Taking all the above into account, I said I thought the fairest date to use as the transfer date 
was 24 March 2021. I recognised arguments could be made for different dates. And whilst I 
understood why Aviva had used 17 February 2021, I didnt think that was appropriate given it 
wasnt actually in accordance with its own terms. I didnt think 28 May 2021 was fair given I 
didnt think Aviva was responsible for the delays in agreeing how to proceed with the 
receiving provider. And 24 March 2021 was the date Aviva had all the information it required 
to process Mrs Ws transfer itself  albeit again, I recognised that was arguable in the 
particular circumstances. However I also thought if Aviva had contacted Mrs W and the other 
members including those who had already transferred on receipt of the 24 March letter, 
there was no reason to suggest they wouldnt have agreed using that date as the transfer 
date. 
I said I recognised there was then the issue of Mrs W not being invested from 24 March 
2021 until 17 June 2021. However I explained what I was considering here was whether 
Aviva had done something wrong. And if so what losses naturally flowed from Avivas errors. 
I said for the reasons Id outlined I thought Aviva should have agreed and used a transfer 
date of 24 March 2021 (and reworked the other member(s) pension(s) who had already 
transferred to that date, if it considered it was necessary). So I thought fair compensation 
should be calculated from that starting position.
My provisional decision therefore was to uphold Mrs Ws complaint in part. I went on to set 
out how I thought Aviva should calculate and pay fair compensation to Mrs W.
I asked Mrs W and Aviva to let me have any further evidence or arguments that they wanted 
me to consider before I made my final decision.
Aviva provided a copy of an e-mail that it had received from the receiving scheme on 26 
March 2021. it said this showed the receiving scheme had received transfer requests from 
all the members in February 2021 (and not 23 March 2021 as the receiving scheme had 
claimed). It said the receiving scheme had acknowledged that it had erred in not adding all 
the policyholders to the original request sent in February 2021 through the Origo transfer 
system.
It said the provisional decision appeared to be basing the use of 24 March 2021 on the fact 
that the receiving scheme hadnt received instructions by then. However this wasnt correct.  
It said but for the receiving schemes error Aviva would have received all the transfer 
requests at the same time in February. It said the decision was in effect penalising Aviva for 
the receiving schemes error. And it wanted to know what amount the receiving scheme 
would be required to pay towards the costs of the compensation. It said if it was still 
considered that 24 March 2021 should be used then it asked if it should provide that figure to 
the receiving scheme for it to pay as it was responsible for the original error.
Mrs W didnt provide any further evidence or arguments to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so. Ive seen no reason to depart from my provisional decision to uphold the 
complaint in part as set out above. As I said in that decision, I do recognise that Aviva was put in a difficult position through no 
fault of its own. It had received and processed the February transfer request and then 
subsequently received the other requests on 24 March 2021. As I said, it identified there was 
a problem and I think it acted appropriately in deciding that it should do something rather 
than merely process the other requests to transfer as a block transfer.
However once it was in that position and in deciding what to do, I think it was bound to be 
mindful of its own terms and conditions and its contractual obligations to Mrs W. That formed 
the basis of the relationship between itself and Mrs W, and the terms set out how a transfer 
would be calculated and paid. 
As I explained in my provisional decision, there were good reasons to set out the basis on 
which transfer values would be paid given the potential for disputes where there was a 
period of time between receipt of a transfer request and payment. I can see no basis to use 
17 February 2021 for Mrs Ws transfer. Aviva hadnt even received Mrs Ws request to 
transfer at that point. Its not material whether that was a result of an error by the receiving 
scheme or whether the receiving scheme had received the transfer requests in February 
(rather than 23 March as it had claimed); the decision doesnt turn on that issue. Mrs Ws 
complaint is against Aviva, and Ive considered Avivas obligations in this decision.  
If Aviva considers that the receiving scheme is at fault either fully or in part it can pursue that 
scheme to try and recover its costs. That is a matter for Aviva to decide. However as I 
explained in my provisional decision, the compensation only provides for the losses that I 
consider flow from Avivas errors, and fair compensation should be calculated as at 24 
March 2021 (not the later date claimed by Mrs W). 
Putting things right
I order that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited calculate what Mrs Ws transfer value
would have been on 24 March 2021. If that value is higher than the value actually transferred
(which I understand was £310,534.54  and included payment for late interest which it
should include in the comparison), then it should pay such amount into Mrs Ws current
pension to increase its value by that difference. The payment should allow for the effect of
charges and any available tax relief. Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited shouldnt pay the
compensation into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or
allowance.
If Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited is unable to pay the compensation into Mrs W's pension
plan it should pay that amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it
would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to
HMRC, so Mrs W wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mrs W's actual or expected
marginal rate of tax at her selected retirement age. Its reasonable to assume that
Mrs W is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the
reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mrs W would have been able to take a tax
free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation,
resulting in an overall reduction of 15%. 
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited should also pay Mrs W £200 for the distress and
inconvenience Im satisfied the matter has caused to her.Interest at the rate of 8% simple per annum should be added to any compensation due from 
the date of this decision to the date of settlement if settlement isnt arranged within 28 days 
of this service notifying Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited that Mrs W has accepted this 
decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ws complaint in part.
I order Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to calculate and pay compensation to Mrs W as set 
out under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2023.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman