DRN-4430138
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy that Revolut Ltd (Revolut) didnt give him his money back after he fell 
victim to a scam.
What happened
Mr G has said that on 6 March 2023 he was contacted over the phone by someone claiming 
to be from the Ministry of Justice. Mr G says the person he was speaking to told him hed 
committed a criminal offence by not paying taxes and could face deportation. Mr G has said 
they knew some of his personal information such as his tax code and that hed recently 
changed jobs. 
The scammer instructed Mr G to open an account with Revolut in order to make the 
payments required. He did this, and transferred money from his current account with another 
bank to his Revolut account. Mr G moved payments of £545, £800 and £897 to the 
beneficiary the scammers instructed him to pay using his Revolut account. The scammers 
told Mr G the money would be refunded to him within an hour. When this didnt happen, he 
realised hed been the victim of a scam.
The last payment of £897 has been refunded to Mr G by his bank so I wont be considering 
this payment further under this complaint.
Mr G contacted Revolut once he realised hed been scammed but ultimately it felt that as 
hed authorised the payments it wasnt liable for them. It explained he was asked whilst 
making the payments if he trusted the beneficiary and was given a standard warning that he 
might be the victim of a scam. It said it also sent him further links to information about 
different types of scams. It said it had tried to recover the funds from the beneficiarys bank 
but this had been unsuccessful.
Mr G was unhappy with Revoluts response. He brought the complaint to our service and our 
investigator looked into things. They didnt feel Revolut was liable for the lost funds and 
didnt ask it to take any further action.
Mr G didnt accept this. He felt Revolut shouldve done more to intervene and the scam 
wouldve been uncovered. He felt the payments were significantly unusual and Revolut 
shouldve identified them as such. He also disputes that any payments were stopped by 
Revolut or that he was shown any scam warnings. 
As Mr G was unhappy with the investigators response the complaint has been passed to me 
to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear Mr G was the victim of a scam. I can see this mustve been difficult for him 
and I understand why he wants to do everything he can to try and recover the money hes 
lost. But I can only direct Revolut to reimburse Mr G for his loss if I can fairly and reasonably 
conclude that it is liable for them.
The evidence shows Mr G sent money from his current accounts with other banks to his 
Revolut account, and from there to a third-party account that belonged to a scammer. 
Although he didnt intend the money to go to a scammer, under the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of his account, Mr G is presumed liable for his loss 
in the first instance. And under the terms and conditions of the account Mr G held with 
Revolut, where a valid payment instruction has been received, Revoluts obligation is to 
follow the instruction Mr G has provided.
But, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice 
and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate for  
Revolut as an electronic money institute (EMI) to take additional steps or make additional  
checks before processing a payment in order to help protect its customer from the possibility  
of financial harm from fraud. For example, if a customer made a payment request for an 
amount that was out of character given the normal use of an account, Id expect Revolut to  
intervene and ask questions about the intended transaction before processing it and provide  
a suitable warning.
In this case, I dont consider Revolut acted unfairly or unreasonably in allowing the payments 
to be made. Mr G didnt have an existing relationship with Revolut and the payments were 
sent the day the account was opened. So Im mindful there wasnt an existing pattern of 
behaviour it could compare this particular spending to. Revolut has said it did identify a risk 
with the initial payment to the scammer. As well as the standard warning all its customers 
receive making their first payment, it also stopped the payment and provided an additional 
warning to Mr G stating it thought the payment was suspicious and not to make it. This 
included a link to information about common scams to be aware of. 
Mr G says he doesnt remember receiving this additional warning, but Im satisfied the 
information Revolut has provided shows they were likely given, and he seems to have 
dismissed them from the same device he used to make the payments. So I think it did take 
steps to warn Mr G of potential risks and that in this case these steps were proportionate to 
the risk presented from Revoluts perspective.
Ive considered whether I think the overall amount Mr G sent to the scammers was 
significant enough that Revolut shouldve taken further steps to intervene. But whilst I 
understand the overall amount Mr G sent through Revolut was a lot to him, I dont consider 
the three payments of £545, £800 and £897 were significant enough that Revolut should 
have intervened further by the time the third payment was made.
Ive also considered that the three payments were sent to the same recipient in quick 
succession. But theres a balance to be struck; banks and EMIs (like Revolut) have 
obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to act in their customers best interests, but 
they cant be involved in every transaction as this would cause unnecessary disruption to 
legitimate payments. It had already stopped a payment being made, and Mr G had decided 
to continue with it. Overall, I think Revolut took proportionate steps in response to the risk 
presented in this case. So I dont think it missed an opportunity to prevent Mr Gs loss.
I would expect to see Revolut took reasonable steps to try and recover the money Mr G lost 
once it had been informed of the scam. I can see in this case it discovered the payments had 
been sent to an overseas entity of Revolut, but it was unable to recall or recover the funds as 
the law applicable in the country the funds were sent to prevented it from doing so.Im sorry to disappointment Mr G but as I dont consider Revolut liable for his loss, I dont 
require it to reimburse him.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman