DRN-4021898
The complaint
Mr N complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) cancelled his motor insurance policy and 
recorded his car as a write-off. He wants the cancellation and the write-off marker removed.
What happened
Mr N reported an accident to UKI. He said hed lost control of the cars steering and brakes. 
Mr N later said he hadnt told UKI that he was driving the car at the time. Mr N said he had 
memory problems that affected his recall of events. UKI recorded the car as a category S 
write off, but it didnt pay the claim. It cancelled Mr Ns policy because he had given incorrect 
information about who was driving the car. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Mr N 
had indicated that he was driving the car at the time when he hadnt been. He thought that 
UKI hadnt dealt with the claim, but it had relied on an engineers report that the car was a 
total loss and so it was required to record this. And he thought UKI was entitled to cancel the 
policy and ask Mr N to pay storage charges.
Mr N replied that he hadnt told UKI that he was driving his car at the time. He said the 
recovery service had refused to recover his car because he wasnt driving at the time. So he 
thought the cancellation was unfair. He said the impact on his health hadnt been 
considered. He wanted the cars total loss not to be recorded. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that this has been a stressful and difficult experience for Mr N. I was sorry 
to hear about this and the impact on his health and his finances. 
UKI said it had declined the claim and later cancelled the policy because Mr N had 
knowingly given it incorrect information about who was driving the car at the time of the 
accident in order to make a claim on his policy. It said Mr Ns partner, an uninsured driver, 
had been driving the car at the time with Mr N in the car with her. 
Mr N said he hadnt lied to UKI about who was driving. But Ive listened to his call to UKI 
where he described collecting his partner in his car and then losing control of the steering 
and brakes. Mr N said hed told the recovery service that he wasnt driving. And I can see 
that the recovery service told UKI that Mr Ns partner was driving at the time. But this doesnt 
excuse him from later changing his story to tell UKI that he was driving at the time of the 
accident.
Mr N also said hed confused this accident with a previous one and had memory problems 
that affected his recall. But Im satisfied from the call records that Mr N knew which accident 
he was describing to UKI as the circumstances were different to previous accidents. So Im 
not persuaded that he simply didnt recall the accident correctly. 
UKI relied on the Fraud terms and conditions to decline the claim and cancel the policy. I can 
see that these are set out clearly on page 28 of Mr Ns policy booklet. And so Im satisfied 
that it was fair and reasonable for UKI to rely on them. Mr N had given UKI incorrect 
information about who was driving the car at the time of the accident. So I cant say it was 
unfair or unreasonable for UKI to decline the claim and cancel the policy. And I dont require 
UKI to remove records of this.  
UKI recorded the car as a category S total loss. This was based on an engineers 
assessment that the car had repairable structural damage, but it was uneconomical to repair. 
And UKI is obliged by the relevant regulations to record accurately information it has about a 
cars history as this may affect future purchasers. So I cant say that UKI needs to remove 
records of the total loss. 
UKI asked Mr N to pay recovery and storage charges incurred after the car was recovered. 
As the claim was declined, I cant say that this was unfair or unreasonable. I can see Mr N 
and UKI have agreed an instalment plan to pay off the debt. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman