DRN-1742581
 
The complaint
Mrs B complains that the car provided by Santander Consumer(UK) Plc under a conditional 
sale agreement was not of satisfactory quality.
What happened
This complaint is being brought by Mr B on behalf of Mrs B. For ease of reference I shall 
refer to Mrs B throughout.
On 9 October 2019 Mrs B acquired a car with the benefit of a conditional sale agreement 
with Santander Consumer (UK) Plc (SCF). At the time the car was approximately 3 years 
old.
Shortly after purchase Mrs B experienced problems with the front seat belts but this was 
resolved by the selling dealership. On 26 June 2019 Mrs B contacted SCF to say following a 
recent visit to a garage shed been told the car had damage to the sub frame that appeared 
to have been caused by a collision prior to their purchase.
SCF said the selling dealership had no knowledge of any accident but were making 
enquiries. However it noted that the problems had arisen more than 6 months after the date 
of the agreement and there was nothing to show the issues had been present at the point of 
sale. It didn't agree it was responsible for the faults or for putting them right.
 Mrs B arranged for the car to be inspected by an engineer in January 2020. The report 
concluded as follows:
"At the time of our inspection the front cross member was supporting extensive damage 
along with some repairs which had been carried out to a poor and dangerous standard. due 
to the aging of this damage/repairs it would appear that the aforementioned predates the 
date of purchase by our client. There was no evidence of any recent damage. In our opinion 
this vehicle was not roadworthy at the time of our inspection as a result of the damage 
sustained in this incident."
Mrs B says that she wouldnt have bought the car if shes known about the damage or that it 
had been involved in an accident. She feels SCF should now cancel the agreement and take 
back the car.
SCF said that the faults hadnt been identified until more than six months after Mrs B had 
acquired the car and under the law it was for Mrs B, therefore, to show the faults had been 
present at the point of sale. In this case however there was no evidence to show the car had 
been damaged before its purchase in October 2018. Further the car had done more than 
21000 miles since its purchase which wouldnt have been possible if the damage had been 
present throughout.  It didn't agree the agreement should be cancelled but said the 
supplying dealership was making enquiries with the previous owner and was also willing to 
help with any repairs.Our investigator said the engineers report concluded the car had suffered damage that 
appeared to have been caused by an accident that had most likely happened before Mrs B 
acquired it. On that basis he felt it more probable than not that the damage was present at 
the point of sale and that the car had not therefore been of satisfactory quality. For that 
reason he recommended that SCF allow Mrs B to cancel the agreement and collect the car 
at no cost to Mrs B. It should also return the deposit plus 8% simple from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement and reimburse Mrs B all the costs of any diagnostic 
checks or reports, subject to the production of a valid receipt.
However he wouldnt be asking SCF to reimburse the monthly payments. The car had done 
more than 21,000 miles since the date of purchase and it was clear that, despite the faults, 
Mrs B had had significant use and benefit from the car. In the circumstances it was only fair 
Mrs B should pay for this.
Mrs B accepted the decision. SCF however disagreed and pointed to photos of the car in 
2018 that didnt show any damage. It said there wasnt anything to show the car had 
incurred structural damage at any time before Mrs B acquired it. Further it noted that 
although Mrs B had signed the finance agreement, this was simply a front for her husband 
who had been using the car as a taxi. It asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory I have made my decision on 
the balance of probabilities that is whats more likely than not to have happened in the light 
of the available information and the wider circumstances.
Mrs B acquired the car under a Conditional Sale Agreement with SCF. Such agreements are 
covered by the Consumer Right Act 2015 which says goods supplied under this must be of 
satisfactory quality. That is what a reasonable person would consider to be satisfactory 
which in the case of a car includes its age, mileage and price. But there are limits to that 
responsibility which is that, in general, any faults should be identified within six months of the 
date of purchase and must have been present at the point of sale.
Ive looked very carefully at the evidence in this matter. I note what SCF has said about the 
mileage done since October 2019 and that theres no information to show the car had been 
in an accident prior to October 2018.
However its fair to say that the information about this cars history is incomplete. Ive seen 
the selling dealership attempted to contact the original vendor- but without success. 
However against that I have to take into account the updated engineers report of January 
2020. This identified both extensive damage to the sub frame, which is accepted, but also 
that the damage was most likely to have occurred before Mrs B acquired it in October 2018. 
Ive seen SCF disputes this conclusion but the report has been carried out by an 
experienced engineer and on that basis I think it carries a lot of weight. Moreover SCF hasnt 
been able to show there's been more recent damage after October 2018 that would explain 
the report's conclusions. In the circumstances I propose to rely on the report and its findings.
It follows from this that the damage to the cars sub frame was in all probability present at the 
point of sale. And if that the case, then I dont consider the car was of satisfactory quality when Mrs B acquired it. The damage to the car was serious, if not immediately apparent, 
and according to the report made the car unroadworthy.
Ive seen SCF has said the selling dealership is willing to carry out the necessary repairs. 
However Mrs B has said that if shed known the car had been in an accident, she wouldnt 
have bought it and I think that's probable because of the extent of the damage and its impact 
on the car's value and performance. 
In the circumstances I think the reasonable outcome is to allow Mrs B to cancel her 
agreement with SCF and for SCF to recover the car at no cost to Mrs B. In addition it should 
reimburse the deposit paid by Mrs B together with interest at 8% simple from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement and, on production of a valid invoice or receipt, reimburse 
her the cost of any diagnostic checks or reports relating to this damage.
With regard to the monthly payments made by Mrs B under the agreement, Ive seen the car 
had covered more than 21,000 miles before the fault was identified. While that doesnt 
undermine the fact the car wasnt of satisfactory quality, it does show that Mrs B has had 
significant use and benefit from the car despite the faults. For that reason I think its fair Mrs 
B pay for that use and I wont therefore be asking Santander to also reimburse these 
payments.
I note that Mr B in this case was the primary user of this car but doesnt remove SCFs 
responsibility to ensure the car provided was of satisfactory quality and in this case, Im not 
satisfied that it was.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Santander Consumer (UK) Plc to:
Allow Mrs B to cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mrs B
Refund Mrs Bs deposit with interest at 8% simple from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2020.
 
 
Cerys Jones
Ombudsman