DRN-4340423
The complaint
Ms T complaints about how Barclays Bank UK PLC has managed her mortgage account 
during a period of financial difficulty. Overall, she feels Barclays is being unsupportive to her 
circumstances.
Ms T disputes her mortgage balance, saying that despite making payments for around 20 
years the balance hasnt reduced as it should. She is also unhappy that Barclays is reporting 
what she considers to be inaccurate information about her mortgage account to credit 
reference agencies (CRA). 
What happened
In 2002 Mrs T took a residential mortgage with Woolwich. She borrowed around £58,500 on 
capital repayment terms. The mortgage later transferred to Barclays and in 2006 Ms T 
borrowed a further £39,384  again on capital repayment terms. 
The mortgage comes with a related product, the mortgage current account (MCA). The MCA 
is a secured overdraft facility. Barclays has provided us with little information about the MCA, 
but generally they tend to work like this: as capital is repaid off the mortgage, the overdraft 
limit on the MCA increases by the same amount, due to what Barclays calls rebalancing. 
The MCA operates on an interest-only basis. Interest is usually charged as a margin above 
the Bank of England base rate. 
The overdraft becomes immediately repayable in full when the related mortgage account is 
repaid  either when the mortgage reaches the end of its term or if the mortgage is repaid 
sooner (for example, on sale or re-mortgage of the property). 
Ms T was maintaining her mortgage payments until around 2015. As such she had paid off 
some of the capital on her mortgage and in return the overdraft limit on her MCA increased 
by the same amount. Unfortunately, Ms T started to experience financial difficulty which 
impacted her ability to maintain her mortgage payments. From around 2015 arrears started 
to accrue on her mortgage and she was also borrowing against her MCA.
Barclays said that following the outcome of a panel review in late 2018, to help make the 
mortgage more affordable for Ms T, it merged her MCA balance (which at the time was 
£26,979) with her main mortgage. This was so that Barclays could apply a lower fixed 
interest rate of 2.12% for one-year across all her borrowing. Barclays also switched the 
mortgage account to interest only. 
Ms T continued to experience financial difficulty and further panel reviews took place to 
assess her circumstances and agree ways of helping her to get her account back on track. It 
appears that in around 2021 she was intending to sell her property as a way of repaying the 
mortgage and the arrears. This didnt happen and the account remains in arrears to date. 
In Mid-2021 Ms T raised a complaint with Barclays, almost identical to the one shes raised 
now with our service. Barclays issued its final response letter in June 2021  explaining the 
reason for the increased balance of Ms Ts main mortgage account  that being the merger 
of the MCA and the switch to interest only. The letter explained the additional efforts made to 
agree a way forward on the account and Barclays encouraged Ms T to get in touch to 
discuss her options further. Barclays explained that because the account has remained in 
arrears since 2015, it has correctly reported the outstanding arrears to the CRAs. 
Unhappy with Barclays response, Ms T brought her complaint to our service. An investigator 
looked into things and issued her response to the complaint in April 2022. The complaint 
wasnt upheld. Ms T didnt respond to the investigator or ask for a final decision from an 
Ombudsman, so the case was closed.
In early 2023 Ms T raised this complaint. Barclays issued a further final response letter dated 
9 March 2023 - largely covering the same ground as its previous response. 
Ms T remained unhappy and brought her complaint to our service again. A different 
investigator looked into things. The investigator started off by explaining why it would be 
inappropriate for our service to revisit any of the points that formed part of Ms Ts initial 
complaint. And she explained why she could only consider any complaint about events that 
occurred after Barclays issued it previous final response letter in June 2021 and up until the 
new complaint was answered in March 2023. 
The investigator didnt uphold the complaint explaining why she thought that Barclays had 
treated Ms T fairly and shown willingness to work with her to help get the mortgage back on 
track. She didnt find anything to suggest that the mortgage account hasnt progressed as it 
shouldve considering the circumstances or that Barclays had incorrectly reported data to the 
CRAs.
Ms T didnt agree with the investigator. She couldnt understand why her 2017 annual 
statement shows a mortgage account balance of approx. £36,000 on capital repayment 
terms. She says since then, the balance has increased, and her account was switched to 
interest only without her agreement or consent. She doesnt agree that Barclays had made 
several unsuccessful attempts to contact her to discuss the account. She says its her efforts 
to make contact with Barclays that have been in vain. 
The investigator reconsidered Ms Ts points but explained why her opinion remained 
unchanged. Because an agreement hasnt been reached, the case has been passed to me 
to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive recently had a meaningful conversation with Ms T on the phone. I thank her for her time 
and willingness to discuss matters with me. I explained the limitations of our service being 
able to reconsider matters that form part of her earlier complaint. She understood. I did 
explain that whilst I would not be making a finding on any historic points, I was able to 
remind her of our previous response to these complaint issues and help clarify a few things 
to help her understand how the mortgage has operated to date and why Barclays is 
reporting information to the CRAs in the way that it is. In this decision, Ill focus my 
determination only on new events that dont form part of Ms Ts previous complaint. 
Background
Outstanding debt Ms T disputes her current mortgage balance, and the amount Barclays says she still owes. 
Ms T has borrowed a total of around £98,000 from Barclays  in two parts. Her 
original mortgage in 2002 was for £58,500 and in 2006 she borrowed a further 
£39,384 for debt consolidation.
The mortgage came with a current account overdraft facility that Ms T was using. By 
2018 the balance of her outstanding overdraft was £26,979
So as of 2018 Ms T owed Barclays around £88,000 broken down as:
- £37,700 on her main mortgage
- £27,000 on her MCA
- £23,000 on the further borrowing sub account 
So, whilst the capital on the mortgage accounts have reduced over the years, Ms T 
did also borrow on the MCA. This was consolidated to the mortgage account which 
made the mortgage balance increase. As of 2018, the MCA should have had a zero 
balance. 
CRA reporting 
Ms T cant understand why, despite making some payments towards her mortgage over the 
years, her credit file was still showing missed payments from 2017. 
Because the account remains in arrears, until the arrears balance (currently around 
£12,000) is paid in full, or the debt is consolidated the account will continue to show 
as being in arrears. And according to the credit report Ms Ts provided, the only 
suitable way the CRA can report this is though X for missed payments, as no other 
options are suitable. This will be the case even if some payments are made. 
Adverse credit information remains on a credit record for six years so historic arrears 
will likely impact her ability to get credit elsewhere. 
Switch to interest only 
Ms T says she did not consent to a switch to interest only in 2018. 
Barclays said that following the outcome of a panel review in late 2018, to help 
make the mortgage more affordable for Ms T, it merged her MCA balance (which 
at the time was £26,979) with her main mortgage. This was so that it could apply a 
lower fixed interest rate of 2.12% for one-year across all her borrowing. Barclays 
also switched the mortgage account to interest only. It was agreed that if Ms T 
maintained her contractual payments for 12 months, Barclays would consider 
capitalising the arrears. The payments were largely made but not always on time.
The details I have of the next panel review taking place was in June 2022. An 
affordability assessment was carried out showing a monthly disposable income of 
£57.53. Barclays put an arrangement in place for Ms T to pay her contractual 
monthly payments plus an extra £57 towards her arrears. From the information 
available to me it appears the agreement was maintained, and another panel 
review was due in July 2023. This arrangement is being reflected accordingly on 
Ms Ts credit file. Ms T feels the switch to interest only was to her detriment. This again forms part of 
her initial complaint so I cant comment again on whether Barclays acted 
reasonably when switching her account to interest only. But I was able to help her 
understand that based on the declared affordability assessment at that time and 
with a disposable income of £57.53 whilst on interest only  it doesnt appear 
capital repayment was affordable for her. If shed remained on capital repayment 
at that time, its likely shed have fallen into even further financial difficulty due to 
the increased arrears  including additional interest, and fees and charges 
applied. 
I do hope the explanation I have given will help Ms T to better understand the position of her 
account to date and help her to draw a line under these issues. As explained the key finding 
Ill be making here is in terms of next steps to help Ms T get her account back on track and 
to ensure shes receiving the right support from Barclays.
Next Steps
As explained, my decision is limited to being able to consider the forbearance options 
Barclays has offered Ms T since Ms Ts last complaint was responded to by our service in 
April 2022. 
When Ms T brought this complaint to our service, she was on a payment arrangement. That 
arrangement has since ended in July 2023 and its not clear what review, if any, has taken 
place by Barclays to reassess Ms Ts current circumstances.
I understand there has been some communication issues amongst the parties. Ms T has 
evidenced calls she has tried to make to Barclays, and she has explained that despite being 
clear that due to her job she is completely uncontactable at certain times, she still receives 
calls at inconvenient times that she cant take. 
Ms T is aware that she needs to contact the Specialist Support team (SST) on 
0333 202 7418 as theyre best placed to help her to discuss her available options and next 
steps. Ms T says she will make some time to call Barclays. If Barclays needs to call Ms T 
back for any reason, or follow up calls are needed, I do expect Barclays to adhere to the 
agreed time provided by Ms T (so long as these are within reasonable business hours) to 
ensure smooth communication.
I expect Barclays to treat Ms T fairly, by discussing her circumstances with her to try to get 
the mortgage back on track. Any future plans will need to be agreed between the parties 
themselves. Barclays isnt reasonably expected to offer a concession without first going 
through Ms Ts circumstances, as it could be irresponsible for it to do so. Without reviewing 
Ms Ts circumstances, Barclays may be risk of agreeing to something that might be 
inappropriate or unaffordable for her.
But the onus doesnt stop entirely with Barclays. Ms T also needs to engage meaningfully 
with Barclays about her circumstances, and supply any reasonable evidence it requests, 
such as detailed information about her income and expenditure and potentially pay slips or 
similar evidence of her income.
Although Barclays cant dedicate a single point of contact to the case, it has provided the 
telephone number for its SST for Ms T to make contact. As such I encourage Ms T to make 
contact in the way described. She is aware that its her responsibility to directly communicate 
any suitable proposals and Barclays is required to consider all of the possible concessions 
available in light of Ms Ts current circumstances  even those that may have previously 
been considered to be unsuitable  as things have since changed. Once the parties have engaged, proposals have been fairly considered and Barclays has 
made its decision regarding next steps for the account, if Ms T remains unhappy, then she 
can potentially complain again. I do hope that it wont come to that as both parties appear to 
be keen to agree a way forward. I must also remind Ms T that if further complaints are 
referred to our service - we will only be able to consider events from the date of this final 
decision onwards. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint because based on the limited part of 
Ms Ts complaint that Im able to consider, I cant reasonably say at this stage that Barclays 
has acted unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman