DRN-2370859
The complaint
Miss C complains about her bank Barclays Bank UK plc. She says the bank failed to protect 
her from the financial harm caused by an investment scammer. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some key events here. In August 2019 Miss C was sadly the victim of an 
investment scam. Having been tricked into believing it was a genuine opportunity, Miss C 
made one international bank transfer of £1,300 (on 23 August 2019) from her current 
account with Barclays to the account details provided by the scammer. 
Miss C contacted Barclays on 16 October 2019 with her suspicions and Barclays in turn 
contacted the beneficiary bank as an attempt to recover her payment. The beneficiary bank 
confirmed no funds remained and Miss C complained that Barclays ought to have done 
more to protect her. She felt it should refund her in accordance with the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) code. Barclays said it did all it could to assist her and it didnt 
think it could have done more. 
The complaint was referred to our service and one of our investigators didnt recommend 
that Barclays needed to do anything further. He was satisfied Barclays couldnt reasonably 
have done more to prevent or respond to the fraud. Miss C disagrees and has asked for an 
ombudsman to review her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. I understand this will be deeply disappointing for Miss C, and Im sorry to 
hear shes been the victim of such a cruel scam. 
Barclays are aware of our general position on a PSPs safeguarding and due diligence 
duties to protect customers from the risk of financial harm due to fraud. We have published 
many decisions on our website setting out these principles and quoting the relevant rules 
and regulations. It is unnecessary to rehearse them again here in detail.
It is common ground that the disputed payment was authorised by Miss C for the purposes 
of the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. This is 
because it was made by Miss C using the legitimate security credentials provided to her by 
Barclays. This must be regarded as an authorised payment even though Miss C was the 
victim of a scam. So, although she did not intend the money to go to scammers, under the 
Regulations, and under the terms and conditions of her account, Miss C is presumed liable 
for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Barclays should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accountsand any payments made or receivedto counter 
various risks, including anti-money-laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment; or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
I am not satisfied there were enough triggers in this case to have alerted Barclays that Miss 
Cs account was being subjected to unusual and uncharacteristic activity. I say this because 
Miss C has made international payments in the past and the single transaction of £1,300 
was not an unusual or uncharacteristic sum for Miss C to pay. As such, I dont think Barclays 
ought reasonably to have had concerns where Id have expected them to have intervened. 
So, I cant fairly say that Barclays could have prevented the loss. 
By the time Miss C told Barclays that her payment had been made as a result of a scam, 
Miss Cs funds had already left the beneficiary account. Im satisfied that Barclays 
responded to the notification of fraud and tried to recover Miss Cs payment quickly. 
Therefore, I dont think there were any failings that prevented Miss C recovering her money. 
I appreciate Miss C feels the CRM code is relevant to her case and she should be refunded 
in accordance with it. But the CRM code excludes international payments, so it is not 
relevant in Miss Cs case.   
Im sorry to hear that Miss C has lost this sum of money to a scammer. But
ultimately this is the fault of the criminal acts of the scammers. And I dont think there are
failings by Barclays which resulted in a missed opportunity to prevent Miss Cs loss or
that would have resulted in more money being recovered. As such, Im not going to tell 
Barclays to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman