DRN-3357099
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with how Inter Partner Assistance SA (Inter) dealt with some queries he 
raised when his travel insurance policy was due to renew. 
What happened
On 10 March 2020 Mr H purchased an annual multi-trip insurance policy, covering him for 
holidays taken worldwide. The agreed start date of the policy was 16 March 2020, with it 
ending a year later. The policy provided Mr H with cover for any trips within this time, subject 
to the terms and conditions of the policy. The premium charged for the policy was £40.60. 
Following this years cover, Mr Hs travel insurance policy was due to renew. So, around this 
time Mr H contacted Inter. He said that he hadnt been able to use the insurance policy that 
had been in place between 16 March 2020 and 16 March 2021  because of the global 
coronavirus pandemic, and the restrictions placed on travel due to it. 
Because of this, Mr H felt Inter should recognise this lack of use  by either refunding the 
premium paid for that year, extending the cover so he could use it (instead of purchasing a 
renewal), or by giving him a discount for the renewal policy due to start.
Inter said it wasnt able to carry out any of those options. It said the policy had been in place 
for the year and provided cover for this time  so it had done what it was supposed to do. It 
also noted that only way a refund could have been given for the policy was if Mr H had 
cancelled it within its first 15 days, as the terms and conditions of the policy detailed.
Mr H remained unhappy with this. So, he referred his complaint to this service for an 
independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint about set out the details of the relevant 
cancellation rights  and how they applied in the circumstances of the case. They also 
explained that it is a fundamental principle of insurance law, that if the insurer has stated to 
bear a risk  for however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. The investigator 
said that this meant its not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to the 
risk it covered at the time.
The investigator also explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of 
insurance to be performed, because cover under the policy started on 16 March 2020 and 
covered various risks from that point. 
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
But, as the policy had been in place for the year, and had provided cover  whether used or 
not, they didnt think Inter had done anything wrong by keeping the premium for the policy 
year, and noting a new premium would be due for renewal.
Mr H didnt agree. He said:
The insurer wasnt carrying any risk at all, because of government restrictions around 
travel, as well as because there were regulations in place that meant travel providers 
needed to provide refunds for package holidays. And so, in asking for a refund of the 
unused part of his travel insurance policy, he was making a reasonable request
He hadnt known about the implications of the global pandemic on insurance
Inter hadnt sold him a policy suitable for his needs.
Our investigator responded and discussed the risks the policy did carry. And said that if Mr H 
felt his policy had been mis-sold to him, he would need to raise this with his insurer in the 
first instance.
Because Mr H didnt agree his complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ive explained why below.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case, so I wont 
repeat these again in detail here.
The terms and conditions of the policy say:
Premium refund within 15 days of issue. If this insurance does not meet your needs, we will 
cancel your policy within 15 days of issue and refund your premium in full, providing you 
have not already taken your trip or intend to make a claim. We will not refund your 
premium, or any part of it, after the 15 days have passed.
If you subsequently give notice in writing or by telephone to us to cancel this insurance, 
such cancellation shall take effect on the next renewal date. No refund of premium will be 
made.
Im not upholding this complaint because:
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling-off period and so there is no requirement under 
the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a refund to Mr H. 
The policy terms allow for cancellation within 15 days of issue, but Mr H didnt cancel his 
policy within this term. And so, the terms of the policy dont allow for cancellation either.
Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint, 
including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-19. And in the 
circumstances of this case, Im satisfied Inters decision not to provide a refund, extension or 
discount as a result of what happened in the previous insurance year, is fair and reasonable.
Mr H was insured from 16 March 2020 when the policy started, until the 16 March 2021. The 
policy was never cancelled. And Mr H was covered for any number of trips he took, in line 
with the terms and conditions of his policy. Whether Mr H went on any trips or not, Inter was 
covering the risk of a claim occurring during this time. And the premium charged to Mr H 
reflected this.I do understand Mr H has said Inter wasnt insuring any risk when the government placed 
restrictions on travel, or when the area he was living in was placed in tier three or four. And 
that packaged travel regulations would have covered any loss of holiday funds. 
But the policy didnt just provide Mr H with cover whilst he was actually on holiday. The 
policy would still have provided cover for various risks for its duration. For example, it would 
have provided cover for cancellation claims in certain circumstances. And whilst the 
regulations to which Mr H refers does provide a safety net for some types of holiday, it 
doesnt provide cover for all situations. And given the nature of an annual multi-trip policy, 
Inter wouldnt reasonably know what sort of holidays Mr H had, or would, book. 
I accept that if Mr H had cancelled his insurance policy it may have been reasonable to 
provide him with some refund  to take into account he was saying he no longer wanted 
cover in place. And that he wouldnt be claiming in the future. But Mr H didnt cancel, and so 
Im satisfied Inter were on risk for the whole of the policy term.
I appreciate Mr H has said that when he purchased the policy, he didnt have any idea of 
how a global coronavirus pandemic would affect insurance. And I dont dispute this. But that 
doesnt mean Inter has acted unfairly. Neither the policy or industry guidelines provide for a 
refund in this sort of circumstance. And Ive seen no evidence the regulator of the industry 
said that travel insurer shouldnt be providing insurance at this time.
Mr H has raised some concerns about the purchase of his policy, which occurred on 10 
March 2020. He feels that Inter sold him a policy that wasnt suitable for his needs. But as 
noted by our investigator, Mr H would need to raise this with Inter in the first instance. And 
so, this point doesnt form part of my decision, or my outcome on this complaint.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
Inter Partner Assistance SA to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2022.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman