DRN-3974965
The complaint
Miss M complains that Fund Ourselves Limited (FOL) lent to her irresponsibly. Miss M says 
that if it had reviewed her bank account statements it would have seen information about her 
spending which would have led it not to lend at all. 
What happened
Using information provided by FOL, here is a loan table.
Loan Approved Amount Rate and term Repaid
1 22 April 2021 £200 4 x £89.60 28 April 2021
2 29 April 2021 £250 4 x £123 28 May 2021
3 28 May 2021 £250 4 x £124.50 29 May 2021
4 24 June 2021 £320 4 x £159.36 26 October 2021
Miss M declared to FOL when applying that her income was £1,630 a month and her 
expenditure was £860. FOL carried out a verification of her income using a credit reference 
agency tool which indicated to it that her income was as she had said it was. 
FOL carried out credit searches as well and copies of those for each loan have been sent to 
us. After Miss M had complained and sent to FOL her bank account statements with her 
complaint letter, FOL issued its final response letter (FRL) dated 4 July 2022. It did not 
uphold her complaint. And it pointed out that Miss M had tried to apply for a further four 
loans after repaying loan 4 and all applications were declined. It said: If we did not carry out 
sufficient affordability checks, then these additional loans would've also been approved.
Miss M referred it to the Financial Ombudsman Service where one of our adjudicators 
considered it. 
She wrote to both parties to say that she did not think that FOL had done anything wrong as 
it had carried out proportionate checks.
Miss M responded to say that if FOL had looked at her bank statements it would not have 
lent. Miss M said that as she was taking a loan pretty much immediately after repaying the 
one before then FOL ought to have done further checks. Miss M said: 
 Loan 4 should have definitely prompted additional checks as it was for more money 
and there was a lot of high interest loans showing on my credit report at this time 
where payments were more than my monthly income.
And she had received a decision from another ombudsman for loans taken with a different 
company around the same time who had upheld her complaint. So, she wanted the 
complaint with FOL to be reviewed.
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what I consider to be 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. We have set out our general 
approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the relevant rules, guidance 
and good industry practice - on our website. 
FOL needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss M could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could include several different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers 
income and expenditure. 
In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that FOL should 
fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the 
consumer. 
These factors include:
having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a level of income);
having many loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time (reflecting 
the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable);
coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
FOL was required to establish whether Miss M could sustainably repay her loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being the 
ability to repay without undue difficulties. The customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments, and without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further 
in order to do that.
I have carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ms complaint.
General considerations for Miss MThe first point to make to Miss M is that none of these loans were particularly large. They 
were relatively modest and that does make some difference to the way Id expect a lender to 
approach loan applications for relatively modest loans. 
The second point to make is that good repayment history is a factor that a lender is expected 
to input into any creditworthiness assessment. And so, the quick repayment of the first three 
loans likely would have been a positive factor from the lenders perspective.
Thirdly, I appreciate that Miss M is trying to establish that if FOL had reviewed her bank 
account statements then it may well have picked up on what she has described as her own 
gambling spending at that time. I was sorry to read of this and I hope that matters have 
improved for Miss M. But reviewing bank account statements is not necessarily an action a 
potential lender is expected to take. Theres no regulatory requirement to do that, and I must 
look to see if proportionate checks have been carried out by FOL. 
And within the context of Miss M having approached FOL to apply for a loan and wanting a 
loan I do have to account for the fact that Miss M may not have sent any information to FOL 
which might have affected the application. I must consider that in my experience its not likely 
that Miss M would have applied for a loan, wanted and needed the money and then supplied 
information which may well have scuppered the application to obtain the loan. 
A point of detail is that the bank statements sent to us by FOL were received by it as part of 
its complaint investigation. It did not hold Miss Ms statements before the lending decisions 
were made. 
My fourth observation in general is that Miss M has sent to us another ombudsmans 
decision about some other lending about which she has complained. All complaints are 
considered individually. And so, although I may well be aware of Miss Ms other cases here 
and her other lending when I make my decision, the uphold on one complaint does not 
automatically lead to upholds on others. 
Irresponsible lending
For each of the loans FOL had information about Miss Ms income and her expenditure. And 
that did indicate that she was able to afford the loans. Income: £1,630 Expenditure: £860.
FOL carried out credit searches as well and I have reviewed those carefully. There was no 
requirement for FOL to have obtained a credit search but what I do not consider appropriate 
is for it to have got that credit report and then not acted on the information within it. And the 
credit search information Miss M may have from her own credit report could well be different 
to that which FOL obtains through its business channels. 
For loan 1, the credit search showed to FOL that Miss M had 13 active accounts of which 
three had been opened in the previous six months. Her total indebtedness was £1,813 and 
although she looked to have been over her limit on one of the revolving credit accounts 
(which includes credit cards) the overall figures were relatively low. Miss M had taken no 
loans. It did look as though Miss D had received a default within the past 12 months and 
three within the previous three years. 
No other issues were registered such as insolvencies or judgments. 
FOL was not likely to have been concerned about this credit report and if Miss M wonders 
why its because lenders such as FOL often receive applications from customers who may 
have some adverse entries on their credit reports. Its not unusual for lenders such as FOL. And as I have said earlier, the first loan as a new customer and for £200, I consider that FOL 
carried out proportionate checks. I do not uphold Miss Ms complaint about loan 1. 
For Loan 2, FOL had the same income and expenditure and it is not likely that this would 
have differed as the time between applying for loans 1 and 2 was a week. And so, its not 
likely that any of the information had changed. So, for the same reasons I do not consider 
that Miss Ms complaint should be upheld for loan 1, I make the same finding for loan 2. 
Miss M applied for loan 3 the day she paid off loan 2. It was for £250 which was the same 
value as loan 2. 
FOL had the same information about her income and expenditure. It obtained a new credit 
search. I have reviewed a copy of that done on 24 June 2021. 
Miss M had 16 active accounts of which 10 had been opened in the previous six months, two 
of which likely would have been the other two FOL accounts. Her total outstanding debt 
balance was £1,972 which included her revolving credit outstanding balance which was 
lower than for loans 1 and 2. Part of this picture was that Miss M had loans which she was 
still paying off as follows:
Loan taken 16 May 2021  - £72 each month
Loan taken 29 April 2021  - £66 each month
Loan taken 29 April 2021 - £123 each month  likely the FOL loan 2 which had been paid off 
and FOL would have known that. There is always a reporting time lag with credit reports. 
This FOL loan was due to be £124 a month (just over) and so her credit indebtedness for 
loans would have been a total of £262. And so even including the revolving credit debts still 
I consider that Miss M would have been able to afford loan 3. Miss M repaid loan 3 quickly. 
I do not uphold Miss Ms complaint for loan 3. 
There was a gap of almost a month before Miss M approached FOL for loan 4. And that 
would not have indicated to FOL that Miss M was in financial trouble in some way as that 
gap, plus Miss Ms good repayment record and satisfactory credit searches all would have 
pointed towards Miss M being a reliable customer. 
It carried out a fresh credit search. It looks as though it utilised her same income and 
outgoing figures and I dont consider that unreasonable in these circumstances. 
The new credit search done on 24 June 2021 showed Miss M had 20 active accounts of 
which 15 had opened in the previous six months of which 3 would have been the FOL 
accounts. Her total outstanding debt balance was £5,234 and her revolving credit limit had 
increased but not her outstanding balance. 
So, this headline information when compared to the earlier credit searches ought to have 
told FOL that Miss M was taking more loans rather than using her credit cards. But that 
alone would not likely have been a concern, and Miss Ms overall debt balance was still 
relatively modest. But it had increased since April 2021.  
Here it seems that Miss M had the following loans and monthly repayments: 
Loan taken 29 April 2021 - £66 month
Loan taken 18 May 2021 - £70 
Loan taken 28 May 2021 - £199 regular repayment  frequency unclear
Loan taken 16 May 2021  balance in late May 2021 was £217  repayment going forward 
unknownThe same default history was present and I note that one was from June 2018, another from 
November 2018 and had been paid off, another from May 2019. 
Miss M has said that around the time she was taking the FOL loans she was paying for 
another loan with another lender, the repayments for which were £500 a month. Ive not 
found that as an outstanding loan with that repayment on the report obtained by FOL. 
And as Miss M has helpfully supplied some details of that other loan then I can see that its 
loan 2 (with the other lender) was repaid a few days before Miss M applied to FOL for this 
loan 4. And the other lenders loan 3 was approved on 23 June 2021 and credit searches did 
not register new loans that quickly. I would not consider it unreasonable for FOL not to have 
been aware of the other lenders newly approved loan on 23 June 2021  the repayment for 
which was almost £479 a month. 
Still, I think that loan 4 would have been affordable. 
I would have considered it disproportionate for FOL to ask for and review bank account 
statements before approving loan 4. And so, unless Miss M had informed it of her spending 
concerns then I do not think that FOL knew of it or ought to have known of it. Ive not seen 
any evidence that Miss M informed FOL of her spending issues. 
I do not uphold Miss Ms complaint about loan 4. 
I am aware that Miss M applied four times after loan 4 all of which FOL declined. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 May 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman