DRN-3415872
The complaint
Mr P complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Amazon Classic MasterCard was irresponsible 
in increasing the credit limit of his credit card account.
What happened
Mr P opened a credit card account with NewDay in July 2019 with a credit limit of £500. In 
August 2020 his credit limit was increased to £1,500. This was increased again to £2,500 in 
January 2021 and in May 2021 this was increased again to £4,000.
In late 2021 Mr P complained to NewDay that it had been irresponsible in increasing his 
credit limit. He said that he had only been able to make minimum or slightly above minimum 
payments and he had been using much of the available credit. NewDay rejected this and 
said it had carried out appropriate checks at the time he first applied for a card. In addition to 
details he had provided about his income and indebtedness it had reviewed external 
information. It believed the offer of a card with a £500 limit was reasonable.
It said Mr P had the option of refusing the subsequent increases, but he had not done so. 
Before proposing increased limits, it had reviewed his use of the account and external 
information. It said adequate checks had been carried out to ensure the borrowing was 
affordable.
Mr P didnt agree and brought his complaint to this service where it was reviewed by one of 
our investigators who recommended it be upheld.
He thought that the checks carried out in July 2019 had been proportionate and he didnt 
think there were grounds for refusal. However, he felt the decision to increase the limit to 
£1,500 was wrong. He noted that Mr Ps unsecured debt had risen from £20,100 to £25,638. 
Mr P had also incurred two late payment fees in January and February 2020 and was using 
almost all his credit limit. 
Our investigator obtained Mr Ps bank statements and noted he was using most of his 
£3,000 overdraft facility and the £750 facility on another account. He considered Mr Ps 
repayments on all lines of credit to have become unsustainable. Finally, he noted that Mr Ps 
net salary was some £328 less than NewDay had calculated. He said that the increased limit 
had been inappropriate and it followed that the subsequent increases were also 
inappropriate.
NewDay didnt agree and said it wasnt obliged to look at bank statements or payslips. It said 
that Mr Ps spending on the card was not on necessities and it didnt think there were any 
warning signs at the time the limit was first increased. It said the account utilisation was 
irrelevant and when the first increase was offered it had nine months worth of data to 
support its decision. The late payments had occurred more than six months earlier and this 
had not been repeated.
It had relied on its affordability model and Mr P had met its requirements. It said that it had 
carried out reasonable and proportionate checks and it believed the higher limits were 
sustainable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am in agreement with our investigator and NewDay that the original credit card limit was 
appropriate and I am satisfied that the checks were reasonable and proportionate. However, 
I have concerns about the subsequent increases. 
I have noted that Mr P did not refuse them, but nor did he ask for them. They were given to 
him and he had to actively refuse the new limits if he didnt want them. Given his personal 
circumstances at the time of going through a divorce I can see that the temptation was put in 
front of him all to easily. 
I can see that NewDay used its internal models to determine if his limit could be increased, 
but I fear that in this case it generated the wrong answer. I agree that NewDay didnt gain a 
clearer understanding of Mr Ps financial situation. Its calculation of his net income was out 
by some 11%. I would add that I am satisfied that Mr P gave the correct information about 
his salary on his application for the original card.
Having reviewed his credit report I can see that he was borrowing heavily and was reliant on 
credit, regardless of what he was spending it on. I am satisfied that he was stretched 
financially and increasing the limit only exacerbated his indebtedness. His unsecured debt 
had increased by some 28% by the time the first increase was offered and I find it hard to 
conclude that offering him further opportunities to increase that debt was the most 
advantageous for him.
Furthermore, the increase by 150% seems unduly high in his circumstances. If the increase 
had been relatively small I may have concluded that it was proportionate but increasing it by 
£1,000 does not seem appropriate. 
I acknowledge that checks were carried out, but I believe that these were not sufficient to 
allow NewDay to fully understand Mr Ps situation and as a result I consider that it resulted in 
him being given unaffordable debt.
It follows that the subsequent increases were based on a flawed decision in August 2020 
and I consider those also to be flawed.
Putting things right
NewDay should refund interest as set out below.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct NewDay Ltd to:
1. Refund all the interest and charges Mr P has paid to date on borrowing
over £500.
2. If the borrowing is still in place, it should reduce the outstanding capital balance by the 
amount calculated at Step 1.
3. If, after Step 2, there remains an outstanding capital balance, NewDay should ensure that it isnt subject to any historic or future interest and/or charges. But if Step 2 leads to a 
positive balance, the amount in question should be given back to Mr P and 8% simple 
interest* should be added to the surplus.
4. NewDay should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ps credit file in relation 
to this account..
*HM Revenue & Customs may require the business to take off tax from this interest. If it 
does, the business must give the consumer a certificate showing how much tax its taken off 
if they ask for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman