DRN-3536242
The complaint
Mr M complains that Well Dunn Limited (Well Dunn) acting as his broker failed to provide 
accurate information to his insurer resulting in an increased premium under his motor trade 
policy.
What happened
In June 2021 Mr M agreed a motor trade policy through Well Dunn. He says he told its agent 
that hed had an accident and that he was at fault. He explained the third-party had not yet 
made an insurance claim but intended doing so. 
Mr M says he had a motor trade policy prior to the Covid pandemic, which had four years no 
claims bonus. This was also recorded during his application. 
Mr M says he received an email in October 2021 to tell him the policy would cancel in seven 
days. He then discovered that Well Dunn had incorrectly recorded the accident he reported 
as being a non-fault claim. His insurer was aware the claim had since been settled as a fault 
claim. And because of this it increased its premium by £2,307.96 and removed two years 
from Mr Ms no claims bonus. 
Well Dunn says it shouldnt have recorded the claim as non-fault. It offered to pay £859.85 
towards the increased premium as well as £100 compensation. Well Dunn didnt think it 
should pay the full amount. It says the non-fault claim was clearly documented in the policy 
information it sent to Mr M. It says he didnt bring this error to its attention. Well Dunn says 
by the time the premium had increased the policy was several months old and cancelling 
wasnt the best option. 
Well Dunn says Mr M is unlikely to have found a cheaper premium based on his correct 
claims history and remaining no claims bonus. It doesnt think it should pay to subsidise the 
correct premium he wouldve paid anyway. 
Mr M doesnt agree. He says Well Dunn is responsible for this error. He says he couldve 
shopped around for a cheaper quote had he known the correct premium. Mr M says he has 
spent time dealing with this matter, which has been stressful.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Im sorry to disappoint him, but 
I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
Well Dunn doesnt dispute that its agent recorded Mr Ms pending claim as non-fault when 
he took out the policy. This was a mistake. It says the claim shouldve been recorded as 
outstanding or Mr M shouldve been advised to speak to his previous insurer to get an 
update before setting up his policy. 
Ive listened to the sales call recording when this is discussed. Mr M declares the accident 
and says he understands that the other driver is making a claim. The agent asks how long 
ago this was and Mr M says six months. The agent refers to this is no-fault when he 
records the information. 
Ive read through the documentation Mr M was sent by Well Dunn. This includes a statement 
of fact detailing the questions he was asked and the answers he gave. In the section about 
accidents during the past three years, the accident Mr M declared is recorded as occurring in 
January 2021. It says, At fault then No. 
Well Dunn was at fault for recording the accident information incorrectly. This isnt in dispute. 
But, the statement of fact Mr M was sent tells him that if any information is incorrect, he must 
inform Well Dunn immediately. It says failure to do so can mean an increase in premium, 
change in terms and conditions, a claim not being fully paid, or the policy being made void. 
The accident is clearly set out in the document showing Mr M wasnt at fault  this is at odds 
with what he told Well Dunns agent. So, I think its view that Mr M shouldve reported this is 
reasonable.  
Well Dunn made the initial mistake, but equally Mr M was responsible to ensure the 
information set out in the statement of fact was accurate. The document explains that this 
information is used when calculating the premium and setting the terms and conditions of the 
policy. 
Mr M says he supplied information to Well Dunn by email in June 2021 to support his no 
claims bonus. He says its comments arent accurate that it didnt receive this evidence until 
September 2021. 
I havent seen information that shows the no-claims supporting information was sent in June 
2021. I note well Dunn disputes this was received at this time. 
Mr M says he couldve shopped around for other policies had he known the true cost of his 
policy through Well Dunn. Ive thought about this point. But I dont think hes shown that 
cheaper cover wouldve been available given the impact of the at-fault claim from January 
2021. Well Dunn says it searched for other quotes when the mistake was identified  but 
could find nothing cheaper. 
We asked Mr M if he could show cheaper insurance was available. But he wasnt able to 
provide information to support this. 
I acknowledge Mr Ms comments that he was initially told the sales call had been listened to 
 and he was told he hadnt told its agent about the accident. I dont dispute Mr Ms 
comments. Its clear that he did disclose the accident during his initial call. This is what Well 
Dunn has since confirmed. And it has accepted it was at fault for the initial mistake its agent 
made when recording the accident as non-fault. 
Having considered all this, I dont think Well Dunn treated Mr M fairly when recording 
inaccurate information about the accident he declared from January 2021. There is an onus 
on Mr M to have told Well Dunn about this mistake when he read the policy documents he 
received. In the circumstances I think its offer of £959.85 to compensate for its mistake is 
fair. I dont think its been shown that Mr M will have obtained cheaper insurance, which he 
needed to run his business. So, in these circumstances I think Well Dunns offer is 
reasonable. If it hasnt already done so it should pay this amount to Mr M. But I cant fairly 
ask it to do any more.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman