DRN-2437425
The complaint
Mr K complains that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited mis-sold a 
whole of life assurance policy to him in 1991. He said the policy didnt meet his requirements 
because a substantial part of the policy was life assurance which he already had through his 
employer. 
What happened
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said the policy booklet from 
the point of sale explained that Mr K had three options to decide how his policy would work. 
And all three options available mentioned life cover was a part of the policy. Mr K chose the 
minimum sum assured which meant most contributions would be for investing. 
Our Investigator added that he didnt think it was unreasonable for Mr K to be sold a policy 
which had life cover attached to it despite having life cover through his employer at the time. 
He said there was no guarantee Mr K would remain with that employer over the long term, 
and so the life cover he had wasnt guaranteed. 
Mr K disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsmans review. He said that he wanted an 
investment policy not life cover, and he didnt think he was given the option to cancel the 
policy within fourteen days. Mr K said he expected Royal London to have more information 
from the sale and felt this was being withheld from this service. He felt Royal London had no 
evidence to show why this policy was suitable for him at the point of sale.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mr K feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to him, so Ill explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome.
I should also add that Ive not seen copies of all the paperwork from the point of sale, and so 
I dont know what exactly was discussed between Mr K and Royal London about his needs 
or requirements. I note Mr K feels more information should be available from the sale. But 
given the time that has passed its not unusual for all the documentation to no longer be 
available. And because this information isnt available doesnt mean the complaint should be 
upheld. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I must make my decision 
on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely than not to have 
happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
The application form which was completed by the salesman (and signed by Mr K) recorded 
his priorities as savings and life cover. There is also a handwritten note by the salesman 
which explains that Mr K is looking at an investment to move into life cover at a later date. I 
note this policy was set up as minimum sum assured, which placed a priority on the 
purchasing of units for investment which matches what was noted on the application form.
 
So, Im satisfied this shows a discussion took place about Mr Ks policy having both an 
investment and life cover elements. 
Mr K believes the policy was unsuitable because he already had life cover with his employer. 
But I dont agree. Having additional life cover over the long term seems sensible to protect 
him against unforeseen changes in his health, and the cover through his employer wasnt 
guaranteed. So, I believe this cover wasnt unsuitable for Mr K because it offers a 
guaranteed future benefit.
Mr K has said he wasnt given a fourteen-day cooling off period because the policy was sold 
at his home. But Ive seen that the policy booklet explains the option to cancel the policy 
within fourteen days if Mr K wasnt happy with the policy. So, Im satisfied he did have the 
option to cancel the policy if he wanted to. 
Taking everything into account I dont think Royal London mis-sold the whole of life policy to 
Mr K. And so, I wont be asking it to take any action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2021.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman