DRN-2083072
The complaint
Miss G says Santander UK Plc (Santander) didnt do enough to help when she fell victim to 
a scam. She says Santander should reimburse her for the money she lost.
What happened
On 30 April 2019, Miss G authorised a payment of £800 to a company for a holiday abroad. 
The payment was made through her mobile online banking. Miss G was due to fly on 
16 May 2019.
When Miss G arrived at the airport, she was informed there was no flights booked. Miss G 
had unfortunately been scammed. 
The company and website were in fact fake and were imitating a genuine company, with 
there being only a slight difference in the spelling of the name. So Miss G had in fact made 
the payment to a fraudster.
Miss G contacted Santander on 17 May 2019, to let it know she had been the victim of a 
scam. 
Santander logged the fraud claim and contacted the receiving bank (the bank used by the 
fraudster) to see if it could recover all or any of the funds for Miss G. 
The receiving bank immediately restricted the account where the funds had gone to but 
advised Santander on 20 May 2019 that no funds remained. So Miss Gs payment wasnt 
able to be recovered.
Santander wrote to Miss G on 24 May 2019 explaining that as Miss G had authorised the 
transaction, it wasnt responsible for the loss. It also explained that the receiving bank had 
explained that no funds remained in the account so Miss Gs payment couldnt be recovered. 
Unhappy, Miss G complained to Santander. Santander then wrote to Miss G with its final 
response on 22 July 2019 remaining of the opinion that it considered it hadnt done anything 
wrong as Miss G had willingly made the payment. It further explained that it had tried to 
recover the money but unfortunately no funds remained.
Within Santanders letter, it advised Miss G that she could refer the matter to our service if 
she remained unhappy. 
Miss G subsequently brought her complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld as they didnt think Santander 
ought to have done more to identify the payment as potentially fraudulent in the 
circumstances. And they also felt Santander couldnt have reasonably done anymore to try 
and recover the funds from the receiving bank. They were satisfied Santander had contacted 
the receiving bank after Miss G had informed it that she had become a victim of a scam, but 
unfortunately no funds remained by this time.
 
Miss G disagreed with our investigators assessment. A particular concern Miss G had was 
that it wasnt noted within the investigators view that Santander, during a call with her, had 
informed her that it was aware of the fraudulent activities of the company in question. So 
Miss G thought more could have been done by Santander to prevent her from falling victim 
to fraud. Miss G also considered that as a customer her money should be safe guarded and 
felt the outcome Santander and the investigator had reached was unjust. Miss G says she 
has lost faith in the security and safety of her funds being protected if she makes a payment.
After listening to the calls between Santander and Miss G our investigator let Miss G know 
that he hadnt heard Santander say it was specifically aware of the fake company that had 
scammed Miss G. Our investigator explained that Santander had explained to Miss G it was 
aware of similar scams whereby scam / fake websites pose as legitimate websites.
Our investigator remained of the opinion that the complaint shouldnt be upheld. And as 
Miss G disagreed, and as the matter hasnt been resolved, its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Miss Gs complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ill explain why.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. 
It is the case that Miss G authorised the payment in dispute  and thats accepted by all 
parties. And under the Payment Service Regulations 2017 (which are the relevant 
regulations in place here) that means Miss G is responsible for the payment.  That remains 
the case even though Miss G was the unfortunate victim of a scam.
There are times when I might expect a bank to question a transaction or payment, even 
though it may have been properly authorised. Broadly speaking, firms like Santander have 
certain obligations to protect customers from fraud.
In this case, I need to decide whether Santander acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Miss G when she made a payment of £800 to a new payee, or whether it should have 
done more than it did.Ive thought about this carefully. From what Ive seen, there isnt anything unusual or 
remarkable about the payment or the amount that ought to have alerted Santander to the 
possibility Miss G was being scammed. Banks process a high volume of transfers and 
transactions each day. And a bank has to strike a balance as to when it should possibly 
intervene on a payment against not holding up or delaying its customers requests. 
In this case, Miss G had enough funds in her account and the payments werent clearing or 
emptying Miss Gs account, which can often be an indicator of a scam. I dont think there 
were grounds for Santander to be suspicious Miss G may be a victim of fraud. All things 
considered, I think the fact that Santander didnt flag the payment as suspicious was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
I appreciate Miss G, following her calls with Santander, raised her concerns to the 
investigator that she recalled that Santander explained to her that it knew the company 
where she made the payment to, was a fake company. And considered that payments 
shouldnt be able to be made where the receiving account is a fraudulent account. 
Having listened to the calls, I agree with our investigator. The adviser at Santander spoke to 
Miss G at length about her complaint and the outcome of its investigation. The call is around 
20 minutes in length. The adviser explains, in some detail about the variety of scams and 
what happens. They also talk around the particular scam Miss G had fallen victim to. The 
adviser explained that Santander is aware of fake websites posing as legitimate websites 
and that this a common scam used by fraudsters. The adviser also explained how it is better 
to pay via card rather than a transfer / faster payment as there are some protections when 
making payments by card. 
But from listening to the call, the adviser didnt say Santander was aware of the fake 
company Miss G had specifically used. The adviser also says that had Santander been 
aware that the account, where the payment was made to, was being used fraudulently, it 
would have a marker placed on it meaning no payment could be made to that account. The 
adviser also explained that unfortunately fraudsters have multiple accounts running and 
sometimes use accounts of unsuspecting victims if they have obtained their details.
Santander in its response to the investigator also reiterated this point. It explained that if it 
had been aware that the company / account Miss G was dealing with was fraudulent, 
measures would have already been put in place to prevent its customers from making any 
payments to that account.
I do understand Miss Gs frustration and concern that payments simply shouldnt be able to 
be made to fraudulent accounts. And as a customer that she isnt to know if the account is 
fraudulent and that banks should protect its customers and payments as they know the 
account where the payment is going to. 
Unfortunately, fraudsters are able to set up bank accounts that will on the face of it seem 
genuine  and it isnt known to be being fraudulently used until a scam or fraudulent 
transaction is reported. But once reported, banks can then implement measures such as 
restricting access, blocking payments or closing accounts and reporting the information to 
the relevant authorities. I note this was also explained to Miss G by Santanders adviser. And 
I also note that in this case, the receiving bank informed Santander that it had restricted the 
account as soon as it was informed. Although I realise that this will be of little consolation to 
Miss G.I have also gone on to look at whether Santander acted promptly and in a timely manner in 
trying to seek to recover the funds once it was notified of the scam. Santander contacted the 
receiving bank after Miss G had let it know she had been the victim of a scam but 
unfortunately, as a considerable amount of time had passed since the payment was made, 
no funds remained that could be recovered.
Miss G has said that she has lost faith in the security and safety of transferring any funds or 
making payments in the future. While this is certainly understandable, given what happened 
to her, I would like to let Miss G know that banks and the financial industry are continually 
taking more measures to try and educate its customers about fraud and to also protect them 
from falling victim to scams. I would also advise Miss G that if she is ever unsure about 
something when making a payment, she should contact her bank for its advice. 
Overall, while I appreciate Miss Gs been the unfortunate victim of a scam, I think 
Santanders decision not to refund her in this instance was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. I say this because it followed Miss Gs instructions to make the payment and 
I havent seen any reason why it shouldnt have done this. And unfortunately, as the funds 
had already been withdrawn it wasnt able to recover the funds or do anything to help Miss G 
further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 February 2021. 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman