DRN-3655351
The complaint
Mr C complains that MBNA Limited have not treated him with forbearance when his credit 
card account was in persistent debt. 
What happened
Mr C says MBNA repeatedly refused to reduce his credit card account interest rate to 0% 
while he was in persistent debt and he told them he was struggling to pay off the principal. 
He said that they had permanently reduced the interest rate on his other MBNA credit card 
account to 0% due to it being in persistent debt, so felt the same should be applied to this 
account. 
MBNA explained that as Mr Cs credit card account had not been in persistent debt for 36 
months, it was not yet able to assist him by reducing or waiving the interest rate or waiving 
fees and charges. And it said that if Mr Cs account did reach 36 months of persistent debt, 
there was no guarantee that the outcome would be to permanently reduce the interest rate 
to 0%. It explained that it had reduced the interest rate on his other credit card account 
without assessing his circumstances first, which was an error. But as the error benefits Mr C, 
they decided not to amend it. MBNA did award Mr C £300 compensation for communication 
issues while dealing with his complaint which I understand it has already paid to him. 
Mr C remained of the opinion that MBNA should commit to permanently reducing the interest 
rate on his credit card account and referred the complaint to our service. Our Investigator 
looked into the complaint and felt that MBNA had followed the correct process in the 
circumstances. They said that MBNA have specific timescales for when they can assist a 
consumer with persistent debt, which MBNA followed. They also explained that following a 
recent review by MBNA, Mr Cs credit card account was no longer in persistent debt and if 
he was still struggling with repayments he should contact the financial assistance team to 
discuss his options. Finally, they agreed that the £300 compensation awarded to Mr C was 
fair in the circumstances. 
Mr C disagreed with the outcome and pointed to guidance in the Financial conduct authority 
handbook (CONC) which he felt showed MBNA had not acted appropriately. As an informal 
agreement could not be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.      
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the Investigator for largely the same reasons. I think MBNA has 
followed the correct process and acted in line with regulatory guidance. And I think the £300 
it has offered and paid for the communication issues it had with Mr C during the complaint 
process is fair in the circumstances. Ill explain why in more detail. 
Ive firstly considered the relevant guidance that Mr C has mentioned. The FCA set out a 
package of rules and guidance entitled Credit cards: persistent debt  set out in CONC 
6.7.27R to CONC 6.7.40G which came into force in March 2018. As part of this package of 
rules and guidance the FCA defined persistent debt as where a customer, over a period of 
18 months, pays more in interest, fees and charges than they have repaid of the principal 
balance on their card. 
Mr C has said that as soon as his account fell into the category of persistent debt, MBNA 
had an obligation to treat him with forbearance and assist him by reducing the interest rate 
on the account to 0%. CONC states that at 18 months of persistent debt, credit card 
providers are required to write to customers. Should they remain in persistent debt for 27 
months, they should notify customers that they are in persistent debt and encouraging them 
to pay more. And if a customer doesnt take sufficient action and remains in persistent debt 
after 36 months, the rules require a credit card provider to help a customer repay more 
quickly in a way that does not adversely affect their financial position  typically by setting up 
a repayment plan over a reasonable period of time. And this could include reducing or 
waiving the interest rate on the account as well as waiving fees and charges but is not 
guaranteed.
Looking at the relevant rules, I dont agree that MBNA had an obligation at 18 months of    
Mr Cs account being in persistent debt to take action to help Mr C pay his debt more 
quickly. As MBNA has explained in its correspondence to Mr C, that obligation begins when 
the account has been in persistent debt for 36 months. Because of this, I do not think MBNA 
has made an error when it explained to Mr C they would review his credit card account 
shortly before it fell into the 36 month category of persistent debt or when it has declined his 
requests to reduce the interest rate on the account.  
I note that following a review of Mr Cs credit card account, it was found to no longer be in 
persistent debt. I reviewed the relevant statements and am satisfied that prior to Mr Cs 
account reaching 36 months of persistent debt, he had reached a period of 18 months in 
which he had paid more towards the principal of the debt than he had paid in interest, fees 
and charges. The account was therefore no longer classed as being in persistent debt. 
Overall, I think MBNA has acted reasonably in reviewing the account when it did.
I note that Mr C has mentioned on several occasions to MBNA that he was having problems 
maintaining the minimum payments on the account. And MBNA has provided contact details 
for its financial assistance team each time, as well as contact details for various 
organisations who can provide free and independent financial advice. This is what I would 
have expected it to do in the circumstances so I think it has taken reasonable steps to offer 
financial assistance to Mr C. It was then up to him to contact the financial assistance team 
and go through his income and expenditure to see how they were able to help him with his 
payments moving forward. 
I can see that MBNA has paid Mr C £300 compensation because they could not locate a 
letter they had sent him in relation to his other credit card account, meaning Mr C had to 
send it into them. This had caused some confusion and was an inconvenience to Mr C. 
Having carefully considered this, I think this is a fair offer for the inconvenience the error 
caused. I appreciate that Mr C has requested £500 for MBNA not treating him with 
forbearance when he was in persistent debt, but Ive explained above why I think MBNA has 
acted reasonably in the circumstances. So I do not think a further award is necessary.  
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint against MBNA Limited.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman