DRN-3723598
The complaint
Mrs B has complained about her property insurer, Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited 
because it declined her claim made for storm damage to her property.
What happened
Mrs Bs home was damaged in February 2022. Admiral initially felt there wasnt a storm, and 
its home emergency team felt Mrs Bs roof (the finishing surface of which had lifted from a 
leading edge) was suffering from wear and tear and/or poor workmanship. So Admiral said it 
wouldnt cover the external or internal damage. Upon review it felt there might have been a 
storm and it had a company assess the roof. Admirals assessor felt it had been fitted poorly 
under ridge tiles and that the mortar securing the tiles had failed. The assessor also felt the 
water ingress inside had been on-going. So the claim was declined again. Mrs B complained 
to this service.
Our Investigator felt there had most likely been storm conditions at the time of the loss. And 
she felt the damage had likely been caused by the storm. She wasnt persuaded that 
Admiral had done enough to show it could fairly and reasonably rely on exclusions regarding 
poor work, wear and tear and, regarding the internal damage, gradual cause, to decline the 
claim. So she said Admiral should settle the claim and that it would likely need to pay £250 
compensation as well.
Admiral provided some further consideration from its technical team. It argued that there 
hadnt been a storm and maintained that the roof had been fitted poorly. So it didnt think it 
was fair to make it settle the claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that its fair and reasonable to say there was a storm occurring at the time of the 
damage. Admirals policy says it views winds of 55mph to be a storm. This service usually 
takes a less prescriptive view about what fairly constitutes a storm. And I note that even 
Admiral found winds of 54mph occurred on the day in question. But our investigator found 
stronger winds, between 57mph and 64mph, were present in the area of Ms Bs home, on 
three occasions, shortly before the damage was noticed. The weather station which 
recorded that data was slightly further away from Ms Bs property than that referred to by 
Admiral. But, taking this alongside Admirals data, which shows windspeeds very close to its 
definition of storm, I think its fair to say that Mrs B property was most likely subject to storm 
conditions at the time the damage occurred.  
Roofs can be damaged by storms. And Im also satisfied, given the evidence available, that 
this damage was most likely caused by a storm. Admiral has contested that and argued that, 
externally, the roof was affected by poor work and/or wear and tear. But these are 
exclusions on the policy and so it is up to Admiral to bring evidence in support of its reliance 
on those exclusions.
Admirals home emergency assessor admitted he could not properly determine what had 
caused the problem with the roof because he had a very limited view of it from the ground. 
So his view, that this may have been caused by poor work and/or wear and tear, is not 
persuasive.
The assessment company Admiral sent out didnt assess the area of the roof where the 
rubber finishing material had lifted (the leading edge). They commented on other areas of 
the roof which seem unrelated to the loss in question. Admiral later had someone on its 
technical team view some photos of the roof taken by a contractor who completed some 
temporary repairs for Mrs B. The team member commented that it looked like the rubber 
hadnt been bonded to the ply-board, which he felt constituted poor work. But he gave no 
reasoning in support of that assessment. I also note that the finishing trims had been lost 
during the storm. Admirals assessment company again did not consider this at the time it 
viewed the roof. Although the team member later commented that these provide some 
weather proofing for the leading edge of the roof. That is the edge where the rubber lifted 
from during the storm. In short whilst it might be the case that the rubber lifted because it 
wasnt bonded and should have been, I havent seen detail persuasive enough to make me 
think that is most likely the case. So Admiral hasnt persuaded me that the external damaged 
can fairly and reasonably be excluded on grounds of poor work and/or wear and tear.   
I think Admirals commentary on the internal damage is also not persuasive. The assessor 
said the damage was consistent with rainwater ingress over a period of time. He didnt 
explain that any further. But, importantly, he also did not offer any view as to whether Mrs B 
should or shouldnt have known damage had been occurring. Im not saying it had been. But, 
if Admiral had wanted to rely on the exclusion for gradually operating cause to deny liability 
for the internal damage, it would not only have had to show that damage had been going on 
over a prolonged period but also that Mrs B did or should reasonably have known that it was. 
Admiral, in my view, has done neither of those things. So Im satisfied that it cant fairly and 
reasonably decline liability for this part of the claim.  
Im pleased Mrs B was able to have some temporary repairs done. And I understand that 
didnt cost her anything. I think that will have helped ease her concerns about Admirals 
decline. But Mrs Bs home was damaged and remains damaged because Admiral unfairly 
and unreasonably declined her claim. And I note the damage upstairs was fairly extensive 
including part of a ceiling having come down. Im satisfied that Mrs B has been caused 
distress and inconvenience due to Admirals unfair and unreasonable action. So I think it 
should pay her £250 compensation.  
Putting things right
I require Admiral to:
Settle Mrs Bs claim for storm damage, externally and internally, at her property, in line 
with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Pay Mrs B £250 compensation.My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to provide the redress 
set out above at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman