DRN-2452159
The complaint
Miss G complains about how Aviva Insurance Limited (trading as Homeserve) have handled 
a claim on her Plumbing Cover policy.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. My decision relates to issues 
covered in Homeserves final response of December 2019.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Miss G feels strongly about what has happened. Ive read and considered 
carefully everything shes said. But I hope Miss G wont take the fact my findings focus on 
what I consider to be the central issues, and not all the points raised, as a discourtesy. The 
purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point the parties have raised or to 
answer every question asked. My role is to consider the evidence presented by Miss G and 
Homeserve to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable decision based on the facts and 
circumstances of the case.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Our role is to consider the individual circumstances of each complaint  and specific 
issues. When we think a financial business has done something wrong, our service 
can make a direction to set out how we think things should be put right for the 
individual. But were not a regulator, so its not our services role to carry out a wider 
review of how a financial business, or their products, operate. So I wont be 
considering Miss Gs points related to this.
Miss G is frustrated Homeserve said a waiver was required before its engineer could 
carry out repairs. And the terms and conditions say there are circumstances where 
an engineer might ask for a waiver to be signed before repairs are carried out. But 
Miss G was able to get the issue in her bathroom fixed by a private engineer. The 
private engineer was able to complete the work by a different method to the one 
proposed by Homeserves engineer - without any risk of damage being mentioned. 
So Homeserve now accept the waiver was unnecessary
Miss G said the leaks being left unrepaired following Homeserves visit could have 
caused considerable damage. While I can understand her concern, I can only 
consider what did happen, and I havent seen anything that suggests further damage 
was caused.
However, Miss G did have the inconvenience of having to arrange for her own 
engineer to attend the property, so I accept there was further delay to the issue being 
fixed
Ive also considered the additional inconvenience Miss G has been caused  for 
example having to get the money for the repairs reimbursed. I can see Miss G had to 
correspond with Homeserve on several occasions to obtain this before it was 
refunded to her in January 2020. Miss G also had issues with being given incorrect 
information when she called Homeserve and in obtaining a specific time for an 
appointment
Homeserve paid Miss G a total of £275 which includes reimbursements for the costs 
of hiring a private engineer (around £170) and to recognise the inconvenience she 
has been caused. Our investigator also recommended an additional £50 
compensation be paid to Miss G. In the circumstances I think all of the above is 
reasonable and Im satisfied it fairly represents the inconvenience Miss G has been 
caused
Miss G said she wants to be provided with assurance Homeserve will learn from the 
errors theyve made to ensure they do not happen again  and has pointed to rules 
set out in the FCA handbook. 
DISP 1.3.3 does point out a business should take reasonable steps to ensure 
recurring or systemic problems are remediated. I trust Homeserve will do so, but I'm 
not going to ask them to specifically list out what changes they will make in this 
individual case. And I think with what Ive set above, is enough to acknowledge any 
errors caused by Homeserve - and is appropriate compensation to address the 
inconvenience caused to Miss G.
So for these reasons, I uphold this complaint.
 
My final decision
My final decision Is that I uphold Miss Gs complaint.
Aviva Insurance Limited (trading as Homeserve) should pay Miss G a further £50 
compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 May 2021.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman