DRN-3552265
The complaint
Mr A has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold him a Barclays Tech 
Pack. He says that he was told when he took out this pack in September 2021 that the 
terms of the Tech pack remained the same as when he had held it previously. He says that 
when attempting to claim, it turned out that the provider of the policy had changed alongside 
the excesses that were payable and the claims procedure. 
What happened
Mr A held a Tech pack with Barclays which he removed from his account in February 2021. 
He says that later in 2021, he queried whether the terms of the policy had changed, and he 
says was told that they had not. He then took out a new Tech pack in September 2021. A 
few months later Mr A made a claim for an iPad and he discovered that he had to pay an 
excess and send in his iPad for a repair rather than receiving an automatic replacement.
 
He says he was not made aware of the details of the Tech pack when he took it out in 
September 2021.
One of our adjudicators didnt think that Barclays had got things wrong when it sold the Tech 
Pack to Mr A, so she didnt recommend that Barclays should pay him any compensation. Mr 
A didnt agree, so he asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint and make a final 
decision.
This decision will only address whether Barclays has done anything wrong in relation to this 
matter. It will not address the claim itself, as that would need to be directed to the provider of 
the insurance policy in question. I also note that Mr A is unhappy that the Tech pack was not 
removed from his account when he asked it to be removed. If he remains unhappy with this, 
he would need to direct his concerns to Barclays in the first instance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete and matters are in dispute, as they are here, I make my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened  keeping in mind everything 
Ive seen and been told.
After giving Mr As complaint a lot of thought, I dont think Barclays has acted unfairly. Ill 
explain why.
Mr A says that he was told by Barclays that the Tech pack had not changed since he last 
held it. There is no record of this conversation and it is difficult for me to say that it is more 
likely than not that a member of staff at Barclays wouldve said that the Tech pack remained 
the same. Especially when the policy had changed quite significantly as both the underwriter 
and who manages the policy had both changed. Also looking at the documentation that I 
understand was issued by Barclays in early February 2021, I think that Mr A would likely 
have been made aware that the change was about to occur, prior to when he first removed 
the pack.
Even f Mr A was told verbally that the Tech pack remained the same and if he was not 
aware, prior to him initially removing the pack in February, that changes were about to occur 
to the policy I think that enough information was provided during the sales process that this 
potential misinformation was corrected.
I say this because Barclays has provided a copy of a letter that Mr A was sent out when he 
took out the Tech pack in September 2021. The letter set out the details of the Tech pack, 
and contained information about excesss payable and the claims process and who the 
policy was underwritten and managed by. Mr A says he did not get this letter, but it seems to 
be correctly addressed and as the vast majority of correctly addressed post is received, I 
think he likely received it. And this letter contained enough information to decide whether he 
wanted the Tech pack. So therefore, I dont think that Barclays did anything wrong in relation 
to this complaint that merits compensation.
I know that Mr A feels strongly about his complaint, but having thought carefully about 
everything he and Barclays have said, Im afraid I dont think Barclays treated him unfairly. 
So I dont think Barclays owes Mr A any compensation.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr A, but for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2022.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman