DRN-1558949
 
The complaint
Mr C complains that Starling Bank Limited wont refund a disputed transaction made from his 
account. Hes also unhappy they closed his account, and hed like compensation.  
What happened
Mr C says that a fraudulent transaction of £100 was made on his Starling account on the 
18 July 2019. Mr C explains he noticed the transaction on the 20 July 2019 and contacted 
Starling. 
Mr C says that he keeps his Starling debit card and phone on his person and safely secured. 
His phone would either have been on his desk charging at work or on his person. He also 
explained that the app hadnt been installed or transferred onto another phone. He believes 
that there was a security breach and Starling have failed to protect his account. 
On the 7 August 2019 Starling closed Mr Cs account. Mr C says that Starling decided to 
close his account because he queried the disputed transaction on the 18 July 2019. 
Starling investigated and decided not to refund the disputed withdrawals. The bank said 
there was no evidence of fraudulent activity. And Starling thought the transaction was most 
likely authorised by Mr C because:
Mr C confirmed his security details werent stored anywhere.
An in app message was sent to Mr C notifying him of a new payee.
No new devices were added to Mr Cs account.
The payment was made to a new beneficiary, created on the 18 July 2019. A new 
beneficiary can only be created via the app and entering the correct security details. 
 
Starling also thought theyd acted within the terms and conditions of Mr Cs account when 
closing it.
Our investigator looked into Mr Cs complaint. He explained that he was confused about his 
whereabouts at the time of the disputed transactions and he was actually on holiday with his 
brother. But he confirmed that his phone was on him at all times and he hasnt shared his 
phone passcode or Starling security details with anyone. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. In summary, he felt 
unable to conclude that the transaction had been made fraudulently and was persuaded it 
was most likely made by Mr C. He also thought Starling had acted within their terms and 
conditions on closing the account. 
Mr C didnt accept our investigators opinion. In summary he said:When he noticed the transaction he withdrew all his money from his bank account to 
protect himself from fraud. Why would he do that if hed carried it out?
Banks arent entitled to withhold information so hed like to know why Starling closed 
his account.
Hes never claimed that his Starling card was on him at all times  when hes at 
home its possible his card is in his room and not on his person and its also possible 
he leaves his card at home sometimes when he doesnt have a use for it. 
Hes never claimed his phone was on him at all times, but he would have site of it, 
and he doesnt believe the evidence Starling have provided shows the transaction 
was carried out from his phone.
Its unreasonable for him to remember exactly where he was at the time of the 
disputed transaction three or four months before. 
 
As Mr C didnt accept our investigators opinion its been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator previously set out and for much the same reasons. 
Generally, Starling can hold Mr C liable for the disputed transaction if the evidence suggests 
that its more likely than not that he made or authorised it himself. 
Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Mr Cs genuine online banking details 
were used to make the disputed transaction. But the regulations relevant to this case say 
that is not, on its own, enough to enable Starling to hold him liable. So I also need to think 
about whether the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Mr C consented to the 
transaction being made.
From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Starling to conclude that Mr C 
authorised the transaction. This is because:
Im satisfied that the evidence Starling have provided shows that the payment was 
processed via the Starling app. And only one device was registered on Mr Cs 
account  this this was added in May 2019 when Mr C opened the account. For a 
fraudster to carry out this payment theyd have needed access to Mr Cs phone  
which hes explained was visible to him at all times  without him noticing and to 
have entered the correct passcode. They would then have needed to enter Mr Cs 
Starling security details to enter the app and process the payment. Mr Cs explained 
that hes not shared his phone or Starling passwords with anyone. For this reason I 
find it implausible that a fraudster could have successfully carried out this transaction. 
At the time of the disputed transaction there was just over £50 left in Mr Cs account. 
I find it surprising a fraudster wouldnt take all the funds from Mr Cs account.
Mr C initially told Starling that he was at work at the time of the disputed transactions, 
but on speaking to our investigator he explained he was on holiday at the time. Mr C 
says its unreasonable for him to remember where he was three or four months 
before, but I find it surprising  considering he was first asked a few days after the 
disputed transaction   that he now believes this was incorrect. 
 In response to our investigators opinion, Mr C said that he put a plan in place to withdraw all 
of his money on spotting the fraudulent transaction two days later.  And why would he do this 
if he wasnt trying to protect his account from fraud. I understand what Mr Cs trying to say 
here  but I need to look at the evidence presented to me and determine from that what I 
think most likely happened. From what Ive seen Im unable to see a plausible explanation 
for how a fraudster successfully gained access to Mr Cs phone and Starling app without him 
noticing. 
Account closure:
Mr C responded to the view and said he wanted the bank to explain what they based their 
decision on when closing his account  but Im satisfied they dont need to do this. A bank is 
entitled to close an account with a customer just as a customer may close an account with a 
bank. But before a bank closes an account, it must do so in a way, which complies with the 
terms and conditions of the account.
Section 3 of the terms and conditions of Mr Cs account confirms Starling can close his 
account immediately under certain circumstances. And Im satisfied that Starling followed 
these terms and conditions on closing his account.
I understand that the closure of the account caused Mr C inconvenience, in particular 
because he found it more difficult to discuss the fraudulent payment with Starling. But, the 
bank can make commercial decisions about who it offers banking services to. They 
cant unfairly discriminate against a customer. But, they can decide they no longer wish to 
do business with individuals. Thats because they have the commercial freedom to decide 
who theyd like to contract with. And Im satisfied that Starling exercised its commercial 
decision legitimately when it decided to close Mr Cs account. So I cant fairly say Starling 
did anything wrong here. 
Taking everything into account I find that its more likely than not Mr C authorised the 
disputed transaction. It follows Starling are entitled to hold him liable for it. 
My final decision
My final decision is I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2020.
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman