DRN-3031488
complaint
This complaint is about two mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policies taken out 
in 1997 and 1999. Mr and Mrs W say The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) mis-sold them 
PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr and Mrs 
Ws circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ws representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ws. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr and 
Mrs Ws complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
1997 policy sale
I think Co-op made it clear that Mr and Mrs W didnt have to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out. I say this because Co-op has provided a copy of Mr and Mrs Ws 
mortgage application from the time. Looking at this I can see Mr and Mrs W were asked 
if they wanted PPI during the branch meeting - and the No box is ticked. But it seems 
Mr and Mrs W changed their mind because they applied for PPI a few weeks after the 
mortgage meeting  Co-op says Mr and Mrs W posted a signed and completed PPI 
application to its head office. And Ive seen a copy of their application. 
Because Mr and Mrs W had to complete a separate application to take out PPI I dont 
think its likely they were under the impression they had to have PPI  and in any event 
the mortgage application in my view clearly offered them a choice. So I think Mr and Mrs 
W chose to take out PPI and did so without undue pressure. 
1999 policy sale
Co-op has provided Mr and Mrs Ws 1999 mortgage application. Looking at this I can 
there is a separate section of the form about PPI, where its printed that Mr and Mrs W 
required accident, sickness and unemployment cover. There is a section underneath 
where Mr and Mrs W couldve signed if they didnt want PPI. Im mindful this application 
is printed rather than handwritten  but I dont think this is unusual given things 
happened in a branch meeting. I think the application was printed out for Mr and Mrs W 
to sign after the representative had asked them the necessary questions during the 
meeting.
Mr and Mrs W also signed a separate PPI application as they did in 1997. So again, Im 
not persuaded that Mr and Mrs W would have been under the impression they had to 
have PPI. Taking everything into account, I think Mr and Mrs W chose to take out PPI on 
this occasion too.
Ive seen nothing to persuade me that Co-op recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs W in 
1997 or 1999 - so it didnt have to check that the PPI was right or suitable for them. But it 
did have to give Mr and Mrs W enough clear and timely information about each policy so 
they could decide for themselves if it was right for them.
I accept its possible the information Co-op gave Mr and Mrs W about the PPI in 1997 
and 1999 wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But on each occasion Ive found that they 
chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt 
fundamentally wrong for Mr and Mrs W  for example Mr W as the sole policyholder was 
eligible for the policy each time and there wasnt anything about his employment or 
occupation that would have made it difficult for him to claim. 
Although Mr W says he had two medical conditions diagnosed some time before the 
policy was taken out, I dont think better information about the existing medical condition 
exclusion wouldve caused them to change their minds about taking out the policy. I say 
this because based on what Mr W has told us about his first condition diagnosed in the 
1950s, it appears that it could reasonably be described as controlled  Mr W hasnt said 
that it caused him significant problems and caused him to take significant or regular time 
off work. So I dont think Mr W would have thought this condition would likely be the main 
reason hed need time off work going forward and therefore need to make a claim for on 
the policy.
And it appears his second condition  something he said happened around 14 years 
prior to the sale  - also wasnt something that impacted his ability to work. He said that he 
took the odd day off work here and there.Importantly I can see that Mr W was asked about his health in both PPI applications he 
completed  he ticked Yes to being in good health and said No to having consulted a 
doctor in the 12 months prior to each policy being taken out. Im satisfied these questions 
were asked because, despite Mrs W not being a party to the policy, she disclosed 
something which shed consulted a doctor about.
So taking everything into account, I think the evidence suggests Mr W was to all intents 
and purposes in good health at the time of the sale. 
There were no additional restrictions on cover for back problems in the 1997 policy and I 
dont think the cover was too dissimilar to what they reasonably thought they were 
buying from the information they were given each time. And despite Mr and Mrs W 
saying they were financially stretched at the time, Ive not seen anything else to suggest 
the policies werent affordable. Because Mr and Mrs W dont appear to have had existing 
means they could use to make the repayments on their mortgage if Mr W wasnt 
working, it seems like it would have been useful for them if something went wrong. So 
overall I dont think Mr and Mrs W would have declined the cover had Co-op done 
anything more.
While the 1997 policy excluded claims relating to mental health conditions and the 1999 
policy contained limitations on claims for both back and mental health conditions, in light 
of Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances at the times in question and despite its limitations and 
exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. So I think they 
would have still thought they had some good reasons to take each policy out.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs W would have still taken out PPI. The policies were 
sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were getting and I think they could 
provide a useful benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. And in those 
circumstances, I think that they would have taken out each policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs Ws representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Co-op should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Ws representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ws individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Ws particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint. 
This means Co-op doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
my decisionOverall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 October 2021. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman