DRN-3851227
The complaint
Mrs P has complained that NewDay Ltd only offered her a credit limit of £250.
What happened
Mrs P had previously enjoyed a £15,000 credit limit on her JLP card. However when the 
provider changed to NewDay and new application was made and a credit limit of £250 was 
offered.
Our investigator didnt find that NewDay had done anything wrong. Mrs P appealed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and although I recognise that Mrs P will be disappointed, I dont uphold her 
complaint. Ill explain why.
NewDay was entitled to set a credit limit for Mrs P  it wasnt obliged to mirror any 
previous arrangement. The limit it set was at its sole discretion. Its lending criteria 
are commercially sensitive, but having checked Im satisfied that it applied the criteria 
fairly.
It explained that credit limits are based on risk and affordability assessments unique 
to itself  and that this may vary across financial firms.
The credit agreement that Mrs P signed with NewDay advises: Your credit limit is set 
by us when we open your account, and we will tell you what it is when we send you 
your card. The credit limit is the total amount you can borrow from us at any one 
time. We consider a number of factors when deciding your credit limit.
NewDay has said that it would keep the credit limit under review and may change it 
from time to time. It would advise Mrs P if it did so  I think that was fair.
I appreciate that Mrs P wanted to discuss the matter with NewDay by telephone, 
however they dont offer this service.
In all the circumstances, like our investigator, I cant say that NewDay has treated Mrs P 
unfairly or unreasonably, contrary to the terms of her agreement or otherwise done anything 
wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman