DRN-4102168
The complaint
Mrs J and Mr J complain that TSB Bank plc (TSB) defaulted their joint account and passed it 
to a debt collection agency (DCA).
What happened
Mrs J and Mr J opened their account with TSB in 2011. By 2019, they had an overdraft limit 
of £3,000. They ran into financial difficulty and in January 2021, the balance was £3178. 
TSB agreed a payment plan for six months. This was an agreement with no interest or 
charges. And payments were to be made into the account to reduce the limit to £3160 by 1 
July 2021. 
In April 2021, TSB cancelled the overdraft limit in error but then reinstated it. The letter said 
the payment plan was for another six months  to October 2021.
By 1 July 2021, the balance reduced to £3082.
On 17 August 2021, TSB wrote to Mrs J and Mr J. The balance was £3059 debit. The letter 
said to repay the balance to bring the account up to date. Mrs J and Mr J complained that 
this wasnt fair.
On 2 September 2021, TSB apologised and said (in their final response) that the overdraft 
limit (of £2978) would be reinstated. TSB paid compensation of £125. But, due to an error, 
the limit was not put back on. 
On 8 September 2021, TSB wrote to Mrs J and Mr J again and said the balance of £2969 
should be repaid to bring the account up to date.
On 1 October 2021, TSB wrote again to say £2954 should be paid, or the debt would be 
transferred to a DCA to collect. Mrs J and Mr J complained again and TSB said the account 
would be recalled from the DCA. But  that wasnt done. The debt remained with the DCA 
and Mrs J and Mr J made payments to the debt. Between 2 November 2021 and 2 
September 2022, they reduced the debt by £237 (from £2939 to £2702).
Mrs J and Mr J complained. They said the default was unfair. Theyd adhered to the 
payment plans as agreed. And there had been several errors in putting in place the payment 
plans and then cancelling them. Because of the default, their credit rating had been affected 
and they couldnt get affordable credit, nor apply for a mortgage.
TSB made two final responses. In September 2021, they agreed to reinstate the limit of 
£2978. And paid compensation of £125. In November 2021, TSB said the account had been 
passed to their collections department  which meant a transfer to a DCA and a default 
registered on their credit file. The balance was then £2954. But because the limit should 
have been put back in place in September 2021, TSB said they would recall the account 
from the DCA and consider further compensation. No further response was sent after that 
time.
Mrs J and Mr J brought their complaint to us. Our investigator said that he had had 
information from TSB which said Mrs J and Mr J couldnt afford the debt when interest and 
charges were reintroduced. TSB had done an income and expenditure analysis which 
showed that. Therefore, it was correct to pass the debt to a DCA to manage. And therefore, 
he said the default was fair.
But there had been a number of miscommunications  which meant that TSB should pay 
another £75 compensation  a total of £200. 
Mrs J and Mr J didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at their complaint. So  it 
has come to me to do that.
I reached a provisional decision which said:
Mrs J and Mr J were in financial difficulty. In such circumstances, firms have an obligation to 
treat customers in financial difficulty sympathetically and the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) says that businesses like TSB should treat customers in difficulties with forbearance 
and due consideration. For example, a business might suspend or waive interest, accept 
lower payments or defer them, and allow customers more time to repay their debt.
And in this case, thats what TSB sought to do  as they agreed a payment plan for Mrs J 
and Mr J in January 2021  they suspended interest and charges and agreed a reducing 
balance plan through to July 2021. So  that was a reasonable thing to do. 
But  throughout 2021, there were several errors by TSB, which I have reviewed. And in 
summary, I can see that Mrs J and Mr J must have been very confused by what happened, 
to the extent that I think the default that followed wasnt reasonable.
In January 2021  the payment plan was set up. The plan said interest and charges were 
stopped, and the balance (then £3178) should reduce to £3160 by July 2021. And I can see 
that by then, it had been - as it was then £3082 debit. So  Mr J and Mr J stuck to the 
agreement.
In April 2021, TSB told us that they cancelled the limit in error  and then reinstated it. But 
the letter dated April 2021 said it was in place for six months  i.e. to October 2021  and not 
the original end date of July 2021. So I think Mrs J and Mr J were entitled to think the plan 
was to run until October 2021.
It then appears that the payment plan remained due for review in July 2021 after all as TSB 
wrote to Mrs J and Mr J in June 2021 to say it was due for renewal at the original date of 
July 2021. 
On 17 August 2021, TSB wrote to Mrs J and Mr J to say the balance was £3079 and this 
needed to be repaid to bring the account up to date. The letter said ..It's important you 
make a payment of at least £3,059.53 as soon as possible, to bring your account up to 
date 
I can see that Mrs J and Mr J then complained  they said they had an overdraft limit and 
therefore the letter wasnt fair. TSB investigated it and their final response dated 2 
September 2021 said ..I have requested the reinstatement of your £2978 overdraft.you 
can (then) contact our Financial Support Services team to arrange a new repayment plan. 
TSB paid compensation of £125. 
I listened to the call from the complaint manager on 2 September 2021  and the call 
confirmed the same conclusion and actions. He also said he would check the limit was put in place. There wasnt any mention of interest and charges. So  I think Mrs J and Mr J were 
entitled to think their limit was back in place and all was well going forward.
But then, on 8 September 2021, TSB wrote You must pay at least £2,969.53 into your 
current account straight awayThe amount you owe us on your Unarranged Overdraft may 
change. This is because you will be charged interest on your Unarranged Overdraft which 
will increase the amount you owe us. The overdraft limit was shown as zero  so this was 
contrary to what TSB had told them a few days earlier  and the application of interest and 
charges was also new information to them. So  this was another error from TSB and 
contradicted what they had told Mrs J and Mr J on 2 September 2021.
I listened to the call made by Mrs J to TSB on 14 September 2021  which she made after 
the letter dated 8 September 2021 was received, as she was confused. She was told there 
wasnt an overdraft limit showing and another complaint was raised.
Mrs J called TSBs complaint team again on 23 September 2021  as the overdraft limit still 
hadnt been reinstated. I heard TSB make arrangements to call Mrs J back. We were 
provided with the call back to Mrs J  but she wasnt available and TSB said theyd call 
again. But there are no further calls provided.
On 1 October 2021, TSB wrote again  the balance was £2954 debit. The letter said You 
must now repay the full amount you owe usIn order to avoid further action, you must repay 
the full amount you owe us straight away.  
Mrs J and Mr J complained again and TSB then wrote I have asked for your account to 
be recalled to CDR (debt recovery) as per our discussion as I agree the above (transfer to a 
DCA) wouldnt have happened had we reapplied your arranged overdraft limit of £3,000 as 
promised on 2 September 2021events since 2 September will be addressed as we need 
to ensure this matter is investigated further on your behalf. I havent seen a further letter 
or final response which then said anything more, so there wasnt a further investigation done 
by TSB. Therefore, I think Mrs J and Mr J were entitled to think that the transfer to a DCA, 
and the default, would be cancelled. 
As it was - the account was passed to a DCA and Mrs J and Mr J made repayments to the 
DCA. I looked at the account, and they reduced the debt by £237 between November 2021 
and 2 September 2022  the balance by then was £2702. So - they were making payments 
and the account was within the previous limit. This does show that Mrs J and Mr J want to 
meet their commitments and pay off the debt. TSB told us that theyd completed an income 
and expenditure form in July 2021 and this showed surplus income of £31 per month  
therefore they concluded the debt couldnt be afforded - once interest and charges were 
applied. But equally, Mrs J and Mr J told TSB (and us) that to pay off the debt, they would 
get help from their family. TSB  reasonably  said that wasnt a sustainable source of 
income for them to make a decision on - which I accept. But  the way in  which Mrs J and 
Mr J have made the payments over the period in question suggest to me that they want to 
find a way to pay the debt off.
In summary, because of the number of errors made by TSB over a long period of time, Mrs J 
and Mr J must have been very confused about what their banking agreements were with the 
bank. They were told the overdraft limit would be put back in place, but it wasnt. And they 
were told that TSB would stop the transfer to the DCA  or at least that would be reviewed, 
but it wasnt. I can also see they did try to engage with TSB to sort matters out  in the calls 
they made. And theyve shown their intentions are good in the way theyve paid money to 
the DCA since November 2021.Therefore, I intend to ask TSB to remove the default, take back the debt from the DCA and 
agree a mutually satisfactory repayment programme with Mrs J and Mr J. In responding to 
this provisional decision, Id ask Mrs J and Mr J to ensure they are comfortable with this  as 
it they cant afford to do that, then it will only lead to further problems for them. And I agree 
with our investigator  TSB should pay a further £75 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the errors and poor communications.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Mrs J and Mr J agreed with it. They confirmed they can afford to meet the repayment of the 
debt  over a period, including interest and charges.
TSB didnt agree. They said:
The default had been accurately recorded on Mrs J and Mr Js credit files  they have 
a responsibility to report accurate information.
Mrs J and Mr J werent able to maintain their account within the limit and there were 
arrears.
They didnt think Mrs J and Mr J can afford to make repayments  once interest and 
charges are applied.
If they cant and this then leads to a default in the future  this would then run from 
that future date, which wont help Mrs J and Mr J.
 I now need to consider these points and make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On TSBs points  which I acknowledge and I have considered.
I agree that accurate information should be recorded at the DCAs. But we consider each 
case on its merits, and in the circumstances of the complaint. And here, on balance, I think 
the errors in cancelling the limit and then reinstating it  and the errors in communications 
resulted in an unfair outcome for Mrs J and Mr J. I think Ive set these out clearly in the 
provisional decision, so wont repeat them here.
And in these circumstances, I dont think the default was fair.
On TSBs points about affordability - I wanted to make sure that Mrs J and Mr J are aware 
they will need to pay interest and charges on any agreed repayment arrangement. They 
confirmed they can do so and can afford the payments. But Id emphasise  that the 
repayment schedule must be mutually satisfactory to both Mrs J and Mr J, and TSB. It 
wouldnt be helpful or reasonable for TSB to insist on a repayment plan which is 
unaffordable.
Putting things right
Therefore  I uphold this complaint and my final decision is in line with the provisional 
decision.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. TSB Bank plc must:Remove the default from Mrs J and Mr Js credit file.
Take back the debt from the DCA and agree a mutually satisfactory repayment 
programme with Mrs J and Mr J.
Pay compensation of £75 for distress and inconvenience. This is in addition to the 
compensation of £125 already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 June 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman