DRN-2795621
The complaint
Mr N complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) wont accept his travel insurance claim.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The policy explains that Mr N needs to provide his booking invoice and travel 
itinerary showing the scheduled departure times, and the actual departure times, as 
well as the reason for the delay from the transport operator. The policy also says Mr 
N should provide any other supporting documents that UKI reasonably ask for to 
support his claim. And that he should seek compensation from the transport operator 
wherever possible, and if they refuse to provide a refund, Mr N would need to provide 
evidence from them showing why they would not repay him.
Mr N hasnt been able to provide confirmation from the airline of the reason for the 
initial delay. Im satisfied it was reasonable for UKI to require this before accepting 
that Mr N has a valid claim. 
UKI also wants Mr N to provide confirmation that he hasnt been able to obtain a 
refund for his missed transfer and his unused accommodation, or compensation from 
the airline for those costs. Again, Im satisfied it was reasonable for UKI to request 
this information, as these costs can sometimes be recoverable. 
As our investigator has explained, the information that UKI has asked Mr N to provide 
is the sort of information wed normally expect an insurer to request in order to 
validate this type of claim.
If Mr N wants UKI to consider the claim further, he should provide it with the 
information it has asked for.
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman