DRN-3611770
The complaint
Mr D and Ms G complain HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct bank (FD) wrongly 
calculated interest on their mortgage account at redemption and delayed reimbursing an 
overpayment theyd made. And theyre unhappy about the time it took FD to release their 
charge over the property at the Land Registry.
What happened
Mr D and Ms G had a repayment mortgage with FD secured over a property they owned.
In January 2021, Mr D obtained a redemption statement. Since he didnt know exactly when 
his solicitors would transfer funds, he agreed with FD hed pay an additional amount of 
interest and FD would refund any overpayment.
Mr D noticed the closure statement FD sent had a zero balance even though hed 
overpaid interest by around £12. He thought FD had wrongly treated all the funds hed 
sent as being due to redeem the mortgage.
Mr D contacted FD straight away to discuss things. When he received notification a few 
weeks later that it could take several more weeks to resolve things, he rang FD again. He 
explained his concerns to FD several times. The refund of the amount Mr D agreed was 
owing was made on the day of his second call, contrary to what the FD letter had suggested 
would happen. Mr D wanted his complaint to be addressed even so. He also complained 
FD had delayed in removing their charge over the property at the Land Registry.
FD apologised for the frustration Mr D had felt by what had happened in relation to the 
interest. But they said the overpayment would have been picked up in due course as part of 
their standard audit process. They noted the process to release their security had been 
completed by the time they responded to the complaint and theyd send relevant 
documentary confirmation in due course.
Mr D wasnt satisfied with FDs response to the complaint and brought it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. Our investigator thought FD had done enough to put things right. 
Since Mr D didnt agree, the complaint was passed to me to review. I recently issued a 
provisional decision, an extract of which follows:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For reasons Ill explain, I intend to come to a different outcome to our investigator.
Ive carefully considered FDs explanation about how they would have identified the 
overpaid interest through their audit process, although the details of that arent clear. And I 
acknowledge they told Mr D, when he first contacted them, that there was a note on their 
file that any surplus interest should be repaid. But Im not persuaded FD would have 
identified the overpayment unless Mr D had pointed it out to them.
The closure statement FD issued had a zero balance. That suggests FD had already 
carried out a calculation on the basis the full amount Mr D and Ms G had paid was due. I 
havent seen any evidence so far that FD were due to review the account and repay any 
overpayment within a reasonable time frame, or at all, in line with the discussions Mr D had 
had with them before his solicitors transferred the redemption monies.
I can understand it was frustrating for Mr D that FD hadnt applied the funds agreed, and 
that he had to explain the situation several times to FD. I think it took time and effort on his 
part. And its evident from the conversations Ive listened to that Mr D was upset by what 
had happened. I acknowledge FD were apologetic, but I dont think their response to his 
complaint fully addressed his concerns or accurately described their process for checking 
for the overpayment.
I can understand Mr D wanted FD to provide written confirmation the account had been 
regularised, beyond what theyd set out in their response to the complaint. I think thats 
fair. Its reasonable for Mr D and Ms G to want an accurate record of the sums paid to 
redeem their mortgage outside the complaint correspondence.
FD acknowledged the time they took to process the release of their security had already 
exceeded their usual timeframes by the time Mr D spoke to them in mid-February. I can 
understand Mr D was concerned the charges over the property should be removed 
promptly. Im not aware it caused any practical difficulties for Mr D and Ms G. And I note 
this had been completed when FD responded to his complaint in mid-March, although they 
hadnt provided written confirmation by then. But I can understand it added to the 
frustration Mr D was already feeling about the redemption process and overpayment.
Bearing everything in mind, I think the level of service FD provided fell below what Mr D 
and Ms G could reasonably expect. And I think its fair and reasonable for FD to 
compensate them for that.
To put things right I think FD should:
1. Provide Mr D and Ms G with a closure statement that accurately reflects the 
amount paid, amount overpaid, and amount refunded, or, alternatively set that out 
in a letter to Mr D and Ms G.
2. Pay Mr D and Ms G compensation of £300 to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience caused over a period of around seven weeks.
My provisional decision
I intend to uphold Mr D and Ms Gs complaint and direct HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first 
direct bank to
1. provide Mr D and Ms G with a closure statement that accurately reflects the amount 
paid, amount overpaid, and amount refunded, or, alternatively set that out in a letter 
to Mr D and Ms G; and
2.   pay Mr D and Ms G compensation of £300 for distress and inconvenience.
DevelopmentsBoth Mr D and FD have provided some comments on my provisional decision. 
In summary, Mr D feels FD werent straight forward, even when responding to the complaint, 
in saying their processes would have led to the overpayment being identified in due course. 
And that caused him additional distress. He says the delay in releasing the charge did cause 
some practical difficulties since he and Ms G were divorcing at the time. It was important, in 
that context, that the security was released in a timely way, which is why Mr D needed to 
chase FD. They also needed accurate information about the redemption figure. Mr D says 
delays in clarifying the position led to additional work on his part in explaining things to the 
divorce lawyers, and further work and costs on the part of the lawyers.
FD say the redemption figure message they sent was clear about how much Mr D and 
Ms G had to pay. They query why the solicitors couldnt tell Mr D when they would be 
sending the payment, as that would have avoided the difficulties which arose as a result 
of Mr D sending too much.
FD dont agree with the level of compensation Ive proposed of £300. They say the 
overpaid funds were repaid to Mr D and Ms G, and relevant documents to release the 
charge over the property were filed at the land registry, within two weeks of Mr D 
contacting them. Theyre prepared to pay £100 and refund the overpayment.
FD dispute what I said about whether their processes would have led to the overpayment 
being identified. They say the bank would have identified any overpayment of interest 
and refunded any surplus in due course.
FD are able to provide a letter to Mr D and Ms G confirming the amount they paid, the 
amount they overpaid, and amount FD refunded. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about what the parties have said in response to my provisional 
decision.
Im sorry to hear of the personal difficulties Mr D and Ms G were going through that led to the 
FD mortgage being redeemed. I can understand they were both under stress at the time.
I acknowledge FDs point that the solicitors ought to have been able to let Mr D know when 
they planned to transfer funds to redeem the mortgage. But Mr D had discussed things with 
FD and agreed hed overpay to avoid transferring less than was needed to pay the mortgage 
off. So, from then on it was FDs responsibility to make sure any overpayment was 
appropriately flagged and repaid.
Although I acknowledge FD are confident the overpayment would have been identified and 
repaid in due course, they havent explained their process which would have led to that 
outcome. For the reasons I set out in my provisional decision, Im still not persuaded they 
would have identified the overpayment if Mr D hadnt contacted them. And I can understand 
Mr D was disappointed when FD didnt acknowledge theyd made a mistake when they 
responded to the complaint. 
FDs records suggest theyd refunded the overpayment and taken action to release the legal 
charge over the property by around 19 February and that they confirmed that to Mr D 
verbally at the time. So, on reflection, the time taken wasnt unduly long and Im not aware Mr D had made it clear to FD the reasons he and Ms G needed things to happen quickly. I 
acknowledge FD responded to their complaint on 25 February 2021, so thats around a 
month after Mr D first contacted them to complain. But Mr D wanted written confirmation of 
the figures  which Ive said he and Ms G should fairly be provided with. So, from their point 
of view, their concerns were continuing.
And, I need to take into account Mr D and Ms Gs individual circumstances when thinking 
about the impact FDs actions had on them. I can understand the uncertainty about the 
redemption figures will have caused particular concern given their personal circumstances at 
the time. On balance, bearing everything in mind, I still think fair compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience they were caused is £300.
Putting things right
I see no reason to change my mind about the action needed to put things right as set out in 
my provisional decision.
My final decision
I uphold Mr D and Ms Gs complaint and direct HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct 
bank to
1. provide Mr D and Ms G with a closure statement that accurately reflects the amount 
paid, amount overpaid, and amount refunded, or, alternatively set that out in a letter 
to Mr D and Ms G; and
2.   pay Mr D and Ms G compensation of £300 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Ms G to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman