DRN-3090385
The complaint
Mrs W is represented by a Claims Management Company (CMC). The CMC complains that 
Mrs W received unsuitable advice from St Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP).
The CMC say that Mrs W was advised to invest at the wrong time. They say that Mrs W was 
advised to take too much risk and invest too much money.
What happened
In August 2006, Mrs W met with a Partner from SJP to discuss her financial arrangements. 
Mrs W had recently received an unexpected cash sum.
The Partner advised Mrs W to invest £500,000 into an investment bond and £7,000 into an 
ISA. Mrs W took up the recommendations.
The investment bond was set up to allow for cash withdrawals and Mrs W started to take out 
cash each month from January 2008 to August 2020. Mrs W also took out partial 
withdrawals from the investment bond.
On 19 August 2020, the CMC complained to SJP that the advice was unsuitable. They said 
that it was unsuitable because:
Mrs W was advised to invest too soon after receiving her money. She had only 
received this life changing sum in June 2006 and by August of the same year she 
had not had time to become accustomed to her vastly different financial situation and 
consider her plans for the future. Additionally, she was not in the correct mindset to 
be making long ranging decisions that would impact on her future financial 
wellbeing.
Mrs W was advised to invest too much money. The recommended investment was 
over half of her accessible savings after receiving this money and represented too 
large a proportion of her wealth committed over the medium to long term. This was 
exacerbated by the fact that she was unable to work at the time invested due to 
severe arthritis and the Adviser did not take these circumstances into account.
Mrs W was advised to take too much risk. The recommended funds within the 
Investment Bond contained too much risk for her as a first-time investor.
SJP investigated the complaint but didnt think that they had done anything wrong and didnt 
uphold the complaint. They thought that the advice was suitable and considered Mrs Ws 
personal and financial circumstances at the time.
Unhappy with SJPs final decision, the CMC referred the complaint to the service. SJP said 
that due to the time since the advice was provided, it wasnt a complaint that the service 
could consider.
Following an initial view on jurisdiction which SJPs didnt agree with, an ombudsman 
decided that the complaint was within the jurisdiction of the service and one that the service 
could consider.
An investigator considered the merits of the complaint and thought that SJP had acted 
unfairly and upheld the complaint. The investigator thought that SJP had recommended that 
Mrs W invest too much and should have been advised to keep a higher amount of 
emergency cash.
The investigator also thought that SJP had invested into a bond that was too high a risk for 
Mrs W based on her personal circumstances.
In his view, the investigator set out how he thought SJP should compensate Mrs W for the 
advice that she had received.
Unhappy with the investigators view, SJP has asked for an ombudsman to look the 
complaint.
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 4 October 2021.  In my provisional 
decision I explained the reasons why I was not upholding the complaint. I asked both parties 
to send me more evidence or information they wanted me to look at by 3 November 2021. 
Both parties replied ahead of the deadline and confirmed that they did not have any further 
comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the information carefully, I am of the view that this complaint should not 
succeed. I know that this will come as a disappointment to Mrs W and Ill set out why I have 
come to this decision.
In their submission to the service, the CMC have set out three main areas for complaint 
which I summarised earlier. I will go through each of these points in turn.
Mrs W was advised to invest too soon after receiving her money
The CMC have said that she had received a large lump sum in June 2006 and was advised 
to invest in August 2006  some two months later.
The CMC say that Mrs W was going through a divorce and not in the correct mindset to 
consider such life changing decisions.
I can see that Mrs W initially met with SJP in July 2006 and had a follow up meeting to 
discuss the recommendations in August 2006. The fact find records Mrs Ws personal 
circumstances at the time and there is no mention of Mrs W being in a vulnerable state and 
not able to make informed decisions.
I think that there was a reasonable amount of time between meetings and Mrs W was 
accompanied at these meetings with her partner. From what I have seen, I dont think that 
there is any evidence that Mrs W was advised to invest too soon or that she was not able to 
consider her future plans. Mrs W was advised to invest too much money
In their submission to the service, the CMC have said that the recommended investment 
was over half of her accessible savings and represented too large a proportion of her cash 
committed to the medium and long term. The CMC also say that Mrs W was unable to work, 
and the Partner did not take this into account.
I have looked at the fact find that was conducted in 2006. The Partner has recorded that Mrs 
W had £736,100 available to invest and recommended that £500,000 was invested into a 
bond and £7,000 into an ISA.
The fact find records that Mrs W had access to £229,000 as emergency cash after she 
invested into the bond. The fact find also records that Mrs W had other assets arising from 
her divorce including £160,000 from property, £27,000 from deposits and £12,029 from an 
insurance policy.
The rules that were in place at the time that the advice was provided say that a business 
must obtain the necessary information regarding the clients financial situation and their 
ability to bear losses. There is no set ratio or guidance to suggest what percentage of 
available cash should be retained for emergency purposes.
In his view, the investigator has said that he felt that 30% was too low an amount for a cash 
reserve. Every client has different personal circumstances and financial needs, so I have 
looked at Mrs Ws financial situation at the time.
Mrs W had £229,000 as emergency cash and was also expecting a further sum of £39,000 
from a divorce settlement. It was also noted that Mrs W had property valued at £160,000 
from her divorce settlement.
The fact find is unclear on what Mrs Ws monthly income and expenditure was. From what I 
have seen, it says that Mrs W did not work, and her occupation is listed as retired. Her total 
annual gross income is recorded as £2,699. 
In their submission to the service, SJP have said this has been recorded wrong and this 
should be monthly gross income. I think that on the balance of probability, this would 
represent monthly income.
I have looked at whether Mrs W was able to bear losses arising from her investment and I 
think that she was able to withstand losses and had access to a sizeable level of cash. In 
coming to this decision, I acknowledge that that Mrs W was not working and was retired but I 
think that having emergency cash in excess of £268,000 meant that she could withstand 
losses and was able to access cash for emergencies.
Mrs W was advised to take too much risk
In their submission to the service, the CMC say that Mrs W was advised to take too much 
risk and the investment bond that was recommended contained too much risk as a first-time 
investor.
When a business recommends an investment, it must consider the personal and financial 
circumstances of the consumer including their appetite to risk and financial objectives.Mrs W was listed as a having a medium attitude to risk (3, out of a range of 1-5) and was 
looking to invest over the medium to long term. Mrs Ws objective was to receive income 
from the investment.
SJP has said that even although Mrs W was a new investor, they dont agree that this 
means she could not have a medium risk.  I agree  just because someone may not have 
the financial experience, does not automatically categorise them as a low risk investor. As I 
said previously, a range of factors needs to be considered and this will feed into the 
consumers attitude to risk.
In his view, the investigator has said that Mrs W had no previous investment experience and 
should have been advised to take a lower risk approach. The investigator thought the 
investment bond was highly volatile and very costly for income purposes at a time when 
markets were low.
I have looked at what SJP have said about the investment having to keep pace with inflation 
and provide the level of income that Mrs W was looking for. I think that for Mrs W to achieve 
an income of around £25,000, a medium level of risk would need to be taken in order to 
benefit from growth within the investment bond. I am not persuaded that this could have 
been easily achieved with an investment with a lower risk profile.
I think that the investment bond that was recommended with consistent with the appetite for 
risk that Mrs W wanted to take.
In summary, I think that the recommendation was suitable for Mrs Ws personal and financial 
circumstances. I think that SJP recommended an investment that achieved Mrs Ws stated 
objective of income and she had continued to take regular monthly withdrawals as 
anticipated.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman