DRN-3570411
The complaint
Mr H complains GE Money Consumer Lending Limited (GE Money) unfairly declined his 
claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) in relation to a timeshare he purchased 
in 2005.
What happened
Mr H bought a points-based timeshare membership from a business (Business B), in
December 2005 via a face-to-face meeting. The membership cost £19,499 and was a joint
membership with his wife. Mr H and his wife took out a point of sale loan with GE Money for
£15,309.77 to fund the majority of their purchase. The term of the loan was for just over 15
years, but they settled the loan account early. I understand that all benefits and burdens of
the timeshare membership were transferred to Mr H by his wife in 2015, so Ill only refer to
Mr H in this decision.
In October 2017 Mr H contacted GE Money via his representative to raise a claim under
section 75 of the CCA. He said Business B misrepresented the timeshare to him and that he
had a like for like claim against GE Money because they financed part of the transaction.
Mr H said Business B made a number of representations during the sale that turned out to
be false, so he believes the timeshare was mis-sold to him.
In response, GE Money concluded Mr Hs claim was time-barred by the Limitation Act 1980
(LA) because he didnt bring his claim within the relevant time limit known as the limitation
period. GE Money also said that the necessary debtor-creditor-supplier link could not be
established for a valid claim under the CCA because the funds werent paid directly to
Business B. GE Money also said the difficulties Mr H raised about Business B did not
constitute a breach of contract or misrepresentation, so even if he were able to rely on
section 75, they didnt think he would have a claim against GE Money under the CCA.
Mr H was unhappy with GE Moneys response, so he made a complaint and brought it to our 
service via his representative. His representative also argued that an unfair relationship 
existed between GE Money and Mr H, and that he had been treated unfairly for a number of
reasons.
Our investigator reviewed Mr Hs complaint. He concluded that Mr H had raised his claims
under section 75 and section 140A of the CCA outside of the prescribed timescales under
the LA. So, overall, he thought GE Moneys decision not to look into Mr Hs claims was fair.
Mr Hs representative disagreed with the investigators view on Mr Hs behalf. They said he
is relying on section 5 of the LA to say Mr H had six years in which to raise his claim. But our
website says they have six years from the date of the problem happening - unless the
consumer wasnt aware they had reason to complain at the time. They said they made the
complaint within three years of Mr H becoming aware he had cause to complain. So, they
feel we should consider when Mr H became aware of the misrepresentations that were
made at the time of sale - and they believe the time should start from the relevant date of
knowledge under section 11A and 14 of the LA.
Mr Hs representative believes the investigator was wrong to find the loss was identified at
the time it occurred (the point of sale). They said the representations at the point of sale only
became misrepresentations at the point the falsity became known to Mr H, and Mr H made
the claim within three years from when he first became aware of those misrepresentations.
So, they believe his claim was made in time.
GE Money agreed with the investigators overall outcome regarding the LA, but they
objected to our service considering a claim under section 140A of the CCA, which they
said wasnt included in Mr Hs original complaint letter. They said this would extend the
scope of the complaint beyond that of the original issues raised.
Because the parties disagreed, the complaint was referred to me for a decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision about Mr Hs complaint explaining that I intended to reach the 
same outcome as the investigator, but for different reasons. In my provisional findings, I said 
the following:
It is possible that the right relationship existed between Mr H, GE Money and Business B 
for Mr H to be able make a claim under the CCA, but as I thought GE Money acted 
reasonably by relying on the LA when declining Mr Hs claims, I didnt go on to reach a 
finding on this point. 
I thought Mr H raised his section 75 claim outside of the prescribed time limits under the 
LA, so I didnt think GE Money acted unreasonably by relying on the LA to decline the 
claim. And, after considering Mr Hs arguments around limitation, I didnt think there were 
any provisions of the LA that would extend the time limit in the circumstances. 
I explained why I didnt think section 140A applied to Mr Hs credit agreement, based on 
the date he took out the loan and the date he paid it off, which werent in dispute.
Overall, I didnt think GE Money acted unfairly in declining Mr Hs claims.  
I asked both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further comments or 
evidence they wished me to consider. 
Mr Hs representative asked for an extension of time to respond, but they didnt provide any 
reasons for this when the investigator asked why. So, the investigator explained I would 
proceed to issue a decision unless we heard from them by the end of the original four week 
deadline. 
GE Money said they had nothing further to add but provided copies of relevant documents 
and evidence to confirm when the loan was taken out and repaid. 
As the deadline I set for responses to my provisional findings has expired without any further 
comments from the parties, the complaint was referred back to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, and given neither Mr H, his representative, nor GE Money have provided 
any further comments for me to consider, I see no reason to depart from my provisional 
findings. This means I still dont think GE Money acted unreasonably in declining Mr Hs 
claims for the same reasons as I explained in my provisional decision.  
Were there the right arrangements in place for Mr H to make a claim under the CCA?Under section 75 of the CCA, a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement is a precondition to a 
claim under that provision. GE Money said that there was no such agreement in this case, 
as the supplier of the timeshare was Business B, but the loan proceeds went to a different 
business (Business C), so no claim could be brought.
Having considered all of the evidence and law, I still dont think the position is as simple as 
GE Money suggests. There is case law that demonstrates it is possible a court would 
conclude that there were the right arrangements in place that gave rise to Mr Hs claim under 
section 75 of the CCA. What is crucial is the relationship between the supplier of the service 
(Business B) and the business that took the payment (Business C). But Ive not gone on to 
make a finding on that point as, even if I did think there were the right relationships in place 
for the claim, I still think GE Money acted reasonably by relying on the LA when declining 
Mr Hs claims. Ill explain why.
Was the claim under section 75 of the CCA brought in time?
Mr H said that Business B misrepresented a number of points in relation to the timeshare 
agreement he purchased, so he says GE Money is jointly liable under section 75 of the CCA. 
But if GE Money could show the claim was brought outside of the time limits set out in the 
LA, it would be entitled to rely on the LA as a defence to answering the claim. I should make 
it clear however that Im not deciding if any right that Mr H may have to bring a claim has 
expired under the LA - thats a matter for the courts. In this decision Im considering if GE 
Money acted fairly and reasonably in turning down Mr Hs claims.
A claim for misrepresentation against the supplier would be brought under section 2(1) of the 
Misrepresentation Act 1967. It was held in Laws v. The Society of Lloyds [2003] EWCA 1887 
that this type of claim is an action founded in tort covered by section 2 of the LA or an action 
brought for a sum recoverable by statute within section 9 of the LA. Under both of those 
provisions, a claimant has a period of six years to bring a claim from the date on which the 
cause of action accrued.
In this case, Mr H brought a like claim for misrepresentation against GE Money under 
section 75 of the CCA. That claim was brought under the CCA, so would be covered by 
section 9 of the LA. Again, it means Mr H had six years from the date on which the cause of 
action accrued to bring a claim.
The date on which a cause of action accrued is the point in time that everything needed to 
make a legal claim occurred. So, in Mr Hs case, thats when he could have brought a claim 
for misrepresentation against the supplier or the like claim against GE Money. I think that 
was the date he entered into the agreement to buy the timeshare, so on 20 December 2005. 
It was at that time that he entered into an agreement based, he says, on the 
misrepresentations of Business B. He says, had the misrepresentations not been made, they 
wouldnt have bought the timeshare. And it was on that day that he suffered a loss, as he 
took out the loan agreement with GE Money.
It follows, therefore, that I think the cause of action accrued on 20 December 2005 (when 
Mr H entered into the loan agreement with GE Money), so he had six years from that date to 
bring a claim. But he didnt try to contact GE Money about his claim until 9 October 2017, 
which was outside of the time limits set out in the LA. So, I still think GE Money acted fairly in 
turning down Mr Hs misrepresentation claim under section 75 on this basis.
The claim under section 140A of the CCAUnder this section a court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit 
agreement if it decides that the relationship between the lender and the creditor arising out 
of the agreement is unfair. Only a court has the power to make such a determination, but I 
think it is relevant law, which I can take into account, if applicable.
I note GE Moneys argument that Mr Hs section 140A claim wasnt included in the original 
letter of claim sent to them in October 2017. Rather, it was included in his representatives 
submissions when bringing Mr Hs complaint to our service. So, they dont think we should 
consider it as part of the complaint. However, I still dont think section 140A of the CCA is 
something I can consider in this case in any event. Ill explain why.
Section 140A of the CCA was introduced by the Consumer Credit Act 2006. Schedule 3 of 
that Act sets out to what credit agreements section 140A of the CCA applies. In short, if a 
credit agreement was taken out before 6 April 2007 and had completed before 6 April 2008, 
no claim under section 140A of the CCA could be brought in respect of that credit 
agreement.
GE Money has shown that Mr Hs loan agreement was paid off on 10 April 2007. This means 
his credit agreement completed and his relationship with GE Money in connection to the 
related timeshare agreement ended on that date. Given his credit agreement was also taken 
out before 6 April 2007 (in 2005), I still dont think section 140A applies to his credit 
agreement, so he isnt able to make a claim under section 140A. This means I still dont think 
GE Money did anything wrong in refusing to consider a claim under section 140A, so I dont 
think it needs to do anything further.
Mr Hs arguments on limitation
I appreciate Mr H may say he didnt know about the time limits Ive referred to above in the 
LA, but Im afraid thats not generally accepted as grounds for extending the limitation 
period. Mr Hs representative made several arguments why they didnt think our investigator 
was correct about limitation. I will deal with each of the main points in turn.
Firstly, Mr Hs representative said that, under our own rules, a consumer can make a 
complaint to a business within six years of the event happening or three years of when a 
consumer realised they had a reason to complain. But the rules the representatives referred 
to set out the time limits within which a consumer needs to complain to a business about a 
regulated financial activity. Those rules apply to Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
governed complaint handling, which in the current context, is a complaint that GE Money 
unfairly turned down Mr Hs claim. But the reason GE Money decided to turn down the claim 
was because they didnt think they were legally liable due to the operation of the LA, so that 
is why I have considered that legislation.
Secondly, they argued that under section 11A of the LA, time didnt start to run for limitation 
purposes until Mr H first had knowledge that he could start proceedings against GE Money. 
This provision is titled Actions in respect of defective products and applies to an action 
for damages by virtue of Part 1 of the Consumer Protection Act 1987. However, this applies 
to actions that arise out of products and not services such as timeshares, so I still dont think 
it assists Mr H (see section 1(2)(c) of the Consumer Protection Act 1987). Neither in my view 
does section 14 of the LA, which simply defines what is meant by date of knowledge in 
other provisions that dont apply to Mr Hs claim.
Im still not persuaded that section 14A of the LA applies to Mr Hs claim either. That 
provision provides for a second period in which a claim for negligence can be made. Looking 
at what happened, when Mr H purchased the timeshare and took out the finance, I think 
there was an obligation to give Mr H sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable him to make an informed choice about whether to take out the loan. But Im still not 
persuaded a duty of care arose or advice was provided that could give rise to a claim to 
which section 14A of the LA could apply.
I have also considered section 32 of the LA, which states that in cases of fraud, concealment 
or mistake, the limitation period only starts to run from when a claimant discovers the fraud, 
concealment or mistake (or could have discovered it using reasonable diligence). I 
understand Mr Hs representative said the Spanish courts found Business B was operating 
in a fraudulent spirit, but based on what Ive seen so far, I still cant see that there was any 
particular fraud, concealment or mistake in the circumstances of this case, such that section 
32 would apply. And, even if I were to accept that section 32 applied, I think Mr H probably 
had enough information about the terms of the agreement to start the clock running not long 
after he purchased this product. For these reasons, Im still not persuaded that Mr H is able 
to rely on section 32 of the LA here.
Overall, I still think GE Money fairly considered the things it needed to when it said the claim 
was brought too late. Its ultimately for the courts to decide whether or not any claim that 
Mr H may have against the supplier or GE Money has expired under the LA. But, as far as I 
can see from the information available, any claim that Mr H might have against GE Money 
has most likely exceeded the time limits set out in the LA. I think it is reasonable to take this 
into account in these circumstances. And I am not persuaded that GE Money acted unfairly 
in declining the claims. This means I wont be asking GE Money to do anything further in 
response to Mr Hs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint about GE Money 
Consumer Lending Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Joanna Brown
Ombudsman