DRN-3383547
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about a valuation undertaken on their home when they applied for a 
new interest rate product with Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C took out a mortgage with Halifax in 2019. This was initially on a fixed interest 
rate product for two years. 
In 2021 they approached Halifax to ask for a new interest rate as their previous one was 
coming to an end. In the initial discussions their property was valued at around £343,000 by 
Halifaxs system. Mrs C explained that she thought the property was worth more than that 
and that similar properties in the area were being sold for more. 
It was agreed that a valuation would be undertaken  in the hope that Mr and Mrs C might 
be able to access better interest rate products. 
Halifax instructed an independent firm of Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors (RICS) 
qualified surveyors to conduct the valuation. The result of which provided a valuation of 
£345,000.
Mr and Mrs C complained to Halifax. They said the valuation was well below market value 
and provided information from local estate agents which estimated the property to be a 
higher value. They say that they feel Halifax is undervaluing their property on purpose to 
avoid providing them with a better interest rate  in turn increasing their profits. 
They complained to Halifax, who responded to say that it didnt think it had acted unfairly 
and didnt uphold the complaint. 
Unhappy with this, Mr and Mrs C referred their complaint to this service. Our investigator 
considered the matter but didnt think it should be upheld. 
As Mr and Mrs C didnt agree with the investigators opinion, the matter has been passed to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Mr and Mrs Cs strength of feeling about what happened. And I can 
understand that it must have been disappointing the valuation came in lower than expected. 
But, as Ill explain, I dont think Halifax did anything wrong. 
Its standard practice for lenders to offer different interest rate products depending on the 
loan to value (LTV) of a property. And its common for lenders to revalue a property before 
offering a new interest rate product in order to work out the LTV. As Mr and Mrs C thought 
that the value of their property had increased compared to what was recorded on Halifaxs 
system  it was agreed that a new valuation would be undertaken. 
Having considered the evidence here, Im satisfied that Halifax made it clear of the risks and 
the impact this may have on the interest rates it could offer. 
From what Ive seen, Halifax appointed an independent firm of surveyors who were 
competent and had the right qualifications to carry out the valuation. So they were entitled to 
rely on the surveyors professional opinion about the valuation of Mr and Mrs Cs property in 
deciding the interest rates they were prepared to officer.
I understand that Mr and Mrs C have said that Halifax and the surveyors are working 
together and have purposely undervalued the property, but I havent seen any evidence of 
this. 
The surveyor is an independent professional, that acts separately to Halifax. As Ive said, it's 
entitled to rely on the conclusions of an expect regarding the property valuation. I havent 
seen any evidence of wrongdoing in this regard. 
I can appreciate Mr and Mrs Cs disappointment that the valuations they had sought from 
estate agents were not accepted. Its important to note that an estate agent valuation and a 
surveyors valuation are not the same thing.  An estate agents valuation, whilst helpful, is an 
estimation of what price the property could be marketed at for sale purposes. I dont consider 
it unreasonable for Halifax to rely on the surveyors valuation for its lending decision. 
Mr and Mrs C have questioned why Halifax has staff dedicated to valuation appeals, but they 
felt they could not appeal theirs. I can understand this must have been disappointing. It 
seems to me that they would be limited as the valuation was conducted by a qualified 
professional third party  the surveyors. Rather than Halifax itself.
Im also mindful that they could have looked into whether other lenders might have been 
able to offer them a better deal if theyd wanted to.
Whilst I understand this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs C, having considered 
everything, I dont think that Halifax has treated them unfairly and so I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Camilla Finnigan
Ombudsman