DRN-2775501
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE has declined to provide them with 
a cash refund, after cancelling their travel insurance policy.
What happened
On 3 January 2020, Mr and Mrs S purchased an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy, 
covering them for holidays in Europe. The policy included cover for four declared medical 
conditions, and the policy start date was set as 1 April 2020 at this point. 
A couple of weeks later, Mr and Mrs S contacted Great Lakes and altered the start date of 
their policy. It was agreed the cover start date would be 18 January 2020, instead of 1 April, 
and the policy would end on 17 January 2021.
Mr and Mrs S paid £270.18 for the policy, which included a discount of £5.81. They have 
explained how they had expected to use the policy for a couple of cruises they had booked 
during the policy year.
But, on 22 June 2020, because of the coronavirus pandemic, and its impact on travel, Mr 
and Mrs S contacted Great Lakes to cancel their policy and request a full refund of the 
premium paid.  
Great Lakes said it could cancel the policy for Mr and Mrs S  and offer them a pro-rata 
refund. But this would be in the form of a credit voucher worth £152.54, rather than in 
monetary form. 
Mr and Mrs S were told they could then use this voucher to buy a new annual multi- trip 
insurance policy. The new policy would cover them for a period of 15 months, for the price of 
12 months, based on the market rates at the time of purchase.
Mr and Mrs S didnt want to accept the voucher offered. And so, they raised a complaint 
about how Great Lakes had handled their request for a cash refund of the premium. 
Great Lakes looked into Mr and Mrs S concerns and said it wouldnt be providing them with 
a cash refund for their policy. It explained that Mr and Mrs S had benefitted from cancellation 
cover under the policy, from when the policy started on 18 January 2020, until it was 
cancelled on 22 June 2020. And, it highlighted that the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs 
S policy said that no refund would be provided, if the 14 day cooling-off period had elapsed 
when the policy was cancelled.
Instead, Great Lakes said it could offer Mr and Mrs S a credit voucher towards;
A new annual multi trip policy. The policy would be a 15-month policy, for the price of 
a 12 month one, at the current market rates.
A deferred annual policy. Mr and Mrs S could purchase this 12-month policy, at the 
current market rates. And could then chose to start the cover any time within 12 
months of purchasing the policy.
A UK only annual multi trip policy, with, subject to terms and conditions, the potential 
to upgrade the destination on the policy at a later date.
Mr and Mrs S didnt feel this was fair and felt they should receive a cash refund for the total 
amount they had paid for the policy - £270.18. 
Because Mr and Mrs S remained dissatisfied, they referred their complaint to this service for 
an independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and set out the details of the relevant cancellation 
rights  and how they applied in the circumstances of this case. They also explained that it is 
a fundamental principle of insurance law, that if the insurer has started to bear risk  for 
however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. The investigator said that this 
meant its not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to the risk it 
covered during that time. 
The investigator also explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of 
insurance to be performed because cover under the policy started on 18 January 2020 and 
the policy covered various risks during from that point, until the policy was cancelled. 
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
They thought that the fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this complaint 
was for Great Lakes to provide Mr and Mrs S with a pro-rata credit voucher, calculated 
based on the remaining premium from the date Mr and Mrs S first requested cancellation of 
the policy on 22 June 2020, to the end date of the policy on 17 January 2021.
The investigator also clarified that once one of the above options were selected, the new 
policy would need to be bought immediately. 
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree. They still felt they should receive a cash refund, as opposed to a 
voucher.
Because Mr and Mrs S didnt agree their complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case, so I wont 
repeat these again in detail here.The policy terms and conditions say: 
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of 
your documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you have paid, 
less any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or intend to make, a 
claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14 day cooling-off period no premium will 
be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional circumstances such as 
bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical 
conditions. 
Im not upholding this complaint because;
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling-off period and so there is no requirement under 
the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a refund to Mr and Mrs S.
As Ive outlined above the contract of insurance says that it wont provide a refund after the 
cooling-off period, unless in exceptional circumstances. And, it gives examples of what 
would be considered exceptional circumstances. Whilst I can appreciate why Mr and Mrs S 
wanted to cancel their insurance policy, I dont think their reasons for cancelling the policy 
reasonably fall into what would be considered exceptional circumstances. I say this 
because I dont think the global coronavirus pandemic, which affected many of Great Lakes 
policyholders, is one which the policy term relating to discretion is intended to cover. The 
examples of exceptional circumstances given in the policy terms relate to bereavement or 
changes in the policyholders health. 
Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint, 
including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-19. And in the 
circumstances of this case, I think Great Lakes offer is fair and reasonable. 
Mr and Mrs S were insured from 18 January 2020, when policy started, until they cancelled 
it, on 22 June 2020. And this cover was for any number of trips they took, up to 50 days in 
duration for Mrs S and 35 days in duration for Mr S. At this point, whether Mr and Mrs S went 
on any trips or not, Great Lakes were covering the risk of a claim occurring. And the 
premiums charged to them, reflected this. So, Im satisfied it is fair and reasonable that 
Great Lakes dont provide a refund for this period of cover.
Mr and Mrs S cancelled their policy on 22 June 2020. Because of the coronavirus pandemic, 
Mr and Mrs S were no longer travelling, and they hadnt made any claim under their 
insurance policy either. So, Great Lakes were no longer insuring any risk under the policy 
from that point. As Great Lakes were no longer bearing any risk under the policy from that 
point  and as the circumstances of coronavirus being unique and unprecedented, I do think 
it is fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to provide Mr and Mrs S with a pro-rata refund, from 
22 June 2020, to the policy end date of 17 January 2021. 
I do appreciate Mr and Mrs S feel that the refund should be paid to them in cash, rather than 
in a voucher. But Im satisfied a voucher is a fair alternative to a monetary refund here. I 
agree with the investigator that the terms of the voucher Great Lakes has offered Mr and Mrs 
S arent unreasonably restrictive as theyve been offered different options. They would be 
able to use it for other trips, whether in the UK or abroad, given the terms and conditions of 
the voucher  including the ability to defer it by 12 months.Im also satisfied the value attached to the voucher is fair and I dont think Great Lakes has 
treated Mr and Mrs S differently, and therefore unfairly, in relation to how it has set and 
calculated the voucher amount in this case. Great Lakes calculated the voucher amount 
from the date Mr and Mrs S first called about cancelling the policy  22 June 2020, to the 
date the policy was due to end, 17 January 2021. This meant there would be 210 days of the 
policy unused, where Great Lakes werent on risk - which equates to £152.54 of the 
premium paid. As this offer reflects the fact Great Lakes was not on risk for the 210 days 
after the policy was cancelled, Im satisfied Great Lakes offer is fair. And so, I wont be 
requiring it to do anything more. 
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that Im satisfied the voucher Great Lakes has offered 
Mr and Mrs S is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So, I dont require it to do anything 
more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 June 2021.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman