DRN-2093668
The complaint
Mrs S complains on behalf of the estate of Mr S about Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limiteds 
decision to decline a claim under a term assurance policy following the death of her son, Mr 
S.
What happened
In September 2018, Mr S took out an increasing term assurance policy to pay out a lump 
sum if he was diagnosed with a terminal illness or passed away during its term. 
In May 2019, Mr S sadly passed away at home. During the inquest hearing, the coroner said 
while its been mentioned by Mrs S that Mr S was masking feelings of depression, there was 
no specific evidence he intended to take his life and it may be that he wanted to be found. 
And she went on to say, in the circumstances, even on the balance of probabilities, she 
couldnt find that he intended to end his life. So the coroner proposed a short narrative 
verdict that he died from hanging, explaining no finding would be made in regard to intention. 
And the death certificate recorded the cause of death as 1a) Multiorgan Failure, 1b) Hypoxic 
Brain Injury and 1c) Hanging.
 
Aviva was notified Mr S had passed away by his ex-girlfriend. And it sent her a letter refusing 
the claim on the basis the policy had an exclusion that applied if death occurred within the 
first year as a result of suicide or intentional self-inflicted injury. 
 
Mrs S, on behalf of the estate of Mr S, contacted Aviva a few months later to let it know the 
inquest hearing had been carried out and that the coroner hadnt been able to reach a 
verdict of suicide. Aviva maintained its declinature of the claim, saying while this was the 
case, it still considered that Mr S passed away due to intentional self-inflicted injury, which 
the policy also excluded.
 
Mrs S referred the matter to us saying she doesnt see how Aviva can decide it was suicide 
and that her sons death wasnt accidental when the coroner couldnt. And she was unhappy 
about one of the things Aviva mentioned as possibly leading to her sons death. She was 
also unhappy about the fact Aviva gave its initial decision to her sons ex-girlfriend, who isnt 
next of kin, before the inquest had been carried out.
 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He said that while a coroner usually 
makes a finding beyond reasonable doubt, we consider the balance of probabilities. And 
that, after taking everything into account he felt Aviva had shown it was more likely than not 
that Mr S had intended to cause himself injury or take his life. 
Mrs S doesnt agree. In summary, she doesnt think the circumstances and timing suggest 
Mr S intended to injure himself or take his own life. She says theres no medical record of Mr 
S experiencing depression or being prescribed medication for his mental health for several 
years. And that his actions beforehand werent those of someone intending to end their life. 
Shes also mentioned that if Mr S was intending to take his own life hed have waited until 
the policy had been in force a year, to be sure Aviva would pay out. 
So the complaints been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Id like to offer my condolences to Mrs S and Im sorry to disappoint 
her during this already difficult time, I dont think the complaint should be upheld for mainly 
the same reasons as the investigator. 
Avivas declined the claim based on the following policy term We wont pay if the death of 
the life covered is caused by suicide or intentional self-inflicted injury within 12 months of the 
policy start date. If this happens, the policy will end. 
As it isnt in dispute that Mr S passed away within 12 months of policy start date, I havent 
felt it necessary to comment on this any further. Ive taken into account Mrs Ss comments 
about the coroners verdict, but I think its important to explain that the coroner was 
considering the question of intent in relation to suicide  i.e. if Mr S intended to take his own 
life. And this isnt the same as considering whether there was intent to self-inflict injury. And 
for Aviva to rely on the abovementioned clause it only has to show  based on the evidence 
 that on the balance of probabilities (ie that it is more likely than not) that Mr S either took 
his own life or intended to inflict injury on himself.
  
It is of course possible Mr S set everything as some sort of test and never actually intended 
to inflict injury on himself or commit suicide. But this is something we can never know. But I 
think what happened shows it is more likely than not that Mr S intended to either commit 
suicide or inflict injury on himself. This sort of case is extremely sad and difficult, but when 
someone does things in the way Mr S did them, I think it would be very hard to say he didnt 
intend to commit suicide or cause himself some sort of harm on the balance of probabilities. 
For example there would need to be strong factual evidence, such as a note or conversation, 
from before it happened suggesting he did what he did for some other reason. In the 
particular circumstances, it does seem strange Mr S decided to lock the door, but as I 
understand it, someone in Mr Ss position is not likely to be thinking in a clear and rational 
way. And I think the same could be true even if hed realised the policy had only a few more 
months to run until the abovementioned clause would no longer be relevant and Aviva would 
have to pay out. So overall, I think Aviva has shown  based on the evidence available  it is 
more likely than not that Mr S intended to either commit suicide or inflict injury on himself. 
And this means I think its decision to decline the claim from the estate is fair and reasonable. 
 
It would have been unexpected and upsetting for Mrs S to find out Aviva gave its initial 
decision to someone who isnt a next of kin. And when the inquest hearing hadnt yet taken 
place. And I think Aviva acted inappropriately in doing so, although  as Ive said - I think its 
decision was ultimately a reasonable one. However, I cant award compensation to Mrs S for 
the upset caused to her by Aviva informing the wrong person on the outcome of the claim, 
as the estate of Mr S is the complainant in this complaint not Mrs S. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold the complaint from the estate of Mr S. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr S 
to accept or reject my decision before 29 November 2020. 
Robert Short
Ombudsman