DRN-2825430
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Birmingham Midshires (BM) 
wouldnt provide them with a repayment mortgage when the term of their interest only 
mortgage ended. They want BM now to provide that.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M had an interest only mortgage with BM. The term ended in November 2019. In 
advance of that, Mr M contacted BM in July 2018 to discuss the options that would be 
available at the end of the term. Mr M understood that they would be able to convert the 
remaining balance on the interest only mortgage to a repayment mortgage to run for about 
8-9 years. Mr and Mrs M were in their late 60s at the time of the conversation and a 
repayment mortgage until Mrs M was 80 was discussed.
In July 2019, Mr M called BM again and spoke to another adviser and got a quote for the 
repayment mortgage. But then when Mr M called in September 2019, he was told that the 
repayment mortgage wasnt possible. BM said that after Mr and Mrs M turned 70, in 
assessing affordability, it couldnt consider Mr and Mrs Ms earned income which meant that 
their application would fail due to affordability. Mr and Mrs M complained that they werent 
told this in July 2018.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint be upheld in part. He felt that in July 2018 
BM wasnt providing a recommendation but general advice as to what may be available. But 
he felt that the adviser should have alerted Mr and Mrs M as to what was the maximum age 
for considering earned income and that this had caused Mr and Mrs M inconvenience and 
BM should pay them £100 compensation. Mr and Mrs M disagreed saying in summary that 
the adviser they spoke to was unaware of BMs criteria that meant that earned income 
couldnt be considered in an affordability assessment of a customer taking out a mortgage 
over the age of 70, and so misled them in his advice. BM also disagreed saying that at the 
stage of the process in July 2018 that the advisor wasnt making an assessment of the 
affordability of the future mortgage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs M have an interest only mortgage with BM which was to be repaid in November 
2019. Coming up to the date. Mr and Mrs M made inroads into the capital balance. Having 
considered the matter, they hoped to pay off the remaining balance of just over £60,000 by 
way of a repayment mortgage over a number of years. Mr M wanted to avoid the loss of rent 
by selling a property early. They had a long conversation with a BM adviser in July 2018 
which I listened to and the impression I formed was that Mr and Mrs M would have a 
reasonable prospect of achieving their aim. But then when they tried to take the matter 
further the next year, they found out that in calculating affordability, BM cant consider their 
earned income over the age of 70. BM has clarified that this was its policy at the time of the 
initial conversation in July 2018. 
BMs position is that the conversation in 2018 was preliminary, discussing options potentially 
available when Mr and Mrs Ms interest only term came to an end. It certainly wasnt a 
mortgage application and Mr and Mrs M couldnt reasonably suppose that it was and that 
their application for a nine-year repayment mortgage would automatically be accepted. But it 
would certainly have given them some confidence that this was a potential and welcome 
route for them to deal with the overhang of the remaining capital balance at the end of the 
mortgage term. 
I believe, like our investigator, that the adviser should have referred to the difficulties that 
they might face in their application. BM had criteria about what income it wold accept after 
the age of 70 in its affordability assessment and in discussing the options available to people 
at that age, I would have thought that a reference to that would be reasonable. That would 
have prevented Mr and Mrs M building up false expectations of what was achievable. 
I appreciate that when Mr and Mrs M came to make the application, they were disappointed 
with the response. But clearly the first conversation wasnt an application and Mr and Mrs M 
werent accepted for a mortgage and I cant fairly require BM to ignore its criteria when it 
came to the actual application. I agree with our investigator that compensation for Mr and 
Mrs Ms disappointment of £100 appropriate. 
There are circumstances where a lender can set aside an affordability assessment if its in 
the customers best interests to do so. Best interests in this context is not an assessment of 
the effect on Mr and Mrs Ms future income and wealth. But it requires considering a 
customers overall circumstances and whether there are other options that would allow Mr 
and Mrs M to repay the debt whilst remaining in their home. It seems to me that Mr and Mrs 
M could always pay off this debt by selling an asset but wanted to retain the rental income. I 
also note that BM offered to look at alternative ways to pay off the debt as set out in its letter 
of December 2019.  So, Mr and Mrs M had other options that would allow them to remain in 
their home without the repayment mortgage and so I dont consider that this was a situation 
where BM should have set aside the affordability assessment.
So, whist I accept that Mr and Mrs M have a fair complaint about the management of their 
expectations in the phone call of July 2018 and should be compensated for that, I dont find 
that BM acted unfairly in refusing them a repayment mortgage and dont uphold that part of 
the complaint,          
Putting things right
Bank of Scotland plc trading as Birmingham Midshires should pay Mr and Mrs M £100.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 October 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman