DRN-3702381
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complained that poor workmanship carried out by Admiral Insurance 
(Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) resulted in a leak and were unhappy their claim was treated as 
a new incident rather than a continuous claim.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P made a claim when they suspected a pipe under their shower room floor was 
leaking in 2021. Admiral accessed the leak and it appointed a loss adjuster to assess the 
damage that the leak caused.
Based on the loss adjusters assessment, Admiral offered Mr and Mrs P around £40,000 to 
settle the claim (less the policy excess) to rectify the damage.
Mr and Mrs P were unhappy that the policy excess was deducted from their settlement. Mr 
and Mrs P had a leak under the shower room floor earlier in 2018. Under a previous claim 
Admiral had fixed it. Mr and Mrs P said the leak in 2021 was caused due to Admirals poor 
workmanship following the leak in 2018. They thought Admiral hadnt fixed the leak properly. 
So, Mr and Mrs P thought the leak in 2021 should be treated as one continuous claim with 
the leak in 2018. Mr and Mrs P dont think Admirals approach of setting up a second claim 
and deducting an excess was fair.
Admiral said the claim from 2021 was a result of a secondary leak these would be treated 
as two separate claims. I listen[ed] to the call from the second claim on 14/04/2021. The 
handler advised you on the call we would need to log this incident as a second claim due to 
the leak being a secondary leak and not the same leak. I am sorry but I cannot agree we 
have made an error. I also note you advised you were told by us the first repair was a 
temporary repair. I listened to the call from your first claim on 03/07/2018. The handler 
advised you we would instruct our supplier to trace and access and repair your leak.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. She didnt think there was evidence 
that the second leak was caused by poor workmanship, so she thought Admiral had been 
fair in treating the secondary leak as a new claim. Mr and Mrs P disagreed, so the case has 
been referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Admiral made a settlement offer to Mr and Mrs P for the damage caused. Im glad this was 
accepted - it shows Admiral made a fair offer. However, Mr and Mrs P were unhappy the 
recent leak was treated as a new claim and an excess payment was deducted. Ive 
considered this. Im going to disappoint Mr and Mrs P as I think Admiral has acted fairly. Ill 
explain why.
If Mr and Mrs P were able to provide direct evidence that Admirals poor workmanship was 
the main contributory factor in the second leak then I would be able to uphold their 
complaint. However, there is no supporting evidence that suggests this is the case.
When Mr and Mrs P made their claim they said, its the same pipe but in a different 
location. The call agent made it clear on the call that the second leak would be treated as a 
new claim. Mr and Mrs P have since said Admiral only made a temporary repair to the pipe 
when it first leaked. Mr and Mrs P said this repair failed and led to the secondary leak.
This information is contradictory as the leak couldnt be caused from poor workmanship in 
2018 if the leak was in a different location. So, I cant say that one part is more persuasive 
than the other. The reports produced by Admirals contractors dont provide evidence that 
the recent leak is in the same place on the pipe as the earlier leak. And Admirals notes 
confirm its contractor completed a permanent repair on the pipe, not a temporary repair as 
Mr and Mrs P have suggested. No other expert reports have been provided. 
As I havent seen any evidence to show this was the same leak or caused by Admirals poor 
workmanship, I think Admiral has been reasonable in treating it as a new claim. I think 
Admiral has communicated this consistently during the claims process, so I think its 
reasonable Mr and Mrs P wouldve been aware of this. 
Mr and Mrs P said Admiral admitted on a call the repair was temporary  I havent heard this 
admission, but even if I had, I would still need evidence that this repair had failed and 
caused the leak. As I havent, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require Admiral Insurance 
(Gibraltar) Limited to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 November 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman