DRN-2884376
The complaint
Miss M says Danesmead Investment Limited irresponsibly lent to her.
  
What happened
Miss M was lent a logbook loan by Danesmead in July 2008, the loan was for £2,000 with a 
term of 18 months and monthly repayments of around £309. I understand the loan was 
repaid in January 2010.
Our adjudicator upheld Miss Ms complaint and thought the loan shouldnt have been lent to 
Miss M. Danesmead disagreed, in summary it says it carried out sufficient checks and the 
checks showed that Miss M could afford the loan. It also says it wont have lent to Miss M if 
its checks showed she couldnt afford it.
Danesmead has also said this complaint isnt one that our service could look into as it wasnt 
regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) when it lent.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Firstly, in relation to Danesmeads continued point about this complaint not being one this 
service can look at, I can see an ombudsman has considered that point and has decided this 
service can look into this complaint, so I wont be commenting further on this.
Turning to the lending decision, while Danesmead wasnt regulated by the FCA when it lent, 
it was regulated by the Office of Fair Trading (OFT) and it still needed to take reasonable 
steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice this means that it should have 
carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss M could repay the loans in a sustainable 
manner. These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how 
much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. 
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Danesmead was required to establish 
whether Miss M could sustainably repay her loan  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ms complaint.
Danesmead has provided information to show that when it lent, Miss M signed an 
agreement, it also provided evidence to show that it saw a copy of her payslip and asked her 
about her income and expenses at the time. Danesmead also says that it saw Miss Ms bank 
statement but says Miss M didnt give her permission for it to keep copies of her statement. 
Danesmead confirms that it took into account Miss Ms partners income when deciding to 
lend.
I can see on the information provided that there is a note from Danesmeads agent that 
suggests Miss M didnt give permission for Danesmead to keep copies of her statement. But 
as Danesmead concedes it saw her statement from the time and Miss M has now provided 
her bank statement from the time, Ive relied on this information Miss M provided as it 
provides a good insight into Miss Ms financial circumstances and would likely have been 
similar to what Danesmead saw. 
Based on what Ive seen, I dont think Danesmead should have lent to Miss M and I will 
explain why.
The loan was taken out in her sole name and so while her partner was contributing towards 
the household bills, I think it would have been prudent for Danesmead to assess the loan 
solely on Miss Ms income taking into account her contribution towards the household bills.
From what I can see, the information Miss M declared about her income and expenses at 
the time are different to what shows on her bank statement. The bank statement shows that 
Miss Ms income was around £945 at the time of the loan, she also received child benefit 
payments of around £75.20. The combined household bills were around £1,200 including 
things like rent, food and utilities, assuming Miss M paid half of this that would have been 
around £600. I can also see that there were credit commitments of around £500 on the 
account and including this loan, it would be around £800 paid towards credit commitments 
per month.
I think in the circumstances; Miss M couldnt afford to sustainably repay the loan. Even if I 
considered her partners income which I can make out as being about £1,000, this loan still 
wouldnt have been affordable.
Danesmead has made the point that Miss M had another source of income and I can see 
that some other credit payments were made into the account. Miss M has explained that the 
cost of getting the materials needed for this other source of income outweighed the profit she 
made, and I can see that the debits towards this outweighed the credit payments. So, I dont 
think this other source provided her to extra income that would have made this loan 
affordable.I appreciate that Miss M managed to repay the loan but that doesnt mean she did so 
sustainably and without needing to borrow further. I think Danesmead lent to Miss M when it 
shouldnt have, and it needs to put things right.
  
Putting things right
refund all interest and charges Miss M paid on loan;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about the loan from Miss Ms credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Danesmead Investment Limited to take off tax from this interest. It 
must give Miss M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Miss Ms complaint. Danesmead Investment 
Limited should put things right as set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 December 2021.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman