DRN-3405412
The complaint
Mr S complains that AJ Bell Management Limited, trading as AJ Bell Youinvest (AJ Bell), 
didnt allow him to sell his shares on the day they were listed. By the time he was able to 
sell, the price had gone down. He wants AJ Bell to compensate him for his loss.
What happened
Mr S purchased shares in a company I will refer to as C through an Initial Public Offering 
(IPO). Mr S wanted to sell half his shares, through his execution only share dealing 
account with AJ Bell, as soon as they were listed.
Originally C shares were due to be listed on 4 March 2021, but the date was brought forward 
to 26 February. AJ Bell brought the transfer forward, but it wasnt able to settle the shares 
until the next working day,1 March,  which was the earliest date it allowed Mr S to trade.
AJ Bell said it couldnt rearrange the transfer at such short notice, although it did manage to 
move the transfer so that the shares were received on 26 February. The shares settled the 
following working day and Mr S was able to sell.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think 
AJ Bell had acted unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances.
Mr S didnt agree. He said, in summary, that:
AJ Bell made a commitment to compensate him.
AJ Bell said it would discuss the position with Mr S on the morning of 1 March and let 
him know the share price. But when he phoned, no one was aware of the situation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly Ive thought about whether Mr S should have been able to sell his shares as he 
wanted on 26 February.
Mr S had applied for the IPO through a third party who Ill refer to as P. The stock 
admission date had been set for 4 March. But P told AJ Bell on 24 February that the stock 
admission date had been brought forward to 26 February. I cant comment on AJ Bells 
operational set up and procedures  thats a matter for the regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority. But I dont think its unreasonable that the relatively short notice change of date 
had an adverse impact on AJ Bells ability to ensure all its clients received the correct 
amount of stock and that the shares were settled by the admission date. Im satisfied that 
AJ Bell used reasonable endeavours to enable Mr S to trade as soon as possible in the 
circumstances. Unfortunately, this meant he wasnt able to trade until one working day after 
the shares began trading.
When Mr S wanted to sell his shares the price was around 27p. But when he could sell them 
he received just under 17p per share. I dont find AJ Bell is obliged to compensate Mr S for 
the difference in price, because I dont find it acted unfairly or unreasonably in the 
circumstances.
Mr S says AJ Bell had committed to paying him compensation. Ive listened to the phone 
calls when this was discussed. I can understand why Mr S was hopeful that he would 
receive compensation. But AJ Bell didnt promise or guarantee it would pay him. Rather, its 
members of staff said they would consider any claim he made. 
Mr S says AJ Bell failed to call him as promised on the morning of 1 March. A member of the 
dealing team had spoken to Mr S on 26 February. During that call, Mr S said he wouldnt sell 
his shares if the price was substantially lower until hed spoken to a member of the team. 
The member of staff said, I will check the price on Monday morning and if you manage to 
call me before I call you, then well discuss it. I dont find there was a promise of a call back 
at an agreed time and  perhaps as the member of staff anticipated - Mr S called AJ Bell. 
I can understand his frustration that the member of staff hed spoken to wasnt in the office 
until later that day. But other staff were available, and I dont think this made an overall 
difference to the outcome here.
I appreciate this situation was very frustrating for Mr S. And Ive thought about whether 
AJ Bell should compensate him for the distress and inconvenience he was caused. But, for 
the reasons Ive explained, I havent found that AJ Bell acted unreasonably, and Im satisfied 
that it gave Mr S the correct information during his call shortly after 9am on 26 February. 
Mr S chose to phone AJ Bell several times after this call to try to sort things out. But, as hed 
been given the correct information, nothing was going to change. So I dont find AJ Bell is 
obliged to compensate Mr S for his time and trouble.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman