DRN-3082737
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) will not refund the money he lost after 
paying for an item he did not receive.
What happened
Mr K wanted to buy a games console for a family member for Christmas. He went online 
and found the profile of someone selling the console he wanted to buy on a selling page 
of a social network site. The console in question was sold out on other websites online. 
The profile Mr K found was a number of years old and appeared to have been used to sell 
electrical items before and received good reviews. 
Mr K sent a direct message to the seller who he later spoke with on the telephone. The 
seller showed him pictures of the console and provided a copy of their passport to prove 
their identity. Mr K and the seller agreed on a price of £415 but Mr K didnt have the whole 
amount so it was agreed that he would transfer £100 and then a further £315 the next 
day. Once the seller had received the payment, they would send the console to Mr K. 
Mr K initially asked the seller if he could pay via Paypal but the seller told him they didnt 
have an account but would accept a bank transfer. The seller provided their bank account 
details which matched the name on their social media profile. And so Mr K made the 
transfers from his Monzo account online. 
Once Mr K had made the payment, the communication with the seller stopped and Mr K 
didnt receive the console - so he contacted Monzo for help. Mr K explained that he 
thought he had been the victim of a scam and explained what had happened. 
Monzo went on to consider whether it should refund Mr K for his loss. But it turned down 
his claim for a refund and said he didnt take enough steps to check who he was paying 
and what he was for were legitimate. When Mr K complained, Monzo said it had acted in 
line with its internal procedures and regulatory guidelines. 
Mr K brought his complaint to our service as he wasnt happy with the banks decision.
One of our Investigators looked into the complaint and recommended it be upheld. They 
noted that Monzo is not a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code) but has agreed to adhere to it regardless. This 
means Monzo has made a commitment to reimburse customers who are victims of 
authorised push payment scams except in limited circumstances. Our Investigator didnt 
think any of those circumstances applied here.
The investigator said Monzo had not been able to establish that Mr K did not have a 
reasonable basis for believing that the payee was the person he was expecting to pay, the 
payment was for genuine goods and/or that the person he was transacting with was 
legitimate. In reaching that position, they placed weight on the social media selling platform 
as a recognised and informal selling site. They pointed out that the profile in question had 
been established for a number of years and appeared to have sold electrical items 
successfully before. He thought the price requested was reasonable for a second-hand 
console like the one in question and that Mr K had taken some steps to verify the sellers 
identity  in reviewing the sellers passport and confirming it matched the name of the 
person he was speaking to. For these reasons, our investigator thought Monzo should 
have fully reimbursed Mr Ks loss.
Monzo disagreed. It said the price of the console was too good to be true and it pointed to 
some adverts it had found online which showed the cost of the console ranged from £523 
to £654. Monzo said the cost of the console shouldve been of concern to Mr K. It also 
pointed to some best practice standards set out by the social networking site itself which 
said users should use Paypal and not electronic transfer when making purchases through 
the site. Monzo didnt think Mr K had taken heed of this. It also pointed out that profiles on 
the site were easily faked and shouldnt be relied on as factual. Ultimately, Monzo was of 
the opinion that the site used was not a trusted selling platform and it thought Mr K should 
have done more due diligence before making the payment. Specifically, Monzo said Mr K 
shouldve questioned why the console was being sold for a below average price when it 
was sold-out elsewhere. 
Our Investigator wasnt minded to change their view of the complaint. They acknowledged 
that the price was lower than the average price found by Monzo but although cheaper, this 
didnt mean that the price should be considered too good to be true on this occasion, 
especially as the item would be considered second-hand. They pointed out that Mr K had 
been told that he could not pay via Paypal as the seller didnt have an account and he 
pointed out that the very nature of the sight meant it was geared towards informal private 
sales and so they didnt think that the seller not having a Paypal account was concerning 
given the circumstances of the sale. 
Monzo did not agree. It maintained the view that Mr K did not have a reasonable basis for 
belief when making this payment. It thought he had sent the payment to an unknown 
individual online without proper basis for trusting them and reiterated the points it had 
made previously. Monzo maintained that it had no obligation to refund the loss when 
correctly applying the CRM Code.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required 
to take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and 
standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry 
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment 
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. 
However, where the consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a 
fraudster, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the 
consumer even though they authorised the payment.When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether 
Monzo should have reimbursed Mr K in line with the provisions of the CRM Code it has 
agreed to adhere to and whether it ought to have done more to protect Mr K from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Theres no dispute here that Mr K was tricked into making the payment. He thought he 
would receive a games console in exchange for his money and the seller did not keep to 
their side of that bargain. But this isnt enough, in and of itself, for Mr K to receive a refund 
of the money under the CRM Code. The Code also places a level of care on Mr K.
The CRM Code
Monzo has agreed to adhere to the provisions of the Lending Standards Board Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code) which requires firms to reimburse customers who 
have been the victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams like this, in all but a 
limited number of circumstances.
It is for Monzo to establish that a customer failed to meet a requisite level of care under 
one or more of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code if it believes its customer 
should not receive a refund of the amount lost. In this case, Monzo has explained its key 
concern is whether Mr K made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that 
the payee was the person he was expecting to pay; the payment was for genuine goods or 
services; and/or the person or business with whom she transacted was legitimate. There 
are further exceptions within the CRM Code, but they do not apply in this case.
Taking into account all of the circumstances of this case, including the characteristics of the 
customer and the complexity of the scam, I am not persuaded the concerns Monzo has 
raised about the legitimacy of the transaction Mr K was making are enough to support its 
position that he failed to meet his requisite level of care under the CRM Code. It follows that 
I do not think Monzo has been able to establish that it may choose not to reimburse Mr K 
under the terms of the CRM Code.
Having thought about what both sides have said and provided, I consider Mr K had a 
reasonable basis for believing the payment he was making was for genuine goods and that 
the person he was transacting with was legitimate. In reaching that conclusion, I have 
thought carefully about what it is realistic to have expected Mr K to do when he was looking 
to spend a total of £415 online.
The screenshots provided show the sellers profile had been established for a number of 
years and had sold electrical items previously  with apparent success. The seller was able 
to provide a copy of a passport which mirrored the name on the profile and Mr K was able 
to see pictures of the console in question. The profile appeared to be that a private 
individual who posted regularly. 
Having looked at this information, I dont think there was anything obviously untoward 
about the seller. I think all of this information when taken together would have lulled Mr K 
into a false sense of security at the time he made the payment. And Im not satisfied that 
Monzo has placed enough weight on the fact that this appeared to be a private sale 
between two individuals and so it is difficult to see what more Mr K couldve done to 
establish that the seller was who they said they were. I dont think it was unreasonable for 
Mr K to have believed the seller was who they said they were and from what Mr K recalls 
that he saw, he had no reason to think the seller would not keep to their side of the 
bargain on this occasion. Ive thought about the price Mr K paid thinking he was getting a second-hand but sold out 
console. Monzo feels that the price offered by the seller at the time the console was 
purchased was not feasible and it has pointed to adverts showing a higher purchase cost. It 
says Mr K should have reflected on whether this was too good to be true. But I dont think 
the price the seller gave was such that Mr K ought to have questioned it more in his own 
mind when viewed in the context of the overall situation he found himself in. People can 
and do find good deals online. The console was second-hand and this was a private sale 
between two private individuals. The seller may have had reasons for selling the console 
that meant they were happy to take a slightly lower price. I note that the majority of the 
examples provided by Monzo in this case relate to the sale of the console by online 
retailers - which are more likely to sell at the recommended retail price. And so, whilst I 
accept that the cost of the item was slightly lower than expected, Im not persuaded that it 
was so low that it shouldve caused Mr K concern.
Even though Monzo has highlighted there was more Mr K could have done to assure 
himself that he could trust the seller, I am not persuaded Mr K needed to make such 
extensive enquiries in the particular circumstances of this case. Ive thought carefully about 
the price of the item Mr K wanted to buy and the fact that this was a private sale. Whilst the 
situation is finely balanced, I think Mr Ks actions and assessment of the situation was 
appropriate and proportionate to a relatively unremarkable payment of £415.00.
Finally, I dont agree that the site used is  not a trusted selling platform. The site in 
question is a well-established site used primarily for the purpose of private second-hand 
sales between private individuals  such as the one Mr K entered into. Whilst I 
acknowledge that the best practice guidance on the site itself directs potential buyers to 
purchase via Paypal, it does not preclude the sale of items via bank transfer as Monzo 
says it does. In fact, it directs customers who are paying via transfer to ensure they do so 
via logging into their account and not clicking on external links.  
Weighing everything up, I dont think it would have been evident to Mr K that there was a 
considerable degree of risk associated with this purchase. The seller appeared to have a 
well-established profile and the price wasnt so low that it shouldve appeared unrealistic. I 
am not persuaded it did occur to him that there was a possibility he wouldnt receive the 
item or that it might not be genuine. Fraudsters are masterful at building trust and 
confidence and it is not realistic to expect Mr K to have the same awareness of what 
scams like this can look and feel like as the bank does. Mr K had successfully bought 
items from sellers on this site before and has told us that he wasnt aware of the 
prevalence of such scams. 
I think Mr K took enough care with a relatively modest purchase of £415.00 to say that he 
had a reasonable basis for believing he was buying genuine goods from a legitimate seller. 
I dont believe he took a calculated chance by going ahead with the purchase in the 
circumstances he did.
Overall, I dont think Mr Ks actions fell below the level of care expected of him in this 
situation. I think Monzo ought to have fully refunded Mr K at the time he reported the loss 
and so it should fairly and reasonably compensate Mr K by refunding that loss now.
Putting things right
The Code explains that where a customer has met their requisite level of care (which as Ive 
explained, Im satisfied was the case here) they should be refunded all of the money that 
was lost.So I think its fair that Monzo refunds the £415.00 Mr K lost, along with 8% simple interest 
from the date Monzo declined his claim until the date the funds are returned.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Monzo Bank Ltd to pay the 
settlement as Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2022.
 
Emly Hanley
Ombudsman