DRN-2412576
The complaint
Mr P complains about the amount offered to him by Black Horse Limited to compensate him 
for the costs he incurred when hiring a car due to his own car breaking down and requiring 
repair.
What happened
In February 2019 Mr P was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with Black Horse.
Around 4 months into the agreement Mr P experienced issues with the injectors. Repairs 
were carried out by the supplying dealer at no cost to Mr P. 
Around 8 months into the agreement, Mr P experienced further issues with the injectors. He 
paid for repairs himself and raised a complaint with Black Horse.
Black Horse upheld Mr Ps complaint and agreed to cover the cost of repairs. It also paid 
compensation for trouble and upset.
Whilst his car was being repaired, Mr P hired a car. Black Horse paid him £757.93 to cover 
65 days loss of use of his own car. But Mr P wasnt happy with the amount, because hed 
hired a car at £85 per day for 90 days.
Black Horse said it wouldnt reimburse the full amount of hire charges. It said Mr P had hired 
a higher specification of car.
Mr P wasnt happy with this response and brought this complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said although this service would expect 
Black horse to refund the cost Mr P had incurred as a result of the faulty car, it was also Mr 
Ps responsibility to take reasonable steps to mitigate his loss. The investigator didnt think 
Mr P had done this because he hadnt hired on a like for like basis. The investigator thought 
Black Horses offer was reasonable.
Mr P didnt agree. He said that although the car hire company hed used had smaller cars 
available, hed decided to hire a larger car because he didnt think small cars were safe for 
him and his family.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mr P feels that Black Horse should reimburse all of his hire costs. Hes 
made the point that if Black Horse had repaired the car properly the first time, it wouldnt 
have required a repair a second time and he wouldnt have had to hire a car. Whilst I agree 
that Black Horse must accept responsibility for the car being of unsatisfactory quality, theres 
also a responsibility on Mr P to mitigate his losses. So, in this case, Id expect Mr P to be 
able to show that he hired a like for like car.
I can see that Mr P hired a car which was much bigger than his own car. It was a large 
pickup truck. This service spoke to the hire company, who said it had been given the 
impression by Mr P that he needed a large car and that this was the only large car available 
at the time.
Mr Ps own car is a four-seater car. So, Id expect Mr P to mitigate his loss by hiring like for 
like  in other words, a 4-seater car.
Based on what the car hire company said, it had other 4-seater cars available at the time. Mr 
P doesnt dispute this but says he doesnt feel safe in smaller cars and this is why he didnt 
hire one.
I havent seen any evidence to suggest that the smaller cars offered by the hire company 
werent safe. And I dont think it was reasonable for Mr P to hire a pick-up truck when smaller 
cars were available. A pickup truck isnt like for like. 
Mr P has said it would have cost more if hed hired a car of exactly the same type as his own 
car. I havent seen any evidence to say whether this is correct, but even it is was, it wouldnt 
make a difference to the outcome here, because like for like doesnt mean exactly the same 
car, it means of a similar type.
If the car hire company hadnt had a like for like car, then I wouldve expected Mr P to make 
enquiries of other car hire companies locally. There is evidence that like for like cars were 
available locally to Mr P. That said, Im satisfied that the car hire company that Mr P used 
had like for like cars available. Its just that Mr P chose not to hire one of these because of his 
personal preference for a large car.
On balance, Im not persuaded that Mr P took reasonable steps to mitigate his loss. I dont 
think Black Horse should be responsible for refunding all of the hire costs incurred by Mr P. 
However, I think the offer Black Horse has made is fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman