DRN-4266203
The complaint
Ms B complains that Scottish Widows Limited trading as Clerical Medical (Clerical Medical) 
were negligent by failing to review her fund selection in the years leading up to her 
retirement. To put things right, she wants Clerical Medical to compensate the loss that her 
policy has suffered.
What happened
Ms B holds a Group Stakeholder Pension plan with Clerical Medical.
In October 2021, she received her annual pension statement which showed a value of just 
over £76,000.
In October 2022, she received her annual pension statement which showed a value of just 
over £50,000, which meant the fund value had fallen by around £25,000.
On 16 January 2023, Ms B complained to Clerical Medical as she felt the fund had been 
mismanaged and theyd been negligent going against their own investment strategy. She 
asked to be compensated for the loss in the fund value.
On 27 January 2023, Clerical Medical issued its final response. It gave a detailed 
explanation for the unusual combination of economic reasons that had seen lower risk funds 
such as bonds lose value in the last 12 months. It explained the fall in value was due to 
market fluctuations and not mismanagement and so it didnt uphold her complaint.
Dissatisfied, Ms B brought her complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into things for Ms B. In his view, whilst he accepted the 
disappointment Ms B must feel with the current performance, he agreed that market 
conditions were the reason for the fall in the fund value and not mismanagement. He didnt 
feel that Clerical Medical had acted unfairly and didnt ask it to do anything further.
Ms B disagreed. She says that it was evident for a number of years that the market was 
volatile, and that Clerical Medical should have undertaken a review of what she says should 
no longer have been considered a low-risk investment  in failing to do that she regards it as 
negligent and liable for her losses. She asks for an ombudsman review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have independently reached the same outcome as that of the investigator. 
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Ms B  Ill explain why.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive 
done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by all the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think 
are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome. Instead, I have concentrated on what I understand to 
be the crux of Ms Bs complaint which is that she feels Clerical medical should have 
reviewed her investments given the market conditions and in not doing so it was negligent in 
its duty and so liable for the fall in the fund value.
Whilst I can consider complaints about investment performance, in most instances, I would 
need to see evidence that Clerical Medical had done something wrong and I cant just rely 
on actual or perceived poor performance. Thats because, even if the fund has 
underperformed compared to the rest of the market, we dont usually think this proves the 
fund was mismanaged. Many consumers have seen the value of their pension funds fall over 
the last 18 months given the economic conditions not just across the UK, but wider financial 
markets too. So, to be clear, this isnt just a Clerical Medical issue, and its something many 
other consumers are having to face at other businesses too.
Having carefully considered the evidence, I can see that Clerical Medical wrote to Ms B in 
October 2019. The letter was entitled in bold, large print Please review your pension plan 
and that letter as our investigator pointed out it said:
Your pension plan can only invest in a lifestyle strategy with a selection of funds chosen by 
your employer, which assume youll buy a guaranteed income for life at retirement. A 
lifestyle investment strategy gradually moves the value of your pension into lower risk 
investments as you approach retirement. This aims to help protect the value of your pension 
as you get close to retiring, although there are no guarantees.
We recommend you speak to a financial adviser before making any decisions. We're happy 
to discuss your options and help explain your plan's features for free. We also have our own 
financial advisers who may be able to give you advice on the options you have and products 
we offer. Please call us if you'd like more information.
I think its important to be clear about the level of service Ms B was paying for. The costs 
associated with her plan covered the management of the underlying monies and a separate 
charge for the wrapper (or plan) her monies were sat in.
Ms B wanted Clerical Medical to review her investments and feels it mismanaged her 
retirement fund by failing to do so. But Clerical Medical is not Mr Ws financial advisor. So, it 
simply acts on the instructions she provides. It isnt for Clerical Medical to ensure that any 
investment decisions are suitable for Ms Bs needs  those were essentially decisions she 
needed to make for herself, And I have seen that Clerical Medicals website (or by post on 
request) provides comprehensive information for investors about the range of funds that are 
offered. Had Ms B wanted someone to advise her on the appropriateness of the investments 
her monies were sat in, she wouldve needed to seek out and pay for financial advice.
The regulator also sets out the timing and content of the regular statements that need to be 
issued to pension investors. Generally, that sort of communication needs to be issued at 
least once a year. I can see that Clerical Medical did provide that sort of information to Ms B 
and it highlighted the warnings that Ms B should review the ongoing suitability of her 
investments. 
There is no doubt that the performance of Ms Bs pension investments will have caused her 
great disappointment. During 2022, the value of her pension investments fell. But those falls mirrored falls across a whole range of investment classes and were entirely outside the 
control of Clerical Medical. The information provided to investors about the funds into which 
Ms Bs pension savings were invested clearly set out that their values werent guaranteed 
and might fall.
Ms Bs monies were invested in fixed interest investments. That said, the fixed interest 
element of the life styling funds is impacted by changes in the interest rate. As interest rates 
rise, a fall in value is then often seen. But importantly at the same time there will typically be 
an increase in annuity rates. So, this means although Ms Bs fund value has fallen its annuity 
purchasing power may appreciate. This is different to a loss that might be incurred in a 
higher risk fund when annuity rates might be falling. So, life styling is a way to act 
protectively for future annuities. 
Given that Clerical Medical was not providing Ms B with any advice about her pension 
savings, it would not have been appropriate for it to contact her specifically about the change 
in value of any of her underlying investments. Doing so might reasonably lead a consumer to 
consider that Clerical Medical was recommending a change in the chosen investments. 
Based upon what I have seen, Im not able to hold Clerical Medical responsible for general 
falls in the market or the value of investments. In 2022 in particular, there was uncommon 
volatility in those asset classes that led to the falls in value Ms B experienced. Those could 
not have been reasonably anticipated, and so wouldnt have been mitigated by any 
investment approach that was taken by Clerical Medical.
Ultimately it fell to Ms B to monitor her pension investments, and seek financial advice as 
prompted in the letter sent to her in October 2019. Only Ms B can instruct Clerical Medical to 
make changes to her portfolio if she felt it had become unsuitable for her circumstances. 
I think that Clerical Medical has met its obligations in the information it provided to Ms B and 
in carrying out the investment strategy set with regard to the particular funds Ms B has 
invested in.
So, whilst I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Ms B I dont agree that 
Clerical Medical has treated her unfairly or done anything wrong. So, I dont uphold her 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint or make any award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2023.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman