DRN-3731603
The complaint
Mr M complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) declined to refund £10,950 which he 
said he lost as the result of a scam. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I will not go into every detail 
about what happened here. But, in summary, Mr M is unhappy that Santander declined to 
refund approximately £11,000 which he says he lost as the result of an investment scam. 
In February 2020, Mr M made two payments totalling approximately £11,000 to two 
recipients. One of the payments was stopped to ask the recipient to prove entitlement to the 
funds to make sure Mr M was not being scammed. Mr M contacted Santander numerous 
times to get them to release the payment, as he said it was for services which he had 
received in part and was happy with. The recipient went into their local branch and showed 
invoices for architectural drawings and related services, so the payments were released.
Mr M later contacted Santander to say he had fallen victim to a scam  as he had not 
received the final architectural drawings. In February 2021, he was told that they would not 
be refunding the transactions. Mr M said he realised he had been confused about which 
payments were which, and his partner had reminded him that these payments related to a 
Cryptocurrency investment  which had been a scam. He said he had paid for architectural 
drawings, but from another account. He has detailed the very difficult personal 
circumstances he was going through at the time, and explained this is why he got confused 
about what the payments were for. He said he had not been provided with a cover story to 
tell the bank by the scammers, as this would have made him suspicious and he would not 
have made the payments. 
Mr M said he first became aware of the Cryptocurrency investment after receiving a cold call 
in around May 2019. He spoke to two men who were very persuasive and explained how it 
would all work, and he was persuaded to invest to provide for their childrens future. He said 
that he became aware this was a scam when the men stopped contacting him and he 
couldnt get in touch with them. 
After Mr M complained to Santander, they looked into what had happened. They declined to 
refund the transactions as they felt it was more likely that Mr Ms original version of events 
was what happened  and they felt this represented a civil dispute rather than a scam, so 
they did not have to provide a refund. 
Mr M was unhappy that Santander declined to refund the transactions. He also said there 
were issues with one of the transfers taking a long time, so his partner thought something 
didnt seem right and they asked Santander to return the money so they could pay another 
way  which they didnt. He said he asked Santander if the companies were genuine 
numerous times and received no reply. He complained that he didnt even want online 
banking, but he was told if he got it then they would refund him if he fell victim to a scam. 
So, Mr M came to our service and one of our investigators looked into what happened. They 
did not recommend that Mr Ms complaint be upheld. This was because they thought it was 
fair and reasonable for Santander to conclude what happened amounted to a civil dispute, 
rather than a scam. Mr M was not happy with this outcome, and as no agreement could be 
reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, I am required 
to take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules; guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. 
I am very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focused on 
what I think is the heart of the matter here. If there is something I have not mentioned, it is 
not because I have ignored it, I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every 
individual point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules 
allow me to do this and this simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. 
Having thought carefully about Santanders actions, I am not intending to uphold Mr Ms 
complaint. I do appreciate how disappointing this will be for him, but I dont think I can fairly 
say Santander should reimburse him. Ill explain why. 
I understand entirely that Mr M feels very strongly that his money should be returned to him. 
But not all cases where individuals have sent on large sums of money is there a fraud or 
scam. When considering what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive thought about the 
Lending Standards Boards voluntary Contingent Reimbursement Model code, which 
Santander has signed up to and that was in force at the time Mr M made these payments. 
Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who 
is the victim of an APP scam. Ive thought about whether the circumstances of the payments 
Mr M made and in particular, whether Santander ought to reimburse him under the 
provisions of the CRM code. But the Code is quite explicit that it doesnt apply to all push 
payments. It says: 
DS2(2)
This code does not apply to: 
(b) private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a legitimate supplier for 
goods, services, or digital content but has not received them, they are defective in 
some way, or the Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier.
Both Santander and our investigator felt the payments Mr M made formed part of a private 
civil dispute involving architectural drawings, and as such, were not covered by the CRM 
code. Mr M disagreed and said the payments were the result of a cryptocurrency investment 
scam. So, as there are discrepancies between what both parties are now saying the 
payments were for, I first need to determine which, on the evidence, is most likely. Having 
done so, I think it is most likely these payments were for architectural drawings and related 
services. I say this because: 
When the payments were first attempted, Santander wanted to check Mr M was not falling victim to a scam, presumably due to the size of the transaction. So, they put a 
pause on the transaction, and asked the recipient to demonstrate entitlement to the 
funds. At this time, Mr M emailed Santander requesting that they speed up the 
process of dealing with this payment as it was for work the recipient had completed 
for him. He followed this up with another email to chase the payment, as he said he 
had done some great work for him, but he needed payment before any further work 
could be completed. At no point in the emails he sent at the time did he mention 
cryptocurrency, nor investments. It all related to work that was partially completed. 
Our investigator asked for the emails with the scammers around this time, but Mr M 
has not been able to provide them. 
He did later ask for the payment to be recalled, but it seemed this was because it 
was taking too long. However, Santander released the funds after receiving proof of 
entitlement to the funds from the recipient  which I think was fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances. 
When the recipient went into branch to provide proof of entitlement to funds, he 
provided invoices for architectural drawings and related services, in line with the size 
of the payments. Santander have confirmed the investigation into the recipient 
accounts demonstrate no corroborating evidence that the accounts are being used to 
execute scams. I cannot go into great detail on this for data protection reasons  but I 
agree that it does not appear the recipient accounts are being used for fraudulent 
purposes. 
Throughout the complaints process in 2020 and even into 2021, Mr M maintained 
that both payments were for architectural drawings. He was even asked why one of 
the payment reasons was investments and he said he did not know why, and this 
was an error. 
After Santander told him he would not be getting a refund, he told them that it was 
actually money he sent believing he was investing in Cryptocurrency but that he had 
been scammed. Mr M has provided emails in relation to a cryptocurrency investment, 
but I have not seen anything in them that makes it clear these specific payments 
related to this  and I am aware he has complained about other businesses with 
regards to a cryptocurrency scam so I think this may be a case of confusing what 
payments came out of what accounts, and I think there is a chance the emails are 
not specifically related to these payments.  
When Mr M was asked why he had told Santander the dispute related to not 
receiving the final drawings and related services from the recipients, he said he had 
been confused and his wife reminded him the two transactions were for 
Cryptocurrency. He said he did pay for architectural services, but he paid them from 
another account. However, the related invoices that Mr M submitted do not match the 
amounts that left his Santander account. And it seems strange that the recipient also 
said that the payments were for the same services and provided the relevant 
evidence at the time if this was a matter of getting confused between what payments 
were for. Mr M said that he was not provided with any cover story by the 
Cryptocurrency scammers  so it would seem highly unusual that both he and the 
scammers would say the payments related to the same thing. 
So, having considered all of the available evidence, I think it was fair and reasonable for 
Santander to say that what Mr M told them up until a year after the transactions was most 
likely what happened here  that he had commissioned architectural drawings and related 
services, and that there had been some issues with not receiving all of the work when the 
payments were delayed in going through. And I think this can fairly be labelled a civil dispute in line with the definition provided in the CRM Code  which means that according to the 
CRM Code, Santander do not have to refund these transactions. 
I am sorry as I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr M. I was sorry to read of the 
difficult personal circumstances he was dealing with at the time, and is still dealing with now. 
But, my role here is to assess whether I think Santander acted fairly on the evidence 
available to me  and I think they did. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
Katherine Jones
Ombudsman