DRN-2746867
The complaint
Mr A complains that Utmost Life and Pensions Limited failed to tell him when he contacted 
it in November 2019 that he couldnt make a partial transfer out of his pension plan.
What happened
Mr A had two pension plans with Utmost. On 14 November 2019, Mr A returned an 
investment choices form and informed Utmost on that form that he wanted to transfer part 
of his pension to a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) with another provider. He said 
he didnt want the transfer to be made immediately. This was because a substantial uplift 
was due to be applied to his plan (expected in January 2020), and he wanted that to be 
applied first.
On 28 November 2019, Mr A called Utmost to discuss his pension plan. Utmost says it told 
Mr A he needed to transfer the whole fund, or he would lose out on some uplift, but
didnt specifically mention that partial transfers werent permitted. Utmost said he was told he 
would need to contact it again in mid-January to request the necessary forms to make the 
transfer. Mr A said his note of the call makes no mention of being told that the whole fund 
would need to be transferred.
On or around 7 or 8 January 2020, Mr A called Utmost. Its not in dispute that it told him then 
that it didnt allow partial transfers, only full transfers to another provider.
Mr A complained to Utmost. Utmost said that the rules that applied to Mr As pension plan 
didnt allow him to make a partial transfer. It accepted, however, that it had not taken the 
opportunity to make it clear to him until January 2020, that partial transfers werent allowed. 
To put things right, exceptionally, Utmost agreed to allow Mr A to make the partial transfer 
he wanted to originally make, which ordinarily would not have been allowed. 
Mr A wanted to transfer the money as the new provider was able to pay it out tax free, 
whereas Utmost wouldve had to deduct tax first as it had a different tax code for him. He 
planned to use the money transferred to clear some credit card debts. Mr As case is that 
he has lost out financially because by the time Utmost allowed him to make the partial 
transfer, stock markets had gone down and the value of his plan was less.
Utmost didnt accept that Mr A had suffered any financial loss. Dis-satisfied with Utmosts 
response Mr A referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into Mr As complaint and partially upheld it. He concluded that 
Utmost ought properly to have done more as it had caused Mr A some trouble and upset by 
not telling him at the outset that a partial transfer was not possible. He recommended that 
Utmost should pay Mr A £150 for the trouble and upset caused. Our investigator did not 
make an award for financial loss.
Utmost accepted our investigators view. Mr A did not. He said, in summary that,
his instructions to Utmost were clear and that by not notifying him in 2019 that he 
could not make a partial transfer, he lost out on a guaranteed cash sum and instead 
this money was transferred into Utmost investments causing him a loss. 
there was a total lack of good faith from Utmost.
transferring his other plan at short notice caused him to lose £41.58, but that was the 
only way he could mitigate the situation.
the offer to make the partial transfer was received by him on 13 March 2020, which 
was too late for it to be of any use.
Utmost converted his pension into units from cash before it could be transferred out.
In 2007 he transferred the remaining partial benefits from a different Equitable Life 
policy. The Equitable Life policies were taken out decades ago and so he could not 
be expected to know the terms and conditions of each. 
Damages should be based on the difference between a £5,000 cash transfer in 
January 2020 prior to conversion of the Utmost units and a multi-asset growth fund 
units purchased by that amount valued at 13 April 2020, the day when the transfer 
wouldve gone ahead after hed been notified of the partial transfer offer.
As agreement couldnt be reached Mr As complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the same reasons explained by our investigator, I cant see that Mr A was entitled to 
make a partial transfer. Utmost accepts that there were shortcomings in its communications 
here. So, the issue left for me to decide is what redress should be awarded to fairly and 
reasonably cover Mr As losses; financial or otherwise.
Financial Loss
Utmost has accepted it couldve made Mr A aware sooner that partial transfers werent 
allowed. This has clearly caused Mr A some frustration and upset. Mr A seems to have 
been told on or around 8 January 2020 that a partial transfer was not permitted. 
In early November 2019, hed asked for the partial transfer not to be made until the uplift 
had been applied, which, I understand, was expected mid-January. So, as I see it, given 
that the uplift was not going to be applied until January, and Mr A didnt plan to access this 
money until then, I cant reasonably find in these circumstances that Utmost has caused  
Mr A any financial loss as a consequence of that earlier miscommunication. I cant see that 
it was obvious to Utmost back in November 2019, that Mr A wanted to access the funds in 
his plan before January 2020.
This service looks to put a consumer back in the same or a similar position they wouldve 
been in but for the error or omission. Ive taken into account that exceptionally Utmost 
agreed to allow Mr A to make a partial transfer as a way of providing redress for its 
miscommunication. But, that doesnt change the overall position, that partial transfers 
werent allowed under the terms and conditions. I understand from Mr A that by the time he 
learnt about the offer in March 2020, he didnt consider it worth it to him to exercise that 
option, but that doesnt change my view. 
In January 2020, Utmost did explain to Mr A that he could take a cash withdrawal without transferring to the SIPP, but that he would need to increase the amount and claim the tax 
back. So, I cant see that Mr A wouldve lost out financially in those circumstances.
By the time Mr A discovered that Utmost didnt allow partial transfers, he opted to take 
other action and to complete other paperwork to transfer monies from his other pension 
plan. Undoubtedly this led to some frustration on his part, particularly as in his view he 
believes that he has lost out financially as a result of this. I understand this other transfer 
was completed on 4 February 2020, before the downturn in the markets caused by the 
Coronavirus pandemic.  Ive thought about this carefully. Its possible if Mr A had been 
given clearer information in November 2019, he would have transferred his other fund 
sooner. But, on the other hand, based on what Ive seen, I dont think it was made clear to 
Utmost that Mr A wanted to access his pension plan funds before January 2020. Utmost 
did clarify the position in early January 2020, before the time he originally expected the 
funds to be transferred by (mid-January). So, overall, I do not find that Mr A has lost out 
financially because of Utmosts actions. 
Trouble and upset
I accept that the mis-communication did effect Mr As pension planning. From November 
2019, until January 2020, his plan was to transfer £5,000 from the uplifted plan to clear 
his credit card debts. In the end, Mr A transferred the whole of his other plan into his 
SIPP. 
Like our investigator, I agree that Utmost couldve provided clearer information from the 
outset to assist Mr A with his retirement planning. So, I agree. that Utmost did do something 
wrong.
Looked at as a whole, I think £150 is fair and reasonable amount to acknowledge the 
trouble and upset caused. I consider this award to be in line with others made by this 
service.
My final decision 
I partially uphold Mr As complaint for the reasons explained above. I order Utmost Life 
and Pensions Limited to pay Mr A £150 for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2021.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman