DRN-4296724
The complaint
Miss S has complained about the delay and poos service she received when she made a 
claim under her warranty protection policy with Domestic & General Insurance Plc. 
What happened
In April 2023 Miss S reported that her oven wasnt working. D & G arranged for a 
replacement oven which was delivered and installed on 20 June 2023. 
D&G upheld Miss Ss complaints that an engineer had failed to attend, that Miss S had been 
contacted for a repair after it had agreed to replace the oven, and a delay in installing the 
replacement oven. 
It paid Miss S payments of £20 and £267 - for the failed appointment and additional food 
costs. It waived its installation and disposal fees. 
Our Investigator thought D&G should pay compensation of £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. She thought D&G should have waived its fees in any event due to 
the delay. She thought the £267 payment for additional food costs and the £20 
compensation for the missed appointment was right, but didnt address the distress and  
inconvenience caused. 
D&G didnt agree. It says the policy says it doesnt provide for financial loss and it has done 
over and above to resolve the complaints. 
Miss S accepted the Investigators findings. As D&G didnt agree, it wants an ombudsman to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think what D&G had done so far goes some way to put things right. I think it should have 
waived its fees and made a contribution toward the additional food costs Miss S had to pay 
due to being without cooking facilities for a delayed period of time, even if the policy doesnt 
cover this - as this was a fair and reasonable thing to do in the circumstances. 
Miss S says she spent several hours chasing D&G in calls and wait times. Overall I think 
D&G caused a delay of around four weeks. For this I think it should pay a further £100 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to Miss S. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Domestic & General Insurance Plc 
to pay Miss S a further £100 compensation in addition to what it has already paid for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. 
Domestic & General Insurance Plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Miss S accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a 
simple rate of 8% a year.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman