DRN-1354580
 
complaint
Its been agreed that AXA France IARD, as the insurer, should take responsibility for this
complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA as the seller in my decision. Mrs S says
AXA mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Mrs S took out a store card in August 1997 and the PPI was sold at the same time. Mrs S 
paid a monthly amount for the policy.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs S says she wasnt aware she had the PPI. Mrs S took out the PPI in store. AXA has 
provided a copy of the application form she completed in store. So I have considered this 
alongside Mrs Ss comments. 
On the application form that was completed at the time there is a separate section called 
Payment and Purchase Protection. This is followed by a statement about the PPI. There is 
a tick box next to another comment which reads Yes, I want my account covered by 
Payment and Purchase protection.. A tick has been placed here. Mrs S has signed the 
form which indicates she wanted and agreed to the cover. If Mrs S didnt want the cover she 
couldve left this section blank, like she had for other sections on the form for additional 
products. I dont know what was discussed at the time Mrs S took out the card, but I 
wouldve expected Mrs S to read over the form and raise any questions she had at the time 
before signing it.
So based on the evidence Ive been provided, I think its most likely Mrs S knew at the time
that the PPI was optional and that she decided to take it. But I can understand why she
might not recall this now, as the sale took place many years ago.
AXA didnt provide Mrs S with advice about whether to buy the policy. So this meant it didnt 
have to check the PPI was suitable for Mrs S. But it did have to make sure she got the 
information she needed to decide if it was right for her.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs S so it didnt need to check that it was suitable for her 
given her circumstances at the time. But it did need to ensure that she was given enough
information to decide whether she wanted to take it. Although I dont know what was said to
her then, I think its likely that the information she received about the PPI could have been
better than it was. But I dont think better information would have changed her mind about
taking the cover and Ill explain why.
Mrs S appears to have been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main
exclusions or limitations. Mrs S hasnt specified what employee benefits she may have had.  
However, the PPI wouldve paid out up to 15% of Mrs Ss outstanding monthly balance, until 
she returned to work or the outstanding balance had been paid off. And she wouldve 
received the same benefit if she was made redundant. The policy wouldve paid out in 
addition to any sick pay or redundancy pay. So I think she would have valued the extra 
security which the policy gave her if things went wrong.
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Mrs S. And as the policys premiums
were paid monthly, she could have cancelled it if it no longer met her needs.
Ive thought about everything Mrs S has said, but this hasnt changed my mind about not
upholding her complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint against AXA France IARD.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2020.
Chandni Green
Ombudsman