DRN-4276064
The complaint
Mrs L complains that she has been unable to claim under her mobile phone insurance 
underwritten by American International Group UK Limited (AIG), so she wants all the 
premiums shes paid refunded.
What happened
Mrs L has a mobile phone insurance policy underwritten by AIG. Mrs L pays a monthly fee 
for the insurance policy, alongside, but separate to her bank account. 
Mrs L says shes been calling AIG daily for between two and a half to three years, and each 
time she is unable to reach anyone, and a recorded message says she will be called back in 
15 minutes, but this doesnt happen.
As Mrs L says shes been unable to claim under her policy, she has asked for all the 
premiums shes paid since first taking out the policy to be refunded. 
AIG said there are no records of any contact from Mrs L previously, so they declined to 
provide a refund. They also gave Mrs L the number should she wish to make a claim under 
the policy. AIG also noted Mrs L had raised concerns about her bank, and other insurance 
policies which arent with them, so they directed her to her bank in the first instance.
Mrs L remained unhappy and approached this service.
One of our investigators looked into things, but she didnt uphold the complaint. She said 
there was no evidence of call attempts from Mrs L to AIG. And when AIG did call Mrs L back 
to register her device and to make a claim, she said she didnt want to and wanted to make a 
complaint instead. The investigator also didnt think AIG had acted unreasonably by directing 
Mrs L to her bank to raise her concerns which didnt relate to AIG. So, the investigator didnt 
recommend AIG do anything further.
Mrs L didnt agree and the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and whilst I appreciate itll come as a disappointment to Mrs L, Ive reached 
the same outcome as our investigator.
I should also clarify that this case and my final decision solely relate to Mrs Ls mobile phone 
insurance underwritten by AIG. Mrs L has a separate complaint about other issues not 
related to AIG being considered separately by this service.
Mrs L has said that she has tried to make a claim under her mobile phone insurance, calling 
daily, for between two and a half to three years. But she says each time she gets a recorded 
message, which says shell be called back but this doesnt happen.
AIG has checked its records since April 2021 when they became responsible for the policy, 
and having done so, they dont have any records of any contact from Mrs L. I also havent 
seen any evidence from Mrs L which shows she tried to call daily for up to three years. So, in 
the absence of anything in support of this, Im not persuaded its been shown AIG has acted 
unfairly, therefore Im not going to direct AIG to refund all the premiums Mrs L has paid.
I also note that AIG did call Mrs L in November 2021, as they understood Mrs L was looking 
to register her device and wanted to make a claim. Instead, Mrs L said she didnt want to do 
this, and wanted to make a complaint instead  which the agent then logged. But beyond 
that call, in which Mrs L didnt want to make a claim, I havent seen any other evidence to 
support Mrs L was unable to reach AIG, or that AIG has acted unfairly.
Mrs L also said she had concerns about her bank, and other insurance policies she had. But 
as these werent the responsibility of AIG, I dont think they acted unreasonably by directing 
Mrs L to her bank in the first instance.
With the above in mind, I dont think AIG have acted unfairly, so Im not going to direct them 
to refund the premiums Mrs L paid for her mobile phone insurance policy.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman