DRN-2358424
The complaint
Mr A and Ms J complain that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) declined their travel 
insurance claim. My references to URV include its agents.
What happened
At the end of January 2020 Mr A and Ms J booked a package holiday to Turkey  it included 
flights and accommodation. They bought their travel insurance policy on 9 March 2020, URV 
was the insurer. 
Mr A, Ms J and their young child travelled to Turkey on 11 March 2020 and were due to 
return on 20 March 2020.On the 17 March 2020 the Foreign and Commonwealth Office 
(FCO) advised against all but essential travel abroad due to Covid-19, but not at that stage 
that British nationals on holiday should return home immediately.
Mr A and Ms J returned to the UK on their planned date, 20 March. But their scheduled flight 
home was cancelled by the airline, Mr A thinks because Turkey had begun closing its 
borders to foreign nationals. They bought an alternative flight with another airline for the 
same day which cost them £845. Documents show the new flight was rebooked through the 
travel provider theyd originally booked with. They claimed on their travel policy for the new 
flight costs.
URV declined the claim. It said Covid-19 was a known risk at the time Mr A and Ms J bought 
the policy so they werent covered by the policy. URV suggested that they contact their travel 
provider, airline or credit/debit card providers, if applicable, to obtain a refund.
Mr A and Ms J complained to us. They said the FCO hasnt advised against travel when they  
went on holiday and they couldnt have anticipated what would happen while they were 
away. They want URV to pay the cost of the new flight.
Our investigator said URV couldnt fairly rely on the exclusion it had referred to. But he didnt 
think Mr A and Ms Js claim was covered by the policy terms and they should contact their 
package provider to get a refund.
Mr A and Ms J would like an ombudsmans decision on the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that URV had a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. I dont think it has rejected 
the claim unreasonably so I dont uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Correspondence between URV and Mr A and Ms J focused on a curtailment claim being 
made under section 1 of the policy - cancellation and curtailment. Mr A says the holiday was 
curtailed as he had to leave the hotel early to get another flight.
But the policy defines curtailment as:
abandoning or cutting short the trip by direct early return to your home area, in which 
case claims will be calculated from the day you returned to your home area based on 
the number of complete days of your trip you have not used.
So the claim circumstances arent curtailment, Mr A and Ms J returned home the same day 
as planned. 
URV referred to the following exclusion under the cancellation and curtailment to decline the 
claim:
What is not covered 
Any claims arising directly from
Circumstances known to you before you purchased this insurance or at the time of 
booking any trip which could reasonably have been expected to lead to cancellation 
or curtailment of the trip.
As this claim isnt about curtailment or cancellation of the trip URV cant reasonably rely on 
that exclusion to decline the claim. 
If there is a similar exclusion in other sections of the policy that might cover the 
circumstances of the claim I dont think URV can fairly rely on such an exclusion. Ive 
reviewed URVs policy information and website information and I can see no record of URV 
considering Covid-19 a known issue at the time Mr A and Ms J bought the policy. Ive also 
seen no evidence that when they bought the policy URV told them that the policy wouldnt 
cover a Covid-19 related issue. 
When Mr A and Ms J went on holiday the FCO hadnt advised against all but essential travel. 
They returned home as planned which was before the date the FCO advised British 
nationals on holiday to return home immediately. So Mr A and Ms J acted in line with FCO 
travel advice.
But the important point is that Mr A and Ms J had a package holiday. The relevant 
regulations, The Package Travel and Linked Travel Arrangements Regulations 2018 (PTR), 
explains that the package holiday organiser is responsible for the performance of the travel 
services included in the package travel contract, which in this case includes flights.
I think it was fair for URV to say Mr A and Ms J could contact their travel provider for a 
refund. Id usually expect a policyholder to take reasonable steps to recover their losses from 
the travel provider before making a claim on their travel insurance.
Theres no evidence that Mr A and Ms J have contacted their travel provider about a refund 
of the new flight costs. The travel provider is a member of an industry scheme which has its 
own Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) scheme so if the travel provider did refuse to 
refund the flight cost they would need to pursue that through the relevant ADR scheme first. 
I also note that Mr A and Ms J booked their new flight through the provider who theyd 
purchased the package from. So it seems most likely that they were in contact with the 
provider before booking the new flights. Its unclear why the provider didnt absorb that cost 
and why Mr A and Ms J didnt seek to recover their additional flight costs from the provider.
That means it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to now say that URV must pay the claim as 
Mr A and Ms J still have the opportunity to recover their losses from the travel provider and via the relevant industry scheme. However, if Mr A and Ms J are unsuccessful in recovering 
their losses then Id expect URV to reconsider their claim in light of that and taking into 
account my above comments. Mr A and Ms J would be entitled to bring a new complaint to 
our service in the event that URV reconsiders the claim and they are unhappy with the 
outcome of the claims decision.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Ms J to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 April 2021.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman