DRN-2333506
The complaint
Ms O complains that a surveyor from Bank of Scotland plc trading as Colleys didnt identify 
an encroachment by the neighbouring property into the loft of the property she was buying. 
Ms O wants compensated for the loss and stress shes suffered and the financial loss from 
the diminution in value of her property.
What happened
Ms O bought a property at auction in the spring of 2017 with the intention of renovating it in 
the future. The property at that time was an end of terrace house composed of two 
leaseholds which had been flats and converted into a house. Ms O wasnt buying the 
freehold but had plans to buy it later and convert the loft area, which she wasnt buying in 
2017, into accommodation for her growing family. As she was going to be do work on the 
property, she commissioned a level 2 survey to ensure she was fully informed and could 
make an informed decision before purchasing the property.
But Ms O later discovered that, after purchasing the property, the neighbouring property had 
extended into the loft above her property by about five and a half feet for the full depth of the 
house, in total 180 square feet. Ms O expected that the survey would have identified this 
encroachment onto her property which will prevent her developing the loft and is a fire 
hazard. Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as she didnt 
believe that the surveyor had done anything wrong. Ms O disagrees and asked for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms O bought this house aware that it had defects both in its physical condition and in the fact 
that it was a leasehold rather than a freehold title but intended to rectify those issues which 
would allow space for a growing family and add value to the property. But Ms O later 
discovered that there was an issue in that the there was an encroachment by the neighbour 
into the loft area which both stymied her plans to develop the property and meant that she 
had concerns about the safety of the property and value of the property that she had bought.
Im not sure when Ms O became aware of the problem. The first indication on file is a 
complaint being made in June 2019 after Ms O engaged builders and architects presumably 
to look at a loft conversion connected to the potential purchase of the freehold. The question 
I have to consider is whether it was reasonable to have expected the surveyor to have 
identified the encroachment from the neighbours land into the loft area. Land 
encroachments are usually a matter for solicitors looking at title deeds to deal with. But in 
this case Ms O wasnt buying the loft at that stage. As I understand it, she was intending 
doing this sometime in the future, but it appears that the issue now is that what she had 
hoped to buy in the future isnt what she thought it would be.
It seems the case that there is no issue with the surveyors report on what Ms O actually 
bought which was the two leasehold flats converted into a house. I have no independent 
valuation to say that the property was not worth the value assigned to it by the surveyor. Nor 
is there any evidence that apart from the issue of the encroachment was there any other 
defect in the survey. Ms O is clearly concerned that part of the neighbours property is above 
hers and has safety concerns but that isnt directly related to the condition of her property. 
The surveyors role wasnt to inspect the neighbours property. The surveyor was clearly 
unaware of the encroachment and Im considering whether that was reasonable.
Ms O mentions that she spoke to the surveyor before the survey and indicated what she was 
going to do with the loft. I note that the surveyor takes down some notes of that conversation 
and Ms Os concerns about the property. The notes refer to her concerns about a sloppy (I 
assume sloping?) floor in front bedroom, penetrating damp due to defective render, and 
building regulations compliance following conversion from two flats into a single house. 
There is no instruction to the surveyor to report on the potential of the conversion of the loft 
area into further living accommodation for Ms Os family. I understand that they may have 
had a conversation subsequently after his inspection, but the evidence doesnt point to the 
surveyor being charged with reporting on the suitability of the loft area for conversion to the 
habitable area that Ms O intended to do in the future.
The issue here is that the surveyor, doing a visual inspection didnt see the encroachment in 
the loft.  Should he have seen the encroachment or measured the loft area? Im told that in a 
survey only the habitable areas are measured which I can understand as they are used to 
measure the square footage to compare prices with other properties and that loft areas 
arent measured. Ms O says builders and an architect have told her that because of the 
situation of a loft window being off centre in an adjoining property that the encroachment 
would have been obvious. I suspect there could be many reasons for a loft window being off 
centre without it being caused by an encroachment into a neighbours property. It also 
occurs that the surveyors eyes wouldnt be drawn to the roof of the adjoining property 
unless he was already aware of the encroachment which he wasnt. So, Im not convinced 
that a visual inspection should have drawn the surveyors attention to the encroachment.
In order to find for Ms O, I would have to find some negligence on behalf of the surveyor. But 
Im not persuaded that there was negligence. Firstly, it doesnt appear to be the practice that 
non habitable areas are measured, and the surveyor was following normal practice.  
Secondly Ms O wasnt buying the loft. There are two relevant aspects of this. Firstly, it would 
be difficult to find fault with a surveyor for failing to properly advise on the dimensions of a 
loft area that Ms O wasnt then buying. But also, if at that stage Ms O had been buying the 
loft area, the process of purchasing it may well have provoked the information - either from 
an investigation of the title by her solicitor or disclosure by the seller - that the loft had been 
encroached on. That is where I would have expected the information about the 
encroachment to have emerged from, rather than from relying on a surveyors inspection 
related to the purchase of the leasehold property below. Ms O wasnt at that stage buying 
the loft and from my inspection of the notes, gave the surveyor no specific instructions about 
the loft. So, if the encroachment wasnt obvious on visual inspection, and I dont believe it 
was, I cant see how the surveyor could reasonably be held to be at fault. So, for the above 
reasons I cant fairly uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman