DRN-4296173
The complaint
Mr P complains that he was advised to take out a Free Standing Additional Voluntary 
Contribution pension (FSAVC) in 1997 by a company now owned by The Royal London 
Mutual Insurance Society Limited (The Royal). He said it failed to tell him to consider his 
employers Additional Voluntary Contribution (AVC) scheme which would have been better 
for him.
What happened
Mr P said in 1997 he was approached by a tied financial adviser (FA) who recommended he 
take out an FSAVC. He was an inexperienced investor and was not advised to consider his 
employers AVC scheme and no benefit comparison was provided to compare the FSAVC 
and AVC, or to consider the option of added years, nor whether he was already paying the 
highest employee pension contribution that maximised his employers matching contribution. 
Investment risk was not discussed. Had he known he would have opted for added years. 
Instead he paid higher charges for an FSAVC and these charges were not explained.
The Royal said that the sales representative at the time made a record to show he gave Mr 
P a leaflet giving details of the options available from Mr Ps occupational pension scheme 
(OPS). The notes of the fact find showed this was discussed. There were also notes to show 
this was discussed on a call. Mr P had signed a product declaration to say the product had 
not been recommended to him. It didnt uphold the complaint.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision and said the following
I noted that the investigator concluded that Mr. P had brought this complaint within the 
timescales set out in the rules that apply to this service. As the Royal did not challenge that 
conclusion, I had not considered it further.
Secondly, I noted that the investigator concluded that added years would not have been 
available to Mr. P. His representative had accepted that, so I had not considered that option.
I had however considered the substantive part of Mr. Ps complaint, which is that he should 
have been recommended to take his employer AVC and not the FSAVC he was sold.
To make a financial award I must first decide if The Royal did something wrong. The 
situation was complicated by the fact the Royal says its adviser did not advise on the FSAVC 
and Mr. P took it out on an execution only basis and it is not therefore responsible for the 
suitability of the decision he took.
I noted The Royal was not able to provide a suitability report setting out what it did 
recommend nor to explain why it did not recommend an FSAVC.
The papers said the following
The fact find notes say spoke to client several weeks ago about AVC in house but 
client prefers to do FSAVC with (old company name) have told client that he could 
get better benefit for in-house AVC.
Comments AVCs have been discussed with the customer in accordance with GMC 
3516 a copy of the leaflet PP.166 has been handed to the customer.
Completion for a product that was not recommended  Product FSAVC
Although I/ we have applied for a product different from any recommended I 
confirm such product is/ are suitable to my /our needs and within my/ our financial 
resources
signed by Mr P 26th June 1997
So, the issue of the availability of an employers AVC was discussed.
Mr. P was recommended to take out a PEP but is recorded as not recommended to take out 
an FSAVC, but no reasons or details are given.
I considered the leaflet PP.166 that was referred to. It said the following: -
How can you make additional contributions?
You can do this through your company scheme or take up a separate plan by 
investing your money in a free-standing pension with the providers such as the CIS. 
Or you can do both. Whatever you decide you need to consider each type carefully.
What a company scheme can offer.
As each company scheme will differ, you should consider:
any special features it may have, such as allowing you to buy added pension years. 
Your employer may even make extra contributions if you take up an AVC.
That AVCs are group arrangements whereby the expenses are generally very 
competitive
Where AVCs are invested - in the company scheme itself or with an insurer or 
building Society.
Your employer can provide you with specific details
I didnt think this wording was as balanced and clear as it could have been. It did not for 
example expressly say that the charges for AVCs are usually lower. It did not suggest that 
the employer might pay some or all of the administration costs whereas FSAVC costs are 
entirely born by the consumer. Nor did it suggest that AVC charges are in many cases lower 
or the employer may gain a discount not otherwise available to individual consumers.
Instead the wording suggests he should consider the AVC and the sort of questions to ask. 
Other than saying the expenses are generally very competitive it did not provide much of a 
nudge or good reasons why the AVC may well be the better option.
Further I noted it did not point out that for higher rate taxpayers (such as Mr P) the additional 
contributions obtained through Mr Ps pay slip would have received tax relief rather Mr P 
needing to reclaim the additional tax relief at the end of the tax year.The fact that The Royal had supplied such a leaflet suggested to me that it was attempting to 
follow requirements set out by the Personal Investment Authority (PIA) that advisers should 
in short, maintain a high standard of integrity and fair dealing, exercise due skill, care and 
diligence in providing any services, and take proper account of the interests of investors.
It said advisers should also have regard to the consumers financial position generally and to 
any rights under an occupational scheme. The expectations of the PIA after 1996 were 
codified in regulatory update 20 regarding Additional Voluntary Contributions. This update 
made clear that charges in an AVC are usually lower and of all the differences this is likely 
to exert the greatest impact on which route would offer the greater benefits
For a tied adviser, as I believe was the case here, the update says that:-
A representative should not recommend his own companies FSAVC until he has:
drawn the client's attention to the in-scheme alternative
 discussed the differences between the two routes in generic terms (taking into 
account among other things, of the features described in this article)
 direct the client to his employer or to the scheme trustees, for more information on 
the in-scheme option.
When these procedures are followed and documented it is not necessary for the 
representative to undertake a full comparison of the in scheme AVC and his companys 
FSAVC.
I had also had in mind the regulator requirements that The Royal should communicate with 
Mr P in a manner that is fair and not misleading.
Based on the guidance and the principles, I didnt think that the leaflet supplied went far 
enough for the reasons given above. So on balance I didnt think it was clear enough to 
satisfy those requirements.
I had however considered that The Royal says this was execution only. It said that because 
it didnt make a recommendation that Mr P should take out an FSAVC. Though I note it went 
on to provide the only one it could sell as a tied adviser.
It seems to me very unlikely that Mr. P would come up with the idea of an FSAVC himself. 
We know it was referenced in conversation on two occasions based on the notes in the fact 
find. He must have reflected on that information in reaching the decision that he did and to 
that extent he must have relied on it. I said that because based on the evidence this is the 
information that was available to him when he was making that decision.
It seems clear to me that Mr. Ps employers AVC would most likely have been cheaper than 
the FSAVC and therefore better for him. There were other good reasons to select an AVC. I 
say that as I note that Mr. P remained with his then employer for nearly ten years and indeed 
remained with them for six years after he took out the FSAVC. So, it did not seem that, he 
had a pattern of frequently changing employers. Further he was a higher rate taxpayer.
Given he did decide to take an FSAVC it didnt seem the information he did receive, was 
good enough. I said that because I thought The Royal needed to tell him that the in house 
AVC was likely to be the cheaper option, not just that it might be competitive. I didnt think 
giving him a leaflet to nudge him to check was good enough for him to know this.As he decided to take this option, I thought that on balance he was still more likely than not 
acting upon the information provided to him by The Royal. So even if Mr. P made his own 
decision to invest, he was making that decision based on flawed and/or incomplete 
information provided to him by The Royal.
Had it been made clear that the AVC was likely to be the cheaper option (which the PIA 
update expressly mentions), on balance having considered all the information, I thought Mr. 
P would have gone that route.
I thought it was fair and reasonable that I can consider the consequence that Mr P relied on 
that information and make an award for financial loss and distress and inconvenience.
Financial loss
The purpose of an award for financial loss is to put Mr P as closely as possible back into the 
position he would have been in but for the error.
The Royal should undertake a redress calculation in accordance with the regulators FSAVC 
review guidance, incorporating the amendment below to take into account that data for the 
CAPS mixed with property index isnt available for periods after 1 January 2005.
The FSAVC review guidance wasnt intended to compensate consumers for losses arising 
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark index is 
used to calculate the difference in charges and (if applicable) any loss of employer matching 
contributions or subsidised benefits.
In our view the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest 
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index. So, where the calculation requires 
ongoing charges in an investment based FSAVC and AVC to be compared after 1 January 
2005, The Royal should use the CAPS mixed with property index up to 1 January 2005 and 
the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index thereafter.
If the calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ps pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr Ps as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow 
for income tax that would otherwise have been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be 
tax-free and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement 
 presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this.
As Mr P remained with his employer for around six years after he started the FSAVC plan 
the calculation of loss set out above should be applied only to the investment returns 
attributable to contributions that he could otherwise have made into his AVC plan. That 
would mean that contributions made after 31 March 2003 should not be included in this 
calculation.
I said it would be helpful if before I issue my final decision, Mr P provides copies of his 
FSAVC plan including current value, investment and contribution history, particularly in the 
period between the date of opening the FSAVC and 31 March 2003. This is particularly 
relevant for determining the appropriate period of review for calculating compensation.Distress and inconvenience
Such an award is to reflect the impact on Mr P not to punish The Royal. I could understand it 
was frustrating to discover that the AVC option would most likely have been better. But Mr P 
was not aware of that at the time and it is only since he brought this complaint that it has 
become an issue. For that reason I think an award of £300 would be fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances.
I proposed to uphold this complaint and direct that The Royal London Mutual Insurance 
Society Limited should within 60 days:-
of this service notifying it that Mr P has accepted my final decision and
of Mr P completing and returning to The Royal such fact find as it reasonably needs 
to complete its loss calculations,
pay Mr P
1. £300 for distress and inconvenience and
2. such amount as is calculated in accordance with my section on financial loss as set out 
above.
3. if The Royal does not make the payments in 1 and 2 above within this time period the 
amounts payable shall be increased by interest at 8% per annum simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of payment to Mr P.
Mr P had nothing to add to my provisional decision.
The Royal did not comment further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As there have been no further representations I have not changed my mind.
Putting things right
To put things right The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited should pay 
compensation on the basis set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited 
should within 60 days of the later of:-
of this service notifying it that Mr P has accepted my final decision and
of Mr P completing and returning to The Royal such fact find as it reasonably needs 
to complete its loss calculations,
pay Mr P
1. £300 for distress and inconvenience and2. such amount as is calculated in accordance with my section on financial loss as set out 
above.
3. if The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited does not make the payments in 1 
and 2 above within this time period the amounts payable shall be increased by interest at 8% 
per annum simple from the date of my final decision to the date of payment to Mr P.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman