DRN-2869761
The complaint
Mr M complains about the information Experian Limited are reporting on his credit report as 
he says its inaccurate.
What happened
Mr M is unhappy his current account balance shows on his credit report as £0  he says the 
amount in this account was always positive when he opened it. Mr M has also questioned 
how balance is defined by Experian as he says they use their own definition repeatedly in 
their documentation. Mr M has also asked for Experian to remove all information they hold 
on him.
Experian say Mr M has one current account showing on his credit report and this shows as 
closed. However, even if it was an open account, it would still show as £0 for the current 
balance  theyve explained this isnt a reflection of the amount in Mr Ms account, just that 
the overdraft of the current account was £0. Experian say this information is provided to 
them by lenders and they are unable to make any changes to this without the lenders 
consent. In relation to the information they hold on Mr M, Experian said they wouldnt be 
deleting this as its held in line with General Data Protection Regulations (GDPR). And they 
also cannot remove any information without the consent of the lender who provided the 
information to them.
Unhappy with Experians response, Mr M brought his complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into Mr Ms concerns. He didnt think the way Experian was reporting 
this particular account was incorrect. So, he didnt recommend Experian put things right for 
Mr M. Mr M disagreed. In summary he said Experian had given different definitions of the 
word balance and he didnt necessarily agree the definitions were correct. So, the complaint 
has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Credit reference agencies, like Experian, store data which is provided by lenders  they dont 
own the data themselves. 
From looking at the information provided by Experian of Mr Ms credit file, I can see there is 
a current account with a bank, which is showing as settled. And I can see the balance for 
this account shows as £0. I understand Mr M believes this balance to be incorrect as hes 
told us there was an amount in this account and that it was a positive amount. Mr M says 
Experian have provided several definitions of the word balance. 
The guide provided by Experian explains the information held on a credit report  which 
includes definitions for what different codes and words mean on a report. I can see this 
guide confirms that balance is defined as the balance of the account at the time the lender 
updated our records. The guide goes on to explain that for current accounts, if the account 
is in credit and not overdrawn, the credit report will show the balance as zero. 
Experian have confirmed the balance on Mr Ms account wouldnt show as its not 
considered as credit because its a current account  therefore, it wouldnt show a running 
total of the amount Mr M has in his current account. Only overdraft usage would show as a 
value on his credit file for the current account. Based on what Mr M has told us, his account 
had a positive amount  which could explain why his credit report shows as zero. I note 
there are other definitions in the guide of the word balance. But from what I can see, these 
appear to be for different sections of the report such as rental information or credit card 
information. 
In any case, Experian have said they cant act independently to remove or change 
information on their records without permission from the relevant lender. They say this is, in 
part, to ensure that an individual cannot alter or improve their credit history by claiming 
information held is inaccurate  although I must stress there is no suggestion from anyone in 
this case that this is what Mr M is trying to do. If Mr M is disputing specific information being 
reported by this particular bank, hed need to contact that bank directly. In response to Mr 
Ms question about what source data means, this is in relation to who provided the 
information to Experian. In Mr Ms case, the bank who he held an account with is a source 
data as they provide account information to Experian.
I understand Mr M wants Experian to delete all the data they hold on him. As a credit 
reference agency, Experian are entitled to hold personal data about customers on behalf of 
banks and other financial organisations. The introduction of the GDPR didnt change this. 
However, as our investigator explained, if Mr M remains concerned about the information 
Experian hold on him, he may wish to contact the Information Commissioner's Office (ICO).
I appreciate my decision may come as a disappointment to Mr M, but I hope my explanation 
helps him to understand why Ive reached this conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2021.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman