DRN-3713517
The complaint
Mr B complains that Monecor unfairly stopped him from depositing funds from his business 
account to his Contracts for Difference (CFD) trading account. He also complains that when 
Monecor identified the issue, he was told the deposits needed to be returned to that account 
 and he was given insufficient time to manage his open positions. 
What happened
Mr B held a CFD trading account with Monecor (trading as ETX Capital - ETX) since 2018 in 
his own name. In June 2021, ETX wrote to Mr B to explain that it couldnt accept funds from 
a business account as this was third party funding, something which wasnt allowed under 
the terms of his agreement with it. It explained that these funds, around £21,000, would need 
to be returned to that account  and in order to keep his trades open, hed need to deposit a 
similar amount of money from his personal account within 10 business days. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Bs complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
short, he agreed with ETX that its terms said payments from third party accounts were not 
acceptable, unless ETX had provided prior agreement  which it hadnt in this case.  
The investigator considered ETXs evidence of the way it onboarded Mr B, and the 
documents it asked to see about him  and he accepted that at the time, ETX reasonably 
thought Mr B would be using his personal account (as he had provided a bank statement 
from it) as his main way of depositing funds. ETX explained that at the time it didnt have the 
ability to identify whether an account was a corporate one or a personal one, if the name of 
the individual was the same. The investigator also considered:
That Mr B had said his account was restricted during the 10 days he was told he 
needed to add more funds to his account. But the investigator saw that Mr B was 
able to deposit additional funds during that time.
That while Mr B complained that ETX ought to have picked up on the source of his 
deposits sooner, it was ultimately Mr Bs responsibility to ensure he adhered to the 
terms. And he continued to deposit money from his business account even after June 
2021 when ETX had told him he shouldnt. 
The ten days which ETX had given Mr B to deposit additional funds and manage his 
open trades was reasonable and allowed him enough time to mitigate any losses. 
As a result, the investigator concluded that ETX hadnt done anything wrong. 
Mr B didnt agree. He said that in his view, the key point was that ETX did know the money 
in [his] account came from a business banking and they gave him notice to replace that 
money otherwise it would close his account. He said that ETX then closed 50% of [his] 
positions knowingly taking money that [it] objected being in [his] account. 
Mr B therefore asked whether it was legal for ETX to have taken money from his account 
that wasnt legally allowed to be there  and also queried why it hadnt suspended trading 
as it had said it would. 
The investigator explained that as it was Mr B who had continued depositing money from an 
account he had been told wasnt acceptable, he didnt think it would be fair to find ETX 
responsible for any consequential losses. He also thought that ETX had given him ample 
time to manage his account and find ways to replace the money he had deposited, or reduce 
his margin requirements. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. 
I should start by addressing one key issue which Mr B has raised. He considers that ETX 
must have done something unlawful by closing his trades and, according to him, keeping 
money which it had told him it had to return to the source. Its important that Mr B 
understands that my role is not the same as that of a regulator. It isnt my role to make a 
finding on the law. So Im not going to comment on this aspect of his case.
What Im required to consider is whether ETXs actions were fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Bs case. In doing so, my starting position has been to look at the terms 
of the account in order to ensure those terms are clear about how an account can be funded. 
Section 6.9 of the terms of Mr Bs account says:
We may refuse to accept payments by a particular method and if so we may require you to 
use alternative methods of payment
Section 6.10 says:
We do not accept cash or payments from, or make any payments to, third parties or other 
client accounts unless agreed in advance.
Mr B says that he has always paid using his business account  but Im not persuaded thats 
relevant nor that it makes any difference to what subsequently happened. 
I say this because in my view, it was for Mr B to satisfy himself that he understood the terms 
and knew what restrictions, if any, there were to the way he could deposit funds on his 
account. I would add that ETXs terms around how the account can be funded are standard 
in the industry. So in my view, Mr B ought to have checked with ETX at the outset whether 
payments from his business account were acceptable or not. 
Furthermore, I accept ETXs evidence that until a change in its back office processes, it 
didnt automatically know if funds were being credited from a corporate account or not, 
especially if the name on the card was the same as the name of the ETX account holder. 
It told this service that as a result of a change in payment service provider, ETX identified 
that Mr B was funding his account via a corporate card in June 2021. At which point, it wrote 
to him to explain it would be returning those funds to that card, and he had 10 days to 
deposit additional money to his account in order to cover his unrealised losses. In my view ten days gave Mr B ample time to mitigate any issues to his open trades. I can 
see that he then made a number of deposits, from his corporate account as well as his 
personal account, and Im satisfied this means he had both the time and the opportunity to 
manage his open trades in line with whatever investment decisions he was making at the 
time. 
The fact that he then decided to make £9,000 worth of deposits in June 2021 from his 
corporate account after receiving ETXs warning not to deposit money from his business 
account, shows that he chose to take the risk that open trades might be closed without his 
say-so. 
I agree with the investigator that theres insufficient evidence that any blocks were placed on 
his account  I can see he made several deposits in June 2021 from his corporate bank 
account, and several deposits from his personal bank account in July and August 2021. This 
demonstrates that he wasnt blocked from funding his account. 
Ultimately, Im satisfied that Mr B funded his trading account with ETX using a method of 
payment that wasnt permitted in the terms as it was a third party account. ETX 
appropriately notified Mr B that he was contravening the terms and gave him 10 days to put 
matters right before it would return the funds, and liquidate any open trades. I dont agree 
this was unfair and Im satisfied ETX followed its process fairly and reasonably. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman