DRN-2168859
The complaint
Mr F complains that a car he took on hire purchase from Blue Motor Finance Ltd wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.  
What happened
In June 2019 Mr F entered into a hire purchase agreement with Blue Motor Finance to take a 
car on a 50-month deal. The car was about three years old and had covered some 33,000 
miles. The cash price was £10,590. 
About a month later Mr F took the car to the dealership to say it had a flat battery. He also 
noted some scratches. The dealership replaced the battery and alternator. A few weeks after 
that Mr F reported that the fuel consumption had increased. 
In November 2019 the dealership replaced the brake pads and a bulb. Over the following 
months Mr F reported that the car cut out on six occasions. He called a breakdown service, 
and it was able on each occasion to restart the car by disconnecting and reconnecting the 
ignition coil.
The dealership said that replacing the battery and alternator had remedied the initial problem 
with the car. It was unable to identify the cause of the further problems, but Blue Motor 
Finance suggested that the issues Mr F had described were the result of fair wear and tear. 
It didnt accept any liability for them. 
Mr F referred the matter to this service, and one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. He concluded that he couldnt safely say that the car was of unsatisfactory quality 
and didnt recommend that Blue Motor Finance take any further steps to resolve the 
complaint. 
Mr F didnt accept the investigators conclusions and asked that an ombudsman review 
them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept what Mr F has said about the issues with the car and can understand that they will 
have caused him frustration and inconvenience. I must therefore consider what duties Blue 
Motor Finance owed Mr F and whether it has met them. 
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 the hire purchase agreement is to be taken as 
including a term that the car would be of satisfactory quality  meaning it would be of a 
quality which a reasonable person would regard as satisfactory in all the circumstances. 
Those circumstances include in this case the price, age and mileage of the car. 
When he first took the car to the dealership, Mr F says he noticed some scratches. I wouldnt 
necessarily expect the bodywork on a three-year-old car to be perfect; had any damage 
been serious, I would have expected Mr F to have noticed it at the time. In the 
circumstances, I dont believe I can fairly conclude that there was bodywork damage at the 
time of delivery, and certainly not damage that meant the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
Mr F reported too that the car had a flat battery. The dealership however replaced the 
battery and alternator, which appears to have resolved that problem. I note that it later 
replaced the brake pads and a bulb. In my view, that was a fair solution. Mr F said the cars 
fuel consumption increased after the battery was replaced. As the investigator noted, 
however, its very difficult to measure fuel consumption accurately  it depends on a number 
of factors, including type of driving, road surface, tyre pressures and weather. So, even if 
fuel consumption did increase, I dont believe I can say that it was excessive or that this 
meant the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
The persistent problem that Mr F has reported is however that the engine was cutting out. 
This was resolved  at least temporarily  by disconnecting and reconnecting the ignition 
coils. It hasnt been possible to identify the cause, and Blue Motor Finance suggested the 
problem might be due to wear and tear. 
By the time the problem first came to light, Mr F had driven the car more than 5,000 miles, 
and its recorded mileage was around 39,000. Thats not excessive for its age, but I dont 
think it was unreasonable for Blue Motor Finance to conclude that the issue with the ignition 
coils was the result of wear and tear. As Ive indicated, theres no evidence indicating a 
different cause or showing that there was a fault at the time the car was supplied to Mr F. In 
the circumstances, I therefore agree with the investigators overall conclusions.         
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Blue Motor Finance Ltd to take any further steps to 
resolve Mr Fs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required 
to ask Mr F to accept or reject my decision before 16 November 2020. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman