DRN-4337799
The complaint
Mrs M has complained that Tesco Underwriting Limited declined her claim for water damage 
following a leak from her fridge freezer.  
What happened
Mrs M contacted Tesco under her policy in April 2023 when her integrated fridge freezer 
broke down. Water had leaked out and damaged her wooden dining room floor. 
The call handler confirmed that Mrs M was covered and asked if the flooring went through to 
any other rooms. Mrs M confirmed that it did and provided a video showing that. 
A few days later she received a call to say she wasnt covered and the claim was declined 
as she didnt have accidental damage cover. 
Mrs M complained and said this wasnt accidental damage, as it was an escape of water and 
that was covered under the policy. Tesco partially upheld her complaint. They still declined 
the claim, but they paid her £50 for giving incorrect information on the first call. 
Mrs M was unhappy with this response and brought her complaint to us. 
One of our investigators has looked into Mrs Ms complaint. He thought that Tesco had 
unfairly declined the claim and that there was cover for an escape of water in this situation. 
He recommended that Tesco settle the claim and pay a further £100 compensation.    
Tesco disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case has come to me to review. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am upholding this complaint, and I will explain why below. 
Tesco have declined this claim because they say that this situation isnt covered under the 
policy as an escape of water. 
So Ive looked at the policy to see what it says about an escape of water. On page 14 under 
Buildings cover  What is Covered, the policy says:
Your buildings are covered for loss or damage arising as a result of the insured 
incidents listed in the sections below,
8. Water or oil escaping from any fixed domestic water or heating installation, 
including underground drains and pipes, or from any domestic appliance.
Tesco have said that this wording means that the domestic appliance needs to be fixed, 
and as the fridge freezer wasnt fixed it isnt covered. 
I disagree with this interpretation. The wording of the policy refers to the escape of water or 
oil having to be from   any fixed domestic water or heating installation OR from any 
domestic appliance  so Im not satisfied that the domestic appliance has to be fixed -  I 
think being fixed only applies to domestic heating and water installations.  
Also  if Tescos interpretation was correct, its difficult to see what domestic appliances 
would be covered, because arguably no domestic appliance is fixed, as most plug in and 
dont require professional fitting in the way that a heating or water appliance would.  
In their response to the investigator, Tesco have defined fixed as plumbed in and say that 
this excludes the fridge freezer. However, this definition isnt in the policy terms, and I think if 
the intention was to exclude appliances that werent plumbed in, the policy would need to 
explicitly say that in the exclusions. 
And so in light of the above Im satisfied that Tesco have unfairly declined Mrs Ms claim.   
I can see that the investigator has increased the compensation payment for distress and 
inconvenience to £150 from the £50 previously offered by Tesco. I think this is fair taking into 
account the additional impact caused by having to live with the warped floor for several 
months.  
Putting things right
To put things right I think that Tesco should:
Settle Mrs Ms claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. 
Pay Mrs M a total of £150 for the distress and inconvenience  deducting the 
payment of £50 if this has already been issued. 

My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mrs Ms complaint about Tesco Underwriting Limited and direct 
them to put things right as above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman