DRN-3949838
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy with the service provided by Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited 
(Watford Insurance) after cancelling his car insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr R took out car insurance with Watford Insurance. At the time of application Mr R was 
asked what date a named driver on the policy was issued with a provisional driving license. 
Mr R recorded 1 December 2019. Mr Rs application for insurance was accepted on this 
basis with cover starting on 27 January 2022.
The policy booklet explained in the event of the policy being cancelled by Watford Insurance, 
Mr R would receive a pro-rata refund of the premium paid depending on the reason for 
cancelling. 
The policy booklet also explained:
We have the right to cancel Your Policy immediately, at any time during the Period of 
Insurance, where there is evidence of fraud or a valid reason for doing so. We will 
still send Our cancellation letter to the latest postal or email address We have for You 
and will set out the reason for cancellation in Our letter. Valid reasons allowing Us to 
immediately cancel may include but are not limited to: 
b) Where You have carelessly misrepresented relevant information which, if correctly 
represented at the time of application, would have caused Us to decline Your 
application for cover.
Mr Rs application was subject to additional checks after being accepted. As part of these 
checks, Mr R was asked to provide a copy of driving license documentation for all drivers 
listed on the policy. During these checks it was found that the named driver had been issued 
with a provisional license on 27 September 2007. 
The underwriting criteria for Mr Rs policy specified that insurance would not be offered to 
any driver with a provisional license that is over 36 months from issue. As the named driver 
was outside of this criteria, Watford Insurance wrote to Mr R on 15 February informing him 
that his policy will be cancelled 7 days from the date of the letter.
On 28 February Mr R was informed that his policy had been cancelled. Mr R complained to 
Watford Insurance about their decision to cancel his policy, and the cost of buying new 
insurance. Mr R says his premium has gone up by £300. 
Watford Insurance responded to Mr Rs complaint saying the policy has been cancelled in 
line with the terms and conditions. Mr R was unhappy with this response, and brought the 
complaint to this service. 
The investigator found that the information Mr R had provided was careless 
misrepresentation. Because of this Watford Insurance had acted in line with the policy terms 
by cancelling Mr Rs insurance, and returning a pro-rata refund of the premium paid. The 
investigator didnt ask Watford Insurance to do anything in settlement of Mr Rs complaint. 
Mr R rejected these findings, saying he accepted an error had been made on the application 
however it wasnt intentional it was a complete accident. Mr R said a fair resolution would 
be for Watford Insurance to remove any details of them cancelling the policy so that it 
doesnt affect the cost of any future car insurance premium.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved, it has been passed to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the evidence I dont think Watford Insurance need to do anything in 
settlement of this complaint. I can understand this is likely to come as a disappointment to 
Mr R but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific 
point its because I dont believe it has affected what I think is the right outcome.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). It requires a consumer to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has 
certain remedies, provided the misrepresentation is what CIDRA describes as a qualifying 
misrepresentation. For it to be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer must show it would 
only have offered the policy on different terms, or not at all, if the consumer hadnt made the 
misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out several considerations for deciding whether a consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers questions were. And 
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or just careless.
If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate - and an insurer can show it would at 
least only have offered the policy on different terms - its entitled to avoid the consumers 
policy. If the insurer is entitled to avoid the policy, it wont have to deal with any claims under 
it. If the qualifying misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid the policy, the insurer must 
show it wouldnt have offered the policy at all but for the misrepresentation.
Theres no dispute that the information Mr R provided at the time of application was 
incorrect. Mr R accepts that he made an error, and has explained that it wasnt intentional 
it was a complete accident. Watford Insurance have provided a screenshot of what Mr R 
wouldve seen during the online sales process when buying insurance. The dropdown clearly 
asked Mr R to confirm the year the provisional driving license was issued. Mr R was also 
sent a proposal form to confirm the information hed provided was correct. On this form it 
was recorded that the named driver had held a provisional license since 1 December 2019. 
I think Watford Insurance did enough to reasonably highlight the information they were 
looking for to decide whether they could offer insurance to Mr R. The question to determine 
how long the named driver had held a provisional license for was clear and specific. 
Watford Insurance have shared with us their confidential underwriting criteria. This confirms 
Mr R would not have been offered insurance if correct information about the date of the named drivers provisional driving licence had been provided at the time of application. Im 
satisfied the incorrect information provided by Mr R was a qualified misrepresentation. 
Mr Rs error was treated as careless misrepresentation. Having considered the 
circumstances of the application process, and what Mr R has explained about the 
information he provided being accidental, I think treating Mr Rs misrepresentation as 
careless is reasonable. 
After discovering the incorrect date provided for the named drivers provisional license, 
Watford Insurance decided to cancel Mr Rs policy. CIDRA says as long as an insurer 
chooses to cancel in line with the policy terms, theyre entitled to take this action. 
The policy terms and conditions allow Watford Insurance to cancel Mr Rs policy where an 
applicant has carelessly misrepresented relevant information which, if correctly represented 
at the time of application, would have caused Us to decline Your application for cover. 
Watford Insurances decision to cancel Mr Rs policy after finding out about the correct 
provisional license issue date, is in line with the policy terms.
Mr R was told his policy would be cancelled in 7 days. Mr R was offered a pro-rata refund of 
the insurance premium paid. These actions are in line with what the policy document 
explained would happen if Watford Insurance cancelled Mr Rs policy. 
Mr R is concerned that Watford Insurances decision to cancel his policy will have an 
adverse impact on future insurance applications he makes. And he wants Watford Insurance 
to remove any record of their decision to cancel his insurance from any internal or external 
database. Whilst I appreciate Mr Rs upset, Watford Insurance havent done anything wrong 
in recording the insurance as cancelled. So, I cant ask Watford Insurance to take any further 
action in changing these details. 
I realise that Mr R is likely to be disappointed with this decision. But I think that Watford 
Insurances decision that Mr R carelessly mis-represented information in taking out the 
policy is reasonable. And so their decision to cancel his policy is also reasonable and in line 
with the policy terms. Because of this, I wont be asking Watford Insurance to do anything in 
settlement of this complaint.
My final decision
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2023.
 
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman