DRN-3021372
The complaint
Mr S complains that TSB Bank plc incorrectly recorded information on his credit file.
What happened
Mr S entered into a Debt Arrangement Scheme (DAS) for his debts including his TSBs 
accounts. He says he made all required payments and the DAS was settled in 2020. Mr S 
says he then applied for a mortgage which was refused and noticed TSB had registered a 
default on his credit file. Mr S also says the accounts were reported as being in arrears. He 
says he lost out on the property he intended to buy but accepts there were problems with it 
and says other lenders correctly recorded his position. Mr S would like his credit file 
amended and compensation for what took place.
TSB accepts making a mistake by recording the defaults on Mr Ss credit file and has paid 
£150 compensation. It says it hasnt made a mistake by recording the account as in arrears 
and will not record the debt as being settled in full.
Mr S brought his complaint to us and our investigator upheld the complaint. She thought the 
DAS had been settled in full in 2020 but the credit file showed TSB had recorded late 
payment markers throughout. The investigator thought the DAS could be shown as an 
arrangement but showing the payments as up to date. But didnt think TSB responsible for 
the property sale falling through as there was a problem with it in any event. The investigator 
recommended TSB pay £250 compensation and record the accounts as settled, not partially 
settled. And show that they were in arrangement.
TSB doesnt agree with that view and says at the end of the DAS the account is partially 
settled. It says it correctly recorded the accounts in arrears as full payments were not 
received.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and said as follows.
I said I uphold this complaint in part. I thought provisionally that TSB did make a mistake, as 
it accepts, by recording the default when it did but thought under the DAS provisions the 
debt is settled in full. But my provisional view was that TSB was entitled to record the 
account as being in arrears and that a further £250 compensation was not justified for the 
reasons I said I would explain.
I said there was no question here that TSB made a mistake by recording the default on Mr 
Ss credit file when it did. I was sure Mr S was caused distress and inconvenience in those 
circumstances and would have spent some time trying to sort matters out. I didnt think TSB 
was responsible for the property sale falling through and could see that Mr S fairly accepts 
that there were issues with the property in any event. I was satisfied that TSBs 
compensation offer was fair and reasonable and that I couldnt see Mr S suffered any direct 
financial loss as a result of the mistake. I was also satisfied that TSB has fairly agreed to 
remove the default.
The key issue here is how the debt should be recorded. I appreciated TSB says the debt 
wasnt repaid in full and so should be recorded as partially settled. But having looked at the 
DAS regulations, I was satisfied that a debt ought to be regarded as fully settled when all 
required payments are made, and the DAS has come to an end. And that a creditor is 
unable to take any legal action to recover the debt when the DAS has ended. In those 
circumstances I thought it unfair for TSB to record the debt as partially settled when it was 
clear that is not the purpose of the DAS scheme which I thought TSB would have agreed to 
when it was entered into. 
I asked TSB how it would normally record a payment arrangement, and it says it would 
record a customers account as in arrears. I thought TSB has a duty to record accurate 
information to the Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs) and is entitled to report the DAS to the 
them. I also thought that Mr S didnt make required payments before the DAS and so TSB 
was entitled to report the account as being in arrears. I accepted Mr S made all required 
payments under the DAS, but I thought that is a separate issue to the account itself being in 
arrears. So, my provisional view was that TSB didnt make a mistake by reporting the 
account as being in arrears.
Overall my provisional view was that TSB should record Mr Ss accounts as fully settled or 
satisfied and reflect the terms of the DAS. I didnt think TSB should remove any arrears 
information about the accounts themselves and thought its entitled to report to the CRAs 
there was a DAS or arrangement in place. By recording the accounts as fully settled then I 
thought that has the effect of recording that Mr S kept to the terms of the DAS.
I thought provisionally that TSB ought to pay further compensation to Mr S, as I was 
satisfied, he has spent further time in trying to sort these issues out and that he would have 
been caused further inconvenience. I didnt think this issue had the same impact as the 
default mistake. And so, I didnt think a further £250 compensation was justified. I thought 
that TSB should pay a further £75 compensation.
TSB has replied to my provisional view and maintains that a DAS is not fully settled at its 
conclusion.
Mr S doesnt wish to add to the information and representations he has already made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same overall view that I reached in my provisional 
decision and for the same reasons.  
Putting things right
TSB should pay compensation and amend Mr Ss credit file.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order TSB Bank plc to pay Mr S £75 
compensation and amend his credit file to show his accounts as fully satisfied or settled.
  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman