DRN-3097834
The complaint
Mrs P is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) wont refund her for payments she made 
after falling victim to a scam.
What happened
In 2014, Mrs P was contacted out of the blue by someone on a social media website. He 
asked if Mrs P was the person (of the same name) hed gone to school with. Mrs P told him 
she wasnt and about six weeks later he got in touch and asked if she could lend him some 
money. Mrs P said she wouldnt and didnt hear from him again until about a year later.
In 2016, the same individual (who Ill refer to as X) made contact with Mrs P again and they 
started communicating on a regular basis. She initially met up with him in June 2016 and 
continued meeting him approximately once a month  usually with her travelling to Xs 
location.
Mrs P says that X told her things about his childhood, himself and his family. And, that X 
gave her a lot of compliments which she wasnt used to. Mrs P has told us that she was 
particularly vulnerable when X made contact with her again in 2016, as her husband had 
been diagnosed with a serious health condition  which sadly he passed away from later in 
2016.
In June 2016, X asked Mrs P if he could borrow some money. He said his bank account had 
been hacked and cleared out, and he promised to pay her back if she could help him out. 
Mrs P sent him £150.00 initially. Later in June Mrs P sent him two further payments of £300 
and £600.  
Mrs P didnt receive any of those funds back from X and in September 2016 he asked her for 
further funds. From September 2016 until December 2017, Mrs P sent X money nearly every 
month, and generally several times a month. For example; in September 2016 she sent 
£1,600 spread across three payments over a one-week period, in October 2016 she sent 
£2,500 spread across four payments over a three-week period, and in November 2016 she 
sent £6,900 spread across six payments made throughout the month.
In total Mrs P sent nearly £70,000 over a four-year period.
Mrs P says she cant remember what each individual amount of money was for, but says 
they included money for business bills, council tax and rent. She says he also asked her for 
money to put a deposit down on an apartment he would buy near him, so that when she 
came to visit she had somewhere to stay. Mrs P says that X promised to pay her, but she 
didnt receive any money back from him.
Mrs P says she became suspicious when she saw pictures of X online on holiday with 
another female  which appears to have been around November 2019.  
Mrs P discussed the situation with a friend who suggested shed been the victim of a scam. 
And in December 2019, Mrs P reported what had happened to BOS.
After reporting what happened to BOS Mrs P made a further four payments in 2020 to X, 
totalling just under £500. She says X got back in touch with her and asked her to help him 
out, promising to repay a substantial amount of the money hed taken from her. Mrs P never 
received any of the funds back from X.
BOS investigated Mrs P claim but declined to refund her, saying they believed it was a 
personal matter between her and X rather than a scam. Highlighting that Mrs P sent money 
to X even after having reported it as a scam.
Mrs P wasnt happy with BOSs response, so she brought a complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into Mrs Ps complaint but didnt uphold it. They felt that when the 
payments were first made to X they werent particularly unusual or out character, whereby 
they wouldve expected them to flag with BOS. And by the time the payments had increased 
and shouldve flagged with BOS, the investigator felt it was unlikely that BOS wouldve been 
able to convince Mrs P it was a scam and prevent the further payments. In May 2019 the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code) came into effect, which put different 
requirements on banks signed up under the Code, with regards to reimbursing victims of 
scams. But the investigator felt that under the CRM Code, Mrs P didnt have a reasonable 
basis for believing shed get the money back  after receiving no funds in the prior three 
years. So, BOS wasnt required to reimburse the later payments post the CRM Code coming 
into effect.
Mrs P disagreed with the investigators opinion, saying she felt she should at least be 
refunded for the payments covered by the CRM Code. As she disagreed, the case was 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs P has shared with us some background regarding her personal situation in 2016, 
including about her husbands illness and his passing. And Im really sorry to hear about her 
loss and the difficulties she faced. She also explained that X played on her insecurities and 
took advantage of her at a time when she was particularly vulnerable  and Ive considered 
that in reaching my answer on Mrs Ps case. I appreciate that its not the answer she 
wanted, but Im unable to uphold her complaint and Ill explain why.
Ive separated the transactions out into three time periods, as different rules and industry 
standards applied at the time.
The payments made before 28 May 2019  not covered by the CRM Code
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that into account when looking into 
what is fair and reasonable in this case. But a bank also has to be on the lookout for, and 
help to prevent payments, that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. So, Ive taken 
all of that into consideration when looking through this complaint.
The first three payments Mrs P made in June 2016, werent particularly unusual or out of 
character looking at her previous account use. They were all for less than £1,000 individually 
and were spread out over the space of a few days. I dont think there is anything about those first three payments, that shouldve suggested to BOS that Mrs P might be a victim of fraud  
so I wouldnt have expected them to intervene before processing her payments.
There was then a gap of three months before Mrs P sent another three payments in 
September 2016. In October she sent four payments and in November she sent six 
payments  including one large individual payment of £3,000.
At this stage, in November, it does appear that a pattern is showing on Mrs Ps account with 
regards to these payments  which could potentially suggest that something might be 
happening. But, none of the payments were significantly higher than other genuine 
transactions on her account nor did they clear her account balance. Also, all of these 
payments were being made to an existing payee and while there were a number of 
payments they were on different days and sometimes with a few days in between the 
payments.  But the number of payments she was making and the frequency was starting to 
increase. 
However, Im not convinced that if BOS had contacted Mrs P about these payments, that 
they wouldve discovered this was a scam or convinced Mrs P was the victim of a scam and 
prevented her from making further payments.
I say this because the relationship between Mrs P and X didnt mirror what wed usually see 
with a romance scam. The main difference being that she was meeting X in person and 
having outings on a monthly basis. 
Usually with a romance scam, it will be someone who you never meet in person. They'll 
usually make excuses as to why they can't physically meet up with you  as they're trying to 
hide their identity - and often the fact that they're not living where they say they are. The fact 
that Mrs P was meeting X in person most months - sounds more like a genuine 
relationship/friendship. 
Also, the sort of questions wed expect a bank to ask if they were suspicious might include; 
have you met this person, are you sure theyre really who they say they are, what do you 
know about them. And Im not persuaded that the answers Mrs P wouldve given wouldve 
suggested that she was a victim of a romance scam. So in these circumstances, I dont think 
BOS wouldve prevented the payments even if they had contacted Mrs P about the 
payments. And I think that this is supported by the fact that even after Mrs P reported what 
happened to BOS some years later, she still continued to make some payments to X.
I do appreciate that Mrs P was giving X money on a regular basis. But that by itself in this 
situation isnt enough to persuade me that BOS could've persuaded Mrs P that she was the 
victim of a scam or prevented her making the payments.
Mrs P continued to make payments throughout 2017, with a gap of around three months 
between December 2017 and March 2018 with no payments, and a further gap of three 
months between April and July 2018 with no payments. Followed by a gap of over six 
months between July 2018 and February 2019 when she didnt make payments.
The payments made after 28 May 2019  which are covered by the CRM Code.
The first payment Mrs P made after the CRM Code came into effect was on 31 May 2019 
and was for £140.
Under the CRM Code we would expect BOS to refund Mrs P in the case of a scam, unless 
one of the exceptions apply under the Code. The exception theyre saying applies in this 
case is:The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: 
the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate
At this point in May 2019, Mrs P had been making payments to X for nearly three years.
Mrs P says he promised to pay her back, yet she hadnt received any money back from X in 
that three-year period.
Also, one of the reasons X borrowed money was to purchase a property for when Mrs P 
visited him. Yet despite visiting him Mrs P never got to see the property, or any evidence that 
X had completed a purchase.
Having considered the length of the relationship and the lack of any money being paid back, 
it makes it very difficult to say that Mrs P could reasonably believe that she would be getting 
any money back from X, or that she had a reasonable basis to believe that the payments 
she made were for a genuine purchase or purpose. So, Im not persuaded that I can fairly 
say that BOS should refund her under the CRM Code for these payments.
Later payments made in 2020 after Mrs P reported the scam
Mrs P made some more payments in 2020, after shed reported the fraud to BOS in late 
2019.
BOS have told us that Mrs P hasnt raised a complaint about these later payments, so I cant 
fairly consider them as part of my decision. Mrs P could raise a separate complaint with BOS 
about those payments and come to us if she isnt happy with their response.
Could BOS have recovered any of the funds for Mrs P?
Ive also thought about whether BOS did what it shouldve in attempting to recover Mrs Ps 
money, once she let them know about the scam. In this case I can see the money had left 
the receiving account (Xs account) before BOS were aware of the situation. So, they werent 
able to recover any of the money Mrs P paid X because it had already been removed from 
his account.
Mrs P has asked what the money was spent on and where it went from Xs account. But that 
isnt something that BOS or ourselves will be able to tell her. In this complaint I can only look 
at what BOS have done in the circumstances and whether theyve met their obligations. 
Its very unfortunate that Mrs P has lost this money, and I understand the whole experience 
will have been hugely upsetting for her. But in the circumstances, I dont think I can fairly say 
that BOS shouldve done more to prevent her losing this money. So, I dont think it would be 
fair for me to ask BOS to refund her for the loss.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman