DRN-4279593
The complaint
Mr J complains that CIGNA Life Insurance Company of Europe SA-NV has turned down a 
claim he made on a group private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mr J is covered under his employers group private medical insurance policy.
In April 2022, Mr J underwent gynaecomastia surgery privately. He didnt contact CIGNA for
authorisation prior to undergoing the surgery, as it had covered his child for the same
operation a year earlier.
However, CIGNA turned down Mr Js claim. It considered Mr Js medical report and
concluded that the surgery had been cosmetic, as there was no evidence that Mr J had been
experiencing pain or discomfort. CIGNA said cosmetic surgery was specifically excluded by
the policy terms. It explained that it had covered Mr Js childs surgery because the condition
had caused them pain. And it told Mr J that if there was medical evidence which showed he
had been experiencing pain or discomfort due to the condition, he could provide the
evidence to CIGNA for further review.
Mr J was unhappy with CIGNAs decision and he asked us to look into his complaint. He told
us that he hadnt had the surgery done for cosmetic reasons. He said that, sadly, a close
relative had passed away due to breast cancer and this was a major concern for him. As
CIGNA had covered his childs surgery; Mr J had thought it was best to get the surgery done
and to remove the risk.
Our investigator recommended that Mr Js complaint should be upheld. Based on Mr Js
testimony, he thought it was reasonable to conclude that Mr J had had the surgery for
preventative, rather than cosmetic, reasons. As the policy didnt specifically exclude
preventative treatment, he thought he had been fair for Mr J to believe his treatment would
be covered. So he recommended that CIGNA should pay Mr Js claim, together with interest.
He also felt CIGNA should pay Mr J £100 compensation.
I issued a provisional decision on 7 July 2023, which explained the reasons why I thought it 
had been fair for CIGNA to turn down Mr Js claim. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things,
the terms of the insurance policy and the available evidence, to decide whether I think
CIGNA treated Mr J fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of Mr Js
employers contract with CIGNA. Its clear that the policy does provide cover for inpatient
surgery. However, the contract also sets out a list of things which CIGNA has specifically
chosen to exclude from cover. This list includes the following:
CIGNA will not pay benefit for the following treatment and extras:
- Any form of plastic, cosmetic or reconstructive treatment or surgery or treatment,
even if for psychological reasons, unless it is of medical necessity, as a direct result
of the patient having an accident or because of other surgery which itself would have
been covered under the plan.
Having considered the available medical evidence, CIGNA concluded that Mr Js surgery
was cosmetic in nature. And so it turned down his claim. Ive gone on to consider whether I
think this was a fair conclusion for CIGNA to reach.
Ive looked carefully at the medical report provided by Mr Js treating doctor. Mr J was
diagnosed with bilateral idiopathic gynaecomastia. There was no explanation as to why the
doctor was carrying out the surgery or whether they felt it was medically necessary. The
report states that upon follow-up, there were no infections or complications and that there
was a very successful and pleasing early aesthetic outcome.
CIGNA has provided us with information which shows how it assess claims for
gynaecomastia. Im afraid that I cant share this evidence with Mr J, because its
commercially sensitive and therefore, its confidential. However, what I can tell Mr J is that it
sets out a number of criteria which must all be met in order for claims to be paid. CIGNA
says that Mr Js child did meet all of those criteria (including that his child was suffering pain
due to the condition), which was why their claim was paid.
In Mr Js case though, the treating doctors report doesnt suggest that Mr Js condition was
causing him any pain or discomfort and indeed, Mr Js testimony doesnt indicate that he
was experiencing pain due to his condition either. On that basis, I think it was reasonable for
CIGNA to find that Mr J didnt meet all of its criteria. And Im also satisfied that CIGNA
wouldve applied the same criteria to any policy beneficiary in the same circumstances as Mr
J. This means I dont find he was unfairly singled out in any way.
I appreciate Mr J says he underwent the surgery because he was concerned about the risk
of developing cancer, following the sad loss of a close relative whod suffered from the
disease. I can entirely understand why Mr J wished to reduce the risk of developing cancer
in the future and I was sorry to read of his loss. But theres no indication on the medical
report that Mr Js doctor had recommended that he undergo the surgery for this reason, or
that the doctor considered the surgery to be medically necessary for preventative reasons 
either. Instead, the doctor has referred to a pleasing aesthetic outcome upon follow-up. I
dont think it was unfair then for CIGNA to rely upon this report to conclude that surgery was
likely done for cosmetic reasons.
CIGNA has indicated that if Mr J is able to provide further medical evidence showing his
condition caused him pain and discomfort; it will review this information. I think this is a fair
and reasonable position for CIGNA to take. Its also open to Mr J to provide CIGNA with
medical evidence which shows that the surgery was recommended to him for preventative
reasons.
Overall, having considered the evidence as a whole, while I sympathise with Mr Js position,
I currently dont think it was unfair for CIGNA to conclude that his surgery was cosmetic in
nature. As such, I dont think it was unreasonable for CIGNA to rely on the policy exclusion
to turn down Mr Js claim. It follows then that I dont intend to direct CIGNA to pay any
award.
I asked both parties to send me any additional evidence they wanted me to consider.
CIGNA didnt respond by the deadline I gave.Mr J provided a letter from his treating surgeon, dated 26 July 2023, which set out the 
reasons why they felt CIGNA should pay Mr Js claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im very sorry to disappoint Mr J, I still think it was fair and 
reasonable for CIGNA to turn down his claim and Ill explain why.
Its important that I make it clear that my decision focuses on whether CIGNA acted fairly 
based on the medical evidence which was available to it at the time it issued its final 
response to Mr Js complaint in December 2022. Mr J has now provided new evidence from 
his treating surgeon, which explains the reasons for the surgery and why they feel CIGNA 
should pay the claim.
As I explained in my provisional decision, CIGNA indicated that it would consider new 
medical evidence Mr J provided. So it wouldnt be appropriate for me to make a finding on 
new medical evidence which wasnt available to CIGNA when it issued its final response in 
December 2022. Its open to Mr J to send the new evidence on to CIGNA for its review. If Mr 
J is unhappy with the outcome of any such review, he may be able to make a new complaint 
about any new claims decision alone.
Overall though, I still dont think it was unfair for CIGNA to have concluded that Mr J likely 
underwent surgery for cosmetic reasons, based on the medical evidence which was 
available to it in December 2022,. And I still find that it was fair and reasonable for it to have 
relied on the policy exclusion for cosmetic surgery.
So for the reasons Ive set out above in my provisional decision, I still think it was fair and 
reasonable for CIGNA to have turned down Mr Js claim, at the point it issued its final 
response in December 2022. So Im not directing it to pay any award.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman