DRN-3016133
The complaint
Mr P complains that PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender applied incorrect markers to 
his credit file and chased him for a debt hed already repaid.   
What happened
In mid-February 2015, Mr P entered into a trust deed using an insolvency practitioner who Ill 
call V. This meant that Mr P could consolidate his outstanding debts into one lower monthly 
payment and V would negotiate a settlement figure with Mr Ps creditors on his behalf that 
would be repaid as part of the trust deed.
In April 2015, Mr Ps trust deed gained protected status which meant the majority of his 
creditors had agreed to Vs proposal. This also meant the creditors couldnt chase Mr P for 
the outstanding debt, nor add any further interest or charges to the amount Mr P owed to 
them. And at the end of the deed term of four years, Mr P would be debt free. However, in 
March 2016 V went into administration. 
Mr P met the terms of his trust deed and in March 2019, he was discharged, and the 
insolvency register was updated. However at the end of May 2019, PDL sent Mr P an 
arrears letter which said he had an outstanding balance he needed to repay. 
In early November 2019, Mr P contacted PDL and explained hed completed his trust deed 
and thought he should be debt free. He also asked them to update his credit file to reflect 
this. PDL said they werent able to amend this until they received confirmation the trustee 
had been discharged from the trust deed. 
A few days later, Mr P contacted V to ask about his debt to PDL and the discharge. V told 
Mr P theyd sent the discharge notice to PDL earlier in 2019 but said they would resend it. 
However, later that month PDL sent Mr P a further arrears letter. 
From early December 2019, Mr P continued to contact PDL and ask them to update his 
credit file. This continued for many months and each time Mr P contacted PDL, they said the 
trustee hadnt been discharged and sent further arrears letters. 
In August 2020, V wrote to PDL again but despite the letter not saying the trustee had been 
discharged, PDL updated Mr Ps credit file to reflect the outstanding debt had been settled. 
Mr P was frustrated with how hed been treated by PDL and asked this service to look into 
his complaint. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She thought PDL had treated Mr P 
unfairly, by reporting that he was defaulting on his repayments whilst he was both in the trust 
deed, and after hed met the terms of the deed and it had been discharged. She also thought 
PDL ought to have reasonably known that under the protected trust deed regulations, the 
discharge of debtor and trustee werent reliant on each other. So she said PDL would have 
had enough evidence Mr P had met his obligations when this was updated on the publicly 
available insolvency register in March 2019.
The investigator also said Mr P had spent a lot of time trying to get his credit file corrected 
complaining to V  because of the information hed been given by PDL  and to PDL itself. 
She said Mr P had told us his credit score had increased once PDL updated his credit file  
and it was possible this was because of their actions. 
So overall, she thought PDL had caused Mr P distress for a significant period of time and 
recommended they remove the missed payments theyd reported on Mr Ps credit file  
despite him making payments as agreed under the trust deed  and pay Mr P £700 
compensation. 
PDL didnt agree. They said the £700 wasnt in line with our services awards for complaints 
of this type. They also said V hadnt made them aware until August 2020 that Mr P had been 
discharged so they felt it was reasonable that the arrears letters had been sent. PDL thought 
the delay in updating Mr Ps credit file hadnt caused any issues as the deed would still be 
reporting for a significant time period after theyd made the update. So they said it was V that 
had caused the issues for Mr P by not making them aware of the discharge when they 
should have.
Our investigator replied to PDL. She said it was likely V had sent the discharge letter to PDL 
as Mr P and the other creditors had received theirs. She also said if PDL had told Mr P they 
hadnt received the discharge letter  instead of giving him incorrect information  he could 
have spoken to V about this sooner. The investigator said that whilst Mr P had been in the 
trust deed, he was required to meet the terms of the agreement, and as hed met those 
terms, it was unfair for PDL to say he was missing payments. 
She also said Mr P was discharged in mid-March 2019, and PDL were aware of this by at 
least by November 2019, yet it still took a further nine months to update Mr Ps credit file  
which she felt was too long. So her opinion remained the same. 
PDL still didnt agree. They said theyd contacted V who couldnt confirm if the discharge 
letter had been sent to PDL and they felt it was unfair to be blamed for Vs actions. They said 
Mr Ps credit file wouldnt have been impacted by the delay in saying the trust deed had 
been discharged as this would have remained on Mr Ps credit file for a longer period 
anyway and that he could have made a note on his credit file to say hed been discharged. 
PDL also said theyd spoken to Mr P on a couple of occasions and he hadnt said he was 
being caused distress.  So they asked for an ombudsman to look at the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold it, Ill explain why.
A trust deed is voluntary but legally binding agreement between a borrower and their 
creditors. It allows the borrower to agree to repay an affordable portion of what they owe - 
whilst protecting certain assets  over a fixed period of time. And once completed, any 
unsecured debts will legally be written off. 
Trust deeds can only be arranged by a licenced Insolvency Practitioner  which in this case 
was V - who takes on the role of the trustee. The trustee would approach the creditors with 
the terms of the trust deed, and if the majority are happy, it would become protected. This 
means that its legally binding on all creditors. So I need to look at whether PDL acted 
appropriately and in line with the trust deed  which I dont think they did.  Mr P told us he contacted PDL in November 2019 after hed received the arrears letter, so 
he feels they should have updated his credit file to reflect that hed been discharged. Mr P 
also told us he feels PDL have behaved badly in delaying this correction  despite him 
having met the terms of the trust deed. 
PDL feel theyve behaved reasonably and the delays in resolving Mr Ps credit file were 
because V didnt follow the process they should have. PDL have told us they didnt get the 
letter from V in March 2019 about Mr Ps discharge. They also said as V couldnt prove the 
letter had been sent, it was unreasonable for this service to believe theyd received it.  
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. Ive read and considered all the 
information provided by both parties and given that Mr P got his letter and so did the other 
creditors, it seems unlikely the only letter not sent by V to the various creditors, was the one 
to PDL. Ive also seen that in Vs correspondence with Mr P they appear confident a letter 
would have been sent to PDL at the time Mr P was discharged. So, although we cannot 
prove it, I think its more likely the letter was sent. 
Even if PDL didnt receive the letter from V in March 2019, Mr P told them in November 2019 
that hed been discharged, and he also sent them a copy of his letter of discharge in early 
December 2019. And if PDL had any concerns about the accuracy of what Mr P was telling 
them they could have checked this with V, but I havent seen any evidence PDL as the 
lender attempted to help Mr P resolve this issue. In addition to this, PDL have already 
confirmed that they were able to see on the AIB insolvency register that Mr P - as the debtor 
- had met his obligations under the trust deed in March 2019.
Ive also seen that PDL were sent a letter by V in Feb 2019 agreeing to their claim amount 
under the trust deed, so I think they would have reasonably been aware at this point that Mr 
P was nearing the end of his agreement as their settlement amount had been agreed and 
was on track to meet the agreed terms. So I think PDL had sufficient information to update 
Mr Ps credit file at the latest in early December 2019.
Instead they gave Mr P incorrect information saying he needed the trustee to be discharged 
for his credit file to be updated, which wasnt the case and caused him distress and 
inconvenience - and meant he had to wait until August 2020 for this to be corrected. As a 
lender, I think PDL ought to have been aware that there was a difference between Mr P as 
the debtor being discharged, and V as the trustee being discharged. 
I understand PDL hadnt received their settlement at the point Mr P contacted them, but this 
shouldnt have had any bearing on them updating his credit file. So I dont think PDL treated 
Mr P fairly by delaying the correction for nearly a year for debt Mr P was no longer liable for. 
PDL said Mr Ps credit file wouldnt have been impacted by their delay in updating it, as the 
trust deed would still have been on his credit file for the remainder of the six years. This isnt 
in dispute, however what happened here was that Mr P said his credit score increased to the 
next rating band when PDL made the changes, and it reflected that Mr P had met the terms 
of the deed and the outstanding balance had been repaid. 
Mr P has told us there had been no other changes to his credit file at that time, and as PDL 
has stated  the deed would have still been showing on Mr Ps credit file, so I think its likely 
this amendment by PDL did make a positive change to Mr Ps credit file as nothing else had 
changed except this.
PDL also said they had a duty to report accurate information on Mr Ps credit file to the credit 
reference agencies, so they felt the arrears letters theyd sent Mr P were reasonable. But I dont think it was fair for them to send the letters, I say this because theyd been made aware 
by Mr P after theyd sent the first arrears letter that this was incorrect  but they took no 
action. So I think there was enough reasonable doubt for PDL to check what they were 
reporting wasnt accurate. Mr P  as the debtor - wouldnt have known to ask PDL to look on 
the AIB register to check what he was saying was correct. 
I think it was reasonable for Mr P to feel that PDL would have checked this before telling him 
they couldnt update his credit as the trustee hadnt been discharged. The onus here was on 
them as the lender to check they were reporting accurately  not for Mr P to disprove they 
werent, which is what happened here.  
PDL told us they felt Mr P could have contacted the credit reference agencies himself to try 
and amend his credit file. But Ive seen evidence Mr P did approach the credit reference 
agencies about his credit file  and that PDL themselves were aware of this. Ive also seen 
evidence that one of the agencies wrote to Mr P in May 2020, and they said they would add 
a note to his credit file and contact PDL directly to raise Mr Ps concerns - but they said the 
information on the report was owned by PDL and it was up to them to decide to change it or 
not. 
Shortly after this, the credit reference agency wrote to Mr P again and said PDL had refused 
to amend his credit file  so all they could do was leave a note. So I think Mr P did as much 
as he could to resolve the issue. 
PDL told us they werent aware of Mr Ps intentions around his credit file or the distress this 
was causing him. But I dont agree. I think it was clear to PDL from both the wording and 
tone of Mr Ps emails  not to mention the number and frequency of them - that he both 
wanted his credit file corrected and that this was causing him distress and inconvenience. I 
think PDL had numerous opportunities to resolve this issue for Mr P but refused to do so. 
Its not clear whether this was because there was a misunderstanding by them about the 
difference between the debtor and trustee discharge or because they were holding the debt 
against Mr P until theyd received their outstanding settlement amount  which is when the 
trustee would have been discharged. Either way, I dont think PDL treated Mr P fairly as he 
had no control over the actions of V or the trust deed. I think PDL would have been aware of 
this, yet they didnt take the actions they should have done after Mr P had met the terms of 
the trust deed.   
I acknowledge PDL dont think their credit file records had any impact on Mr Ps credit score 
 but I dont agree. I say this because Mr P has sent us a copy of his credit file which shows 
PDL were reporting that he was six months late in making payments to them  which wasnt 
factually accurate as PDL had agreed to a repayment plan with V on Mr Ps behalf. 
If PDL wanted to continually report on Mr Ps credit file throughout his time in the trust deed, 
I think an arrangement to pay would have been a more accurate record  not that he was six 
months late in making a repayment  because if this was true, he wouldnt have met the 
terms of the trust deed and been discharged. 
Im pleased to see that PDL have finally updated Mr Ps credit file to accurately show that Mr 
P defaulted in 2015 and then settled the debt in 2019. However, this doesnt change the 
distress and inconvenience caused to Mr P by PDLs actions or that they reported Mr P was 
defaulting on his loan whilst he was meeting the terms of the trust deed. 
Putting things right
For all the reasons Ive outlined above, I dont think PDL have treated Mr P fairly as they delayed updating his credit file after hed completed his trust deed  despite having seen 
evidence this was the case. Ultimately PDL entered into the trust deed - and agreed the 
terms - with V so they should have been liaising with them rather than Mr P for the debt he 
was no longer responsible for. So I think they should amend Mr Ps credit file to reflect the 
terms of the trust deed accurately.
Ive also seen that Mr P has been caused distress and inconvenience by PDLs actions, as 
he should have been able to move forward debt free once hed completed the trust deed  
but PDLs actions prevented this. So, given the circumstances of the complaint, I think PDL 
should pay Mr P £700 for the distress and inconvenience caused.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct PDL Finance Limited to do the 
following:   
Correct Mr Ps credit file by removing the missed payments recorded each month 
from the date his Trust Deed gained protected status until he was discharged on 11 
March 2019;
Pay Mr P £700 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2021.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman