DRN-1214896
 
The complaint
Mrs R has complained about Assurant General Insurance Limited. She isnt happy about the 
way it dealt with a claim under her mobile phone insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs R had a problem with her mobile phone and made a claim under her insurance policy. 
Assurant accepted the claim and told her it was sending her a new phone. 
Mrs R wasnt happy with the refurbished phone as it had a number of issues. Although, 
some of these were cosmetic some affected the functionality of the phone. Mrs R sent the 
phone back and at some point was told she would receive a new phone. When in fact 
Assurant didnt think there was anything wrong with the refurbished phone that was sent 
previously and simply returned it. 
Assurant eventually agreed to replace the phone. But there was a delay in delivery which 
inconvenienced Mrs R further. Assurant acknowledged its service had been poor and that it 
should have sent her a reasonable replacement in the first place and offered £75 
compensation. But Mrs R didnt think this was sufficient and so she complained to this 
service.
Our investigator looked into things for her and upheld her complaint. He thought that the 
failure to send a reasonable replacement phone and deliver it on time caused Mrs R stress 
and inconvenience, especially as she has a disabled child and relied on her mobile phone. 
And so, he thought Assurant should pay £150 compensation, as opposed to £75.
As Assurant didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I think the complaint 
should be upheld. Ill explain why.
As Mrs R has a replacement phone that she is now happy with the only issue to consider is 
whether the level of compensation Assurant offered is adequate. And I dont think it is.
Assurant acknowledged in its final response letter to Mrs R that the initial replacement phone 
wasnt good enough. But it has since said in correspondence with this service that the phone 
was fully functional and fit for purpose.
Ive looked at the photographs provided, and I dont think it was a reasonable replacement. I 
accept Assurant can provide a refurbished phone. But Ive looked at the photographs of the 
phone and it is very clear that this wasnt of a reasonable standard. There are clear gaps 
around the sim card holder and the screen. So, Im not satisfied that the phone was an adequate replacement and Assurant should have identified this before dispatch and certainly 
upon return.
So, I agree with the adjudicator that Mrs R has been caused a fair degree of stress and 
inconvenience. The second delivery didnt go according to plan for some reason, but this 
wouldnt have been necessary if Assurant had identified the problems with the refurbished 
phone upon return. And as Mrs R has a disabled child, and relies heavily on being easily 
contactable, I think that a further £75 compensation feels fair.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that Im upholding this complaint. I require Assurant 
General Insurance Limited to pay Mrs R £150 (total) compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2020.
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman