DRN-4418091
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as K, is complaining that Revolut Ltd wont refund the 
money it lost in a scam.
Miss C, who is the director of K, brings the complaint on Ks behalf.
What happened
Miss C was contacted online by a scammer who claimed to be a cardiothoracic surgeon who
owned a medical company. He asked Miss C to apply for a contract with a non-
governmental organisation (NGO) on behalf of his company. He said the contract was to
supply hospital beds and was worth a substantial sum in US Dollars.
The ongoing circumstances of the scam are well known to both parties so I wont repeat
them in detail here  but, in summary, Miss C was told shed won the contract from the NGO
and was asked to transfer money as part payment of a transfer fee to the bank that would
receive the funds from the NGO.
Miss C set up a limited company, K, and on 17 January 2023 she opened a business
account for K with Revolut. On 2 February 2023 she made two online payments from Ks
Revolut business account to the scammers, one for £5,256.91 and one for £255.58. As part
of the scam Miss C also transferred some money from her account with another business to
the scammers; this was subsequently refunded to her by the other business.
Miss C became aware of the scam, and reported it to Revolut via their online chat function
on 7 February 2023. On the same day Revolut applied to the beneficiary bank to attempt
recovery of the payments. 
On 8 February 2023 Revolut told Miss C that they gave the appropriate warnings when she 
made the payments  and so they wouldnt be reimbursing K. But they were still waiting to 
hear about whether the payments could be recovered.
On 22 February 2023 Revolut let Miss C know that the beneficiary bank had been unable to
recover the payments. Miss C raised a complaint with Revolut on Ks behalf.
Revolut sent their final response on 24 February 2023. They said they didnt think theyd
done anything wrong by processing the payments as theyd been instructed, and they
wouldnt be refunding them.
On 27 February 2023 Ks account received a refund of £463.71, which had subsequently
been recovered and returned by the beneficiary bank.
Miss C brought Ks complaint to us. Our investigator didnt think Ks complaint should be
upheld, but as Miss C didnt agree, its been passed to me for review and a decision.
I issued my provisional decision on 11 October 2023. This is what I said.
Im sorry to learn about what happened to K. Theres no dispute that Ks been the victim of a 
scam, and so I can understand why Miss C would think K should receive a refund of the
money it lost in the scam. But from what Ive seen so far, I dont think that I can fairly say that
Revolut should refund the money K lost. Ill explain why.
I should explain firstly that Miss Cs mentioned that she received a refund of the money she
transferred to the scammers from her account with another business, under the Lending
Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code. But this doesnt apply
here as Revolut arent signatories to this voluntary code. So, I cant consider Ks complaint
with this in mind.
Its not in dispute that K authorised the payments. And Revolut have a duty to act on Ks
instructions. But in some circumstances, Revolut, as a regulated electronic money institute
(EMI), should take a closer look at the circumstances of the payments  for example, if they
ought to be alert to a fraud risk, because the transaction is unusual, or looks out of character
or suspicious. And if so, Revolut should intervene, for example, by contacting the customer
directly, before releasing the payments. But Id expect any intervention to be proportionate to
the circumstances of the payment.
Revolut have told us they did intervene here, with a general new payee warning. The
warning asked if the recipient was a trusted payee, and advised Miss C not to make the
payment if she was unsure, as Revolut may not be able to get the money back. Theyve sent
us a screen shot of the warning they say Miss C would have received.
Ive thought carefully about the circumstances here. In this case, Miss C had opened Ks
account with Revolut only a few weeks before the first payment and no payments had been
made from it until the first payment to the scammer. So, there wasnt a pattern of
transactions for Revolut to refer to, in order to see if these payments were out of character.
This is a business account, which Miss C set up for K to (she said) pay employees and
suppliers. She also selected that the expected monthly volume of transfers for Ks account
would be between £1,000 and £10,000. So, I dont think the payments made to the
scammers were outside of this expectation. And because K made the payments to the
scammers online, Miss C didnt speak or interact directly with Revolut for them to identify
that the payments could be part of a scam.
Taking all this into account, I think the general warning Revolut says Miss C received on
setting up the new payee was proportionate in the overall circumstances of the payments.
Miss C says she didnt see the warning and is disputing that it appeared. As this is part of
Revoluts standard process in these circumstances I think that its likely it did appear. But
even if the warning didnt appear, this would only make a difference to the outcome of Ks
complaint if I was persuaded that Miss C wouldnt have authorised the payments from Ks
account if she had seen the warning. And Im not persuaded of this. I say this because this
was an elaborate and complex scam, and Miss C had researched the individuals and
organisations involved online and was convinced they were genuine at the time the
payments were made. So, I dont think seeing the warning would have prevented K from
sending the payments.
Overall, I dont think Revolut were unreasonable to release the payments, and I dont think
they needed to do anything else to intervene in these circumstances.
There are industry standards around attempting recovery of funds where a scam is reported.
Revolut should have attempted to recover Ks payments immediately on being told of thescam. And I can see that Revolut did contact the beneficiary bank to attempt recovery on the
day Miss C called to report the scam. So, I dont think Revolut ought to have done any more
than they did to recover the payments.
Miss C identified that the scammers also held an account with Revolut and brought this to
their attention (although this wasnt an account K had transferred funds to.) Shes raised
concerns about how she feels Revolut and other, similar businesses make it possible for
scammers to operate.
I appreciate why this has added to Miss Cs frustrations. But as the investigators explained,
the issue our service is considering here concerns Revoluts role in processing the
payments, and their recovery efforts. And for the reasons given above, Im not persuaded
Revolut made any errors in respect of those issues which caused or contributed to the loss
incurred.
I can see that Miss Cs also mentioned new rules for businesses to reimburse victims of the
sort of scam K experienced here, which will take effect next year. But as theyve not yet
come into force they dont apply in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know this outcome will be very disappointing. However, for the reasons Ive explained, from
what Ive seen so far I dont think Revolut should have done more to prevent Ks loss. So, it
wouldnt be reasonable for me to ask them to refund the payments K made.
I asked K and Revolut to reply to my provisional decision by 25 October 2023. Neither party 
replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party replied to my provisional decision. As such, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional decision that it wouldnt be reasonable to ask Revolut to refund the payments K 
made as part of the scam. So, Revolut dont need to do anything else here.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2023.
 
Helen Sutcliffe
Ombudsman