DRN-2808151
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy with the service he received from Wirecard Card Solutions Limited 
surrounding his asking for deposited funds to be returned and his account with them closed.  
What happened
Mr K opened a Wirecard account. He then transferred approximately £830 into the account 
and set up a standing order for future rent payments. Shortly afterwards, Mr K received 
correspondence from Wirecard explaining that his payments were being withheld pending 
the receipt of further information from Mr K.
Mr K wasnt happy with what had happened, so he requested that his account be closed, 
and the balance transferred into the account be returned. Wirecard said that they would 
return the funds and close the account, but that this may take some time. Mr K wasnt happy 
about the amount of time being taken to complete his request, so he made a complaint.
Wirecard looked at Mr Ks complaint. They explained that they had asked for additional 
information from Mr K as part of their regulatory know your customer requirements, and that 
while they would return the funds in the account to Mr Ks originating account, that it may 
take some time to action this. Wirecard also confirmed that after the funds were transferred 
back to Mr K, that they would look to close his account with them.
Mr K wasnt satisfied with Wirecards response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They accepted that Wirecard had asked for 
the additional information because of regulatory obligations, and they also accepted that it 
was reasonable that the return of Mr Ks funds  which has taken place in the interim  had 
taken some time to action. 
However, our investigator noted that Mr Ks Wirecard account remained open, despite 
having a zero balance and despite Mr Ks repeated requests for the account to be closed. 
So, our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld in Mr Ks favour on that 
basis, and that Wirecard should make a payment of £50 to Mr K to compensate him for the 
inconvenience he had incurred.
Wirecard didnt accept the recommendation put forward by our investigator, so the matter 
was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Wirecard have explained that they asked for additional information from Mr K because of 
their regulatory know your customer requirements, and so Im satisfied that it was 
reasonable for Wirecard to ask Mr K for this additional information.
But its at Mr Ks discretion as to whether he wants to provide any further information, and in 
this instance, it was clear that he did not. Given that the account was newly opened, Mr Ks 
request to return the funds deposited in the account and then close it seems reasonable to 
me, as does Wirecards agreement to this.
Wirecard did return the funds to Mr Ks originating account approximately one month after Mr 
Ks request. One month is a long time to affect a transfer, and its unclear why Mr Ks 
request would take such an amount of time to action. But I can give Wirecard the benefit of 
the doubt here.
Im also satisfied that Wirecard were justified in restricting Mr Ks account during this time, 
given that theyd explained to Mr K that they would be restricting his account until such time 
as he provided the additional information that they had had asked for.
What isnt clear to me is why Wirecard feel that its fair or reasonable to have kept Mr Ks 
Wirecard account open, with a zero balance, once the funds were transferred out of that 
account. Indeed, Mr K made several requests to Wirecard to close the account, but without 
success. And Wirecard keeping Mr Ks zero balance account open is even more puzzling in 
consideration of Wirecards own complaint response letter, which specifically states that 
once the funds are transferred that Wirecard would look to close the account.
Wirecard have objected to the recommendation put forward by our investigator that this 
complaint be upheld in Mr Ks favour because Wirecard didnt close the account in a timely 
manner, and their objection is based largely on reference to the terms and conditions of the 
account, which Wirecard contend allows them to keep Mr Ks account open regardless of Mr 
Ks specific instructions or their own prior declarations. Indeed, Wirecard contend that its not 
within the remit of this service to overrule the terms and conditions of the account, to which 
they are adhering.
But it is within the remit of this service to issue an instruction which goes against the terms 
and conditions of an account, if its felt that the business in question is acting unreasonably 
and unfairly toward a customer based on an unfair application of, and an over-reliance on, 
account terms and conditions. And Im satisfied that this is exactly what has taken place in 
this instance. 
Wirecard have transferred the funds from Mr Ks account so that the account holds a zero 
balance and Mr K has specifically requested, on several occasions, that the account be 
closed. And there is no possibility of any future transactions taking place that might 
necessitate that Mr Ks Wirecard account remaining open. So, Im not aware of any 
reasonable explanation as to why Wirecard should consider it fair, appropriate, or necessary 
to keep Mr Ks Wirecard account open in these circumstances.
It follows then that I will be upholding this complaint in Mr Ks favour on this basis, and that I 
will be instructing Wirecard to close Mr Ks account if they have not done so already and to 
make a payment of £50 to Mr K to compensate him for the inconvenience he has incurred.   
Putting things right
If they have not done so already, Wirecard must close Mr Ks account as soon as possible 
and no later then 21-days from the date of this letter.
Wirecard must also make a payment of £50 to Mr K to compensate him for the 
inconvenience this matter has caused.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Wirecard Card Solutions Limited on the basis explained above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman