DRN-2964037
The complaint
T, a limited company complains that GoCardless Ltd mishandled the transfer of an account. 
T wants GoCardless to compensate it for the time taken to resolve the problem and 
additional costs it incurred 
What happened
T is represented in its complaint by a director, Mrs W. She wanted to transfer the 
GoCardless account she held in her name as a sole trader to T.
Mrs W contacted GoCardless on 11 March 2021 to ask how to add a new bank account in 
the name of T as she was incorporating. GoCardless explained how to add a new bank 
account but didnt pick up on the need to activate the change of legal entity process. 
Once Mrs W added the new bank account, GoCardless received a verification payment. But 
the name was incomplete. GoCardless then told Mrs W that in order to complete the process 
it would need further information regarding the change of legal entity. 
Mrs W on behalf of T said she couldnt give GoCardless a certified document recording the 
change of control as she hadnt involved a third-party in setting up T. 
Mrs W ended up changing the share structure of T so that she was the only share-holder. 
Together with a letter from Ts bank, GoCardless was then able to complete the change of 
entity process and update Ts account. 
Mrs W says that she lost four hours of work. She says that if GoCardless had explained the 
process properly to her, T wouldnt have needed to incur the cost of making changes with 
Companies House.
The investigator didnt recommend that Ts complaint be upheld. Although he agreed that 
GoCardless had given the wrong information about transferring Mrs Ws existing account to 
T, he thought GoCardless had resolved things as soon as possible.
Mrs W is unhappy with the investigators recommendation. She says GoCardless didnt 
resolve the situation as it took prompting from her to get the new account verified. Mrs W 
says the delay in T gaining access to its money made life difficult and delayed future 
invoicing. Mrs W points out she spent time dealing with the problem. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so 
using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the key issues. The rules 
that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean Ive not considered 
everything the parties have given to me.
I should also say that the complaint has been brought by T, not Mrs W as a sole trader. This 
means I need to consider the impact on T. 
GoCardless agrees that it shouldve given Mrs W the relevant information about the change 
of legal entity process when she asked about adding a bank account in Ts name. So, I dont 
think I need to say much more about this. Instead, I will focus on whether GoCardless needs 
to do more to put things right.
Mrs W made the request to add Ts bank account on 11 March 2021. She says she initiated 
the change of bank account on 16 March 2021 and the change of legal entity process was 
finalised on 19 March 2021. Based on what Ive seen, Im not persuaded that T lost out 
financially as a result of the relatively short delay in finalising the transfer although I 
appreciate that Mrs W may see things differently.
GoCardless has a change of entity verification process that it needs to follow. Even if it had 
given Mrs W the right information at the outset, T wouldve had to take some time to go 
through this process and potentially incur costs. 
I understand Mrs W was frustrated that she had to prompt GoCardless to find the eventual 
solution of changing Ts shareholding as a way of avoiding the need to obtain certification. 
Although this took some prompting from Mrs W, it meant that T was able to avoid the cost of 
getting the third-party certification from a solicitor. 
Mrs W says that if GoCardless had given her the correct information upfront, she wouldve 
structured T differently. But as far as I can see, T had already filed its application to register 
the company before Mrs W contacted GoCardless on 11 March. So, I dont consider this 
couldve made a difference to the way in which she structured T. 
I can appreciate Mrs Ws frustration with the situation and that it took her time to resolve. As 
the investigator explained to Mrs W, its T thats the complainant here. I can award 
compensation for the inconvenience experienced by T but given the short timescale between 
GoCardless asking T to carry out extra checks and the change being finalised, Im not 
persuaded that its justified here. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman