DRN-3422070
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited handled and 
settled a claim they made under their home insurance policy for water damage to their 
property.
Mr and Mrs A are represented by their daughter in bringing this complaint. But for clarity  Ill 
refer to all submissions as being made by Mr and Mrs A directly.
What happened
In January 2021 Mr and Mrs A made a claim under their RSA household insurance policy for 
water damage to their property. 
Mr and Mrs A said theyd suffered previous water damage to their lounge wall in 2018, which 
had been caused by a slow leak from their neighbours adjoining ground floor toilet. Mr and 
Mrs A said their neighbour repaired the source of the leak shortly afterwards. But they didnt 
redecorate at this point. 
Mr and Mrs A said that they decided to replaster and redecorate their room in October 2020. 
After they decorated, Mr and Mrs A said they observed further water damage to the same 
wall in around the same place. This caused the paint on the affected wall to blister.
When Mr and Mrs A reported their claim to RSA it asked them to obtain two quotes for 
repairs. In March 2021, Mr and Mrs A provided two quotations to RSA confirming the cost of 
the reinstatement works. These quotations indicated that, in the opinion of the contractor, the 
damage had been caused by Mr and Mrs As neighbour. Mr and Mrs A informed RSA that 
their neighbour had suffered a further leak and they thought this had caused the damage 
theyd experienced within their property. 
After receiving the quotations Mr and Mrs A had provided, RSA instructed a buildings 
inspector, which Ill refer to as B, to undertake an inspection of the damage and validate 
the claim. 
B attended Mr and Mrs As property on 19 March 2021 and observed evidence of water 
damage to the lounge wall  namely blistering paint. It said the area was still wet at the time 
of its visit. But it couldnt identify a one-off escape of water as the cause. Instead, it thought 
the damage had most likely resulted from rising damp.
In view of Bs opinion of the cause of damage, RSA informed Mr and Mrs A that it wasnt 
able to validate their claim. It stated that damage caused by wear and tear was excluded 
from the policy terms and conditions and it explained that wear and tear included damage 
caused by or resulting from damp.
Mr and Mrs A felt RSAs decision to decline their claim was unfair. They questioned the 
adequacy of Bs inspection and didnt think it had seen enough on which to base its cause of 
damage decision. They fundamentally disagreed that the cause of the damage was rising 
damp and asked RSA to reconsider their claim by way of a complaint.
On 23 August 2021, RSA issued its final response to Mr and Mrs As complaint. It stated that 
it thought its repudiation decision had been correct and fair based on Bs report. However, it 
informed Mr and Mrs A it would reconsider the prospects of their claim if they provided either 
a cause of damage report or invoice from their neighbour confirming what remedial work had 
been undertaken. 
Being dissatisfied with RSAs response to their complaint, Mr and Mrs A referred their 
complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into what happened, but they didnt 
recommend upholding this complaint. They thought RSA had acted fairly in declining to 
cover Mr and Mrs As claim for damage. So, they didnt think it needed to take any further 
action to resolve this complaint. But Mr and Mrs A disagreed and asked an ombudsman to 
review their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our service is impartial, we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint, and we dont regulate or punish businesses. 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the information Ive got is 
incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I must base my decision on the 
balance of probabilities. I can see Mr and Mrs A have gone to some trouble to provide our 
service with some very detailed submissions. I want to assure them that Ive read everything 
theyve sent us. I hope theyll understand if I dont address every comment theyve made in 
this decision. I intend to concentrate on what I consider is key to the complaint.
Its clear that Mr and Mrs A feel very strongly that their claim should be paid. As longstanding 
customers, I recognise that they feel let down by RSAs decision to repudiate their claim. 
But, while I have sympathy with Mr and Mrs A, my role is to assess whether I think RSA 
made a mistake, or treated them unfairly, such that it needs to now put things right.   
Mr and Mrs A would like RSA to cover the damage to their wall because they feel it was 
caused by a leak from their neighbours property. Their policy with RSA covers damage 
caused in this manner. But for a claim to be accepted under this peril the onus is on Mr and 
Mrs A to show that any damage was the direct result of a one-off escape of water. 
Theres no dispute that water damage occurred to Mr and Mrs As property. However, 
theres a dispute between Mr and Mrs A, RSA and its appointed agents about the cause of 
the damage and the correct outcome of this claim. 
Damage from an escape of water is covered by Mr and Mrs As policy. However, damage 
caused by wear and tear due to damp isnt. Their policy clearly outlines that wear and tear is 
excluded under the policy terms, specifically:
any loss, damage, liability, cost or expense of any kind caused by or resulting from wear 
and tear, depreciation, corrosion, rusting, damp, insects, vermin, fungus, condensation, 
fading, frost or anything which happens gradually, the process of cleaning, dyeing, repair, 
alteration, renovation or restoration.This is in common with most home insurance policies because insurance is intended to 
cover the unforeseen, and something requiring maintenance or happening due to wear and 
tear isnt unforeseen.
If an insurer wishes to decline a claim based on wear and tear it has to show that this is how 
the damage happened. In this case RSA relies on Bs opinion that the damage was caused 
by a rising damp. 
Ive already mentioned that Mr and Mrs A have questioned the adequacy of Bs inspection. 
But the data from the photographs B took while visiting Mr and Mrs As property show that its 
visit lasted almost an hour. Within that time over 25 photographs were taken to evidence the 
damage B observed. The report B produced is similar in detail to those seen by our service 
in similar claims. And it contains the information Id expect to see. Im satisfied that this all 
shows B undertook an appropriate inspection here.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs A are unhappy that RSA relied on Bs opinion  particularly 
considering the quotations they provided. But B is a recognised organisation that regularly 
assesses property damage on behalf of insurers. So, it isnt unreasonable for RSA to use, 
and rely on, Bs knowledge and expertise in assessing a claim for water damage. And I 
havent seen anything to suggest that the surveyor who provided a report to RSA wasnt 
appropriately qualified. 
From the photographs that B took during its inspection of Mr and Mrs As property, Im 
persuaded that the appearance of the damage is indicative of rising damp. I also think that 
the fact that the damage reappeared in the same place following redecoration suggests that, 
on balance, the damage was due to rising damp. Given that the wall was still wet when B 
attended, and there was no evidence of an escape of water, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for B to reach the conclusion it did about the cause of the damage.
The quotations Mr and Mrs A provided state that the damage was caused because of a leak 
from their neighbour. But theres no evidence that either contractor observed the source of 
the leak or why they thought the source of the damage was an escape of water rather than 
rising damp. I dont think RSA acted unreasonably in preferring Bs report on the cause of 
damage in such circumstances. And I can see that at least one of the quotations refers to a 
new damp proof course being required to remedy the damage, which supports the view that 
the damage was caused by rising damp. 
Based on the evidence that was available to it, I dont think RSA acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in relying on Bs expertise in assessing Mr and Mrs As claim for damage. In 
the overall circumstances of this complaint, I think RSAs shown our service reliable 
evidence to demonstrate that the damage has, most likely, been caused by rising damp.  
After RSA declined Mr and Mrs As claim I can see that they were offered the opportunity of 
providing either a cause of damage report or an invoice from their neighbour confirming the 
repairs that were undertaken. I think this was fair and reasonable and its what Id expect an 
insurer to do following a repudiation decision.
Mr and Mrs A have explained that they werent able to provide any additional information 
other than the quotations theyd already provided. Theyve stated that their relationship with 
their neighbour is difficult and strained. And, while I empathise with Mr and Mrs A, I can only 
form an opinion on this complaint based on the evidence before me.
I can see that RSA did, at Mr and Mrs As request, speak to their neighbour directly. I think 
this goes to show it was trying to assist Mr and Mrs A with their claim and complaint. Their 
neighbour confirmed thered been a slight crack in the valve on the cistern of their downstairs toilet. In the overall circumstances, I dont think it was unreasonable for RSA to 
still require the provision of documentary evidence to enable it to reconsider the outcome of 
Mr and Mrs As claim. 
I can see that Mr and Mrs A asked RSA to write to their neighbour in order to obtain the 
evidence it required from them directly. But Ive already explained that the onus of 
substantiating a claim is on a policyholder. So, it wouldnt be incorrect or unreasonable for 
an insurer to inform its policyholder to obtain evidence themselves as RSA did. And, when 
the required written documentation wasnt provided by Mr and Mrs A, I cant fairly conclude 
RSA acted unfairly in declining to overturn its repudiation decision.
While Ive taken on board everything Mr and Mrs A have said about this complaint, I havent 
seen any evidence to demonstrate that the damage they reported was caused by a one-off 
escape of water. And, in the overall circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied RSA acted 
fairly and reasonably in declining to settle Mr and Mrs As claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman