DRN-3347488
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wouldnt refund payments he said he didnt 
make from his account.
What happened
Mr M disputed three card payments made from his account in May 2018 and which came to 
£7,296.05. He says that he had been abroad and was having difficulty accessing his account 
online. He sent identification documents to Barclays but wasnt able to get access back to 
his account until September 2018. When he did so he identified the payments. The 
payments were initially refunded. But these were then re-debited resulting in an overdraft 
and an adverse credit history for him.
Barclays said that it wouldnt be refunding this money. The payments were authorised when 
the chip on Mr Ms debit card was read and the correct PIN would have been needed. In the 
final response it said that he was required to keep his debit card safe under the terms and 
conditions of its agreement with him. And him not doing so would be the explanation if it had 
been misused.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that she was 
satisfied that the payments were authenticated with Mr Ms card from the audit reports from 
Barclays. And that in view of the size of the payments the PIN was required. 
She noted that Mr M had raised a separate claim about unauthorised payments from his 
account in January 2018. These related to payments made online to one retailer. His debit 
card was cancelled and a new one issued. In a telephone call about this he said he was 
abroad and wanted a new card to be sent to his home address. He said he had lived with his 
cousin who would be there to receive this. There was no indication that this hadnt been 
received. Hed told this service that he had no recollection of this and didnt order a new 
card. She knew that his representative had requested a copy of that call from Barclays.
Barclays had shown that a further card was issued on 2 May 2018 and a PIN advice. This 
would require the person requesting this to pass security checks. It wasnt able to locate the 
request for the new card and if by phone a copy of the recording. It confirmed that the card 
and PIN were again sent to Mr Ms home address This suggested that Mr M was aware of 
that or had requested the new card and it wasnt unusual again for it to go to this address 
based on what had happened in January 2018. 
His account was accessed online between 18 and 21 May 2021 from IP addresses linked to 
this country. An amount of £45,000 was transferred from his savings to current account.     
Mr M hadnt complained about that transfer to Barclays, and she said that he would need to 
contact it directly first it he wanted to.
Barclays says that an attempted faster payment for £4,925 on 21 May 2018 was blocked. 
The disputed payments on his card took place that day. One for £0.69 hadnt been disputed. 
Attempts to make further payments werent seen. There was no explanation of how an 
unknown third party would have been able to discover the PIN and have access to his debit 
card. So, she was satisfied that he authorised the payments.
Mr M had also complained about the time he was unable to access his account after online 
access had been suspended. He had emailed Barclays about this and he was then asked to 
send identification documents which he did by courier. He showed that he received 
confirmation of delivery on 6 June 2018. Barclays told him it didnt receive the documents 
and to send information to a different address. Although he called a number of times he 
didnt resend them until September 2018. So, she didnt think that Barclays was responsible 
for him not having access to his account again until then.
Mr M didnt agree. He is represented in this complaint and his representative asked for an 
ombudsman to review this. He had proof that the documents were delivered to Barclays by 
courier. He wasnt aware of the payment of £0.69 when he spoke with Barclays about the 
disputed payments. It is said that the IP address recorded may be associated with his laptop 
not the country where it was used. And he didnt transfer savings and didnt make these 
payments. It is asked that the recording of the calls is taken into account. 
Our investigator arranged for the representative to have a copy of the call recording of 
January 2018 as requested. The further comments then made were that the card used for 
the disputed payments was a different one to that ordered in January 2018. And Mr M said 
again he hadnt transferred his savings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. And if they werent authorised 
Mr M wouldnt generally be responsible for them.
So, I will be thinking about the following areas in looking at this complaint:
- What is the most likely explanation of what happened to the card and PIN used for these 
payments?
- Did Mr M authorise the payments on the account, which could include allowing someone 
else to use the card?
- Did he take sufficient care of his information?
- And did Barclays act reasonably?
Like our investigator I accept that the payments from his account that have been disputed 
were authenticated. The chip on the card involved ending in number 4029 was read. In view 
of the size of the payments a PIN would have been required.
At issue is whether he consented to and authorised them and whether he as Barclays has 
said didnt take sufficient care of his information.
Mr M has provided documentation to show that he went abroad with a view to applying for a 
business visa which he couldnt do from this country. And he needed to show he had 
substantial money to do so which in part was in his Barclays savings account. He has 
provided documentation which shows he went abroad at the start of January 2018 and didnt 
re-enter this country until late in 2019.
I can see from Barclays records that he wasnt using his accounts much but was accessing 
them periodically from abroad. On 22 January 2018 he called to report four online card payments totalling just under £359 as fraudulent. These were refunded. At the time he said 
he had card ending 4016 in his possession. Ive listened to his call about this. Barclays 
offered to courier a replacement card abroad. But he asked that it be sent to his home 
address in this country where his cousin is. He didnt give an indication of when he would 
return to that address. A new card was sent there. The disputed payments at that time didnt 
need the PIN and he says he hasnt given this to anyone. I note that hed originally told this 
service that he didnt recall and make this telephone call.
Ive seen that the further card ending 4029 was issued on 2 May 2018. I dont have any call 
recording about that. I note that a card and PIN were issued. I accept as Barclays says that 
security checks would have been required as Id heard were on 22 January 2018. I do have 
a recording of Mr M calling Barclays the next day to query a direct debit that had been set up 
on the account to pay a credit card. This was refunded and cancelled.
The information provided by Barclays is that the IP addresses used to log in to the account 
from 18 to 21 May 2021 related to this country. It doesnt accept that this could be related to 
his laptop hed taken with him. And in any event Mr M disputes making a transfer between 
his savings and current account. Our investigator has already said he would need to raise 
that specifically with Barclays. What is clear is that the new card details were used when 
logging in.
An attempt was made to make a payment online which Barclays blocked on 21 May 2018. 
On that day the card payments were made. And I understand that in light of the activity on 
his account the card was blocked too. No further attempts to use it are recorded by Barclays. 
Barclays never mentioned the payment of £0.69 to Mr M and in a call said it would list the 
amounts on a form and asked him to indicate if these were disputed. This one wasnt listed.
Mr M hasnt provided any explanation of how both his card and PIN would have been 
obtained by an unknown third party in this way. He was clearly happy with the security of his 
address in this country on an extended basis and had kept this for his account. Hes not 
reported any problems at that address or that say the first replacement card went missing. 
Hes also not explained how someone could have logged into his account and known his 
security information. In September 2018 hed asked that a new card be sent to him abroad.
Mr M contacted Barclays about his online account being blocked within a few hours of this 
happening. He was aware that there was an issue with his account. But he couldnt, as 
would normally have been required, come to a branch with identification. Hes shown he 
couriered some documents to Barclays and was told by the courier company that these had 
been signed for on 6 June 2018. He came to know on 12 June 2018 based on Barclays 
records that it hadnt received this and would want these resent to a different address. And 
he didnt meet its requirements until September 2018. Even if Barclays had lost the original 
papers he reasonably knew it didnt have them. 
my assessment
I wont be able to say exactly what happened and I need to think about what is most likely. 
There are two broad explanations here. Either Mr M shared his information with a third party 
and allowed that person to use his account while Mr M was abroad or an unknown third 
party was able to access his account and make these payments with his card and PIN. In 
deciding between these two scenarios I take into account the following points:- Mr M had already reported fraud on his account on 22 January 2018 - the day those 
payments were shown as applied to his statement. At that time his PIN hadnt been 
used. But he allowed a replacement card to be sent to his address for someone he 
trusted to receive even though he had already been subject to fraud. 
- The further card and PIN ordered on 2 May 2018 would have required a high level of 
security to be passed. Details of any call about this arent available. Again, the card and 
this time PIN were sent to the address Mr M had left as suitable for his account. These 
would have typically been sent under separate cover in unmarked post.
- There was money available in Mr Ms account before the transfer from his savings. No 
attempt to use the card and PIN for purchases was made until 21 May 2018 even 
though these had been sent out in early May 2018.
- On Mr Ms version of events someone unknown was able to log into his account from 
this country using the new card on 18 May 2018. That person would have needed to 
know his security information. There were no significant payment attempts until the 
blocked payment three days later. 
- Within hours of his account being blocked and the further card payments Mr M had then 
noticed an issue. On one hand thats a coincidence as in January 2018 -  but on the 
other shows that any unknown person accessing his account would risk discovery and 
would likely have acted quickly to take any money available.
- No further attempts were made to take money from the account using the card after    
Mr M had realised the account had been blocked.
Im struggling to see how an unknown third party could have obtained Mr Ms details to 
impersonate him and to obtain a card and PIN. In making that finding I take into account that 
Mr M says he kept his details safe. That person would have needed to be able to intercept a 
card and PIN sent separately to what Mr M still considered a safe address. And to have 
been able to log on to online banking. To me that isnt most likely. So, Im afraid on balance I 
think Mr M consented to these payments and so authorised them by allowing a third party to 
have access to his account and information. He was responsible for what that person did as 
he did not keep his details safe.
I need to decide whether it was reasonable for Barclays to hold him responsible for these 
payments. For the reasons Ive given I think that it was. 
I have explained above that unfortunately the initial documents sent by Mr M were mislaid. 
Barclays noted it needed further on 12 June 2018. I appreciate that for Mr M that was more 
difficult because he was abroad and couldnt return and I dont doubt he made attempts to 
deal with this. He didnt meet its requirements until September 2018. And it doesnt seem he 
wanted to use his account after that in any event. The account being blocked by Barclays did 
prevent any further attempts at payments.
Its accepted that a letter in October 2018 about the dispute from Barclays went to his 
address in this country. His representative says that this was negligent and prevented him 
from disputing things. Mr M says in his complaint form to this service that he knew that the 
amounts had been re-debited in December 2019 and that he stopped using the account and 
would resolve this when he returned. I can understand things were more difficult for him to 
deal with when abroad. He has since been able to complain and now have things considered 
again by Barclays in a final response letter and now by this service. 
Ive found him responsible for the payments. And so, Im afraid he was also fairly responsible 
too for the consequences of not repaying the amount re-debited to his account which he was 
aware of and any impact on his credit record.In conclusion, I wont be requiring Barclays to do anything further. I consider it acted 
reasonably. I appreciate Mr M will be very disappointed by my findings given what is at stake 
for him.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman