DRN-3787563
The complaint
Mr S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont honour a new mortgage agreement that he 
signed and returned, because he didnt call within five days to pay the required product fee. 
What happened
Mr S said he wanted to fix the rate of his HSBC offset mortgage before anticipated 
increases. He said HSBC had offered him a rate he was happy with, and he signed the 
contract. He didnt receive any confirmation, so he then called HSBC to check that all was 
well. But Mr S said he found out HSBC had cancelled his application because he didnt pay 
the required product fee within five days. Mr S said this was an oversight on his part, but 
HSBC should have reminded him. Mr S hasnt been able to secure such a good rate now, 
and he said this left him in financial difficulties. 
HSBC said when it spoke to Mr S on 31 May, it discussed a rate that he wanted to accept, 
so it then set out the process for accepting his application. And HSBC said it does send out 
an email with a contract Mr S could sign online. 
But it told us it had explained to Mr S on this call, four times, that the rate it was discussing 
with Mr S was only reserved for five working days after the call. HSBC explained to Mr S that 
this meant he had to call HSBC by next Thursday (31 May was a Tuesday, but it fell before a 
long bank holiday weekend, so five working days took the deadline up to Thursday 9 June.) 
Mr S would need to call HSBC by that date, to book the rate and pay the fee. And HSBC had 
also explained on this call that if Mr S didnt ring HSBC and pay the fee within this time, the 
application would be cancelled. It said this is also set out in the documentation Mr S signed. 
HSBC said it hadnt made a mistake, and it wouldnt change Mr Ss rate to the one it offered 
on 31 May.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said HSBC was clear on 
its call of 31 May that Mr S needed to call back within five working days to secure the rate 
and pay the fee. But Mr S hadnt done that. So she said HSBC hadnt made a mistake, and it 
didnt have to call Mr S to prompt him to take up this offer.
Mr S didnt agree. He said what our investigator had considered omitted extremely important 
points which he didnt think shed considered, and so he didnt think this view was fair. He 
said the offer document didnt communicate the point shed made about payment within five 
days at all clearly. He thought our investigator had ignored this. 
Our investigator sent Mr S the call recording from 31 May, which shed listened to. And she 
said if Mr S wanted to make any further comments, then he should send those to our service 
by 17 November 2022. This deadline has now passed with no further communications from 
Mr S. And, as no agreement was reached, this case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
I should start by noting that Mr S has previously suggested that he wanted to make further 
representations in this case, but our investigator set a clear deadline for this, and no further 
information has been received from Mr S. I do think its appropriate to decide this case now.
Ive listened carefully to the call that Mr S had with HSBC on 31 May, where he chose a 
mortgage rate to change his existing offset mortgage to. And I can hear on this call, that 
HSBC said repeatedly that the rate could only be held for five working days. It also said 
repeatedly that Mr S needed to call it back during this time, if he wanted to accept the rate. 
So HSBC explained Mr S would accept the rate, and make payment, when he called back. 
I think that the arrangements for Mr S to accept the offer HSBC made were clear on the call. 
HSBC also set out the day when the deadline would expire. That was Thursday 9 June  as 
there were three bank holiday dates coming up, Mr S had a little over a week to ring back. 
As an example, I can hear the following exchange, around seven minutes before the end of 
the call - 
Mr S  so Im just waiting for an email from you, basically?
HSBCs agent  yes, and then you need to call us before next Thursday if you wish 
to make the fixed rate booking and then that secures the rate for six months.
Mr S  all right, thank you very much for your help.
HSBC sent its mortgage offer to Mr S by email on the same day, 31 May. But Mr S didnt call 
HSBC back within the next five working days. Mr S actually signed the offer on 16 June, 
which is rather more than five days after the time his offer was issued. So it seems most 
likely that Mr S would already have been too late, by then, to secure this mortgage. 
I know Mr S didnt think the offer documentation he received was clear, but I do think HSBC 
had already explained, repeatedly, what Mr S had to do, to accept this mortgage. And in that 
context, I think that the documentation send to Mr S was sufficient to remind him of what 
HSBC had already said. 
I dont think that its unfair or unreasonable for HSBC to have limited the period which this 
mortgage offer was available to Mr S. I do understand that Mr S has said paying a higher 
interest rate will cause him financial problems. But Im sorry to have to tell Mr S that, 
because I dont think what has gone wrong here is HSBCs fault, I dont think HSBC has to 
offer him now the mortgage interest rate he discussed with it on 31 May.
I know that Mr S will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman