DRN-2508620
The complaint
Mr A complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) refused to let 
him reject a faulty car.
What happened
 In December 2016 Mr A acquired a new car at a cost of £70,500 funded by a deposit of 
£10,000 and a personal contract plan of £60,500. The annual mileage in the agreement was 
10,000. Mr A says he noticed one of the front pillars was out of alignment and this was 
confirmed by a local garage in January 2017. This caused the car to leak and affected its 
structural integrity. He took the car back to a local main dealer and he says they banged it 
back into shape. He has supplied more recent photographs which he says show it to be out 
of alignment.
He states that he was aware the car needed a differential oil change and when enquiring 
about this the dealer told him it was unnecessary. Another dealer contradicted this advice. At 
this time Mr A says the car had delayed response to pressing the accelerator which caused 
it to shoot forward on occasions.
He also says that at this time the car started going into limp mode, but the dealer couldnt 
find the cause of the problem. He says this has been an ongoing issue and he has taken the 
car to his local dealer on at least five occasions. 
Apparently, a hire car was produced as a courtesy car and Mr A left a parking permit behind 
and it took some two months for this to be returned. He says the dealer wasnt helpful in 
resolving this issue.
Mr A also says that the rear differential lock isnt working and the dealer has been unable to 
resolve this. He has expressed concerns about his treatment by the dealer, but that is not 
matter that falls within the remit of this service.
MBFS say that the first reported issue occurred 18 months after the inception of the 
agreement. It submitted the following records from the dealer along with job cards setting out 
what work had been done.
25.04.2017: Mileage 5910. This was for a free of charge diff oil change as per recommended 
interval
01.05.2018: 19599 miles. A service. Carried out a service under service care plan
26.06.2018: 23222 miles. Rattle from inside car. Found instrument cluster to be the cause, 
removed and then lubricated
13.12.2018: 29165 miles. 4809-1807-1831 service measures performed. B Service carried 
out and also front discs and pads rear brake pads replaced. Brakes paid for, service under 
the service contract
28.02.219: 32657 miles. Battery warning lamp on dash rear diff error message. Found 
battery to require replacement and error deleted for diff due to not a stored error and had not 
accrued regular also voltage down.
09.04.19: 33320 miles. Faults to look at, Brake assist warning lamp /rear diff inoperative 
warning lamp and car will go into limp mode. Faults found, DC Motor found to be the listed 
component failure for diff error. Therefore replaced. No errors listed for the limp mode and 
brake assist software update. All faults gone on final test
16.04.2019: 33703 miles. Faults to look at refurb alloys /repair dent quarter panel /bumper 
gap to adjust and diff lock failure lamp on dash. Faults found DC Motor saying faulty and 
specified on x entry to replace control unit N3/2 (parts warranty). All faults gone after 
replacement. The goodwill carried out was alloy wheels repairs. The n.s r. bumper painted 
and repaired and also the dent removed from
MBFS has explained that the replacement DC motor turned out to be faulty and it was 
replaced a few weeks later. It says there was no fault recorded in the cars computer to show 
it going into limp mode and a software update addressed brake assist warning light.
MBFS rejected Mr As complain, but it offered him £250 for the inconvenience of having to 
take the car back three times for the differential warning light.
Mr A complained to the dealer as he believed it had failed to let MBFS know how many 
times he had brought the car back to be repaired. He then brought his complaint to this 
service where it was considered by one of our investigators who recommended it be upheld. 
Mr A had stopped making his monthly payments and MBFS terminated the agreement with 
arrears of £2,217.71.
Our investigator asked Mr A for more detail on the number of visits he had made to the 
dealer and for the dates. Mr A submitted a lengthy reply and explained that the hadnt kept 
details of all the visits, but they were more than MBFS had mentioned in its final response 
letter. Our investigator also established that Mr A had done 46,000 miles at the end of 2019. 
He said he had to limit the speed to 50 mph due to concerns about the safety of the car.
Our investigator concluded that Mr A shouldnt have encountered so many issues with the 
car especially a premium brand. He appreciated these happened outside the first six 
months, but he said the car should demonstrate a degree of durability. Initially he 
recommended that Mr A be allowed to reject the car and have 20% of the monthly payments 
back plus £250 compensation. Subsequently he suggested that 20% reduction apply only to 
payments made after June 2018.
MBFS didnt agree and said it hadnt seen any evidence to show there was an inherent 
problem. It had only three repairs and give it had travelled 46,000 miles this was not 
unreasonable. 
I issued a provisional decision as follows: 
I explained that in considering what is fair and reasonable, I needed to have regard to the 
relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of 
practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. 
The finance agreement, that is the contract purchase agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
MBFS is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a 
complaint about their quality.The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
I said I had given a great deal of consideration to this complaint and while I was minded to 
ask MBFS to allow Mr A to reject the car I didnt consider the level of compensation should 
be as large as our investigator has suggested.
I could see there had been problems with the car and MBFS had identified seven visits to 
the dealer and I suspect there may have been a couple more. Of course some of those visits 
were for a service or other minor matters. MBFS said that Mr A has been kept mobile and 
that the faults had been repaired. Mr A saw it differently and said that the car was unreliable 
and it has limited his enjoyment and use of the car. However, I could see that he had been 
able to make extensive use of it. His annual mileage per the agreement was 10,000, but he 
has far exceeded that.
The one issue that gave me some concern was the door pillar which Mr A said was out of 
place. He said this was knocked back place and he had expressed some worry that this 
wasnt done properly. I dont know if this issue was present at the point of sale or if it happed 
after delivery. The photographic evidence isnt conclusive and a more recent video submitted 
by Mr A didnt suggest that it is now out of place.  
The car was an expensive prestige model and one would expect worry free driving and I 
didnt believe Mr A had had that pleasure. So, while I didnt consider the individual faults to 
be sufficient to merit rejection, I believed the combination of different issues did allow me to 
conclude rejection to be the most appropriate option. 
However, I could see that Mr A had made extensive use of the car and even though the 
agreement was terminated he kept it. MBFS informed me that it hasnt taken the legal action 
necessary for the return of the car which meant Mr A has continued to have the use of it and 
I gather he has stopped making his monthly payments. I also noted the agreement was due 
to come to an end in December 2019 and Mr A should have returned the car or paid the 
balloon payment or come to some alternative arrangement.
I said the legal position is regarding the payment for the use of the car after December 2019 
wasnt clear, but if Mr A had continued to have use of it then it seems reasonable that he 
should pay for that use. His monthly instalments are £872.37 and in broad terms they 
amount to a years worth of payments; much the same as the deposit he paid. I said I would 
normally require the business to refund the deposit, but in the circumstances, I thought that 
to reach a reasonable and fair conclusion I didnt believe a refund was necessary.
I suggested that allowing MBFS to retain the deposit would, in essence, allow it to be 
recompensed for the year in which it has not had access to its property. Nor did I think it 
should be required to refund or forgo any of the 36 monthly payments paid for the period of 
the agreement. Mr A has had use of the car and has been kept mobile when necessary. 
However, he has suffered some distress and inconvenience and I think he should be compensated for that.  In my view I believe £500 is a fair sum.
It was clear Mr A had far exceeded the agreed mileage and MBFS was entitled to charge 
him an excess mileage fee. I suspected this could be a substantial sum, but as part of the 
package of redress I was recommending I believed no such charge should be levied. 
I said that if, when the car was returned, there was damage which goes beyond fair wear 
and tear and which is chargeable under the agreement then my view was that MBFS would 
be entitled to make a charge. 
I said that overall, I had tried to pull together a redress package which was fair to both 
parties, but I was open to alternative suggestions which achieved the same end of allowing 
Mr A to reject the car, but to ensure MBFS is recompensed for the use that he has made of 
it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A agreed with my provisional decision, but MBFS did not. It agreed that his deposit 
should not be returned but said it shouldnt be used to cover additional use. The deposit had 
contributed to the overall charge for the car and had meant the monthly payments had been 
reduced. Furthermore, it didnt consider Mr A should be allowed to escape charges for 
excess mileage or excess days usage.
In my provisional decision I said I was open to alternative forms of redress and I have given 
thought to what MBFS has said. I had sought a reasonable balance even if that was 
relatively rough and ready. I appreciate that taken separately one can argue with each 
element, but my proposal was to be considered as a whole. So, the aim was to allow Mr A to 
be compensated for the problems he had encountered with the car, the reduced enjoyment 
and the numerous visits he had made to the dealer. 
To that end I saw the suggestion that MBFS forgo the excess mileage charge as part of the 
redress for the problems Mr A had to deal with. I consider that also applies to the charge for 
excess days and rather than delay matters and delay MBFS getting its car back I have 
decided to leave my provisional decision unaltered.
I believe Mr A has made a reasonable payment overall for the use he has had of the faulty 
car and MBFS will have received a fair return for Mr As use of the car. For the sake of 
completeness, I believe that no adverse entries should be made on Mr As credit file.
Putting things right
Mr A should be allowed to reject the car.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited to: 
Allow Mr A to reject the car and to collect it at no cost to him.
Pay him compensation of £500.
Forgo any excess mileage charge.
Remove any adverse entries it may have made in regard to this contract on his credit 
file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman