DRN-4095951
The complaint
Mrs V, represented by her daughter, complained because Barclays Bank UK PLC refused to 
refund her for transactions she said she didnt make.
What happened
On 28 September 2022, three cash withdrawals were made from Mrs Vs Barclays account. 
They were all made at a branch, using Mrs Vs debit card:
- £2,000 at an Assisted Service Device (ASD), which is a more advanced type of cash 
machine, at 10.18am;
- £250 at a cash machine (ATM), at 10.20am;
- £30 at a cash machine (ATM), at 10.21am.
On 4 October, Mrs V contacted Barclays to dispute the £2,000 withdrawal and the £250 
withdrawal. She confirmed she had made the £30 withdrawal herself.  
On 24 October, Barclays declined Mrs Vs claim for a £2,250 refund. It said it hadnt found 
any evidence of fraud, and the transactions appeared to have been properly authorised. 
On 28 December Mrs V, represented by her daughter, complained. She said she believed 
an employee had made the transactions.
Barclays issued its final response to Mrs Vs complaint on 10 January 2023. It said that there 
was no evidence that Mrs Vs debit card had been lost or stolen, nor that her PIN had been 
compromised. Barclays pointed out that Mrs V had confirmed shed been at the branch at 
the time, and shed made the £30 withdrawal. Barclays said there was also no evidence to 
support the claims that the withdrawals had been made by a member of staff at the branch. 
In order to withdraw the money, whoever made the transactions would have needed the 
physical debit card, correct PIN number, and the personal information which had had to be 
correctly entered into the ASD machine for a withdrawal of that size.
Mrs V wasnt satisfied. On 20 January, her daughter asked Barclays for CCTV of the 
September transactions.  On 24 January, Mrs V, represented by her daughter, complained 
to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Vs complaint. He said that there was no explanation for 
how someone else could have made the payments without Mrs Vs knowledge or 
authorisation. 
Mrs V didnt accept this, and her daughter and the investigator exchanged several emails. 
Mrs Vs daughter said shed asked Barclays for CCTV and her mothers personal data, but 
Barclays hadnt given it to her. She said that either CCTV wasnt working; they had dummy 
CCTV; or the transactions had been an inside job. The investigator explained that hed 
requested CCTV but Barclays had said it was no longer available. He explained that if Mrs V 
wanted a copy of her personal data held by Barclays, shed need to make a freedom of 
information request to Barclays. Barclays wouldnt necessarily make everything available, 
but Mrs V could contact the Information Commissioners Office about that.
Mrs Vs daughter also said that the machines had been tampered with and her mothers card 
had been cloned, and that was a fact. She said when she and her mother had gone to the 
police station to report it, there had been another person whod had the same issue with 
Barclays. 
Mrs V, represented by her daughter, asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Regulations
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions, and the relevant regulations here 
are the Payment Services Regulations 2017. These say that the payment service provider 
(here, Barclays) must show the transaction was authenticated. Thats the technical part, and 
Barclays has provided the technical evidence for the £2,000 ASD machine withdrawal, and 
the £250 cash machine withdrawal. So the disputed payments were authenticated.
The regulations also say that its necessary to look at whether the card holder authorised the 
payments. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the payments, 
and the customer is liable if they did authorise them. So Ive gone on to consider who is 
more likely than not to have authorised these two payments.
Who authorised the two disputed payments?
Mrs V says she didnt authorise the payments, and believes her card was cloned. Cloning 
only takes a sort of photo of the card, and some cloned cards have been used for things like 
telephone or online transactions where the actual card isnt presented. But cloned cards 
wont work where a card is physically presented  for example in a cash machine  because 
the chip is read. Chip technology is complex and sophisticated and there have been no 
known instances when the chip in the card has been successfully copied. So, if a cash 
machine reads the chip in the card and its a cloned card, the transaction will be rejected. 
The two Barclays machines accepted the card for the two disputed transactions, so it wasnt 
a cloned card which was used.
As it was Mrs Vs genuine card that was used for the disputed transactions, its hard to see 
how any third party could have carried out the transactions. To do so, a fraudster would have 
had to steal Mrs Vs card without her knowing, carry out the two transactions, and return it to 
her, again without her knowing, in time for her to carry out the undisputed £30 withdrawal, 
which took place one minute after the second disputed transaction.
Any such fraudster would also have had to have known Mrs Vs PIN, which she said she 
hadnt written down or told anyone. Also, the Assisted Service Device (ASD), which is a 
more advanced version of a cash machine, needs an extra layer of security for any 
payments. The evidence shows that whoever carried out the ASD withdrawal, did so by 
entering not only the correct PIN. but also Mrs Vs correct date of birth.
I recognise that Mrs Vs daughter has claimed that it was a Barclays employee who carried 
out the two disputed transactions. But a Barclays employee wouldnt have access to Mrs Vs 
PIN number. And again, it would have been very unlikely that any such person could have 
stolen and then returned the card to Mrs V without her knowledge, so she could make her 
£30 withdrawal one minute later.Banks only keep CCTV for a relatively short time, so its rarely useful in disputes like this. 
What determines the outcome is looking at the technical evidence, and the practicalities. For 
example, there was still money left in Mrs Vs account after the disputed withdrawals. Its 
very unlikely that any fraudster would have stopped stealing money. Its even less likely that 
theyd have tried to return the genuine card to Mrs V, because there would be too much risk 
of being caught.
So it was the genuine card that was used, which Mrs V still had in her possession. And Mrs 
Vs PIN number, which she said she hadnt written down or told anyone, was used correctly. 
Also her correct date of birth was entered. Mrs V also says she didnt let anyone have her 
card and security information. She used the card herself for a genuine withdrawal in the 
same location within a minute of the second disputed transaction. In view of these facts, its 
hard to see how it could have been anyone other than Mrs V who carried out the disputed 
transactions. 
Finally, to answer Mrs Vs daughters questions about obtaining a copy of her mothers data 
held by Barclays, shed need to request this formally from Barclays through a subject access 
request. The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) isnt the same as the advice 
organisation shes been seeing, but deals with matters relating to data. More details can be 
found on its website.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2023.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman