DRN-4349778
The complaint
Ms G complains about disputed accounts on her Experian Limited credit file. 
What happened
Ms G has explained that in 2018 she changed her surname. Earlier this year, Ms G checked 
her Experian credit file as she was looking for new mortgage options. Ms G has explained 
she found a credit card for a business Ill call V registered at her previous address. But the 
credit card was noted as belonging to Mr, not Ms. Another credit card with a business Ill 
call C in Ms Gs previous name was also found on her credit report. 
Ms G contacted Experian and it raised disputes with both V and C. V responded and 
confirmed it was correctly reporting the account on Ms Gs credit file. C responded and 
asked Ms G to contact its solicitors. C later confirmed it had taken the decision to remove its 
account from Ms Gs credit file and cease attempts to collect the balance from her. 
Experian issued a final response on 4 May 2023 and explained it couldnt change details 
reported by a business without permission. Experian added that it carried out various checks 
to match accounts before they showed on a credit file. 
Ms G referred her complaint to this service and pointed out the gender and surname of the 
accounts on her credit file didnt match her details. Our investigator thought Experian had 
dealt with Ms Gs enquiries fairly and didnt think it had made a mistake in the way it had 
reported entries on her credit file. Ms G asked to appeal, so her complaint has been passed 
to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under. 
In response to the investigator, Ms G pointed out the surname and gender of the debts for 
both V and C were wrong. And Ms G queried the checks Experian completes to match 
accounts to a credit file. I take Ms Gs point that some of the data is wrong. But Ms G has 
confirmed she was previously known in the same name as the one both V and Cs credit 
cards are recorded in. Ms G has confirmed she changed her name in 2018. In addition, the 
accounts were registered at an address that is linked to Ms G. So Im satisfied there are 
clear links between the accounts in question and Ms Gs details.
I agree that the gender used for both V and Cs accounts is wrong. But, as Experian has 
explained, its not the business that is reporting the data. So whilst I can see the debts 
referred to Mr instead of Ms or Mrs Im satisfied thats how the accounts have been 
reported to Experian. 
When a credit reference agency receives a dispute of this nature wed expect them to take it 
up with the reporting business. Here, Experian raised a dispute with V and it confirmed the 
account was being correctly reported. When a dispute was raised with C, Ms G was referred 
to its solicitors. And C ultimately agreed to remove its account from Ms Gs credit file. 
Ms G has the option of taking this matter up with V directly. If V goes on to tell Experian to 
remove the account from Ms Gs credit file, it will need to comply. Ms G can also ask V to 
amend the gender used in its record showing on her credit file. But Im satisfied Experian 
has reasonably disputed the accounts with both V and C and acted in line with the 
responses it received. 
Im sorry to disappoint Ms G but as I havent found anything that shows Experian made a 
mistake and Im satisfied it dealt with her complaint fairly, Im not telling it to take any further 
action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Ms Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 October 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman