DRN-3378748
The complaint
Mr M complained that ADT Fire & Security Plc (ADT) want to apply a one-off charge to 
amend his alarm system. 
What happened
Mr M entered into a hire agreement with ADT for an alarm system on 10 March 2018. He 
was charged an installation fee of £449 and a monthly fee for equipment hire, service, 
maintenance, monitoring and telecommunications. The hire agreement was for a period of 
36 months, with an option to terminate after 18 months.
Mr M contacted ADT in late December 2019 and asked to end the agreement. This was 
done, belatedly, on 9 March 2020. ADT backdated the termination of the agreement to 
December 2019, when Mr M first asked to cancel it, and it refunded monthly fees that had 
been paid by Mr M between December 2019 and March 2020. 
Mr M then raised a complaint with ADT in August 2021. He said he was told his contract and 
account had been cancelled. He was unhappy with this, as he requested cancellation of the 
monitoring service. Mr M said he wanted the alarm system switched over to bells only but 
was told he would need to pay a one-off charge for this. He said hed paid £449 for an alarm 
system he was unable to use.  
ADT responded and said it wrote to Mr M on 9 March 2020 to say that if he wanted to have 
the system as bells only, this would be a chargeable service. It said this could still be 
arranged. 
Mr M then brought his complaint to this service. He said he was told by ADT in 2018 that if 
he cancelled the agreement then he wouldnt be paying a monthly fee, but the alarm would 
still be active. He said the contract does not say he would need to pay extra for the bells only 
service 
Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr M didnt agree and so this has come to me 
for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding this complaint.
The crux of Mr Ms complaint is that he says he paid £449 for the alarm system in 
March 2018 and so doesnt think he should be left with an alarm system that is essentially 
unusable, unless he is willing to pay a fee to ADT to amend the system to bells only. But 
Mr M didnt pay for an alarm system. He entered into a hire agreement with ADT. The £449 
charge was for the installation of the system and the monthly fee he then paid covered, 
amongst other things, the cost of hiring the alarm equipment. 
The hire agreement between Mr M and ADT outlines the options available to ADT regarding 
what happens to the alarm equipment on hire once the agreement ends. It says: 
If the agreement ends, we will stop providing our Services. We may remove the System, or 
any part of it, from your Premises. We may also disconnect the System to prevent signals 
being transmitted to the Alarm Receiving Centre.
So ADT could have removed the alarm equipment, but opted to allow Mr M to keep it. It said 
it sometimes does this where the equipment is over a certain age at the end of an 
agreement. Where the equipment is left with a consumer, ADT has the option of leaving it 
disconnected to prevent it continuing to receive alarm signals. This is the situation Mr M is in 
- the equipment he previously hired has been left with him and has been disconnected. So, 
in doing what it did when Mr Ms hire agreement ended, ADT has acted in line with the terms 
of the hire agreement. 
Ive then considered whether ADT acted fairly when it told Mr M it would charge him to 
amend the system to bells only, and Im satisfied it did. This charge didnt need to be 
mentioned in the original hire agreement as the agreement only governs what happens while 
Mr M is hiring the equipment, and not what happens when he is no longer hiring the 
equipment. I think ADT acted fairly when it told him what it could cost to set up a bells only 
arrangement after the agreement ended. I also think its fair that if Mr M wants to continue 
using the alarm equipment without a monthly service charge, and the system needs to be 
adapted in some way for that to happen, then its fair to charge for this. 
The letter sent to Mr M on 9 March 2020 outlined what needs to happen to move the service 
to bells only. It said:
 
Should you intend to continue using the system in a stand alone mode then it is important 
that our alarm is reprogrammed to stop it dialling out on your phone line and to give you our 
own reset codes as our Alarm Receiving Centre will no longer be able to give you a remote 
reset over the phone. This is chargeable. You will need to book a service visit through your 
local branch.
Mr M said he didnt receive this letter and so Ive considered this. ADT emailed a copy of the 
letter to this service and this lists Mr Ms address correctly. While I appreciate Mr M said he 
didnt receive it, what I have to consider is just whether ADT sent it. ADT arent responsible 
for what happens to letters once they have been posted  this is outside its control. So Im 
satisfied that its likely this letter was sent to Mr M.  
I know my decision will disappoint Mr M, but I am not asking ADT to take any further action 
as I think it has acted fairly and in line with the terms of the hire agreement. 
My final decision
Its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman