DRN-1627714
 
The complaint
Mr K complains that Santander UK plc recorded a CIFAS marker against his name. CIFAS is 
one of the UKs fraud alert services. His complaint is brought on his behalf by his mother, 
who Ill refer to as Mrs K.
What happened
On 1 February 2019, Mr Ks account was credited with £1,000. Within two hours most of the 
money had been withdrawn. There were two point of sale transactions, two ATM cash 
withdrawals and cash was withdrawn at a post office counter. 
Shortly afterwards, Santander received notice from the third party bank that the money had 
been taken fraudulently from its customers account.
Around four hours later, Mr K phoned the bank to report that he had lost his card, most 
probably on 29 January. He reported the debit transactions as fraudulent.
Santander investigated, concluded that Mr K had knowingly received a fraudulent credit and 
benefitted from it. It closed Mr Ks account and recorded a CIFAS marker against his name.
Mr K had difficulty trying to open an account elsewhere, so he complained to Santander but 
it wouldnt remove the CIFAS marker.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought the 
CIFAS marker had been filed correctly because Mr K was most likely aware that the 
disputed transactions were taking place. Mr K hadnt questioned the credit into his account, 
hadnt completed the necessary forms to dispute the transaction and hadnt replied to 
Santanders voicemails when hed been contacted to discuss the situation.
Mr K didnt agree. Mrs K replied on his behalf and said, in summary, that:
Mr K thought the transactions were due to a bank error. He was unaware of the 
seriousness of the situation and didnt see the urgency of going to a Santander 
branch, which was difficult for him because of his college timetable.
Mr K didnt receive any correspondence from Santander, although it had been told 
his new address.
Mr K was only aware that there was a problem when he tried to open a bank account 
with another bank.
Mr K has been penalised by Santander for telling it about the transactions. He never 
requested a refund because he knew he didnt have the money in his account.
The CIFAS marker will have a big impact on Mr K for a long time. This is an isolated 
incident and the bank has not suffered a loss as a result. Mr K does not understand 
what he has done wrong.
Santander never asked him about the £1,000 credit. If it had asked, he would have 
said he knew nothing about it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
The money credited to Mr Ks account was a fraudulent transaction  the money had been 
debited from a third partys account without their authority or consent. And the credit was 
withdrawn in a series of transactions shortly after the credit was applied to the account in a 
pattern typical of that of a fraudster. But before placing the CIFAS marker against Mr Ks 
name, Santander needed to have a reasonable belief that criminal charges could be brought 
against Mr K as a result of the activity. A suspicion or concern isnt enough. So I need to 
decide if theres enough evidence to show that Mr K knew more about this than he and his 
mother have told us. 
Mr K says he lost his card and that he knows nothing about the credit to his account. He 
says he didnt carry out the transactions on the account on 1 February which withdrew most 
of the fraudulent credit and that he didnt authorise anyone else to carry out the transactions. 
But, after careful consideration, I think Mr K knew more about this than hes told us. I say 
that for the following reasons:
The loss of his card
Mr K says he lost his bank card. He didnt report it missing until around three days after he 
says he lost it  and after the disputed transactions had taken place. He says he hadnt 
realised hed lost it until 1 February and that hes always losing things, and I accept this is 
possible. But he told us the card was in his wallet and that it was the wallet that hed lost, 
along with this phone and his house keys. If hed only lost his card, I could understand Mr K 
might not have noticed this until he needed it to make a transaction. But it seems reasonable 
to me that he would have realised in a very short space of time that hed lost his wallet  
containing his card, cash and college identification card  particularly as he says it went 
missing at the same time as his house keys and his mobile phone. 
Knowledge of Mr Ks PIN
The disputed transactions were carried out using Mr Ks genuine card. If his card had been 
lost, this doesnt explain how whoever found it was able to carry out the transactions using 
Mr Ks PIN. 
What Mr K has said about this is confusing and inconsistent. He told the bank he couldnt 
think of how anyone would have known his PIN. But later he said he may have written it 
down. He said he couldnt always remember the PIN, so hed written it  undisguised - on a 
piece of paper when he first had the card. He said that piece of paper might have been in his 
pocket, or in his wallet. Whilst its possible Mr K may have kept that piece of paper in his 
wallet since October 2017 when the PIN was issued, I find it unlikely, particularly as he 
regularly used the card with the PIN number so he was unlikely to need it written down. And 
I find it even more unlikely that the piece of paper with his PIN number on it was in his 
pocket more than a year later.So I think its more likely that the individual who carried out these transactions knew the PIN 
 either because it was Mr K who carried out the transactions or because Mr K gave his card 
and PIN to a third party to carry out the transactions.
Collection of new bank card and follow up of the situation with Santander
When Mr K reported the loss of his card, he asked Santander to send a new card to his local 
branch. But he didnt visit the branch to collect his new card. Mrs K says this is because he 
found it difficult to get to the branch because of his student timetable and that he didnt 
realise there was any urgency. But it seems odd that, if Mr K knew nothing about the fraud, 
that he didnt want to continue to use his bank account as he had regularly done in the past. 
He was also asked to go to the branch to complete the bank's fraud report forms, which he 
didn't do. I find this surprising, bearing in mind what he says about being worried he would 
have to pay interest and charges if the disputed transactions led to an overdraft on his 
account.
I can see that Santander tried to phone Mr K on several occasions to discuss the outcome of 
its investigation, but the phone was only answered once. On that occasion, Mr K gave the 
correct answers to the banks security questions, but then the call cut out. And when 
Santander tried to re-dial, there was no answer. Santander left at least two voicemail 
messages for Mr K and I would have expected him to get in touch with the bank to find out 
what was going on and to find out why the bank needed to speak to him.
It does appear that Santander didnt update its records when Mrs K told it the family had 
moved house. So its letter dated 14 February 2019 telling Mr K that it was closing his 
account was unlikely to have been received by him. But Mr K says he received a text  he 
certainly seemed to know that his account had been closed. So I dont think the failure to 
update Mr Ks address makes a difference to the overall conclusion here.
The transactions on 1 February 2019
The £1,000 credit was received in Mr Ks account at 2.55pm. The first transaction to spend 
the money was at 3.16pm and then the remaining withdrawals took place over a period of 
just over 20 minutes. These all took place around eight miles from Mr Ks home address. 
There is then no activity for nearly an hour. The next use of the card is a balance enquiry at 
an ATM close to Mr Ks home  just over a mile away. There is then an attempted point of 
sale transaction to the value of most of the remaining balance. 
Mr K says he lost his card on 29 January. Meaning someone must have found his card, 
waited until 1 February to use it, and was fortunate enough that this was just after the £1,000 
credit. Having withdrawn most of the £1,000, they chose to leave just over £30 in the 
account and move to within a mile of Mr Ks home before they tried to spend it. Im sorry but 
I dont find this plausible. It seems more likely to me that Mr K carried out the transactions 
himself; or he authorised a third party to do so. And most likely that third party returned the 
card to Mr K after the transactions and that he then checked the balance of the account 
before trying to spend the remainder.
The pattern of transactions is typical of an account holder allowing their account to be used 
by third party for them to launder money through it  a term more commonly known as a 
money mule. If there was some evidence that Mr K had been coerced or threatened into 
allowing a third party to use his account in this way, I would expect the bank to show some 
sympathy for him and, depending on the circumstances, it may not be appropriate to record 
a fraud marker. But Mr K maintains he knows nothing about the transactions and Ive not 
seen anything to suggest he was forced into allowing someone to carry out these transactions  I would have expected him to tell his parents and to report it to the police if 
this was the case.
Taking all of this together, this all points to Mr K knowing more about the transactions than 
hes told us. And I think Santander does have enough evidence to report this matter to the 
police.
In reaching this decision I have taken into account that Mr K was very young when these 
transactions happened and that he was unlikely to realise the serious implications. Ive 
considered that his immaturity and naivety will have had an impact on his actions. Ive also 
considered the impact the CIFAS marker has had on him  and will continue to have on him 
 just as he is starting out in life. But Im afraid this doesnt change my overall conclusion. 
Ive found that the CIFAS marker is factually correct, so I cant ask Santander to remove it.
 My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2020.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman