DRN-4163264
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with how American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) Amex 
responded about a dispute in relation to a credit card transaction.
What happened
Mr A made a payment to a travel service (the supplier) in December 2021. However, he 
realised he had made a mistake and contacted the supplier to cancel the transaction.
The supplier said it could only apply a credit to Mr As account and not refund him. Mr A was 
not satisfied with this so he contacted Amex for help.
Amex raised a chargeback  however, this was defended by the supplier. Amex 
discontinued the chargeback.
Mr A complained about the outcome of his claim but Amex did not uphold the complaint. Mr 
A took the matter to this service.
Our investigator looked into whether Mr A would have had a successful claim in respect of 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75). He concluded that the suppliers 
cancellation policy was unclear and could be read in more than one way  however, in light 
of the provisions of the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) he considered it fair to read it in 
favour of Mr A. In this case Mr A was contractually entitled to a refund  and in not providing 
it the supplier was in breach of contract. He thought that Amex should refund Mr A (with 
interest) but Mr A would need to inform the supplier that he no longer required the credit 
balance.
Amex does not agree with our investigator so the matter has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Amex did not supply the travel service here  but I have considered its role as a provider of 
financial services and how it could reasonably have assisted with the dispute. With that in 
mind I consider the card protections of chargeback and Section 75 to be relevant here.
Like our investigator I have not considered chargeback here in any detail as I am upholding 
this complaint for other reasons. Furthermore, in my role resolving disputes informally, even 
though I have considered these I will not be commenting on all matters raised by the parties 
 only those I think are central to the dispute.
Section 75 allows Mr A in certain circumstances to hold Amex responsible for a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by a supplier in respect of an agreement for goods or services 
paid for using his credit card.
Certain technical criteria have to be satisfied for a valid Section 75 claim  for example in 
respect of the cost of the goods or services, or the relationship of the parties in respect of the 
agreement with the supplier. In this case I am satisfied such criteria has been met  so I 
have moved on to consider whether there is a breach of contract here by the supplier 
(misrepresentation is not being argued nor do I consider it relevant here).
In order to determine whether there has been a breach of contract I have considered the 
agreement Mr A has with the supplier for the travel service.
The suppliers terms of use that deal with cancellation (section 4) state that Mr A may cancel 
the travel service he booked by contacting the suppliers support. Mr A appears to have 
done that and received confirmation in writing. However, the refund was applied as a credit 
to his personal account.
The cancellation terms then go on to state that Refund of the Transfer shall be carried out 
in accordance with clause 4.2 This part goes on to describe various scenarios where funds 
will be due back to the customers Personal Account for use on other transfers. 
It appears undisputed by the supplier that Mr A was entitled to cancel when he did without 
penalty. I also note that all the scenarios in 4.2 A to D where cancellation without penalty is 
permitted are in respect of the credit being returned to the customers Personal Account 
rather than a cash refund. 
However, what muddies the water here is clause 4.2.2 which appears to have the effect of 
explaining that during the pandemic the suppliers stance is that any credit will be applied to 
the Personal Account  but after which the customer has the option of having the money 
returned to their bank account.
Amex has indicated that Mr A did not cancel due to the pandemic so clause 4.2.2 doesnt 
apply here. But I dont think the clause relates to the reason for cancellation  it appears to 
be an explanation of the refund policy during the pandemic. The reason Mr A cancelled 
appears not to be relevant here to whether the credited refund can be returned to a bank 
account  only whether circumstances in respect of force majeure still persist at the 
particular time.  
My interpretation of the cancellation policy is that 4.2.2 acts as an umbrella clause to explain 
that customers will be entitled to withdraw funds held on account once the circumstances 
around the pandemic (or other force majeure events) no longer apply. The parameters for 
this are somewhat unclear (such as when the end of a period of force majeure would be 
determined)  but there is no compelling evidence put forward that indicates the suppliers 
service was impacted at the time (or continues to be impacted) in such a way that Mr A was 
not entitled to have his refund applied to his bank account.
I have given regard to the submissions about section 8.1 (G) of the terms which are cross 
referenced in 4.2.2 but I dont think that has the effect of preventing Mr A from getting a 
refund here  it simply appears to show that the provisions of clause 4.2.2 applies to periods 
of other unforeseen circumstances (in addition to the pandemic).
I acknowledge that Amex has a different interpretation here. I can see why  the clause is 
not drafted in a clear way. However, I dont think my interpretation or that of our investigator 
is unreasonable either. And where contract terms could have different meanings the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (section 69) is clear that the meaning that is most favourable to 
the consumer is to prevail. Here I consider the most favourable interpretation is that Mr A is 
entitled to a cash refund  not a credit on account.
I agree with the investigator that if Mr A accepts the decision he needs to fairly inform the supplier that he no longer requires the credit on account as he is receiving reimbursement 
from elsewhere. I dont think it unreasonable that he provides a copy of this correspondence 
to Amex either so it can see Mr A has made a reasonable attempt to prevent double 
recovery.
Our investigator has awarded interest to Mr A from the date Amex gave its final response on 
the matter. I think there is an argument to say that Amex could have considered the Section 
75 claim sooner and issued a refund. However, I do acknowledge the specific circumstances 
here and the clarity in respect of the contract. So noting this, and Mr As lack of objection to 
what the investigator proposed I consider it fair to award out of pocket interest on the refund 
from the date of the final response to the date of settlement here.
Putting things right
Amex should put things right in accordance with my direction above  however, Mr A should 
note he is to provide Amex with a copy of the correspondence he sends to the supplier, in 
order that it can be satisfied he is not receiving double recovery here.
My final decision
I direct American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) to pay Mr A the refund of the 
£732.72 he paid the supplier plus 8% simple yearly interest calculated from 25/1/23 to the 
date of settlement.
If Amex considers it necessary to withhold tax from the interest element of my award it 
should provide Mr A with a certificate of tax deduction so he may claim a refund from HMRC 
if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2023.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman