DRN-3905664
The complaint
Ms L complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Skoda Finance 
(VWFS) attempted to take her final balloon payment by direct debit, despite arranging to 
have it refinanced into a new agreement. 
What happened
In May 2019, Ms L acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement with VWFS. The 
cash price of the car was £17,640. Ms L made an advanced payment of £5,292. So the total 
amount financed on this agreement was £12,348 payable over 34 monthly payments of 
£177.49, followed by a final balloon payment of £9,900 with an option to purchase fee of 
£10. 
Ms L says that when her agreement was coming to an end, she arranged with the dealership 
to have the final balloon payment refinanced. However, Ms L said that VWFS made two 
attempts to take the balloon payment by direct debit, despite her completing the refinancing 
paperwork.
Ms L said that VWFS apologised for not processing the application and offered her £100 as 
a gesture of goodwill.
Following a complaint by Ms L, VWFS issued their final response in June 2022 which they 
upheld in part. VWFS said they werent notified by the dealership about Ms Ls intention to 
refinance the balloon payment, which is why they proceeded to call for the final payment via 
direct debit. VWFS offered to reimburse to Ms L any bank charges incurred, and credited Ms 
Ls account with £100 as a gesture of goodwill.
Unhappy with their decision, Ms L brought her complaint to our service for investigation. Ms 
L says the situation has caused her high levels of stress, worry and upset, and so she would 
like financial compensation in recognition.
Having considered all the information, our investigator recommended that Ms Ls complaint 
should not be upheld. Our investigator concluded that VWFS werent made aware of Ms Ls 
intention to refinance the balloon payment, so concluded that they werent acting unfairly by 
attempting to take the direct debit payment.
Ms L responded to our investigator to query why no reference was made to a call recording 
shed provided of the dealership informing VWFS of the refinance, and that no mention was 
made of how VWFS handled her complaint. Our investigator responded to say that in the 
circumstances he felt VWFS payment of compensation and offer to refund any incurred 
charges was fair and reasonable. 
Ms L disagreed with our investigators view, so asked that her complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement. As such, this service is 
able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Ms L decided to refinance her balloon payment with the dealership, this is confirmed by both 
parties and is not in dispute. And a phone call between the dealership and VWFS on 1 June 
2022 confirmed that a refinance was in progress.
In their complaint summary, VWFS explained the refinancing process in Ms Ls case, was 
carried out differently to what would typically happen. VWFS explained that as Ms L went 
through the dealership rather than themselves, the instruction to settle the original 
agreement was only visible on the new finance proposal which was activated on 30 May 
2022, after the end date of the original agreement, meaning the final payment on the original 
agreement was requested by them. VWFS however, acknowledged that as Ms L arranged 
the refinance with the dealership, she wouldnt have expected them to attempt to withdraw 
the payment from her account.
Having considered the information provided Im in agreement that VWFS had an opportunity 
to act on the phone call with the dealership to prevent any further payments from being 
taken. To resolve the issue VWFS paid Ms L £100 in compensation and offered to reimburse 
any charges incurred. They also offered a further £100 as way of an apology. I think this 
offer was fair in the circumstances to recognise the inconvenience caused. I cant see that 
the impact on Ms L had stretched beyond this. 
I acknowledge Ms L advised of the potential impact on her credit file for the rejected direct 
debit payments, however, Ive not seen or been provided any evidence of this so I dont think 
itd be fair to instruct VWFS to compensate Ms L for that scenario. 
Ms L has also raised concerns about the way VWFS have handled the complaint against 
her. Complaint handling isnt a regulated activity in its own right. Nor is it one of the specified 
non-regulated activities that Im able to deal with under our compulsory jurisdiction (DISP 
Rule 2.3.1R). And so, Im unable to look into the specifics of this.
My focus in this decision has been on the underlying financial service being complained 
about, which is the administration of the hire purchase agreement. Whilst I can look at whats 
fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances, in respect of complaints relating more 
generally to commercial practices and quality standards, that is likely more appropriately 
directed at the regulator.My final decision
To settle the complaint Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Skoda 
Finance paid Ms L £100 compensation and has made an offer to pay Miss L an additional 
£100 in compensation by way of an apology. Theyve also offered to reimburse any charges 
incurred for the rejected direct debit. I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Skoda 
Finance, should pay a further £100 in compensation to Ms L, and reimburse any bank 
charges incurred as a result of their attempt to collect the final payment. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2023.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman