DRN-3407247
The complaint
Mr P and the estate of Mrs P complain that ReAssure Limited mis-sold them a mortgage 
endowment policy.
As the legal and regulatory obligations for the sale are with ReAssure Limited, Ill refer to it 
throughout.
What happened
Mr P provided bank statements showing a direct debit payment of £28.29 being made to 
Woolwich Life Assurance, along with a payment reference. ReAssure couldnt locate a policy 
with that reference but the amount of the direct debit corresponded with information located 
on archive systems to show that Mr and Mrs P had held a Woolwich Life Assurance 
endowment plan. 
Systems notes suggest the policy commenced in October 1992 with an initial premium of 
£27.23. In October 1997, the premium increased by £1.06 per month to £28.29. The policy 
was surrendered early  in May 1999  with records indicating that £2,062.36 was paid to 
the late Mrs Ps account. Neither ReAssure nor Mr and Mrs P hold any paperwork from the 
time of the sale. 
Mr P complains that both his and Mrs Ps circumstances meant that they wouldnt have met 
the required terms and conditions of the plan. He said the policy wasnt presented as 
optional, commission was likely paid, and other options should have been discussed with 
them. So, overall, he says the endowment plan wasnt suitable for their needs and was 
therefore mis-sold. 
Our investigator considered this complaint. She thought it reasonable that neither party had 
information about the policy anymore, given the passage of time. But she didnt have enough 
information to conclude that the policy had been mis-sold.
Mr P disagreed. So the complaint has been passed to me to determine whether the policy 
was mis-sold. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with outcome reached by the investigator for these reasons:
- Mr P appears to have doubts that the policy Im considering is the correct one, as the 
policy number doesnt match the one he believed to be right. But this is the only 
policy ReAssure has been able to locate records of, so this is the one Ive 
considered. It does mean, however, that should Mr P wish to pursue any complaints 
about other policies further, ReAssure has already demonstrated that it has no 
further information available. 
- Neither party has been able to provide information about the sale of the policy. As the 
sale was over 25 years before the complaint was brought to us, and the policy was 
surrendered over 20 years ago too, I dont think this is unreasonable. 
- While I have the date of sale and information about the premiums paid, theres no 
indication of what advice was given, whether the policy was recommended, what the 
target amount was, or what type of funds were invested in. And, while Mr P has 
made us aware that both he and Mrs P had pre-existing medical conditions, neither 
party has been able to provide the applicable terms and conditions, suggesting that 
these medical conditions would have impacted their Life Assurance endowment plan. 
- Mr P has also expressed concern that this policy was sold when he already had an 
endowment policy in place. Again, theres simply no information from the time of the 
sale. Without the application form, notes from the time or persuasive testimony about 
what happened at the time, I cant see whether things such as the other endowment 
policy were discussed, whether Mr and Mrs P made ReAssure aware of their medical 
conditions, or even whether Mr and Mrs P acted against the advice of ReAssure etc. 
There simply isnt enough information to safely say that ReAssure acted in error and 
should put things right. 
So, for the reasons given above, I cant fairly say that ReAssure mis-sold the policy to Mr 
and Mrs P. Because of this, I wont be asking it to take any action. I note that Mr P has 
raised performance concerns about the policy too  but these dont form part of this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and the 
estate of Mrs P to accept or reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman