DRN-3615760
The complaint
Mr S complains about the service and communication he received from Bank of Ireland (UK) 
Plc (BOI).
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Mr S and BOI. In my decision, Ill 
focus mainly on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome that I have.
In November 2019 Mr S took out a personal loan for £10,000, to be repaid over 60 months. 
Mr Ss employment was greatly impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic from March 2020 and, 
in turn - his financial circumstances. Mr S made the decision to apply for bankruptcy around 
July 2020.
Mr S raised a complaint with BOI as he says during the following 12 months of his 
bankruptcy, BOI continually contacted him about making his loan repayments. He says hed 
told BOI on a number of occasions about the bankruptcy - but they continued to contact him. 
This caused him a great deal of stress and his mental health was impacted. BOI partially 
upheld Mr S complaint and offered him £150 compensation. 
Mr S remained unhappy and referred his complaint to our Service for an independent review. 
Our Investigator most recently didnt recommend that BOI needed to do anything further and 
as Mr S didnt accept their findings  the complaint has been referred to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. Where theres 
disagreement about what has happened between both parties, Ive to reach my decision 
based on what I think is more likely than not  based on the available evidence. 
What my decision wont address
Its important to state that my decision doesnt consider the actions of The Official Receivers 
office or the third party credit broker involved here. 
BOI has told our Service that theyve refunded separately amounts of £250 and £242.46 for 
issues relating to fees applied and information reported to the credit reference agencies. 
Mr S has also recently provided a copy of an offer letter dated 10 October 2022.
My decision will only address the £150 offer for the service and communication issues.
Have BOI treated Mr S unfairly?
BOI have said when they received official proof of Mr S bankruptcy they shouldnt have sent 
him any letters threatening legal action after that point. 
Based on the evidence, it seems that BOI were first made aware of the bankruptcy by Mr S 
in early February 2021. The notes from BOIs customer contact state: CUST ADVISED 
UNABLE TO AFFORD PMT GOING FORWARD AS IS NOW BANKRUPT BOI requested 
the relevant proof/paperwork be provided - but have told our Service this wasnt received 
within the 30 day window they gave. I find that this request was a reasonable one to make  
to verify the authenticity of what Mr S had told them. In the absence of such a process, a 
business would need to accept what the customer was telling them at face value. 
Mr S later contacted BOI in June 2021 to update his bank details and BOI let him know this 
couldnt happen if a bankruptcy was in place.
The Official Receiver normally notifies the creditors affected by a bankruptcy order. Based 
on what Ive seen, the relevant information was sent  but not to the correct addresses. I say 
this because: 
Information was sent to a BOI address in Belfast on 28 July 2020. BOI have said that 
the letters contained no reference to information such as a loan account number and 
as Mr S didnt hold a BOI current account, staff wouldnt have been able to find his 
details on their system. 
Further notifications were sent on 24 March 2021 and 3 June 2021, intended for a 
third party solicitors that works with BOI when dealing with these matters  but again, 
they werent correctly addressed. 
As Ive seen no supporting evidence that BOI requested information related to the 
bankruptcy be sent to any of these addresses - I dont find that they did anything wrong here 
when continuing to contact Mr S - as they hadnt formally received supporting evidence/proof 
of the bankruptcy order. 
Mr S had verbally told BOI around February 2021 - but no supporting proof was received to 
the address they expected. I appreciate Mr S position and he felt that the information had 
been shared with BOI. But ultimately, BOI arent responsible for the actions of the Official 
Receiver or the impact of their actions.
Its unfortunate that Mr S continued to be contacted in the 12 months after his bankruptcy 
order - and Ive no doubt this will have caused annoyance and stress. But for the reasons 
explained above, I dont conclude  on balance, that BOI need to do anything further to put 
things right. The £150 theyve already offered is fair, reasonable and proportionate. 
Whilst I appreciate my decision will disappoint Mr S, it brings to an end our Services 
involvement in trying to informally resolve this dispute between him and BOI.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2022.
 
Daniel O'SheaOmbudsman