DRN-2500350
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy Bank of Scotland plc t/a Halifax rejected his claim under section 75 of the
Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
What happened
In January 2019, Mr G booked a ten night stay for two rooms for him and his family at a hotel
abroad, which Ill refer to as H, on a booking website. Mr G says this was on a pay later
basis  so this meant he didnt pay for the rooms at the point the booking was made.
Mr G says one of the reasons he booked the hotel was based on the websites description 
it said the hotel was in a quiet location. As well as the description, Mr G says his decision
was also based on the cost, type of room and the resort facilities.
Mr G says one of the rooms he booked had a large patio and hot tub for him and his family
to enjoy throughout their stay. When Mr G arrived at the hotel, he noticed there was a lot of
construction and engineering work going on around the hotel. Mr G says when he raised his
complaint at the time with the hotel, he was told the construction work was taking place all
day from 9am to 4:30pm. And also, that this was ongoing for seven days a week, since the
previous year.
As a result, Mr G says he wasnt able to enjoy the facilities hed paid for due to the noise and
he and his family left the hotel after three nights. Mr G says he wouldnt have chosen this
hotel if the booking website had made clear that there were ongoing construction works.
Mr G paid the hotel directly for the cost of the three nights stay  this was a total of £939.24
(some of this cost was made up of other amenities such as food and drink). Mr G has asked
for a refund of the nights he paid for the rooms he booked.
Halifax considered Mr Gs complaint. They said they were unable to review Mr Gs dispute
under the chargeback rules as there was no rights of recourse under the card schemes
regulations. Halifax then considered Mr Gs claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit
Act 1974 (CCA). However, they didnt think they had enough information to say there had
been a breach of contract. But in any case, they said the hotel had no control over building
works carried out outside the hotel.  
Unhappy with Halifaxs response, Mr G brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator
looked into things for Mr G. In summary, he said Mr G had only stayed and paid for three
nights at the hotel and that he wasnt charged for the seven nights he wasnt at the hotel. So,
our investigator didnt think there had been a breach of contract.
Mr G disagreed. In summary, he said had he been made aware of the construction work, he
wouldnt have booked to stay at H. Mr G also said that he was unable to enjoy the facilities
hed paid for because of the ongoing noise. So, the complaint has been passed to me.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint setting out:
I have to decide what, if anything, Halifax should do to resolve Mr Gs complaint. To do
that, I have to decide what I think is fair and reasonable, having regard to (amongst other
things) any relevant law. In this case, relevant law includes section 75 of the Consumer
Credit Act 1974 (CCA) and section 50 of the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA).
Section 75 of the CCA says that in certain circumstances the credit card account holder has
an equal right to claim against the credit card provider if there's either a breach of contract or
misrepresentation by the supplier of goods or services. So, in Mr Gs case, section 75 of the
CCA makes Halifax responsible for a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier
under certain conditions. One of those conditions is that there must be a direct relationship
between the debtor (Mr G) the creditor (Halifax) and the supplier (H). Im satisfied that the
necessary relationship exists, and that Mr Gs claim is within the financial limits set out in the
CCA.
A written description of the property could be said to be an express term of the contract. Or
alternatively, section 50 of the Consumer Rights Act 2015 provides that every contract to
supply a service is to be treated as including as a term of the contract anything that is written
to the consumer and is taken into account by the consumer when deciding to enter into the
contract. Equally, where a false statement of fact has been made and that has induced a
consumer to enter in the contract, then that can amount to a misrepresentation.
I note the booking websites terms and conditions say:
The information displayed on this website has been provided by the respective Third Party
Providers, and (the booking website) does not accept any liability for any inaccuracies.
So, its clear from this term that any description of the hotel being advertised has been
provided by the third party  in this case, H.
Mr G has provided us with a copy of the hotel description from the booking website around
the time he made the booking. I can see part of the description says: our guests appreciate
the resorts quiet location. And he says he had taken this information into account when
deciding to book the hotel.
Mr G says one of the factors when deciding to book this hotel was that the description said
the hotel was in a quiet location. From the photos Mr G has sent us, I can see that there are
several cranes in close proximity to the hotel and I can also see other construction work
taking place right beside the hotel. Mr G has also sent us several videos from different
locations in the hotel. These show the works being carried out and the level of noise this was
producing which was noticeably very loud.
Im satisfied based on the information provided by Mr G that the resort was not in a quiet
location as there was a lot of noise produced by the construction work. Halifax have said the
hotel didnt have any control over the construction works as these were being carried out
outside the hotel. However, they did have control over the description they provided to the
booking website and that says that the resort is in a quiet location. I cant see any reference
to construction or building works in the description advertised by the booking website.
In summary, Mr G relied on a description on the website which was provided by H - which
said the hotel was in a quiet location. But because the location clearly wasnt quiet and didnt
meet the description provided, I think theres been a breach of contract and a
misrepresentation.
I note Halifax say a chargeback wasnt possible because Mr G had use of the facilities he
was charged for. And that there was no evidence of any actual breach by the hotel. As I am
upholding the complaint on the basis that Mr G had a valid section 75 claim, Ive not gone on
to consider chargeback further.Putting things right
Ive thought about what Halifax should do to put things right. There isnt an exact science to
working out a fair remedy. But Ive considered everything both Mr G and Halifax have told us
when thinking about whats fair.
Mr G chose this hotel for him and his family to enjoy a holiday for ten nights. However, the
quality of their stay was impacted by the construction noise happening around the hotel
which resulted in Mr G and his family leaving the hotel after just three nights. Mr G was told
by the hotel staff that the construction work was ongoing all day, every day of the week. I
can imagine this came as a disappointment to Mr G and his family. And I cant imagine the
noise would have been very relaxing or enjoyable for Mr G and his family - especially given
the fact that it was clearly very audible from his room patio. Im satisfied from what Mr G has
told us that he wasnt fully able to enjoy the facilities hed paid for  especially the large patio
and hot tub with one of the rooms. In addition to this, Mr G also experienced some
inconvenience in having to move to a different hotel with his family for the remainder of their
holiday.
Ive taken into consideration that Mr G has told us the total amount he paid (£939.24) was
also inclusive of other amenities such as food and drink and the amount isnt broken down
into an itemised bill. I think Mr G and his family still wouldve enjoyed the food and drink
irrespective of the noise. And they also had use of the hotel and its facilities  albeit the
experience wouldnt have been the same.
Having thought about everything, including the difference between what was promised and
what Mr G got and the overall loss of enjoyment, upset and inconvenience, I think Halifax
should pay Mr G £376.
Responses to my provisional decision
Halifaxs response
Halifax said they thought Mr G had already received a payment of £100 and also a £100 
goodwill voucher from the booking website for the inconvenience caused. However, Halifax 
werent able to show proof of these payments. So, we asked Mr G about this.
Mr Gs response
Mr G provided us with a breakdown of what was spent during the holiday. This breakdown 
showed Mr G believes he spent around £124 on amenities such as food and drink. So 
therefore, he says the accommodation cost was £815. Mr G also asked me to consider the 
actions of the hotel and Halifax  he says had either been willing to acknowledge a fault, his 
section 75 claim could have been avoided. So, Mr G thought 50% refund of the 
accommodation cost was a fair remedy.
In response to the offers Halifax put forward, Mr G said he has never received a £100 
payment. But that he did receive the voucher from the booking website as a gesture of 
goodwill for the inconvenience caused. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Ive thought about what Mr G has told us in relation to the amount spent on other amenities. 
However, it doesn't change my view on what a fair and reasonable outcome is. As I said in 
my provisional decision, working out compensation in a case like this isn't an exact science. 
And I did factor in that a proportion of the overall total was spent on amenities into my 
previous considerations of what a fair amount of compensation would be. The breakdown Mr 
G provided hasn't changed my thoughts on this. 
I note Mr G has said he received the goodwill voucher from the booking website. Having 
carefully thought about this, I think its reasonable to deduct £100 from the overall redress 
amount. I say this because I think its fair to take into account any awards Mr G has received 
for this issue when deciding how Halifax should put things right. So, I require Halifax to pay 
Mr G £276. 
Ive also thought about what Mr G has said in relation to the actions of the hotel and Halifax. 
I can understand Mr Gs frustration. But I did consider the inconvenience Mr G experienced 
as a result of his stay at the hotel and I also weighed up how Halifax considered Mr Gs 
section 75 claim in my provisional decision. And overall, I think the outcome Ive reached is 
fair. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding this complaint. I direct Bank of Scotland plc t/a 
Halifax to pay Mr G £276. They should also pay simple interest at 8% from the date they 
declined his claim to the date that they pay Mr G.* 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2021.
*If Bank of Scotland plc t/a Halifax think theyre required by HM Revenue & Customs to
deduct income tax from that interest, they should tell Mr G how much theyve taken off. They
should also give Mr G a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax
if appropriate.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman