DRN-2703763
The complaint
Mrs K has complained about the service she received and the decision to reject a claim she
made under a joint insurance policy she holds with Mr K. Mrs K made a claim to their
insurer, China Taiping Insurance (UK) Co Ltd CTI under their home insurance policy for 
damage to their roof after a storm.
All reference to CTI includes its agents.
What happened
In November 2019 Mrs K reported damage to their roof and water was leaking into their
home. Mrs K said CTI told her to obtain quotes for below £2,000 to repair her roof. If she did,
her claim would be met without the need for an inspection. In February 2020 Mrs K told CTI
that shed obtained an estimate to repair the roof for £1,900 but additional damage to
guttering was quoted at £600. CTI arranged for a loss adjuster (LA) to inspect the damage.
This took place on 6 March 2020.
On 18 April 2020 the LA reported that there were no storm conditions on the evening when
the damage occurred. On behalf of CTI, the LA informed Mrs K of its decision to reject their
claim.
Mrs K complained to CTI. She said she was unhappy with its decision and she was also
unhappy with the service received. Mrs K said shed made several calls to CTI but couldnt
speak to the claims handler  or was promised call backs by other agents which didnt
happen.
CTI replied to Mrs Ks complaints in June and August 2020. It said it failed to reply to one of
Mrs Ks calls as the office was closed due to national government restrictions in place last
year due to Covid 19. It said its decision to decline their claim was correct and as Mrs K had
provided no evidence to the contrary, nothing changed.
Mrs K asked us to look at her complaints. She said the agent in the first call checked the
weather conditions and said they met CTIs definition of a storm. She was very unhappy that
CTI instructed a LA in February 2020, only to tell her that her claim wouldnt be met due to
no storm conditions. She says it could have told her this in the initial call. Instead, she was
put to the trouble of obtaining quotes and several months passed with the repairs not being
done.
Our investigator thought CTI had acted reasonably overall. CTI said there was no recording
of the initial call between it and Mrs K. But CTI disputed what Mrs K said she was told. Claim
notes showed that CTI encouraged Mrs K to obtain quotes for repairs below £2,000.
However a follow up letter only asked Mrs K to obtain two quotes for the repairs and to send
them to CTI to consider. The investigator didnt think it made a material difference if CTI had
told Mrs K it wouldnt inspect the roof if the estimates were below £2,000. The investigator
didnt think CTI had done anything wrong by instructing a LA before reaching its decision.
In following our approach to storm damage claim complaints, and what CTIs policy said, the
investigator thought its decision to reject the claim was reasonable as no storm conditions
existed.
Mrs K didnt agree. She says we havent properly understood her complaint. In summary she
said;
CTI told her if the quotes were below £2,000 there would be no need for a LA. Mrs K says
she provided quotes which were below £2,000, but CTI instructed a loss adjuster anyway.
So she feels CTI misled her and caused unnecessary delay as this could have happened
much sooner.
Mrs K says that in the time that passed between November 2019 and April 2020, she lost
her job and was dealing with a family health issue and helping care for her grandchildren. If
CTI had managed her expectations sooner, Mrs K said she would have had the funds to pay
for the repairs as she was working at the time. Mrs K says the matter has caused her
considerable stress.
Mrs K is unhappy that CTI didnt respond to her complaint about the service she received,
only about its decision to reject the claim. She said she constantly tried to contact the LA but
he didnt return her calls. Mrs K wants us to address this complaint. Shes very unhappy with
the length of time it took CTI to tell her it wouldnt meet her claim. She believes it should
have told her from the outset that as storm conditions didnt occur, her claim wasnt covered
 as this was information CTI would have known in November 2019. 
I issued a provisional decision on 24 February 2021. I thought CTIs decision to decline the 
claim was reasonable. But I thought due to the reason it declined the claim  that no storm 
conditions occurred  that it could have made this decision when Mrs K first contacted it. I 
thought it was responsible for a delay in issuing the LAs report and recommended it pay a 
total compensation award to Mrs K of £300 for its poor handling of the claim.
Mrs K has accepted my provisional decision. CTI disagreed. Ive addressed their points in 
my findings below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered both replies, my final decision is along the same lines as my provisional 
decision. 
I understand how upset Mrs K is about the way her claim was handled by CTI. Ive looked at
whether its actions were fair and reasonable and in line with the policy. For ease, Ive set out
the complaints under headings below.
CTIs decision to reject the claim
We ask three questions when considering storm damage claims to help decide whether an
insurer has acted in a fair and reasonable way. These are:
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the
damage is said to have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
and;
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?Were likely to uphold the complaint if the answer to all three is yes. However, if the answer
to one of the questions is no, were unlikely to uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ks policy with CTI provides a definition of a storm peril. It says;
Storm
An unusual weather event with persistent high winds usually associated with rain,
thunder, lightning or snow. (The wind speed or gust should normally exceed 55mph
(48 knots). to be a storm but we take other factors into consideration such as where
the property is sited. A storm can highlight defects rather than cause them and
damage due to lack of maintenance, wear and tear or which happens gradually is not
covered).
Local weather data shows that over the seven days up to and including the 14 November
2019 (Mrs K says the damage occurred in the early hours of this date) that wind speeds
peaked at 31 mph and rainfall peaked at 4.2mm per hour on the same day.
The peak of these conditions would be considered bad weather. But I dont think the data
shows that conditions were so severe to say that storm conditions occurred around the date
the damage occurred.
So as the answer to the first question is no I dont think Mr and Mrs Ks claim for storm
damage was one CTI should meet.
Although I agree with CTIs decision to reject the claim for this reason, I think CTI could and 
should have managed Mrs Ks expectations when she first called it. CTI would have been 
able to check the weather conditions when Mrs K called in November 2019  and so its 
decision could have been communicated to Mrs K then. And if she didnt agree, I think it 
would have been reasonable to give Mrs K the option to obtain an independent report to 
support her view. But I dont think it was fair of CTI to ask Mrs K to provide documents  
including a roofers report which Ive no doubt Mrs K would probably have had to pay a fee 
for  when the reason for declining their claim was based on information it knew in 
November 2019. 
In response to my provisional decision, CTI says it viewed weather conditions at the time 
Mrs K first reported he damage but didnt find weather conditions severe enough for a storm. 
However, the onus is on the customer to prove their claim and CTI asked for additional 
documentation to give Mrs K the opportunity to present a claim for consideration. So it 
doesnt agree it should award any compensation to Mrs K. As she didnt provide a roofers 
report, CTI instructed a LA to inspect her roof. 
But I dont think what CTI says here makes a difference  because even if Mrs K had 
provided all of the required documents, CTIs reason for declining the claim was based on 
information it had without the documents  and without the need to inspect the roof. The 
reason it declined the claim was due to no storm conditions occurring  not due to for 
example the roofs damage being due to wear and tear, or no sign of storm damage to the 
roof. 
So my view remains that CTI poorly managed the claim. Ive set out what I think is a fair 
remedy to put things right later in my decision.
CTI provided a poor service
CTI says there is no recording available of the initial call between Mrs K and the agent Ill callT. Without a recording of the call, I cant say for certain what was discussed, as both parties
say different things.
Mrs K says that T checked the weather conditions and had no concerns about the validity of
the claim for storm damage. Mrs Ks broker provided the wrong name of the agent Mrs K
spoke with in her initial call when raising this complaint on her behalf.
CTI said it didnt have an agent the broker referred to. And Mrs K told us shes unhappy that
the name was wrong. But I dont think this made a difference to the outcome. CTI says that
from its notes of the initial call with T it doesnt show that the weather or validity of the claim
was discussed. CTI said its procedure is to wait for the supporting documents or LA report
before reaching a decision.
Ive also taken into account the other available evidence. On 18 November 2019 - one
working day after Mrs K reported the incident  the LA sent a letter confirming what it
needed in order to deal with their claim. The LA asked for the following:
1. Completed claim form
2. Photographs of the damage
3. 2 Comparative estimates for the repairs required
4. Roofers report which must address the nature, extent and cause of the
damage, together with the general condition of the roof.
5. Confirmation of the age of the roof in question and whether it has been
subject to any maintenance repair.
In bold, it said:
Please note that liability of any claim presented is not accepted until such time as
your Insurers are satisfied the claim is one for consideration under the terms and
conditions of your insurance policy. Information is requested on a without prejudice
basis.
Mrs K says she was told that if the quotes she obtained came to below £2,000, CTI wouldnt
instruct a LA. CTI disputes this. While I dont have any reason to doubt what Mrs K says, I 
think that the letter issued by the LA the following day was clear as to how the claim would 
be dealt with and that it wouldnt be accepted until CTI had considered the documents it 
needed from Mr and Mrs K.
I understand that in February 2020 Mrs K contacted CTI to confirm verbal estimates shed
received to repair the roof. Including the estimate to repair the guttering, the estimate Mrs K
gave came to over £2,000. Mrs K said she found it difficult to obtain all of the information CTI
needed. CTI says as it didnt receive a roofers report from Mrs K, on 7 February 2020 it
instructed a LA to inspect the damage. I think this was a reasonable approach to take  had
CTI been satisfied that storm conditions occurred at the time.
Copies of emails show the LA contacted Mrs K on 7 February 2020 and 18 February 2020 to
arrange an inspection and this took place on 6 March 2020.
We asked CTI why it took six weeks to provide the report and decision to Mr and Mrs K on
18 April 2020. CTI said the LA was waiting for the roofers report, which Mrs K didnt send.
I hadnt seen any evidence that the LA asked Mr and Mrs K for this since it was
instructed in February 2020. In response to my provisional decision, CTI says CTI says the 
LA reiterated to Mrs K during the inspection that it would need to see a roofers report. However, in my provisional decision, I said I didnt know why the report would still be 
necessary - as the LAs role was to inspect the damage and form a decision on behalf of the 
insurer as to whether to validate the claim.
So I remain of the view that there was an unnecessary delay in informing Mr and Mrs K of 
the outcome of the inspection. I think it was reasonable to provide an update within ten days 
of the inspection. So I think there was a delay of four weeks.
Mrs K says that she called several times to discuss her claim with the claims handler who Ill
refer to as L. She says L didnt call her back when she left messages. She also spoke to
other agents who promised to call her back, but didnt.
Ive listened to a recording of a call between L and Mrs K on 22 April 2020 in which Mrs K
complains about this issue. L explained that he hadnt received Mrs Ks messages and
asked her to confirm the number shed been calling. Mrs K said she called the number on his
email.
On 29 April 2020 and 1 May 2020 the broker on behalf of Mrs K raised a complaint about the
service Mrs K had received with CTI. The broker said that Mr and Mrs K were unhappy with
the decision to reject the claim as they said storm conditions occurred at the time. And they
said Mr and Mrs K were unhappy that the LA didnt go up on the roof to inspect the damage.
They disputed that the LA had viewed the damage from across the road, as he advised.
When CTI replied to the complaint in June 2020, they explained why their decision to reject
the claim was correct. But they didnt address Mrs Ks complaint about the service provided.
In July 2020 the broker on behalf of Mrs K asked CTI to address this complaint.
In August 2020 CTI issued a further reply. It said it had missed one call from Mrs K as its
office was closed due to the first Covid 19 lockdown. It reiterated that its decision to reject
the claim was correct.
In my provisional decision I said that its not clear as to the dates and the reasons for Mrs Ks 
calls to CTI and I would reconsider Mrs Ks complaint that she made several calls to CTI 
which werent responded to if she can provide any proof of the calls made. And it would be 
helpful if Mrs K could confirm her reasons for calling CTI when she did.
Mrs K hasnt provided any evidence of calls made. CTI says that at the time Mrs K says she 
called, it was at the beginning of lockdown and so staff started working remotely. It says Mrs 
K was provided with a contact number which was unmanned at the time, but also with the 
mobile number of the LA following the inspection. It says Mrs K contacted the LA twice using 
the mobile number.
So based on the information available, I think CTI caused an unnecessary delay in updating 
Mr and Mrs K following the inspection on 6 March 2020. For this delay I think it should pay 
£50 compensation.
But in line with my provisional findings, I think in any event, CTI should have better managed 
Mrs Ks expectations from the outset. The LAs letter dated 18 April 2020 set out the reason 
why it was declining their claim:
From the information we have obtained, weather conditions prevalent surrounding
the time of discovery on 2 November 2019 were described as a strong gale with a
max gust of 48 miles per hour winds within a 24-hour period. This was the highest
wind speed recorded for the month of November 2019. In accordance with the
Beaufort wind scale and your Policy Wording these conditions do not fall within thedefinition of a storm
Whilst we do note a substantial amount of rain fell in November 2019 these
conditions will likely highlight defects within a roof, rather than cause them.
CTI says the LA inspected the roof. But the LA made no reference to their inspection of the 
roof. And Mrs K told CTI that the date of discovery was 13 November 2019. She wrote the 
time as 3am on 14 November 2019 on the claim referral form for CTI.
So overall I think CTI poorly handled Mrs Ks claim. While the reason for rejecting the claim 
was fair in my view, I think this was a decision CTI could have explained to Mrs K in the 
initial call in November 2019.
I understand that Mrs Ks circumstances have changed and Ive no doubt that having to deal
with a claim for water damage to their home - and the prospect of having to pay for repairs
has caused upset and worry. However, I dont think CTI is responsible for the costs to repair
their roof. But I think its responsible for causing unnecessary delay, distress and
inconvenience in their handling of the claim. So for this I think it should pay Mr and Mrs K
£250 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require China Taiping Insurance 
(UK) Co Ltd to pay Mr and Mrs K a total of £300 compensation for the delay, distress and
inconvenience it caused by its handling of their claim.
China Taiping Insurance (UK) Co Ltd must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell it Mr and Mrs K accept my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also 
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
a simple rate of 8% a year.
If China Taiping Insurance (UK) Co Ltd considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr K and Mrs K how much 
its taken off. It should also give Mr K and Mrs K a tax deduction certificate if they ask for 
one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman