DRN-3758494
The complaint
Miss D is unhappy with the benefit amount she received from Covea Insurance Plc when 
claiming on her personal accident insurance policy.
What happened
Miss D has the benefit of a personal accident insurance policy (the policy). Unfortunately, in 
2018, she accidently fell causing her to dislocate her shoulder, fracture her elbow and cause 
other damage to her arm. She says one of her hands is permanently damaged. She made a 
claim on the policy for the permanent total disablement benefit. 
Covea assessed the claim under the terms of the policy. After considering the medical 
evidence, it paid Miss D 35% of the benefit sum of £66,434 which related to permanent loss 
of one limb. Thats because it had concluded that, based on the medical evidence available 
at the time, Miss D hadnt permanently lost use of her arm - as per the policy definition.
Unhappy, Miss D complained to Covea and after it maintained its position, she brought a 
complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Ds complaint. Miss D 
disagreed. So, her complaint has now been passed to me to consider everything afresh to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Covea has an obligation to handle claims fairly and promptly. And it mustnt unreasonably 
decline a claim. 
Relevant to this complaint, the terms of the policy say:
If you suffer accidental injury which within 12 months of occurring directly results in one 
of the following we will pay the benefit
Permanent total loss by physical severance or permanent total loss of use of:
an arm at or above the elbow
an arm below the elbow
a shoulder
wrist
Permanent Total Disability
Permanent Total Disability is defined as:
Disablement (other than loss of sight, loss of speech, loss of hearing, loss of limb or 
loss of joints, thumbs, fingers of toes) which will entirely prevent you from engaging in 
any occupation of any and every type and description, for the remainder of your life 
without hope of recovery.
Loss of limb or limbs is defined as:
Permanent total loss by accidental physical severance at or above the wrist or ankle 
or the permanent total and irrecoverable loss of any use of an entire arm, hand, leg 
or foot.
As Miss Ds claim relates to her arm, I think Covea has fairly concluded that the claim 
shouldnt be assessed as a Permanent Total Disability but rather on the basis of whether 
she has experienced the permanent total loss of an arm.
Permanent is defined as: lasting or likely to last indefinitely
Miss Ds arm wasnt physically severed. So, the crux of the issue for me to decide is whether 
Covea has fairly and reasonably concluded that Miss D hasnt established that shed 
experienced permanent total loss of use of her arm (above or below the elbow), shoulder or 
wrist. And Im satisfied that it has. 
It isnt disputed that Miss D has lost some use of her arm. But for the full benefit (around 
£66,000) to be paid under the policy Miss D would have experienced permanent loss of a 
limb. And Im satisfied that the medical evidence doesnt support Miss D has lost permanent 
total use of her arm, shoulder or wrist.
Theres evidence that Miss D did initially have total loss of function of the radial nerve in her 
right arm and an injury to her shoulder. But as of the middle of 2019, she was recovering but 
it wasnt known whether she would make a full recovery  and she was unable to fully use 
her right arm.
A letter from her consultant shoulder and elbow surgeon dated March 2022 also reflects that 
she has got function back in her right hand (although it remained weak), and they were 
trying to strengthen her shoulder. Its also reflected that it was going to take 2 to 3 years 
before Miss D had any form of recovery in the arm such that she could hold down a manual 
job and that she may not ever get full function back in her right arm. The consultant said that 
they would continue to assess Miss D over the next few years to check on progress. 
However, Covea decided to pay 35% of the full benefit on the basis that where loss of use is 
permanent but not yet total, it assesses the claim on a proportionate basis, in percentage 
terms. It explained that claims for the loss of use can take a long time to conclude and the 
true extent of the loss suffered might not become known until all treatment had ended and a 
medical professional confirmed that the loss is permanent and total.
As at the date Covea decided to pay 35% of the full benefit I think its decision was fair and 
reasonable based on the medical evidence available. Covea has also said that it would 
review the claim in future based on further medical evidence and any treatment Miss D has. 
So, the benefit amount paid to Miss D to date isnt necessarily the final settlement of the 
claim. And if a greater loss of use is subsequently established, Covea has said it would 
make a further payment. I think thats fair and reasonable and in line with what I would 
reasonably expect Covea to do. 
Although Miss D has more recently sent further medical evidence to our service to consider, 
Im only looking at what happened up to April 2020 and whether Covea acted fairly and 
reasonably up until that time. Miss D is free to provide Covea with any further medical 
evidence she has more recently obtained to consider. My final decision
I dont uphold Miss Ds complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 February 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman