DRN-3614638
Complaint
Ms C has complained that NewDay Ltd (trading as Marbles) irresponsibly provided her with 
an unaffordable credit card and loan. Shes said shed already had difficulty repaying what 
she owed and shouldnt have been lent to.
Background
Ms C was provided with a Marbles branded credit card, which had an initial credit limit of 
£600, in January 2017. This limit was increased on two occasions until it reached £2,000.00 
in October 2017. 
Marbles then provided Ms C with a loan in March 2018. This loan had an APR of 15.9% and 
the total amount to be repaid of £7,103.13, which included interest, fees and charges of 
£2,103.13, was due to be repaid in 60 monthly instalments of just over £118.
One of our investigators reviewed what Ms C and Marbles had told us. And he thought that 
Marbles shouldnt have provided the final credit limit increase on the credit card or the loan. 
So he partially upheld Ms Cs complaint. Marbles disagreed so the case was passed to an 
ombudsman for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Ms Cs complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im partially upholding Ms Cs complaint. Ill 
explain why in a bit more detail.
Marbles needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Marbles needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Ms C 
could afford to repay before providing Ms C with her credit card, any limit increases and her 
loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Ms Cs credit card
The Marbles credit card Ms C was initially provided with had a credit limit of around £600. 
And as this was a credit card Marbles was required to understand whether Ms C could repay 
around £250 within a reasonable period of time. 
I understand that Ms C was asked to provide a declaration of her income and that she stated 
it was £18,000.00 a year. She was also asked about other household income and confirmed 
that this was also £18,000.00 a year. I can also see that a credit check was carried out which 
showed that Ms C had 4 historic defaults recorded against her. So its fair to say that 
Marbles would have been aware that Ms C had had previous difficulties repaying credit. And 
I would have expected it to have done more to establish that Ms C was now in a better 
position to be able to repay any further funds she might have been advanced.  
However, having looked at the information Ive been provided with, Im satisfied that Ms C 
did have sufficient funds to be able to repay a credit limit of £600 within a reasonable period 
of time. As this is the case, Im satisfied that further checks wouldnt have made a difference 
and so wouldnt have prevented Marbles from approving this credit card for Ms C.
 
The first credit limit increase increased Ms Cs credit limit by £200 from £600 to £800. It took 
effect in June 2017. I accept that as the limit was only increased by £200, there is an 
argument for saying that this wasnt a significant increase to the credit limit and so there 
wasnt a need for a further affordability assessment. But £200 was a third of the previous 
£600 limit. So Im not necessarily persuaded by this argument. I dont know what checks, if 
any at all, Marbles carried out before deciding to offer the credit limit increase to £800. 
But, in any event, the information I have leads me to think that its more likely than not that 
reasonable and proportionate checks would not have shown that Ms C wouldnt have been 
able to sustainably repay the additional £200 within a reasonable period of time. So I dont 
think that it was wholly unreasonable for Marbles to have offered and then provided this 
credit limit increase to Ms C. So I find that Marbles didnt treat Ms C unfairly when it initially 
provided her with a credit card and increased her credit limit to £800.00.
That said, in November 2017 Marbles increased Ms Cs limit by a further £1,200.00 taking it 
to £2,000.00. Equally by this stage it was clear that Ms Cs balance hadnt really been 
reducing and that shed pretty much used up the entire amount of the additional funds 
available on the card and close to her limit. 
Indeed, Ms Cs payment record showed shed only ever really made a rounded-up minimum 
payment, or a little bit more, each month. So I certainly wouldnt go as far as saying that       
Ms C was in good financial standing. At best, what Marbles saw indicated that she was 
paying just above the minimum necessary to service a debt of £800. And, in my view, this, in 
itself, didnt clearly demonstrate that Ms C could sustainably repay an additional £1,200.00 
within a reasonable period of time. 
Im also disappointed to see Marbles relying on the balance on the credit card being cleared 
in March 2018 as evidence of this limit increase being affordable. I say this because its clear 
Ms C used the funds from the Marbles loan she was provided with in order to repay her 
balance. Given Ms C had to borrow further to repay her credit card, I dont think that this is 
indicative or her having been able to sustainably repay what she owed within a reasonable 
period of time, in November 2017, or clearly demonstrates that the checks Marbles carried 
out before providing this credit limit increase were reasonable and proportionate.
As Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before Ms Cs 
credit limit was increased to £2,000.00, I cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So I 
need to decide whether it is more likely than not that proportionate checks would have told Marbles that Ms C would have been unable to sustainably repay £2,000.00 within a 
reasonable period of time.
Ms C has now provided us with evidence of her financial circumstances at the time Marbles 
lent to her. Of course, I accept different checks might show different things. And just 
because something shows up in the information Ms C has provided, it doesnt mean it 
wouldve shown up in any checks Marbles mightve carried out. Indeed, Ive noted that 
Marbles has said it wouldnt have obtained payslips or bank statements from Ms C. 
But given I think that Marbles needed to get a better understanding of Ms Cs income and 
expenditure before increasing her credit limit to £2,000.00, in the absence of anything else 
from Marbles showing what this information would have shown, I think its perfectly fair, 
reasonable and proportionate for me to now place considerable weight on it as an indication 
of what Ms Cs financial circumstances were more likely than not to have been at the time. 
To be clear Im not saying that Marbles had to obtain bank statements at the time. Im 
reviewing this information now as its the best way for me to recreate a proportionate check a 
number of years after.
Ive carefully considered the information provided. Having done so, its clear that Ms C was 
struggling to manage her finances. Ms Cs income was inconsistent and sporadic and most 
of what she was being paid was taken up by her existing living costs and repayments to her 
existing commitments. Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and 
proportionate checks would more likely than not have demonstrated that Ms C would not 
have been able to repay £2,000.00 within a reasonable period of time and certainly without 
borrowing further.
In these circumstances, I find that reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely 
than not have alerted Marbles to the fact that Ms C couldnt afford the credit limit increase in 
November 2017. And so Marbles didnt act fairly and reasonably when it increased Ms Cs 
credit limit to £2,000.00 in November 2017.
Ms Cs loan
As Ms C couldnt afford an extra £1,200.00 in November 2017, it ought to be clear why it 
logically follows that she couldnt afford a further £5,000.00 a mere three months later.
Nonetheless, I have looked at the checks Marbles says it carried out before providing this 
loan. Marbles final response says that Ms C declared she was employed with a monthly 
household income of £3,500.00 and also had a monthly disposable income of £3,500.00. Im 
not sure how Marbles ascertained that Ms C had access to all of the income in her 
household. After all - just because her total household income might have been £3,500.00 
each month, this doesnt necessarily mean all, or even any, of it was available to repay this 
loan. 
However, what Im most concerned about is that Marbles appears to be saying that all of   
Ms Cs household income was disposable, despite nonetheless recording she had monthly 
expenditure of well over £1,000.00. Bearing in mind the ludicrous nature of the information 
provided, Im not prepared to accept that the checks Marbles carried out before providing 
this loan in March 2018, were fair, reasonable or proportionate.
Ive already explained what information Ms C has provided showed and why its fair and 
reasonable to rely on it in the absence of Marbles having carried out reasonable and 
proportionate checks. As this this is the case, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate 
checks would more likely than not have demonstrated that Ms C would not have been able to make the repayments to this loan without borrowing further and/or suffering undue 
difficulty. 
So, in these circumstances, I find that reasonable and proportionate checks would more 
likely than not have alerted Marbles to the fact that it shouldnt have provided Ms C with this 
loan. So Im upholding Ms Cs complaint about her loan. 
Ms C went on to and is being expected to pay interest and charges on credit that she 
shouldnt have been provided with in the first place. So Im satisfied that she has lost out as 
a result of what Marbles did wrong. And Im satisfied that Marbles now needs to put things 
right.   
Fair compensation  what Marbles needs to do to put things right for Ms C
Having carefully considered everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable, in all the 
circumstances of Ms Cs complaint, for Marbles to put things right in the following way:
rework Ms Cs credit card account to ensure that from November 2017 interest is 
only charged on the first £800 outstanding - to reflect the fact that the credit limit 
increase to £2,000.00 shouldnt have been provided. All late payment and over limit 
fees should also be removed. Any extra Ms C paid should be treated as 
overpayments and then factored in to what I think Marbles needs to do in relation to 
Ms Cs loan; 
removing any adverse information recorded on Ms Cs credit file as a result of the 
credit card;
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to Ms Cs loan from the outset. The 
payments Ms C made, whether to Marbles or any third-party debt purchaser, should 
be deducted from the new starting balance  the £5,000 originally lent. Any refund 
due as a result of Ms Cs credit card being reworked should then be deducted from 
any remaining balance on the loan after the first part of this calculation has been 
done. 
If all of this results in Ms C having already repaid more than £5,000.00 then Marbles 
should treat any extra as overpayments. And any overpayments should be refunded 
to Ms C along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from the date they were 
made until the date of settlement. 
If no outstanding balance remains on Ms Cs loan after all adjustments have been 
made, then Marbles should remove also remove any adverse information it has 
recorded about the loan from Ms Cs credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Marbles to take off tax from this interest. Marbles must 
give Ms C a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
It appears as though Marbles sold an outstanding balance on Ms Cs loan to a third-party 
debt purchaser. So it will need to either buy the account back from the third-party and make 
the necessary adjustments, pay an amount to the third party in order for it to make the 
necessary adjustments, or pay Ms C an amount to ensure that it fully complies with this 
direction.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Ms Cs complaint. NewDay Ltd should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman