DRN-1511784
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy that Legal & General Insurance Limited (L&G) accepted but then 
declined their claim under their buildings insurance.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M are joint policy holders of the L&G Essentials building insurance but, for ease, 
I will refer only to Mr M throughout my decision.
Mr M claimed under his buildings insurance for damage caused by a small fire in his garden. 
His claim was for his shed and the contents. The surveyor appointed by L&G provided it with 
a valuation figure at which point it realised the shed Mr M was claiming for was actually a 
storage container. L&G declined the claim because the container wasnt covered under the 
policy.
Mr M complained to L&G because he had taken time to provide evidence of the damaged 
items and their cost on the understanding that his claim was covered. He wanted L&G to 
accept his claim because he thought the shed fell within the definition of an outbuilding and 
was, therefore, covered under his policy. L&G didnt accept the claim but it did acknowledge 
that Mr M had experienced a loss of expectation and offered him £50 by way of apology. He 
rejected the offer.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She explained that the storage shed didnt meet 
the definition of an outbuilding in line with Mr Ms policy. Therefore, the contents were 
classed as being out in the open and not covered under the policy. Our investigator agreed 
that Mr M had experienced a loss of expectation but she didnt think L&G needed to offer 
any more than the £50 it had already offered.
Mr M didnt agree because the storage shed is described as a shed on the online retailers 
site. 
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Mr M will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. Ill explain 
why.
Firstly, theres no dispute that Mr Ms property was damaged, or that L&G initially treated the 
claim as if it was covered under his policy. So, my role is to decide whether L&G acted fairly 
by declining his claim and whether its offer of compensation for the loss of expectation was 
reasonable.
The key point of dispute is whether the damage was to a shed or a storage container. Mr Ms 
policy covers him for outbuildings and their contents. He describes the damaged container as a shed and therefore covered as an outbuilding along with its contents under his buildings 
insurance. L&G describes it as a storage container and outside the definition of an 
outbuilding.
Mr Ms policy describes an outbuilding as follows:
Buildings
Protection for the structure of your home and its permanent fixtures and fittings, including 
any garages or domestic outbuildings within the boundaries of your land.
Ive thought carefully about this and Ive decided that L&G has acted reasonably in classing 
the item as a storage container. In order for it to meet the definition of an outbuilding I would 
expect it to be a permanent fixture. I realise Mr M says that the container can be fixed to the 
ground, but I dont think thats enough. Ive looked at the website for the container that Mr M 
referred to and I see that it is described as both a shed and a storage container. So I need to 
think about what its most likely to be described as. 
To put the size of the container into perspective, I note that its advertised showing two 
wheelie bins side by side with their lids attached to the container lid. The wheelie bins fill the 
container. The container could be lifted and taken away and the contents can be accessed 
just by lifting the lid and reaching in as well as by opening the doors. Theres also the option 
to add shelves which take up the full width of the container.  I dont think these uses imply 
the container is an outbuilding as defined in the terms of the policy and I think its fair for 
L&G to describe it as a storage container.
L&G acknowledged that Mr M expected to be covered for the claim after it appointed a 
surveyor to value the loss. However, the misunderstanding didnt change the outcome of his 
claim. The storage container wasnt covered under his policy so L&G wouldnt have been 
paying him for the damage anyway. Therefore, Im satisfied that the offer of £50 by way of 
apology is reasonable compensation for Mr Ms disappointment. Mr M says he hasnt 
received the payment but I understand the offer is still available to him.
Im satisfied that L&G fairly declined Mr Ms claim and I dont think it needs to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 7July2020.
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman