DRN-2844726
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that NewDay Ltd trading as Marbles declined his Section 75 claim.  
What happened
Mr O purchased a car from a merchant for £2,890 (including £200 for an extended warranty) 
and paid for it using his Marbles credit card. 
Within a few weeks of Mr O purchasing the car, the gearbox failed. Mr O was unable to 
resolve matters with the merchant, so he contacted NewDay to make a claim under section 
75.
NewDay reviewed the claim and advised Mr O that there wasnt enough information to reach 
a decision. It asked Mr O to provide an independent engineers report in order that it could 
continue to investigate the claim.
Mr O provided a photo of a parcel containing a car part which he said the merchant had sent 
to him. He said this proved that the merchant knew the car was faulty. Mr O said he wasnt 
going to provide an engineers report.
NewDay rejected the claim. It said there wasnt sufficient evidence to support the claim.
Mr O wasnt happy with the outcome and complained to this service. He said the car was 
faulty when it was sold and that the warranty hed purchased for £200 had been 
misrepresented to him as it had a wear and tear exclusion which meant that it didnt cover 
cars which were over 10 years old. He seeks a full refund of the purchase price of the car 
and the warranty.
Our investigator said there wasnt enough evidence say that the car was of unsatisfactory 
quality at the point of supply, and that the fault was more likely to be due to wear and tear, 
given the age ad mileage of the car. In relation to the warranty, the investigator said she was 
persuaded that this had been misrepresented to Mr O and that NewDay should refund the 
cost of this. 
Mr O didnt agree. He said the warranty had been a key factor in his decision to purchase 
the car. He didnt think the investigator had given due weight to his assertion that the 
mileage on the car had been altered by the supplying dealer, and said the mileage had also 
been a  key factor in his decision to purchase the car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Mr Os purchase of the car was financed by credit supplied by NewDay, Section 75 
gives him an equal right to claim against NewDay or the supplier for misrepresentation 
and/or breach of contract. 
A misrepresentation is an untrue statement of fact which induces a customer to go ahead 
with a contract.
Mr O says the warranty was misrepresented to him because an exclusion clause excluding 
cars over 10 years old wasnt drawn to his attention. 
Mr O also says the car was misrepresented because the mileage had been altered.
Ive considered all of the available information leading up to the purchase of the warranty. 
Whilst an exclusion clause for older cars is a relatively common exclusion, Im persuaded 
that the agent in this case didnt bring this to Mr Os attention. And Im persuaded that the 
warranty was a main factor in Mr Os decision to purchase the car. The agent wouldve 
known that the warranty wouldnt cover the car Mr O was purchasing. I think the agent 
shouldve made this clear to Mr O and Im satisfied that a misrepresentation by omission has 
occurred, for which NewDay must accept responsibility.
Ive considered the available information about the mileage of the car at the point of supply. I 
understand Mr Os concerns about this but on balance, there isnt enough evidence to 
persuade me that the mileage was fraudulently altered as Mr O suggests. There isnt any 
clear evidence that the mileage was altered with fraudulent intent  it could very easily have 
been a human recording error. The difference between the mileage at MOT and point of 
supply is 925 miles. I dont think this amount of mileage would be enough to make a 
difference to a consumers decision on whether or not to purchase a car.
On balance then, Im satisfied that the warranty was misrepresented but not the mileage.
Ive gone on to consider whether there was a breach of contract. In order to find this, I would 
need to see evidence to persuade ma that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point 
of supply.  Ive considered the evidence provided by Mr O. Ive also taken into account that 
when a second-hand car is supplied, as in this case, its more likely that it will have a degree 
of wear and tear and require repairs than if it was a brand new car. In this case the car was 
12 years old and had covered 75,000 miles, so Id expect significant wear and tear. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen, and in the absence of an engineers report which says that 
cars wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply, there isnt enough to persuade me 
that the car had an inherent fault. I appreciate that the supplier sent a new part to Mr O, but 
this of itself doesnt prove that the car was faulty at the point of supply. I think its more likely 
that any fault was caused by wear and tear. 
Because of this, I wont be asking NewDay to refund the purchase price of the car. 
Putting things right
To put things right, NewDay Ltd trading as Marbles should refund the sum of £200 to Mr O 
and reconstruct his credit card account as if the £200 hadnt been debited.  
My final decision
I partially uphold the complaint and direct NewDay to take the action set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2021.
 
Emma DavyOmbudsman