DRN-3873056
The complaint
Mrs and Mr G complain that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited declined their 
travel insurance claim and about how it handled the claim. My references to Red Sands 
include its claim handler agents.
What happened
Mrs and Mr G had single trip travel insurance for themselves and their teenage children for 
their non-package holiday abroad. The policy was insured by Red Sands.
On the second week of the holiday the family left the villa theyd been staying at to go to the 
next accommodation theyd booked which they understood to be a hotel. Mrs and Mr G said 
when they arrived they realised the place wasnt a hotel but sublet service apartments. 
When they were shown to the room it wasnt what theyd booked, there werent enough beds 
for them even though theyd been clear about their needs when booking. The 
accommodation provider refused to provide a blow up mattress for one of the children to 
sleep on. Mrs and Mr G said when they complained and asked for some money back, as 
theyd been mis-sold the accommodation, the accommodation provider told them to leave by 
the next morning. 
Mrs and Mr G tried to find alternative accommodation but as it was high season they 
couldnt. They say they were in a horrible situation and had to act quickly as couldn't risk 
having nowhere to sleep so they booked the last four seats on a flight home to the UK. Once 
home they contacted Red Sands and gave an outline of their claim on an online form.
Red Sands declined the claim on the basis that the circumstances of curtailing (cutting short) 
the holiday werent covered by the policy terms. It noted the policy did have a legal expenses 
section which could provide up to 30 minutes legal advice on the phone for enquiries about 
your insured trip. It said Mrs and Mr G may want to contact the legal services provider to 
see if they could take legal action for potentially mis-sold accommodation.
Mrs and Mr G complained to us. In summary they said:
Red Sands declined their claim before they had a chance to explain all the facts. It 
made its decision using the facts they outlined in the initial form. They were never 
sent a full claim form to enable them to explain everything even though they asked 
for one.
They bought the platinum level insurance to give them peace of mind they would be 
covered for unforeseen circumstances.
The whole situation had been very stressful and their family holiday was ruined. They 
had to pay £900 for the new flights and left £200 worth of food and drinks at the 
accommodation. They want Red Sands to pay compensation for their stress and to 
pay for the return flights they didnt take and for the lost food/drink.
Our investigator said Red Sands fairly declined the claim.
Mrs and Mr G disagree and want an ombudmans decision. They said the accommodation 
provider acted in a way that put them in danger abroad and insurance should protect against 
that. They also emphasised theyd not been able to fill out a claim form.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. 
I dont uphold the complaint as I think Red Sands reasonably declined the claim and handled 
the claim fairly. Ill explain why.
Mrs and Mr G say as they bought platinum level cover the claim should be covered, but 
insurance policies dont cover every situation. The policy terms and conditions set out the 
insurance contract between Mrs and Mr G and Red Sands and say what risks Red Sands 
will cover.
The policy document, under the heading curtailment, says that certain costs can be covered 
if a holiday is cut short due to one of the following reasons:
1. you or anyone Insured on this policy, became iII with an infectious disease during 
your trip (including contracting Covid-19).
2.you, a travel companion, a family member, a close business associate, or the 
person you were going to stay with became iII (excluding contracting Covid-19), was 
injured or died.
3. your pre-booked accommodation was damaged by a catastrophe, and alternative 
accommodation was not provided.
4. you, or a travel companion were called for jury service or required as a witness in 
a court of law; you, or a travel companion had leave withdrawn and are in the armed 
forces (including reserves and territorial), emergency services, medical or nursing 
professions (in the public sector) or senior employees of the government.
5. as a result of fire, earthquake, storm, flood, riot or civil unrest; the Foreign, 
Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO) or comparable prohibitive 
regulations by the government of the country you were due to visit and within fifty 
(50) miles of your chosen destination, change the travel advice to advise against all 
or all but essential travel.
The circumstances Mrs and Mr G unfortunately found themselves in arent covered by the 
above insured reasons so Red Sands correctly said the claim wasnt covered by the policy 
terms. Most travel insurance policies have the same or similar policy terms for curtailment. 
I sympathise with Mrs and Mr G. They were in a horrible situation, which was stressful and 
upsetting, and they did what they thought best for their family. They understandably didnt 
want to be left without accommodation. But their curtailment claim isnt covered under the 
policy terms and theres no basis on which I can reasonably say Red Sands has to cover 
and pay the claim or any compensation. 
Mrs and Mr G complain that Red Sands declined the claim without them completing a claim 
form. Ive seen the online form Mrs and Mr G submitted which is called a claim form 
request. The form has a section for the claim description. Ive read what Mrs and Mr G put 
under that section and Im satisfied that Red Sands had enough information in the details 
they gave to reasonably decide the curtailment claim wasnt covered. Red Sands didnt disadvantage Mrs and Mr G in not sending them a claim form as theyve given the full 
circumstances to us and the claim isnt covered.
From what Mrs and Mr G have said it may be that the holiday accommodation was mis-sold. 
Red Sands gave Mrs and Mr G information about the cover under the legal expenses 
section of the policy and they may want to contact the legal expenses provider under the 
policy to see if it can assist them with any action about the potential mis-sale.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 April 2023.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman