DRN-3546893
The complaint
Mr P and Mrs P have complained that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) 
unfairly declined a claim under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr P and Mrs Ps garden wall collapsed. So, they contacted Lloyds to make a claim for 
storm damage. Lloyds sent a surveyor to assess the damage. The damage was then 
declined as Lloyds said there werent storm conditions around the time of the damage.
When Mr P and Mrs P complained, Lloyds maintained its decision to decline the claim. It 
said there werent storm conditions. Lloyds also sent a further response that explained it 
considered a well-maintained boundary wall would withstand all but the most severe weather 
events. It also considered that its surveyor had acted reasonably by remaining a certain 
distance from Mr P and Mrs P during a visit and that it didnt have any bearing on how the 
surveyor had reached their decision about the claim.
Mr P and Mrs P complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He 
said that although there were storm conditions around the time of the damage, it was 
reasonable for Lloyds to rely on its surveyors findings that there were pre-existing issues 
with the wall, including that it was already leaning.
As Mr P and Mrs P didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 18 May 2022. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I was planning not to uphold the complaint. I said:
When we look at a storm claim complaint, there are three main issues we consider:
1.    do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were only likely to uphold a complaint where the answer to all three questions is yes.
Ive considered the first question by looking at weather reports around the time the damage 
happened. In the period before the wall collapsed, the highest windspeed was 40mph. This 
wouldnt normally be regarded as storm strength wind and is also considerably lower than 
the 55mph minimum windspeed given in the Lloyds policy booklet. So, I think the answer to 
the first question is no. That being the case, I dont need to consider the other two questions 
because, as there wasnt a storm, there wasnt cover under that part of the policy.
However, Ive looked at what the surveyor found to see whether there was cover under any 
other part of the policy, such as accidental damage. Im also aware that Mr P and Mrs P 
dispute Lloyds finding that there was likely to be a pre-existing lean to the wall.
Ive looked at both the findings of Lloyds surveyor and of an internal review. Both found 
evidence they thought showed there was likely to be a pre-existing lean. This included 
looking at the tilt of the remains of the wall and how wind gusts were likely to impact a wall 
and said:
 the brick bond would snap near to ground level leaving a plumb and level section 
remaining where there is strength and resistance from the wall thats below ground. A wall 
could not tilt like that near to ground level unless it was already leaning and leaning for 
reasons to do with the foundations rather than wind forces above ground level
Lloyds also considered the presence of vegetation and said:
The subsoil is a shrinkable clay. Trees and shrubs growing near foundations cause them to 
move and subside through shrinkage of the clay soil. Moisture demand from vegetation can 
distort things like walls, making them crack and lean. There is cracking in the wall right next 
to the leylandii trees.
Lloyds also noted that when the claim was first reported it was told the wall had been 
twisted elsewhere by the collapse. It considered this to be unusual and said: The wall 
couldnt lean elsewhere in a different direction because of any push from high wind 10+m 
away. It noted that the wall remote from where it collapsed also looked like it was leaning.
Im aware that Mr P and Mrs Ps representative has said that as Lloyds only visited after the 
wall collapsed, there is no way it could know the condition of the wall beforehand and that 
both Mr P and Mrs P and their neighbours were certain it wasnt leaning before it collapsed. 
The representative said any suspected leaning of the wall would clearly have been caused 
by the stresses introduced to the brickwork as it fell. He also said there were no large trees 
alongside the wall only smaller shrubs and plants and that the vegetation referred to may 
have restricted any inspection of the wall at ground level by Lloyds surveyor.
Looking at Lloyds assessment and that of Mr P and Mrs Ps representative, Im more 
persuaded by Lloyds findings of multiple issues with the wall, both at the location of where it 
collapsed and elsewhere, including that there was a pre-existing lean. Im aware that Lloyds 
hadnt seen the wall before it collapsed, but I dont find that surprising or unusual. However, I 
think it carried out an inspection of the wall after it collapsed and found issues with it, which 
were supported both with photos and with details of what was assessed to be the likely 
cause, along with reasons for this. I also note that although Mr P and Mrs Ps representative 
has said there werent large trees and shrubs close to the wall, Ive looked at the photos 
taken by Lloyds and can, for example, see a large tree, which I take to be what Lloyds 
identified as a leylandii, very close to a collapsed section of wall.
I also havent seen any other explanation for why the wall collapsed, other than due to wind. 
Lloyds has said it would expect a well-maintained wall to be able to withstand all but the 
strongest winds. I think Lloyds view is reasonable. I wouldnt expect a wall to collapse in the 
circumstances described, particularly when there wasnt evidence to show the winds were 
storm-strength.
So, I currently think it was reasonable for Lloyds to decline the claim for storm damage as 
there wasnt evidence of storm conditions. I also dont think it needed to consider the claim 
under any other part of the policy because I think it was reasonable for it to rely on its 
surveyors findings that there was likely to have been a pre-existing lean, which would mean 
the wall collapsing wasnt the result of a one-off incident. As a result, I dont currently intend 
to require Lloyds to do anything further.I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 15 June 2022.
Mr P and Mrs Ps representative replied. He said it was apparent that this service had 
accepted Lloydss surveyors findings without question and on face value without making 
appropriate investigation to determine whether they were true. He said the surveyors 
findings were based on assumptions and not facts. He questioned how the surveyor could 
conclude the boundary wall was likely to have had a pre-existing lean when the wall had 
already collapsed when he inspected it. He questioned how the surveyor could state the 
brick bond would snap near ground level, including because this section of wall was covered 
with rubble. The representative said it was his understanding that the surveyor was only at 
the property for a short time and made no attempt to carry out a close examination of the site 
or take any measurements.
The representative also said the surveyor had said the subsoil is shrinkage clay and that the 
moisture demands from vegetation can distort things like walls, making cracks. The 
representative said all qualified surveyors and builders are aware of this fact and that is why 
foundations must be dug to a certain depth. Mr P and Mrs P had told the representative that 
the foundation to the wall was dug to a depth of one metre. He queried why the surveyor 
hadnt dug a trial hole. He also queried how the surveyor could conclude that vegetation and 
trees can distort the walls, as most of the vegetation was under the rubble.
The representative said I should conclude that the Lloyds surveyor report was based on 
assumptions and that there were no positive grounds to support the findings. He said I 
should only accept evidence and not assumptions. He said my decision was biased in favour 
of Lloyds, which was unfair and illogical.
Lloyds replied and said it had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint and for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision. As part of that, I have carefully considered the further comments from 
Mr P and Mrs Ps representative. This hasnt caused me to change my view on the outcome 
of this case. 
When I made my provisional decision, I considered all of the evidence from both parties in 
detail and looked at what had been found and the reasons for the conclusions reached. I 
have also looked at the evidence again following the comments from the representative. I 
note, for example, that although the representative raised questions about what the surveyor 
said about the brick bond and said that section of wall was covered with rubble, the photos 
show the base of the wall, which was visible, and photos were taken of it from a range of 
angles. The photos also show vegetation close to the wall, some of which the wall had 
landed on, but a lot of it was upright. In my provisional decision, I also referred to a large tree 
that I could see in the photos that was close to the wall. 
Having thought about all of the evidence and the further points raised, Im not persuaded 
that Lloyds surveyors inspection or findings were unreasonable. I remain of the view that it 
was reasonable for Lloyds to decline the claim and I dont require it to do anything further.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman