DRN-1288647
The complaint
Ms H is unhappy about the way The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) handled her 
personal accounts.
What happened
Ms H suffers from mental health problems and in June 2013 was in a serious accident which 
exacerbated her problems. She says she had told RBS about her mental health problems 
before 2013 but it hadnt recorded them.
Ms H complains about how RBS managed her credit card account from June 2013. She 
says she repeatedly transferred the debt to other facilities, including her mortgage. And that 
this was a symptom of the problems she was experiencing at the time. She says that RBS 
lent her over £20,000 on her credit card during this period despite the problems she was 
facing.
Ms H says she called RBS in June 2017 to cancel her credit card but was persuaded by the 
agent to keep it open for emergencies. She did however manage to reduce the credit limit to 
£1,750.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said that the accounts had 
been managed well and didnt think RBS shouldve had any cause for concern. And she 
thought that moving debt between accounts was a common occurrence, which wouldnt 
have alerted RBS that it should review her account. She said she couldnt comment on the 
call Ms H had made to RBS as she had never raised that issue with RBS before and it would 
need time to consider it. 
Ms H didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've reached the same 
conclusions as our investigator and for the same reasons.
I was sorry to hear about Ms H's ongoing issues and the difficult steps she's had to take in 
relation to these. While I have, of course, taken this into consideration I also have to 
consider that it is often easier to identify these issues in hindsight. So I have to consider 
what RBS knew at the time and what they ought to have known - and whether I think they 
should have acted differently in light of that.
Ms H says she informed RBS of her mental health issues in 2009 - and I have no reason to 
doubt that's the case. So I have considered this complaint on that basis. And I have thought 
about whether it's likely RBS's actions would have been any different if it had recorded that 
information as it should have done.
Ms H was running her credit card account well - only missing one payment in 2018. And 
while she did make balance transfers to other card providers and to her mortgage, RBS wouldn't necessarily have been aware that those payments came from other financial 
institutions as it doesn't manually review each account unless an issue is flagged on its 
system. So to RBS, I think it would've seemed that Ms H was managing her accounts 
exceptionally well. And even if it had noted the information she gave it in 2009, I don't think 
there would have been any cause for it to interfere with the account as it was being 
managed in line with the agreement.
I've also looked at how Ms H was running her current account and the attached overdraft 
during this period. But it doesn't appear to have been used as the main account over the 
period as there aren't many transactions on the account. Ms H rarely used the overdraft 
facility and when she did, it was always repaid within a few weeks. So again, I can't see any 
reason that RBS would have interfered with Ms H's accounts or been alerted to any potential 
issues from the activity on her current account.
Like the investigator, I haven't seen any evidence that RBS has been given the chance to 
investigate the phone call in 2017. But if Ms H does want to reduce her creidt limit or cancel 
the card then I'd encourage her to contact RBS directly to do this - in writing if she'd prefer.
So taking everything into account, I don't think RBS made a mistake in dealing with Ms H's 
credit card or current accounts. And I don't think it would have acted differently if had 
properly noted the information she gave it about her mental health in 2009. While I know this 
will come as a disappointment to Ms H, I hope this decision has been helpful in explaining 
my reasoning.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2020.
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman