DRN-2822357
The complaint
Mr E complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited wont provide him with specific 
information about charges taken from his personal pension plan since its inception.
What happened
Mr E held an executive pension plan provided by Aviva. He took out the pension plan in 
1999 and contributions were made to it for a few years. 
On 20 May 2020 Aviva sent Mr E information about his policy in response to a request from 
him. On 26 May Mr E called Aviva to say that the information that hed been sent wasnt 
sufficient and he wanted more information about charges, fees and the performance of his 
pension. He told Aviva he was thinking of moving his pension plan elsewhere and that he 
wasnt happy with the performance of his pension plan since 2015. He telephoned Aviva 
again on 8 June. 
On 10 June Aviva wrote to Mr E saying that it didnt provide charge deductions from the start 
of the policy. It said the charges deducted were in line with the original terms and conditions 
and are noted on his recent annual statements. This was in line with the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys new initiative around charge transparency. This didnt mean that historic 
statements were incorrect as those statements wouldve met the regulatory requirements at 
the time. 
On 11 June Mr E called Aviva to complain about its responses. On 10 July Aviva responded 
to Mr E saying that it understood he was unhappy that it wouldnt provide a valuation and 
explicit policy charges for each year since policy inception. It referred to its previous 
responses and said it wouldnt provide a breakdown of each explicit policy charge since 
inception. The policy charges confirmed in previous correspondence and the 17 May 2020 
annual statement are correct and have been the same since inception of the policy. It said it 
could provide a policy valuation upon request but would only provide historical valuations for 
taxation or legal purposes. The annual statements had shown the value at time of issue. In 
mid-August Aviva also wrote to Mr E providing information about the performance of the fund 
his pension was invested in. 
Mr E brought his complaint to our service. He said Aviva refused to confirm the actual 
charges that had been made against his pension scheme. He therefore couldnt work out 
how well the scheme performed. What he wanted was confirmation of all charges levied 
each year  hed never had any confirmation in statements of charges made, just the 
valuation. Mr E also raised a concern if the pension sold to him was appropriate, but our 
investigator confirmed that he didnt want us to consider whether the policy was mis-sold. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought the information provided by Aviva 
was enough to enable him to research and understand his pensions performance net of 
charges and costs. She said Aviva had provided him with information including the charges 
sheet, and that its annual statement complied with regulations. The information he wanted 
was non-standard and Aviva didnt have to supply it as there was no legal or tax reason it 
needed to do so. 
Mr E didnt agree with our investigators view. He thought Aviva should have to provide the 
information he sought. He said the case and Avivas responses had taken an unreasonable 
time, and this was to delay him in making a decision that Aviva perhaps see as inevitable. 
So the complaint came to me for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr E feels very strongly that Aviva should have to provide him with a precise 
break down year by year of the charges deducted from his pension plan. But Im afraid Im 
going to have to disappoint him, as Im not going to uphold his complaint. Ill explain why. 
The essence of Mr Es complaint is that he wants exact information about the amount of 
charges taken from his pension so that he can see how its performed and consider whether 
he should move it to another pension provider. In particular, he wants Aviva to calculate the 
amount of charges in pound terms, rather than just provide him with information that would 
enable him to do so. 
Ive looked very carefully at the information provided to Mr E by Aviva in response to his 
information requests. The Aviva letter dated 20 May 2020 attached a charges summary 
sheet which showed the charges applicable to Mr Es policy. The bid/offer spread on 
contributions and the annual management charge are shown in percentage terms. The 
policy fee, referred to in the charges summary sheet as a monthly admin charge, is given as 
a monthly fee in pounds. His 2020 annual statement dated 17 May 2020 also gave 
information about the charges applicable to the policy, as well as its annual valuation. 
As set out earlier in this decision, Aviva have informed Mr E that the charges have been the 
same since the beginning of his policy, and the annual statements have given the annual 
valuation each year. Taking all of this into account, Aviva have given Mr E enough 
information for him to be able to compare the performance of his pension investments with 
others. 
Aviva doesnt have to provide every policy holder with information on demand. It does need 
to comply with its regulatory and legal obligations to policy holders. There is no legal or 
regulatory obligation on Aviva to carry out the calculations Mr E wants in relation to the exact 
amount of charges since policy inception. And given that I think Aviva have provided Mr E 
with enough information to enable him to assess the performance of his pension 
investments, Im not persuaded that it would be fair and reasonable of me to tell Aviva to 
carry them out. Aviva is entitled to make commercial decisions about what information it is 
prepared to provide outside of its legal and regulatory obligations. 
Although I appreciate it will disappoint Mr E, Im not going to tell Aviva to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 August 2021.
 
Helen WheatleyOmbudsman