DRN-3870595
The complaint
Mrs W complains about the excess mileage charge Lex Autolease Ltd (who Ill call Lex)  
asked her to pay after they agreed to allow her to terminate a lease agreement she had with 
them for a car.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs W but I dont think Lex need to take any action here.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs W acquired her car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
Mrs W accepted Lexs offer to allow her to terminate her agreement with them when she 
experienced problems with the car she was leasing.
That offer included a payment in respect of the loss of enjoyment and distress and 
inconvenience. Mrs W was also promised a pro-rata refund of any unused portion of her 
initial payment.
Mrs W was upset to receive a bill for £3,826.82 for excess mileage after she returned the 
car. She didnt think that was fair given the problems shed had with the vehicle, and she 
explained that she hadnt exceeded her full term mileage of 75,000 miles, that she would 
have been able to complete within the agreement if shed been able to lease it for the full 
term.
The terms of Mrs Ws contract with Lex explained:
If on expiry or termination of this agreement the mileage of the Vehicle exceeds the 
Contract Mileage Allowance, you must pay us an extra mileage charge at the rate set out 
above for each mile which the Vehicle has travelled in excess of the Contract Mileage 
Allowance. If this agreement terminates before the end of the Minimum Period, we will 
reduce the Contract Mileage Allowance on a pro-rata basis in order to calculate the extra
mileage.
The excess mileage charge is listed above that statement as 31.51p per mile.
Mrs W completed 12,144 extra miles (on a pro-rata basis) and the business have applied a 
charge of about 31.51 per mile (although it seems that rounding has reduced the overall 
charge by a few pence).
So Im persuaded that Lex had a contractual right to make a charge for any excess miles 
completed and that the charge they made was in line with the agreement.
It wouldnt be fair, however, to make a charge if Mrs W had been told otherwise. Ive listened 
to the call Mrs W had with Lex after shed received her offer letter. The agent advised that 
excess mileage charges would still apply. Mrs W explained what she thought the current 
mileage was and said she hadnt exceeded the 75,000 contract mileage. The agent didnt 
clarify that a charge would be made on a pro-rata basis, and he didnt calculate what the 
charge would likely be. But I dont think he had to. I think he had made it clear that a charge 
would be applied, and I think the contract was very clear about what that charge would be
I understand that Mrs W says she wouldnt have terminated the agreement had the scale of 
the excess mileage been explained to her. Ive thought about what would have happened if 
Mrs W had rejected the offer, but I think the excess mileage charge would always have been 
due under the terms of the agreement.
Ultimately, I dont think Lex have been unreasonable and Im not asking them to take any 
further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 March 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman