DRN-2236564
The complaint
Mr H complains about CIS General Insurance Limiteds (CIS) handling of a home insurance 
claim.
What happened
Mr Hs property was damaged by subsidence and he made a claim on his CIS home 
insurance policy.
In 2018, Mr H complained to CIS about delays to the completion of repair works to the 
property. He made further complaints about the handling of the claim after this until 2020. 
CIS responded to these complaints and has agreed for us to look at all of these as part of 
the same complaint.
After initially complaining to CIS about delays to the completion of repairs, Mr H 
subsequently complained about its refusal to provide alternative accommodation during the 
course of further repairs. He also complained that CIS contractors had furnishings and 
disposed of carpets when it was carrying out the repairs. Finally, he complained that the 
property was continuing to move after the completion of the repair works to stabilise it.
CIS gave a number of responses to Mr Hs complaints. It acknowledged that there had been 
issues with the handling of the claim, and that an appointment for its agents to meet with Mr 
H  to discuss outstanding repair works had been unnecessarily delayed.
But CIS didnt accept that it had done anything wrong in respect of Mr Hs accommodation. It 
said the extent of the further repairs was such that the property wasnt uninhabitable. It had 
made a payment of £1400 as a goodwill gesture, which it had believed was to be used to 
pay for alternative accommodation. 
CIS didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint about the damaged and disposed items. It said he had 
disposed of damaged items before it was able to inspect them and there was no evidence of 
the damage being claimed. It said its records reflected that Mr H had said he was going to 
have new carpets fitted after the repairs were complete, and had disposed of the original 
carpets himself. It had offered £200 for repairs to an item of furniture which was still in Mr Hs 
possession and which it had been able to inspect. 
CIS also didnt accept Mr Hs complaint that the property was still moving. It said it was 
satisfied that the works had been completed to the point that it could issue a certificate of 
structural adequacy, but that it would carry out further monitoring to establish whether there 
was any further movement.
As Mr H was dissatisfied with CIS responses, he referred the complaints to our service. Our 
investigator didnt think CIS should do anything more than it already had. He considered that 
the compensation and payments made to date were reasonable in the circumstances. He 
didnt think Mr H had provided enough evidence to show that CIS representatives had 
damaged or disposed of his items, or that there was evidence that the property was still 
moving. He thought that CIS intended course of action was appropriate.
Mr H didnt agree with our investigator, and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its previously been explained to Mr H that the rules of our service mean we can only look 
into certain aspects of the complaint he referred to us, and he accepted this. We can look at 
CIS handling of the claim between March 2019 and July 2020, its decision not to provide 
alternative accommodation during further repair works, its response to reports of items 
having been damaged by CIS contractors and its response to Mr H reporting that the 
property was continuing to move in 2020. Ill consider each of these in turn.
The handling of the claim
The first thing to note here is that CIS has acknowledged that aspects of the claim could 
have been handled better, and that unnecessary delays did occur due to this poor handling. 
Its made payments totalling £375 for these. Insurers have a duty to handle claims promptly 
and effectively, and its agreed that there were occasions on which CIS didnt do so here.
 
It was clear from his contact with CIS and its agents that Mr H was dissatisfied with the 
quality of the works and it had been agreed that CIS agent would send a representative to 
his property to assess a snagging list. There was a delay of over 2 months before this 
appointment took place. 
There was also an issue with an oven which had been installed by CIS contractors. And 
when it was made aware of this, CIS representatives said it would arrange for an engineer 
to attend. There was an unjustified delay in trying to arrange the appointment, and then it 
became apparent that the engineer in question wasnt suitable and couldnt attend. Mr H had 
to locate and arrange for a suitable engineer to attend. It isnt disputed that these issues 
could have been avoided, and the matter resolved sooner.
There were also other elements of inconvenience to Mr H during this time. A fridge was 
moved from the kitchen to a lean-to extension, and radiators had been temporarily removed 
from some rooms meaning that electric heaters were being used. I agree that these matters 
would have added to the inconvenience caused by the disruption which naturally arose from 
making the claim.
CIS didnt consider that Mr H needed alternative accommodation during a period where 
further repair works were being. Ive examined this decision below in more detail. In light of 
the issues which had arisen during its handling of the claim, and the disruption which would 
be caused, CIS agreed to pay £1400 as a gesture of goodwill which it was anticipated would 
be used to pay for alternative accommodation while the works were carried out. So its fair to 
say that this payment, as it wasnt covered by the policy, was intended to recognise that CIS 
and its agents could have handled the claim better and Mr H had been, and would continue 
to be, inconvenienced.
But I do think that, in spite of these issues, the amount of compensation totalling £1775 
which has been paid to date by CIS adequately recognises the extent of the inconvenience 
and delay caused to Mr H. Its in line, or even above, what Id expect to be paid in similar 
circumstances.
The provision of alternative accommodationMr H argues that CIS should have covered the costs alternative accommodation for a period 
when additional repair works were being carried out. Its apparent that the works were going 
to cause an amount of disruption and inconvenience to Mr H but this isnt a reason, on its 
own, to say that Mr H was entitled to alternative accommodation. A degree of inconvenience 
will always arise during the course of an insurance claim, and particularly where repairs are 
to be carried out to a property.
CIS had offered to cover alternative accommodation during previous repair works, which he 
had declined. Those works had meant that he was without kitchen facilities for a 6 week 
period. It made a payment of £420 as a disruption allowance for this, calculated at a rate of 
£10 per day. Mr H thinks this should be higher. Im satisfied that the amount paid by CIS is in 
line with what wed generally expect to be paid for a disruption allowance. 
Generally, Id expect an insurer to cover alternative accommodation where repair works 
which are to be carried out mean that the property becomes uninhabitable. By this, I mean 
that it isnt possible to sleep, cook or bathe at the property. This wasnt the case during the 
period when the additional works were carried out. CIS has said that during these repairs, Mr 
H had access to a bedroom, bathing and cooking facilities. Mr H hasnt sent evidence to 
dispute this, although hes argued that he only had access to one bedroom. I understand this 
would have been inconvenient, but as Ive said this isnt a reason to say that CIS should 
have covered alternative accommodation. 
Mr H also argued that staying at the property would cause health issues. CIS says, and I 
cant see that Mr H has disputed this, it said it would look at this again if Mr H provided 
medical evidence to support what hed said, but didnt receive this. I dont think CIS acted 
unfairly by asking for such evidence before agreeing to cover alternative accommodation.  
The damaged and disposed items
Mr H says that curtain poles, curtains and other items of furniture were damaged by CIS 
contractors during repair works. From what I can see, at the time CIS representatives were 
first told about this, he said hed disposed of the damaged items. CIS has declined to make a 
payment for the costs of replacing the items. It says it cant assess the extent of the damage, 
or whether the damage was caused by its contractors as the items were disposed of before 
it had the chance to inspect the items. It also said it hadnt seen any evidence to show the 
costs being claimed by Mr H.
I cant say that CIS has acted unreasonably here. Mr H has a duty to prove his claim, and by 
disposing of the items before making CIS aware of the claim, hes unable to do so. CIS is 
being asked to pay the cost of replacing the items where nothing has been provided to it to 
show that the items have been damaged in a manner for which CIS is liable. Its also being 
asked to cover the cost of replacing the items, but it hasnt been shown that the damage to 
the items was such that they couldnt be repaired. If Mr H had told CIS about the damage 
before disposing of the items, its likely it would have asked for evidence of the damage or to 
inspect the items so it could consider its liability. Its not been able to do this and so I cant 
ask it to cover the costs of replacing the items.
Mr H has also said that carpets were damaged by contractors, and wants CIS to pay for their 
replacement. CIS has declined to do so, as its records indicated that Mr H had originally said 
he intended to replace the carpets once the repairs were complete and there was no 
evidence that the original carpets couldnt be reused. So, as with the curtains, it said it cant 
cover these costs as it hasnt been provided any evidence of the damage. Mr H says that the 
carpet was disposed of by CIS contractors.I dont think the question of who disposed of the carpets is significant here. Looking at the 
notes from the original claim, I can see that in 2016 a lack of protection of the carpets was 
raised. These notes indicate that the carpets were to be disposed of anyway, and so didnt 
require protection. I cant see that the issue of damage to the carpets, and a request for CIS 
to cover the costs of replacing them was raised again until 2019. I think this is evidence in 
support of the suggestion that Mr H had intended to replace the carpets irrespective of their 
condition at the end of the claim. If they were to be retained, Id expect to have seen this 
referred to and looked into back in 2016. I cant see evidence that the original carpets 
werent reusable, but rather the evidence suggests that Mr H had decided to have new ones 
fitted at the conclusion of the repairs. That isnt covered by an insurance policy.
CIS has accepted that an item of furniture has been damaged as a result of becoming damp 
while being stored. Its made a payment of £200 for the costs of restoring it. Mr H has 
suggested that the cost of repairing it would be around £2000, but I havent seen anything to 
support this. If the cost of the necessary repairs to the damage caused by the damp is more 
than £200, Mr H should submit this to CIS for consideration.
The question of continued movement
In short, CIS is satisfied that the repairs and works which have been carried out to date 
mean that the property movement should have been rectified. I know Mr H disagrees with 
this and says new cracks have appeared. I havent seen anything from an engineer or 
similar to support Mr Hs contention that the property is continuing to move. Its CIS position 
that new cracks are likely to be the result of thermal movement.
CIS has said it will provide a certificate of structural adequacy and has now agreed to carry 
out further monitoring to establish whether there is movement. I think this is a reasonable 
response to Mr Hs continued concerns in the circumstances. 
Im aware that Mr H argues that mortgage companies and other lenders are reluctant to 
finance loans on the property without an engineers report confirming that there is no further 
movement. While its not a full survey of the property, or a guarantee that there will be no 
further movement, I can see that the certificate CIS intends to issue gives details of what 
caused the subsidence, and what was done to resolve it. Im satisfied that its carried out its 
obligations in respect of documenting and evidencing the subsidence and repairs which 
have been carried out.
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2020.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman