DRN-3891871
The complaint
Mr C complained about Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. He isnt happy that it turned down a claim for the repair of minor scratches 
to his car following a claim under his minor cosmetic insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr C made a claim under his minor cosmetic insurance policy after he noticed minor 
scratches on the boot of his car. When Mapfre looked into the claim it eventually turned it 
down as it felt the diameter of the damage was more than 300mm which was excluded 
under the policy when it stemmed from a single incident. As Mr C didnt agree he 
complained to Mapfre and then this Service. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr C and upheld his complaint. She thought there was 
some ambiguity in the policy and that there wasnt sufficient evidence to show the damage 
was caused during one incident. And asked Mapfre to reconsider the claim in line with the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy and pay the claim. 
As Mapfre didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree that the complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Although I can understand Mapfres position I cant be sure, on the evidence before me, that 
the damage to Mr Cs car was caused in one incident. On the one hand Ive seen suggestion 
that the damage may have been caused when Mr Cs wife was reversing in the garage and 
on the other Ive seen suggestion the damage was caused by stone chips. And looking at 
the photographs of the damage it seems likely, on balance, that the damage was caused in 
two separate incidents. 
I say this because of the two incidents described and also because the photographs of the 
damage clearly show damage above and below the lip on the boot of the car. The level of 
the two separate areas of damage is a few inches apart in height and it seems likely they 
were separate incidents given this. The actual damage is different and seems consistent 
with coming into contact with different materials and unlikely to be the same contact. It 
seems to me that the minor scratches and dent would be more joined up and consistent if 
the impact happened at the same time, perhaps when Mr Cs wife reversed into the garage 
door. And as these two areas seem to have stemmed from different incidents, at different 
times and each are under the 300mm diameter Mapfre has referred to I agree with our 
investigator the complaint should be upheld. Mapfre should consider the two claims 
separately in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy and if no other 
exclusions apply, pay the claim. 
Finally, as Im satisfied, on balance, there were two separate incidents and Im upholding this 
complaint I dont feel it necessary to consider the ambiguity of the policy in detail. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require Mapfre 
Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. to consider the two 
claims separately in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy and if no other 
exclusions apply, pay the claim. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman