DRN-2028844
The complaint
Mr F has complained that Indigo Michael Limited (trading as Safety Net Credit (SNC)) gave 
him unaffordable loans. 
What happened
Mr F approached SNC for a Safety Net facility in March 2017. This was a running credit
account where a consumer could either request funds up to their credit limit, or funds would
be deposited into their bank account once their account balance fell below a safety net
amount of the customers choosing.
Mr F was initially given a facility with a £250 credit limit in March 2017. His limit was 
increased on three occasions with his final increase taking his credit limit to £330
by March 2018. Its not clear from the information provided by SNC whether there is still an 
outstanding balance. 
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Fs complaint. He thought that SNC were wrong to 
grant Mr F his facility as it was unaffordable from the outset.
It appears that Mr F agreed with our adjudicators opinion. SNC disagreed and provided the 
following points:
The calculations for someones disposable income are made using an algorithm that 
works on the premise of deducting a persons non-disposable expenditure from their 
monthly income.
SNC believe it calculated the income and disposable income correctly and therefore 
the facility was affordable for Mr F.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the facility was provided.
The adjudicator who investigated Mr Fs complaint believed the facility was unaffordable 
from the outset. The adjudicator said Mr F actually had a lower monthly income and a higher 
monthly expenditure than the figures SNC relied on when assessing the overall affordability 
of the lending applied for.
Mr F declared he was self-employed with a monthly income of £1,800. SNC had access to 
Mr Fs bank statements for the three months prior to the start of the facility on 10 March 
2017. And after SNC assessed Mr Fs bank statements, it concluded that Mr Fs monthly 
income was around £1,290. SNC tells us this was made up of £597.64 for his salary, 
£378.27 in bank transfers, and £314.36 in other income.
SNC has told us that when checking a potential customers income, it considers the 
following;
Any salary received by the customer.
Bank transfers - the algorithm considers both incoming and outgoing transfers and 
determines to what extent incoming transfers represent actual income.
Any other regular income which does not fall into other categories, excluding funds 
received from gambling, borrowing from other sources of credit, other loans or 
returns and refunds which are disregarded in calculating monthly income.
I think the key point here is an income that is regular - an income that could be guaranteed 
each month or at least regular enough for SNC to have confidence that a sum would be 
received. Otherwise, if an income is not guaranteed, then, in my view SNC would need to 
think carefully about whether it would be reasonable to include all or some of it in the income 
calculation. 
As Mr F applied for his facility on 10 March 2017, I acknowledge that SNC didnt have his full 
bank statements for December 2016 and March 2017. It only had the last 10 days for 
December 2016 and the first 10 days for March 2017. As this wouldnt have presented the 
full picture of Mr Fs circumstances in these two months, Ive particularly focused on the 
information it held for January and February 2017  when SNC were privy to Mr Fs full bank 
statements for both months.
Looking at Mr Fs circumstances in these two months, SNC would have seen that his 
monthly income fluctuated each month. Mr F appears to have received an average salary of 
£710. In addition to this, he was regularly receiving £30 a month transferred in from a 
different account. I cant see any other regular income which leads me to believe his salary 
was higher than £740. 
It seems that Mr F had another account, to and from which he would transfer money. In the 
month of January 2017, Mr F transferred £287 out to this account. He also transferred in 
£565 which meant there was a difference of around £278. Without further investigation about 
these extra funds, SNC would not have known about where this extra money came from or 
what it was for. 
But I can see that in February 2018, Mr F did not transfer any money to and from this 
account. And it appears that in the first 10 days of March 2018, Mr F transferred out more 
than what he received into this account. This suggest to me that Mr F was using his other 
account as a holding account. I think its more likely than not he would transfer money to his 
other account and drip feed this back into the account SNC was reviewing at certain times. 
So, I dont think SNC could have reasonably considered this as extra income as it didnt 
have enough information to suggest this was the case.
In addition to this, Mr F sometimes received some money from an account which seems to 
be in his name. Whilst Mr F received £100 into the account SNC was looking at in the last 10 
days of December 2016, and £400 in the first 10 days of March 2017, he only received a 
total of £10 in January 2017 and February 2017. Whilst I appreciate that this seemed to be 
an income of sorts, it was sporadic and for wildly differing amounts each time. So, I dont think it was reasonable for SNC to consider this part of Mr Fs regular income, as there was 
no guarantee he would receive it, or how much he would receive.
This leads me on to Mr Fs monthly expenditure for January and February 2017. Ive 
calculated Mr Fs average monthly expenditure to be £776.71 for these two months. I say 
this because I can see Mr F was paying out £400 every month which was likely for his rent, 
considering he told SNC he was a tenant. He also had monthly expenses each month for his 
phone, food, SKY, Netflix, overdraft usage fee as well as utilities. His average outgoings for 
these expenses was around £377.
I think SNC had enough information to suggest the facility was unaffordable for Mr F from 
the outset. His outgoings were around the same as his monthly income which would have 
left him with little or no money to afford SNCs repayments  even paying the minimum 
amount of £20 each month. So, I think SNC were wrong to approve the facility from the start.
Putting things right
Its not clear if Mr F has repaid his account in full whilst waiting for his complaint to be 
investigated, or whether he still has an outstanding balance. So, if the debt has been sold to 
a third party, SNC should, if it wishes, buy the debt back and then carry out the redress 
below. If it isnt able to or doesnt wish to buy the debt back, then it needs to work with the 
third party to achieve the same results.
Remove all unpaid interest, fees and charges from the start of the facility.
Then treat all payments Mr F has made towards his account since the start as though
they had been repayments towards the principal.
If at any point Mr F would have been in credit on his account after considering
the above, SNC will need to refund any overpayments with 8% simple interest*
calculated on these payments, from the date they would have arisen, to the date the
refund is made.
If an outstanding balance still remains after this, SNC should try to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr F. If SNC have previously written-off any
principal, then SNC shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up only of principal 
it has already written-off.
SNC should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Fs credit file from the 
start of the lending relationship.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires SNC to take off tax from this interest. SNC must give
Mr F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr Fs complaint in full.
Indigo Michael Limited should put things right for Mr F as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Robert WalkerOmbudsman