DRN-3327938
The complaint
Ms A has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her a fee-paying Silver 
account in 2009.
Ms A says that due to a change in her circumstances, she approached Lloyds to open a 
standard current account and was sold a packaged account. Ms A says she already had 
breakdown cover, so didnt need this benefit. Ms A also says that her phone was insured 
with her tariff provider and that she rarely travelled abroad, so had no need for the European 
travel insurance. 
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint, and they didnt think that the account had 
been mis-sold. Ms A disagreed with the adjudicators conclusions, so the matter was 
referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website, and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having considered everything, I dont 
think it was mis-sold. I will explain why.
Ive started by considering whether Ms A was given a fair choice to take out the Silver 
account. Ms A has explained that shed held a fee-free account for many years prior to when 
she opened the Silver account. Therefore, I think that Ms A was aware that fee-free 
accounts were generally available, when Lloyds sold her the Silver account. Furthermore, 
Ms A has not said anything that makes me think that Lloyds presented the account in a way 
that made her think that she had no choice but to agree to it. Indeed, Ms As testimony 
suggests she was simply persuaded into agreeing to it by Lloyds, but now regrets doing so. 
As such, I think that Ms A was given a fair choice and that she agreed to the Silver account 
knowing it was optional.
I understand that the account was sold on an advised basis. This means that Lloyds had to 
make sure the account was a good fit for her circumstances at the time. In April 2009, the 
account cost £7.95 per month and provided benefits such as European travel insurance, 
mobile phone insurance and breakdown cover. 
Ms A says that she didnt need the account or the associated benefits. That said, Ms A went 
on to claim on the breakdown cover several times, and she went on to register mobile 
phones under the mobile phone insurance policy. Therefore, her usage suggests that she 
was able to use the features of the account, which in turn suggests that the recommendation 
was not unreasonable in the circumstances. And although Ms A says she had cover 
elsewhere, it wouldve been up to Ms A to cancel her existing cover to avoid paying for the 
same cover twice. 
Ms A has said that she was able to get mobile phone insurance and breakdown cover much 
cheaper than what the Silver account cost her. However, that in itself doesnt mean the 
account was mis-sold. After all, Lloyds can only reasonably be expected to recommend or 
discuss the insurance products that it sells. Importantly, the Silver account was the cheapest 
account that Lloyds offered at the time that included both of these benefits. 
I note that Ms A says she didnt need the European travel cover. But as the account was 
sold as a package, she was unable to pick and chose what it came with. And given that she 
was able to benefit from two out of the three main benefits, this still suggests to me that it 
was not an unreasonable recommendation in the circumstances.
As well as making sure that the account was a reasonable fit for Ms As circumstances, 
Lloyds also had to give Ms A important information about the account so that she was able 
to make an informed decision. 
Due to how long ago the sale took place, its difficult for me to say that Lloyds did provide Ms 
A with all of the information that it shouldve. But equally, its clear that Lloyds did give Ms A 
at least some information about the account and its benefits. I say this as Ms A was clearly 
aware that it included mobile phone and breakdown cover and was aware of how to go 
about registering handsets and how to make a claim on the breakdown cover. 
Furthermore, based on Ms As circumstances at the time, Ive not seen anything that makes 
me think she wouldve been put off from agreeing to the Silver account, had she been given 
even more information about it. I can see that Lloyds has been sending Ms A annual 
eligibility reminders every year since 2014, which invited Ms A to check the insurance 
benefits were still suitable for her and to contact Lloyds if they werent. And despite receiving 
these annual reminders over a number of years, Ms A chose to keep the account (which she 
says she had no need for) until recently, rather than contact Lloyds to change her account.
Therefore, taking everything into account, I dont think that the account was mis-sold. I 
appreciate that, perhaps with the benefit of hindsight, Ms A may now feel that the account 
has been poor value for money over the years she held it. But that doesnt mean it was mis-
sold or that Lloyds was wrong to have sold it to her when it did. 
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont think that the Silver account was mis-sold. I 
therefore dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman