DRN-3597734
The complaint
Miss K complains that Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk 
(MoneyBoat) didnt carry out proportionate affordability checks before it granted her loans. 
Had it done so, MoneyBoat wouldve discovered that she couldnt afford to repay them. 
  
What happened
Miss K was advanced seven instalment loans by MoneyBoat and a summary of her 
borrowing follows. 
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
instalments instalment 
amount
1 £250.00 11/12/2017 01/02/2018 4 £85.24
2 £600.00 20/03/2018 18/10/2018 6 £184.63
3 £400.00 01/02/2021 17/03/2021 2 £247.78
4 £400.00 22/03/2021 15/05/2021 3 £188.89
5 £200.00 12/06/2021 18/06/2021 2 £136.62
6 £200.00 24/06/2021 16/07/2021 2 £127.35
7 £400.00 22/07/2021 outstanding* 4 £155.25
 
*In MoneyBoats final response letter an outstanding balance is shown. However, Miss K 
says she repaid this balance in February 2022. The statement of account provided by 
MoneyBoat in March 2022 does show a repayment being made but it isnt clear whether this 
was sufficient to repay the loan. It is likely it was, given no further payments have been 
recorded. But Ive kept this in mind when thinking about what MoneyBoat needs to do in 
order to put things right for Miss K. 
Following Miss Ks complaint MoneyBoat wrote to her on 14 September 2021 outlining the 
checks it had carried out before these loans were approved and it considered these checks 
to be proportionate. The checks also showed these loans were likely to be affordable for her.
MoneyBoat also offered, in the final response letter to write off, as a gesture of goodwill the 
outstanding interest due on the final loan. This wouldve reduced her outstanding balance to 
£244.75. 
Miss K didnt accept the outcome and referred the complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman.
An adjudicator initially reviewed the complaint and based on the information he had, he 
concluded only loans 1 and 2 should be upheld. He said the credit checks results provided 
by MoneyBoat showed Miss K was already committing to spending her entire income on her 
existing commitments. 
But he also said for loan 3  7 MoneyBoat ought to have carried out further checks because 
the credit search results indicated that Miss K had a number of recent defaulted accounts. At 
this point he invited Miss K to provide copies of her bank statements in order to see what 
further checks may have shown MoneyBoat. 
MoneyBoat agreed with the adjudicators assessment. 
Miss K didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment. She said she accepted the outcome 
in relation to loans 1 and 2. But couldnt agree with the findings reached for loans 3  7. Miss 
K says that she thought by loan 5, given her pattern of lending that loans 6 and 7 should be 
upheld too. Finally, Miss K says that she should also be paid compensation for the distress 
this has caused to her. 
Later, Miss K provided copies of her bank statements covering the period when loans 3  7 
were granted. 
The adjudicator then reconsidered the complaint in light of the bank statements and thought 
that in addition to loans 1 and 2, loans 3  7 should also be upheld. He said, further checks 
wouldve highlighted that Miss K was spending more than her income each month on 
gambling transactions. Miss Ks complaint was now being upheld in full. 
Miss K appears to have accepted the most recent assessment. 
MoneyBoat didnt respond to the adjudicators second assessment. 
As MoneyBoat hasnt responded to the adjudicators second assessment, the adjudicator 
arranged to refer the complaint to an ombudsman for a final decision. As part of that process 
both Miss K and MoneyBoat were provided with a further chance to provide any further 
comments and information for consideration. However, no further responses were received 
from either party. 
As no agreement could be reached, the case has been passed to me to resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MoneyBoat had to assess the lending to check if Miss K could afford to pay back the 
amounts shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. MoneyBoats checks couldve taken into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, 
and Miss Ks income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest MoneyBoat should have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss K. These factors include:
Miss K having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Miss K having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss K coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss K.
MoneyBoat was required to establish whether Miss K could sustainably repay the loan  not 
just whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Miss K was able to 
repay her loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Miss Ks complaint.
Loans 1 and 2
To start with both MoneyBoat and Miss K have already accepted the proposed outcome in 
relation to loans 1 and 2. So I dont think those loans are in dispute and so I make no finding 
about them. But I have included what MoneyBoat needs to do to pay compensation to 
Miss K in the putting things right section at the end of the decision. 
Instead this decision will focus on loans 3  7. 
Loan 3
For this loan, Miss K declared she had a monthly income of £2,604. MoneyBoat says this 
figure was checked with the information it received from the credit reference agencies.   
Miss Ks declared her expenditure to be around £2,200 per month. Overall, MoneyBoat 
calculated that Miss K had about £481 each month of disposable income in order to make 
loan repayments of around £184 per month. Based solely, on the income and expenditure 
information MoneyBoat could have, reasonably concluded Miss K could afford her loan 
repayments. 
However, MoneyBoat says a credit check was carried out, and a copy of the results have 
been provided to us. Ive reviewed the results and like the adjudicator, I am concerned by 
the information MoneyBoat was provided. In summary it saw:
Total debt excluding a mortgage of just over £17,000.
17 active credit accounts. 
6 defaults recorded within the last three years.
While this credit check on its own may not be enough to uphold the complaint, I do think 
MoneyBoat was put on notice that Miss K may have been having financial difficulties and so 
it ought to have carried out further checks, such as verification of Miss Ks financial position 
before approving this loan. 
So, taking into account the above, I do agree with the adjudicator that given the adverse 
credit file data MoneyBoat knew about, it ought to have carried out further in-depth checks. 
MoneyBoat couldve done this a number of ways, it couldve asked for copies of her payslip and/or copies of bills in order to gain a complete understanding of Miss Ks financial position. 
Or, it couldve asked to review her bank statements. 
Miss K has provided the Financial Ombudsman Service with copies of her bank statements 
and I dont think its unreasonable to consider these because MoneyBoat in my view didnt 
do a proportionate check and the bank statements given an accurate picture of Miss Ks 
overall financial position.  
Having looked at the bank statements, Im satisfied that had MoneyBoat undertaken further 
checks it wouldnt have lent to Miss K. I say this because her bank statements show a 
significant number of gambling transactions  usually multiple per day and this pattern 
continues in the entire month before this loan is approved. Its clear to me, that any further 
lending wasnt just unaffordable for Miss K but also wasnt sustainable for her either.  
Im therefore upholding Miss Ks complaint about this loan. 
Loans 4  7
Similar sorts of checks were carried out for these loans as had been carried out for loan 3. 
MoneyBoat asked Miss K about her income which she declared to be around £2,600 per 
month. In addition, her disposable income each month increased to be between £630 to 
£749 per month. So, again, solely looking at these figures MoneyBoat may have believed 
her repayments were affordable. 
But, I still think MoneyBoat ought to have carried out the same sort of checks as ought to 
have been carried out for loan 3, for the same reasons. So, I didnt think the checks for these 
loans went far enough. 
Ive once again considered Miss Ks bank statements and having done so, these loans ought 
to also not have been granted. I can see a similar pattern for these loans as I can see for 
loan 3  that Miss K is spending a significant amount each month on gambling transactions. 
The frequency of the transactions (as well as the value) ought to have made Morses realise 
that these loans werent affordable for Miss K. 
Therefore, MoneyBoat shouldnt have provided loans 3  7 and it has already agreed, it 
should also pay compensation in relation to loans 1 and 2. Therefore, Miss Ks complaint is 
being upheld in full. 
Compensation 
Ive taken on board Miss Ks comments, but I dont think any additional compensation is due 
above and beyond what I will ask MoneyBoat to do to put things right in relation to the 
lending. 
Firstly, I can quite understand why Miss K may have felt she was being accused of fraud 
given the wording of a particular the paragraph in the final response letter. I believe this is a 
standard paragraph that is included in most final response letters. I know that wont come 
as comfort or help Miss K but MoneyBoat is correct is as much as Miss K did need to 
declare accurate information to it before the loan was approved. 
However, as Ive explained above, it wasnt enough for MoneyBoat to have relied on what 
Miss K declared, and had it carried out further checks  like I think it ought to have done it 
wouldnt have approved these loans. Miss K has provided emails between herself and MoneyBoat on 13 October 2021 where she 
asked for assistance. She is quite clear in the emails that she was suffering from COVID-19 
and is behind with her priority bills. 
The agent responding to the emails, is in my view acting reasonably, they are making 
enquires with Miss K to understand her financial position which is what Id have expected it 
to do. I know Miss K is unhappy that it mentioned token payments and she didnt know what 
amount would be acceptable and I agree that MoneyBoat couldve been more specific about 
the exact amount it considered to be token. 
However, Miss K proposed to MoneyBoat a repayment schedule and this was accepted 
which I think was reasonable. Indeed, all of the communication occurred on the same day, 
so I cant even conclude that MoneyBoat unreasonably delayed putting a plan in place. 
Overall, I think at this time, MoneyBoat acted reasonably and fairly. 
I can see from the MoneyBoat notes that it has provided, that after the plan was put in place 
at the end of October, it failed and it added further fees and its likely during this period that 
interest was charged as well. However, given Ive concluded that the loans ought to not have 
been advanced then any fees and interest will be refunded to Miss K. So, Im not going to be 
asking MoneyBoat to do any more. 
I know Miss K may be disappointed by this but given the evidence that Ive seen Im not 
going to ask MoneyBoat to pay any further compensation above what Ive recommended 
below. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress MoneyBoat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it not lent to Miss K at all, as Im satisfied it ought to have. Clearly 
there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Miss K may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between her and this particular lender which she may not have had with others. If this wasnt 
a viable option, she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how she would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Miss K in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Miss K would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce MoneyBoats liability in this case for what 
Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
MoneyBoat shouldnt have given Miss K any of her loans and it should pay compensation for 
these loans (1  7). If MoneyBoat has sold the outstanding debts it should buy these back if it is able to do so 
and then take the following steps. If MoneyBoat is not able to buy the debt back, then it 
should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below. 
A. MoneyBoat should add together the total of the repayments made by Miss K towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not 
including anything already refunded.
B. MoneyBoat should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Miss K which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss K 
originally made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. It should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Miss K as though they had 
been repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Miss K 
having made overpayments then it should refund these overpayments with 8% 
simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments 
would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. MoneyBoat should then 
refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D. If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in 
a surplus, then the surplus should be paid to Miss K. However, if there is still an 
outstanding balance then MoneyBoat should try to agree an affordable repayment 
plan with Miss K.
E. MoneyBoat should remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ks credit file 
in relation to all of her loans. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to deduct tax from this interest. MoneyBoat 
should give Miss K a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted, if she asks for 
one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Miss Ks complaint in full.
Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk should put things right for 
Miss K as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 August 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman