DRN-3388030
The complaint
Mr B complained that Loans 2 Go Limited lent to him irresponsibly and provided him with an 
unaffordable loan.
What happened
Loans 2 Go provided a loan to Mr B as follows:
Date 
takenAmount Term Monthly 
repaymentTotal amount 
repayable over loan 
termDate repaid
3/4/2021 £1,000 18 months £228.56 £4,114.08 15/10/21
When Mr B complained to Loans 2 Go it said it didnt uphold his complaint but offered to 
refund him £450 as a gesture of goodwill in order to settle his complaint.
Mr B didnt feel this offer went far enough and so he brought his complaint to us.
Mr B told us that Loans 2 Go didnt do proper checks before lending and had it done so, it 
wouldve seen he had a gambling problem and shouldve realised he couldnt afford the loan.  
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint. She didnt think Loans 2 Go should have 
provided Mr B with the loan and so she upheld the complaint and set out the steps 
Loans 2 Go needed to take to put things right.
Loans 2 Go didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment. It mainly said:
it made a significant effort to ensure it had a full picture of Mr Bs financial 
circumstances and a thorough affordability assessment was conducted showing the 
loan was affordable 
Mr B failed to tell Loans 2 Go about having a gambling addiction when he was asked 
a direct question about this 
Loans 2 Go wasnt required to ask for bank statements and so it couldnt say that the 
checks it made werent proportionate or that a proportionate check would have 
revealed the gambling. 
So the case comes to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint. Ive independently reviewed this 
complaint and reached the same conclusions as our adjudicator.
There are some key questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this particular complaint:
 Did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr B 
would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way? If so, did Loans 2 Go make a fair 
lending decision?
 If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
 Did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. This should include 
more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can 
sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a 
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation. 
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there was any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender 
shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money problems for a borrower 
who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a sustainable way.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint.
Loans 2 Go asked Mr B about his income - which it took steps to verify. It also asked him 
about his expenditure and did some credit checks  which it has sent me. Loans 2 Go hasnt 
explained in detail how it worked out its affordability calculation but I've taken into account 
the information Loans 2 Go gathered from Mr B. I think its fair to say that the figures Mr B 
declared seemed to suggest he had ample disposable income after taking into account his 
monthly expenditure and it appeared that he should have been able to comfortably afford the 
monthly repayments for this loan.
But given what Loans 2 Go understood about Mr Bs financial situation, I think our 
adjudicator was right to be concerned about Loans 2 Go making its lending decision without 
doing more in-depth checks or taking steps to verify more of the information it was relying on 
 for instance, by going further in its checks into his expenditure. I say this because the 
information Loans 2 Go had gathered about Mr Bs income and expenditure looked to be 
clearly at odds with his loan application. 
Loans 2 Go understood that Mr B could safely rely on getting a minimum salary of at least 
£1,725 per month. It worked out that his monthly expenses amounted to around £1,186  so 
this suggested Mr B should have more than £500 spare cash left each month.On the face of it, this meant that Mr B couldve saved up the loan amount in under two 
months. Of course, borrowers might choose to borrow immediately rather than save up and 
use their own money. But bearing in mind that Mr B signed up to potentially repay more than 
four times the original loan amount over the next 18 months this was a very expensive loan 
for him to take out and I think the onus was on the lender to understand why he seemed to 
want to do this. I cant see that Loans 2 Go took any meaningful steps to try to understand 
Mr Bs actual financial situation  it doesnt even appear to have recorded the loan purpose.  
So thinking about all the information Loans 2 Go had gathered, I dont think it was able to be 
satisfied on the information it had in front of it that it could safely conclude that it was safe to 
rely on its affordability assessment  so it wasnt in a position to conclude that the loan would 
be sustainably affordable for Mr B.
I think Loans 2 Go should have realised that it was no longer reasonable to base its lending 
decision on information Mr B was providing. I think it would have been proportionate for 
Loans 2 Go to have taken steps to independently verify the true state of Mr Bs finances and 
it needed to do more in-depth checks to ensure it properly understood his financial situation 
before agreeing to provide this loan. 
Ive thought about what proportionate checks would likely have shown. Mr B has provided 
his bank statements so Ive looked through these to see what Loans 2 Go was likely to have 
found out. To be clear, Im not suggesting the lender should necessarily have done this. But, 
in the absence of other evidence, I think these give a reasonable guide as to Mr Bs finances 
at the time. 
And had Loans 2 Go looked in depth at Mr Bs finances it would likely have seen that he was 
facing serious problems managing his money. I think it would have learnt that whilst Mr Bs 
monthly salary was more than Loans 2 Go had allowed for - around £3,100 - he was 
nevertheless regularly spending very significant amounts on what appear to be gambling 
transactions. Our adjudicator mentioned Mr B spending more than twice his pay during the 
two months or so running up to him taking out this loan. He was substantially overdrawn at 
his bank during this time  starting and ending the month overdrawn by a four figure amount 
that exceeded his monthly pay - and he was incurring significant overdraft fees.  
I think this paints an overall picture of someone whose spending was out of control. It is clear 
that Mr B didnt have sufficient (or any) disposable income out of which to repay the loan 
provided by Loans 2 Go. And had Loans 2 Go done what I consider wouldve been a 
proportionate check before agreeing this loan, it wouldve likely found out this information for 
itself.
Simply asking Mr B a question about gambling wasnt enough to discharge the obligation 
Loans 2 Go had to do enough to check that the loan was sustainably affordable for Mr B. 
So I dont think it was reasonable for Loans 2 Go to conclude that it was likely Mr B would be 
able to repay this loan in a sustainable manner.
For these reasons, I am upholding Mr Bs complaint that he should not have been given the 
loan.
Putting things right
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that Loans 2 Go should pay any additional redress. Mr B 
hasnt commented on that and I havent seen anything which makes me think that Loans 2 
Go acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr B in some other way. So I havent identified any reason for me to award any additional redress. 
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr B to repay the capital amount that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. 
But he has paid extra for lending that should not have been provided to him.
In line with this Services approach, Mr B shouldnt repay more than the capital amount he 
borrowed.
Loans 2 Go should do the following:
 add up the total amount of money Mr B received as a result of having been given the loan. 
The repayments Mr B made should be deducted from this amount.
 If this results in Mr B having paid more than he received, then any overpayments should 
be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the overpayments were 
made until the date of settlement).
 remove any negative information recorded on Mr Bs credit file regarding the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to deduct tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go 
should give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Loans 2 Go Limited to take the steps I've set out above to 
put things right for Mr B.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman