DRN-4064467
The complaint
Mr G and Mrs G have complained about their property insurer Gresham Insurance Company 
Limited because it has declined liability for some damage at their property whilst accepting 
liability for fixing other areas, following a water leak. 
What happened
Mr G and Mrs G have a property which was subject to a leak from the mains supply on the 
road. Mrs G made a claim to Gresham and an assessor visited the property. Mrs G couldnt 
meet him there at that time, her neighbour provided keys. Greshams assessor felt 
decoration had been affected in the lounge and kitchen, but that a utility room to the side of 
the house had been affected by long term water ingress and damp, not associated with the 
leak.
Gresham offered settlement for the damage it felt was associated with the leak. And said it 
would review costs from Mrs G once those were available, which were later provided. But, 
following challenge from Mrs G about the utility room, Gresham felt its view in this respect 
was fair and reasonable. It wasnt minded to agree any liability or make any settlement for 
the damage in the utility room. Mrs G complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our Investigator, noting Greshams expert opinion, felt it had made a fair and reasonable 
decision. So she didnt uphold the complaint.
Mrs G said they were dissatisfied with the findings. She said the utility room, which was 
formerly the kitchen, was built in 1947 and it had been fine since, until the leak, with lots of 
items stored safely in there. The leak had affected the kitchen, which was further from the 
road than the utility room. Mr G and Mrs Gs complaint was referred for an Ombudsmans 
consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed all of the photos of the property. I can understand why Mr G and Mrs G think 
the utility room must be suffering damage on account of the leak. At face value, the layout  
with the utility room closer to the road than the kitchen  and knowing the kitchen is 
accepted as having suffered water ingress, I accept they think its only logical that the utility 
would be affected too. But I bear in mind that the utility room is off to the side of the lounge 
and kitchen where it is accepted that water damage occurred. And the accepted water 
damage in those areas is relatively minor  requiring some drying and redecoration. That is 
quite different to the scale of the damage in the utility room.
As much as I sympathise with Mr G and Mrs G, understanding as I do their belief based on 
the logical argument Ive set out above  Gresham has had an expert assess the damage at 
the property. I know Mrs G couldnt meet him there. But Im not persuaded that would have 
assisted  I dont think his findings are flawed in any way such that talking to Mrs G would 
have resulted in a different finding. And I understand that he wanted to act quickly to 
consider the complaint, which meant a visit could not be delayed until Mrs G was next due to 
visit. I think this was handled reasonably.
The assessor noted the utility room was constructed on a wood frame, with single brick walls 
and that the ground to the side of it was higher than the floor inside. Also that the floor in the 
doorway was level with the tiled area outside, with no step or door sill present, such as to 
prevent water ingress. He noted the wood was rotten and that the plaster on the walls was in 
a poor condition. He took photos showing these issues. The assessor concluded that the 
utility room had been damaged by long-term damp and water ingress, rather than having 
been affected by the mains leak. I find his report persuasive. It wasnt unreasonable for 
Gresham to rely on it. I think Gresham has acted fairly and reasonably to decline this 
element of the claim.
      
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Gresham Insurance Company 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 August 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman