DRN-3715627
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) unfairly declined a claim for 
damage to his home under a home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr W contacted Aviva to make a claim when he caused damage to his home and garden 
due to a manic episode. Aviva declined the claim due to an exclusion for loss or damage 
from a deliberate or criminal act. When Mr W complained, Aviva maintained its decision to 
decline the claim.
So, Mr W complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said Mr Ws 
medical records showed he had reduced capacity of rational thought, so it wasnt a 
deliberate act and Mr W wasnt charged with a criminal offence. He said the exclusion wasnt 
relevant and so Aviva should assess the claim and pay it in full.
As Aviva didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
The policy has an exclusion for: Deliberate or Criminal Acts Any loss or damage or liability 
arising from a deliberate or criminal act by you or any other person living with you.
It isnt in question that Mr W caused a range of damage to his home and garden. The issue 
is whether Mr Ws state of mind was such at the time that he should be considered legally 
insane. The test for legal insanity is the MNaghten Test. This says that for someone to avoid 
legal responsibility a person must show: (i) that he did not know what he was doing or (ii) if 
he did know what he was doing, that he didnt know what he was doing was wrong.
The same day Mr W damaged his home, he was sectioned under the Mental Health Act. Mr 
Ws mental state was assessed, including his mental state when he damaged his home. 
Both parties are aware of what the medical evidence said and I dont think it is necessary for 
me to describe it in detail here. But the medical assessment provides a detailed explanation 
of why Mr W smashed up his house and caused damage to the garden and I think its clear 
that his mental state was the key factor in this. According to the medical evidence, this had 
greatly affected his perception at the time of incident and his understanding of what he was 
doing. Given Mr W was sectioned for a period of time, I think this also strongly indicates the 
seriousness of the situation and the level of Mr Ws mental impairment at the time.
Im aware Aviva has said the medical evidence showed that Mr W had signs of mental health 
issues a few years before the incident. It said if this had been diagnosed at that earlier time, 
the incident might not have happened and the damage could have been prevented. What 
Aviva has said is irrelevant to the issue that needs to be decided, which is whether, on the 
day of the incident, Mr W was legally responsible for his actions. Based on what Ive seen, I 
think its more likely than not that Mr Ws mental state was so impaired that he didnt know 
what he was doing or that, even if he was aware of what he was doing, he didnt know that it 
was wrong.
So, I dont think its fair or reasonable for Aviva to say that Mr Ws actions were deliberate 
and for it to apply the exclusion. As a result, I dont think it was fair for Aviva to decline the 
claim on that basis. So, Aviva needs to settle the claim for damage to Mr Ws property.
Putting things right
Aviva must settle the claim for the damage to Mr Ws home and garden.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is upheld. I require 
Aviva Insurance Limited to settle the claim for damage to Mr Ws home and garden.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman