DRN-3361107
The complaint
Mr T complains about his home emergency policy provided by British Gas Insurance Limited 
(British Gas) and that British Gas left him without heating or hot water for a week. 
What happened
One evening In October 2021 Mr T found there was no hot water at his property. Having a 
home emergency policy with British Gas, he contacted them and an appointment for an 
engineer to attend was made for the following day but one. An engineer attended and 
identified a problem with a fan, which he cleaned and shortened some pipes. This restored 
heating and hot water. 
However, on the morning of the following day, when Mr T turned on the hot water the boiler 
cut out, leaving no heating or hot water. Mr T contacted British Gas and a second 
appointment was made for the following day. An engineer attended and changed a fuse and 
re-pressurised the boiler, which restored heating and hot water. However, later the same day 
the boiler cut out again. Mr T called British Gas, who offered an emergency appointment 
between 6pm and 6am the following day. However, the engineer that was due to attend that 
evening had a problem with his van, so British Gas contacted Mr T to say the engineer 
couldnt attend until the following morning.
The engineer attended for the third appointment and found melted wires in the boiler and 
that parts would need to be ordered to complete repairs. He said hed return the following 
day. The engineer attended (for the fourth appointment) as scheduled the following day. He 
installed the new parts and the boiler worked normally again.
However, unhappy at what had happened at the time of the third appointment, Mr T 
complained to British Gas. British Gas considered the complaint and offered Mr T £75 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr T. Following a discussion 
with Mr T, British Gas increased its offer to £200. However, Mr T rejected the offer, asking 
for £500 in compensation. British Gas considered matters further. In their final response they 
said where there are potentially multiple faults that can cause a problem it can take 
engineers longer to identify the problem (and more visits). They maintained their offer of 
£200 compensation was fair.
Mr T then complained to this service. The main part of his complaint was that British 
Gas left him without heating or hot water over the course of a week and that it took 
four engineer visits and numerous phone calls to British Gas before the problem was 
fixed. The lack of heating or hot water was very stressful for him and his family (two of 
whom had a medical condition exacerbated by the situation). He asked for £500 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience from the situation and for British 
Gas to improve their processes to allow faster engineer response times.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint, concluding British Gas didnt need to 
take any action. She noted British Gas had attended four times in the period, 
restoring the boiler to operation (at least for a while) on each occasion other than the 
third visit (when parts were required). She also thought that identifying a fault could 
be a process of elimination and that British Gas had attended in reasonable 
timescales over the period. Nor did she think the property was uninhabitable. While it 
had taken several visits to identify the problem, she thought the £200 compensation 
offered by British Gas was reasonable.
Mr T disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. He believed the fault that was eventually diagnosed (and fixed) should have been 
diagnosed on the first visit, meaning the issue wouldnt have continued (for the five days it 
did from the fist appointment) and the nature of the fault presented a fire risk. He was also 
unhappy at being cut off in one call and how hed been treated during the call. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id first of all want to reassure Mr T that Ive thought carefully about what hes told us of the 
incident and the impact it had on him and his family. I recognise that being without heating 
and hot water is very inconvenient and stressful, particularly where there are younger family 
members (including ones with the medical condition Mr T has told us about). Ive borne this 
in mind when thinking about what happened, and my role here to decide whether British Gas 
has acted fairly towards Mr T.
While there are distinct issues in Mr Ts complaint, the overall issue is that it took four visits 
before the fault with his boiler was diagnosed correctly and finally resolved. Within this 
overall issue, there are specific elements including: Mr T and his family being left without 
heating and hot water over the period; not being offered any alternative accommodation in 
the absence of heating or hot water; and the attitude of British Gas in one of the calls Mr T 
made to them.
On the overall issue, Mr T says the fault that was eventually diagnosed and fixed should 
have been identified on the first visit (whereas it was identified on the third visit, before being 
fixed on the fourth visit when the necessary parts were available). British Gas say it can take 
more than one visit to identify the underlying problem, particularly where there may be 
multiple potential causes of a fault. Thinking about this. Along with the notes of the visits 
made by the engineers, while I agree it would have been better had the underlying cause 
been identified on the first visit, I dont its completely unreasonable that it wasnt. The visit 
notes indicate that action was taken in response to error codes from inspecting the boiler 
and the visits were each of a reasonable length. It also would appear that the boiler was 
working after each visit  albeit only briefly.
Ive also considered that, while four visits were made, they were spread over a five-day 
period. And one of the visits (the third) had to be put back from the evening to the following 
day due to a van breakdown. I dont think four visits over five days is unreasonable, in terms 
of responsiveness. 
Ive also considered the impact of being left without heating or hot water over the period 
(although not for the whole period). I recognise the impact that this would have had on Mr T 
and his family, given what hes told us. It will certainly have caused distress and 
inconvenience. Ill come on to consider what I think would be an appropriate level of 
compensation for the lack of heating and hot water.
On the point about alternative accommodation, Mr T said that while he discussed his 
situation during calls with British Gas, he didnt specifically say his property was 
uninhabitable (though Ive seen reference to British Gas have effectively rendered our house uninhabitable in an email to British Gas the day before the fault was finally fixed). 
While British Gas dont cover this issue specifically, Ive thought about the sequence of 
events. Its clear British Gas have tried to resolve the issue in successive visits (and that the 
boiler is working after the first and second visits, although briefly). In the circumstances, I 
dont think thats unreasonable (even before considering the question of whether the policy 
makes any provision for property being uninhabitable  which is what Id expect in a home 
insurance policy). So, Ive concluded British Gas didnt act unreasonably in this respect.
On the point about the attitude of British Gas in one of the calls (when Mr T contacted British 
Gas when the boiler stopped working shortly after the third visit) I havent had access to a 
recording of the call. However, Ive seen Mr Ts account of the call (as well as British Gass 
acknowledgement of it in their final response). Accepting Mr Ts version of the call, British 
Gas apologised for how Mr T had been treated and would provide feedback to the agent 
concerned. I think thats reasonable and what Id expect. Ive also noted that a subsequent 
call to another agent was much more positive. So I dont think British Gas should do 
anything more on this issue.
Taking all these points and my conclusions together, Ive also considered the question of 
compensation. British Gas offered Mr T £200 in compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience to Mr T and his family from their experience and the time they were without 
heating and hot water. Mr T thinks £500 would be fair. Ive considered both views carefully, 
including what Mt T has told us about his family circumstances. While it took four visits 
before the issue was finally resolved, this was over a five-day period, when the boiler was 
working for some of the time. I dont think its unreasonable that more than one visit 
sometimes is needed to diagnose a fault, nor that parts may have to be ordered ahead of 
being fitted. Taking these points into account, I think £200 compensation is fair and 
reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman