DRN-1660795
The complaint
Mr C complains that Virgin Money PLC gave him short notice and the limited range of 
options when his ISA was about to mature. And that this caused him to miss out on an ISA 
offering 1.50% interest as it was no longer available when he tried to apply. 
What happened
On 11 July 2019 Mr C received an email prompting him to log in to his Virgin Money 
account. He logged in and found that his fixed rate cash ISA was due to mature on 24 July 
2019. As Mr C had seen the Double Take E-ISA Issue 7 at 1.50% (Double Take ISA 7) 
advertised, he decided to transfer to this. But when he tried, it wasn't listed as an option 
causing him to be concerned that there might be an issue if he applied as a new customer. 
Mr C delayed the application and sent a secure message to Virgin Money asking how to 
make the transfer. But when he logged into his account later that day - the Double Take ISA 
7 was no longer available. 
The following day Mr C received an email, from the business, telling him that his ISA was 
due to mature - as well as a response to his enquiry explaining how to transfer his ISA. He 
replied expressing his frustration that the ISA wasnt available, and arranged for his funds to 
be transferred to another ISA, offering 1.25% as a temporary measure. The funds were 
transferred 19 July 2019, and Mr C complained to Virgin Money. He said that the short 
notice and limited options had led him to miss out on the Double Take ISA 7 as it had not 
been included in his maturity option list.
Virgin Money responded to Mr Cs complaint extending the offer of the Double Take ISA 7 as 
a gesture of goodwill and Mr C was asked to sign and return the application form. As Mr C 
hadnt received a return envelope, it was agreed that he could send email confirmation - but 
he was later told that this wouldn't be sufficient. Mr C said that he wasn't prepared to wait 
any longer and he opened an account elsewhere - transferring the majority of his money into 
an ISA offering 2%. The transfer completed on 28 August 2019.
Within their response the business said that while they werent able to offer a complete 
range of products on their maturity forms - a full range was available online or by calling their 
UK based teams. They said that the notice period Virgin Money gave was as a courtesy, and 
that it was the customer's responsibility to manage their account. They believed they had 
acted fairly by offering the Double Take ISA 7 after it was removed from the market, while 
apologising for the unfortunate timing of the advice given by the call handler. Mr C didnt 
agree with the business and brought his complaint to us - saying that hed like £100 
compensation for any interest hed lost and the inconvenience hed been caused. 
The investigators view was that the complaint shouldnt be upheld. She was satisfied Virgin 
Money had acted fairly in its dealings with Mr C. Mr C didnt agree and asked that his 
complaint be given to an ombudsman to decide - saying that he didnt think Virgin Money 
acted fairly by giving such a short notice period, and that as a result hed lost interest.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
the complaint and will explain why.
Advance notice of maturity
Im aware that Mr C raised a further point at the end of the investigation referring to the 
Banking Conduct of Business Sourcebook (BCOBS) regulation 4.1, asking that our 
investigator consider this. From her response to Mr C; I can see that she has done so.
Im aware that Mr C feels strongly about this, so I examined the relevant regulation. Having 
done so my interpretation is slightly different to that of Mr C - Ill explain why. 
BCOBS doesnt require a specific period as advance notice of maturity. In this respect, all it 
says is that such notice must be given in good time. The regulation (and guidance) doesnt 
define what this means. Rather, it says that in determining what is in good timea firm 
should consider the importance of the information to the decision-making process of the 
banking customer and the time at which the information may be most useful.
BCOBS 4.1.2(6A)G goes on to say In relation to a fixed-term savings account, a firm should 
provide notice of the expiry of the fixed term to the banking customer on paper or in another 
durable medium in good time before the end of the fixed term
6B Where a notice under (3)(c), (5) or (6A) is provided by the firm more than 14 days 
before the change to which the notice relates takes effect, a firm should also provide a 
reminder to the banking customer within a period beginning 14 days before the relevant 
change takes effect and ending on the day before it does so
From the way this guidance is worded (and the purpose of the regulation itself), my 
interpretation is that customers should at least receive a notice within 14 days of the maturity 
date, and in enough time to act by the maturity date.
Here, Mr C received his notice 12 days before the maturity date. He had nearly two weeks to 
review his options. I find that was sufficient time and in line with the BCOBS regulation.
I understand that Mr C feels that the lack of options offered led to his missing out on the 
Double Take ISA 7 as it wasnt listed on his maturity instruction. But the purpose of the 
notification was to remind Mr C that maturity was pending, and that it was time for him to 
review the various options. The options referred to in BCOBS are for dealing with the 
account balance; for example, whether the money is to be reinvested or withdrawn. The 
regulation doesnt require Virgin Money to provide an exhaustive list of its accounts. I must 
also acknowledge that Mr C was already aware of the Double Take ISA 7 at the time, having 
already done his own research. 
Withdrawal of the Double Take ISA 7
I understand how frustrating it would be for Mr C to decide on a specific ISA, for it to no 
longer be available when he tried to apply. But the removal of any product is based on a 
business decision that Virgin Money are entitled to make. I accept that the timing of Mr Cs maturity date and the removal of the ISA was unfortunate. But, in any event, Virgin Money 
extended the offer of the Double Take 7 ISA in their final response to his complaint. 
While Mr C didnt return the form and contacted the business saying that there hadnt been a 
return envelope, from the email exchange provided by the business, I can see that the agent 
attempted to rectify this offering Mr C the opportunity to agree to the ISA by email. 
Unfortunately, this option wasnt possible in the circumstances  so a further pack was sent 
out for Mr C to sign and return. Mr C then responded by saying that he had chosen to open a 
different account elsewhere offering 2% interest. From the information provided by the 
business I can see that the transfer took place in late August 2019, and that during the time 
Mr C corresponded with the business he was never restricted from moving his money 
elsewhere. 
Summary
While I understand Mr C might have found his experience frustrating, it strikes me that he 
had several opportunities to open the Double Take 7 ISA, even though it was withdrawn 
from Virgin Moneys product range before his account matured. Although there was some 
confusion when answering Mr Cs initial enquiry, Virgin Money apologised and rectified the 
situation as quickly as possible by allowing Mr C to take up their extended offer - if he chose 
to do so. I feel that this was sufficient given the circumstances of this complaint as Virgin 
Money had extended the offer as a gesture of goodwill.  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have outlined above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 April 2020.
Sarah Watts
Ombudsman