DRN-1804561
The complaint
Mrs P and Mr P are unhappy that British Gas Services Limited (BG) wont refund their policy 
premium after it failed to complete an annual boiler service.
What happened
Mrs P and Mr P had HomeCare Two, including annual boiler service, with BG. It was a joint 
policy but, for ease and as Mrs P dealt with the complaint, I will refer only to her throughout 
my decision.
Mrs P complained to BG because it hadnt completed her annual boiler service within the 
policy year. Although a service was booked in, BG had to reschedule and didnt attend 
before the end of the year.
Mrs P asked BG to refund her policy premiums. BG refused because it had tried to 
reschedule the service but Mrs P had declined the appointments offered. Mrs P cancelled 
her policy.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought that BG had provided enough notice 
of the need to reschedule and it couldnt be held responsible for Mrs Ps refusal to agree a 
new appointment. He thought that BGs offer to complete the service even after Mrs P had 
cancelled the policy was fair, so he didnt think it needed to do any more.
Mrs P disagreed and asked for consideration to be given to BGs failure to complete a 
service during 19 months of the policy.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise she will be disappointed with the outcome, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ps 
complaint. Ill explain why.
The key issue, here, is that Mrs P doesnt think BG provided the annual boiler service she 
was entitled to under her policy. 
The policy defines the annual service as:
- a check in each period of agreement to ensure that your gas boiler, appliance or central 
heating, and ventilation is working safely and in line with the relevant laws and regulations. 
The period of agreement is not a calendar year. It is defined in the policy as:
- the day your agreement starts until your agreement runs out, as detailed on your 
statement.
The policy conditions say:
Your annual service may be more than 12 months after your last service visit. In periods of 
local or national high demand for our services (such as cold weather), we prioritise 
breakdowns and may need to rearrange your annual service.
I think the terms and conditions of the policy are clear  an annual boiler service will be 
completed within the policy year but that wont necessarily be within 12 months of the 
previous service. So, in Mrs Ps case, her policy ran from November to November. She had 
a service in March, roughly halfway through her policy year. The next service was booked for 
October the following year. That was indeed 19 months from the previous service, but it still 
fell within the policy year because it was arranged for completion before the policy year 
ended in November.
Im satisfied that BG arranged the service within the policy year in line with the terms, but the 
appointment was cancelled. BG gave Mrs P two days notice, explaining that it was due to 
demand for emergencies.
Ive looked at the policy to see what should happen in these circumstances. It says:
Reasonable timescales
Well carry out any repairs or visits youre entitled to within a reasonable time, unless 
something beyond our control makes that impossible  in which case well let you know as 
soon as possible and give you another time when we can visit.
While I can understand that Mrs P was frustrated that her annual service appointment was 
cancelled, I think BG provided enough notice, and in line with the policy. I also think it was 
reasonable that BG prioritised emergency appointments over a routine service appointment. 
BG offered Mrs P two alternative dates for her service appointment, both of which were still 
within the policy year. She declined both. BG then offered to complete two services during 
the following policy year. Mrs P declined and cancelled her policy. 
Ive thought carefully about BGs offers to Mrs P and whether they were in line with the 
overall policy. When arranging an appointment, the terms of the policy say BG will,
try to contact you up to three times. If we dont hear back from you after the third time, we 
wont try again and wont refund the cost of the missed annual service. You can still contact 
us at any time to book it. 
I appreciate that these werent three different occasions, but BG did make three different 
offers to Mrs P so that it could honour the contract. In fact, it went on to offer another option, 
which was to provide the service even after Mrs P had cancelled the policy and she was no 
longer a BG customer. I think BG made a fair and reasonable attempt to provide the service 
Mrs P had paid for but, because she rejected its offers, it wasnt able to fulfil that part of the 
contract. The terms say that BG wont refund the cost of the missed service if Mrs P fails to 
arrange the appointment after its attempts have failed. So, in these circumstances, where its 
attempts to agree a service appointment failed, I think its reasonable that BG refused to 
refund the premium.
In summary, I think that BG made fair and reasonable attempts to provide the service Mrs P 
paid for. While I can understand that there will always be an element of frustration when an agreed appointment needs to be rescheduled, I dont think there is anything more BG needs 
to do in the circumstances.
 My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 December 2020.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman