DRN-3499833
The complaint
Mr P has made various complaints about Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) and how 
they have dealt with his mortgage application. Hes unhappy as they wont remove his ex-
partner from the mortgage, and they wont give him a new mortgage product  hes currently 
on the standard variable rate (SVR).
What happened
Mr P has a joint mortgage with Halifax, and he wants his ex-partner removed from the 
mortgage. He is unhappy that he is paying more each month by remaining on the SVR. He 
wants Halifax to transfer his mortgage to a fixed rate, but also take his ex-partner off the 
mortgage. 
Mr P has made multiple complaints to Halifax. Halifax have sent final response letters to 
address the points that Mr P complained about. They have said Mr P started a sole 
mortgage application in November 2018 and they sent out a mortgage offer in June 2019. 
This offer expired in September 2019, which Mr P was unhappy about. He said they didnt 
tell him that the offer had an expiry date on it. 
Halifax also said they dealt with issues surrounding a delayed call back to Mr P and that he 
also wanted them to reimburse his solicitor fees. Mr P said that Halifax made him use their 
solicitors when he had already appointed one. In summary, Mr P was and remains unhappy 
with how Halifax have dealt with his application. 
Mr P brought this complaint to our service and the investigator confirmed to Mr P that the 
Financial Ombudsman had already investigated this complaint  about the application - in 
September 2020  so we would not look at this again.
The investigator noted that Mr P complained to Halifax again in October 2020 about the fact 
he was on the SVR, the mortgage offer didnt have an expiry date and that he had to use 
Halifaxs solicitor when he already had his own. Mr P said that Halifax never responded to 
his letters from May and October 2020. 
Our investigator explained to Mr P that many of his complaint points have already been 
addressed by the Financial Ombudsman Service and that we also dont have consent from 
the joint party to look at the complaint about the mortgage. He said we could only look into 
the points regarding Halifax not responding to his letters. 
In order to resolve this complaint, Mr P has asked for £3,000 compensation. 
Mr P disagreed and said he was unhappy with Halifax and that he wants to remove his ex-
partner from the mortgage. He asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so 
it has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its evident that Mr P remains very unhappy with how Halifax have dealt with his application 
amongst other things. As the investigator explained, the Financial Ombudsman issued 
findings in September 2020 about the delays with the mortgage application which resulted in 
him paying fees, and the mortgage offer expiry issue. So I wont be commenting on these 
points again. 
I can see that Mr P complained to Halifax again in October 2020. This complaint was about 
the interest rate that Mr P was on and about the expiry of the mortgage offer. He also 
complained that he had had his own solicitor, but Halifax told him he had to use their one. 
Mr P then brought this complaint to our service in December 2020. He told us that Halifax 
hadnt responded to him. I can see that Halifax sent Mr P a letter in February 2021. They 
said that they already dealt with the interest rate issue in August 2018. They said they 
offered to backdate the interest rate if Mr P were to complete an application  but he never 
did this. Because of this, his account remained on the SVR. Halifax also confirmed that they 
dealt with Mr Ps concerns about removing his ex-partner in their April 2020 final response. 
Halifax also told Mr P they wouldnt pay him £3,000 compensation because they didnt do 
anything wrong. 
I can see that Mr P wrote to Halifax again as he was unhappy that they didnt respond to his 
letters from May and October 2020.  He also said that Halifax didnt give him clarity about 
the current position of the mortgage. 
Halifax sent Mr P another letter in March 2021 and confirmed they had already dealt with Mr 
Ps concerns in their letters from August 2018, April 2020 and February 2021. They 
confirmed his mortgage was still in joint names and that he had an active application for a 
sole mortgage but the mortgage offer for that application expired in December 2020. They 
said that Mr P would need to speak to them again if he wanted to make a further application.
Having considered everything carefully, I will be able to comment on the fact that Mr P says 
he didnt get a response to his letters from May and October 2020. But we have already 
made a finding on the complaint points surrounding the application that Mr P made to Halifax 
which included the offer that expired  so its not appropriate for me to reconsider that matter 
again here. However, I do understand that Mr P still wants to make an application to remove 
his ex-partner from the mortgage. He still believes that Halifax should be able to do this. 
In the original complaint dealt with at the Financial Ombudsman Service, the investigator at 
the time didnt agree that Halifax had done anything wrong that caused delay, so didnt ask 
Halifax to refund any of the fees that Mr P wanted reimbursed. However, the complaint point 
surrounding the solicitor wasnt addressed in September 2020 by the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, but the investigator has now looked into this and didnt think that Halifax had done 
anything wrong. I will therefore be able to consider this point in this decision as well. 
So Ill now go ahead and consider if Halifax have acted reasonably towards Mr P and if they 
have to do anything to put things right, in respect of the points I can consider as set out 
above.
I think its clear here that Mr P wanted to make a new application just in his name so that he 
can continue the mortgage on his own and change the interest rate that he is currently on. 
The Financial Ombudsman already issued findings regarding the previous mortgage 
application that Mr P made. And in the response from Halifax in February 2021, they 
confirmed to Mr P that as the previous mortgage offer expired, Mr P could contact them to 
discuss a new application. I understand that Mr P has since gone back to Halifax to start a 
new mortgage application. 
I appreciate Mr P wants to get this sorted as quickly as possible because he is still on the 
SVR and feels he is paying too much. But in order to get this sorted, he did need to contact 
Halifax to make a new mortgage application  which he has now done.  The previous 
responses from Halifax to Mr P did make it clear what he needed to do in order to move 
things forward so I cant say that Halifax didnt address Mr Ps concerns. Now that Mr P has 
started a new application process, if he is unhappy regarding the new application that is made, he is able to bring this complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for us to 
consider it. 
Up until more recently, Mr P hadnt made any further requests to Halifax since April 2020. I 
appreciate that Mr P told us that he didnt want to contact Halifax sooner because of the 
issues he encountered previously, but we wouldnt have been able to tell Halifax to complete 
an application on Mr Ps behalf  this is something he had to do. 
Based on what I have seen, I cant say that Halifax have acted unfairly or unreasonably. 
However, I think they could have responded sooner than they did to Mr Ps concerns. Mr P 
complained to Halifax in October 2020 and he got a response in February and March 2021. 
But that said, Mr P still hadnt made any further enquires with Halifax about a new 
application since April 2020 until more recently  so I dont think the delay in responding to 
him would have made a difference to this complaint.
With regard to the solicitors, Mr P has said that when he made his mortgage application in 
2020, Halifax told him he had to use their solicitors even though he had his own solicitor. 
Halifax havent been able to provide us with contact notes for this period but what they have 
been able to tell us, is that the notes on his application form from the time, do show that Mr P 
wanted to use his own solicitor. They said they would have needed to ensure that these 
solicitors were on their approved panel. Most lenders have a panel of solicitors that are 
approved that borrowers can use, and as long as the solicitor that has been chosen by the 
borrower is on there  then this is acceptable to the lender. 
I havent seen anything that suggests that Halifax told Mr P he had to use their own solicitor 
and its likely this would have only been the case, if Mr P appointed a solicitor that wasnt 
approved by Halifax. This is normal practice for lenders so I cant say that Halifax have acted 
unreasonably here.
As we dont have the current contact notes, its difficult to say whether the solicitor that Mr P 
wanted to use at the time was on Halifaxs panel. Even if they were not, Mr P didnt pay any 
solicitor fees in 2020 so I dont think this would have made a difference at the time. 
I understand that Mr P will be disappointed with my decision. As he has now made a new 
application with Halifax,  and as weve already mentioned before, he can contact the 
Financial Ombudsman Service should he have any new complaint points about this new 
application. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 
14 September 2022.
 
Maria Drury
Ombudsman