DRN-4449203
The complaint
Mr S complained that he was given unsuitable advice to transfer his defined benefit (DB) 
British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a type of personal pension plan, in 2017.
Mallinson Wealth Management Limited is responsible for answering this complaint and so to 
keep things consistent, Ill refer mainly to MWM.
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint last month and Ive had the replies I 
need. So Im now issuing a final decision.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ss employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with 
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included 
transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined benefit 
scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their benefits to 
a personal pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of 
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said 
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Ss employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were being sent a Time to Choose letter which 
gave them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 
or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017). 
Mr S was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security 
of his preserved benefits in the BSPS. He was unsure what to do and was referred to MWM 
which is responsible for providing the pension advice. Information gathered about his 
circumstances and objectives at the time of the recommendation were broadly as follows:
Mr S was 56 years old and married to Mrs S who was 51. They had one adult child 
who was in tertiary education. Mr S himself was described as being in relatively good 
health. However, Mrs S wasnt in such good health and had a lifelong condition that 
can sometimes cause serious disability.
Mr S earned around £36,000 (gross) per year still in the steel industry and Mrs S was 
in receipt of benefits of over £8,300 per year as a consequence of her medical 
condition. Mr and Mrs S lived in a home with a mortgage although the term was 
nearing completion. After all their household expenses, they had some disposable 
income left over each month. They were putting aside some savings.
Mrs S had three small pensions of her own, one of which was due to pay £2,8691 per 
1 Source: MWMs suitability report, 22 November 2017.
year in due course.
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Ss BSPS totaled approximately 
£318,171. The normal retirement age (NRA) was 65. Mr S was hoping to retire a little 
earlier although he acknowledged this was hard to judge as to when this might be. 
He said he was thinking about reducing his hours first, in anything between 2 -and- 5 
years time.
Mr S had joined the new TATA defined contribution (DC) pension scheme as a 
consequence of the BSPS closing to further contributions in the months before this 
advice was given.
MWM set out its advice in a suitability report on 22 November 2017. In this it advised Mr S to 
transfer out of the BSPS and invest the funds partly in an annuity and partly in a type of 
personal pension plan. MWM said this would allow Mr S to achieve his objectives. Mr S 
accepted this advice and so transferred out. In early 2022 Mr S complained to MWM about 
its advice, saying he shouldnt have been advised to transfer out to a personal pension. 
Mr S referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service in March 2022. One of our 
investigators looked into the complaint and said it should be upheld. They also 
recommended we should direct that MWM should pay £500 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by its unsuitable advice. In response, MWM said it hadnt done 
anything wrong and was acting on the financial objectives Mr S had at the time. 
The complaint has now come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of MWM's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. So, MWM should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in Mr Ss best interests. 
Ive used all this information we have to consider whether transferring away from the BSPS 
to a personal pension was in Mr Ss best interests. In particular, I have also carefully 
considered the final response letter from MWM. Ive carefully considered too, the various 
other responses made to the points contained within our investigators view.
Having done all this, Im upholding  Mr Ss complaint. 
Financial viability 
Because Mr Ss CETV was comprised of various different historical elements and the advice 
was ultimately to invest in annuity and also a personal pension, there were a number of 
different analyses that the adviser undertook with regard to all the different options available 
to Mr S. These types of analysis documents are often referred to as a TVAS.
However, to keep things simple, Ive focussed mainly on what Mr S was told and set out in 
the suitability report he was given by the adviser and the TVAS (Analysis Label: bsps 2 v 
wom.) dated 20 November 2017. These were, in my view, the principal documents used 
when considering what was best for him and the suitability report had recommendations 
about what he ought to do.
MWM referred in the suitability report to critical yield rates. The critical yield is essentially 
the average annual investment return that would be required on the transfer value - from the 
time of advice until retirement - to provide the same annuity benefits as the DB scheme. The 
critical yield comparison was a requirement from the regulator at the time when advising 
clients on DB transfers. Its also important to point out that the critical yield comparison is 
only one of a number of different metrics Ive used to compare the different schemes. And in 
my view, these all point one way  that Mr S was probably going to receive lower pension 
benefits overall, as a result of transferring to a type of personal pension plan.
For example, MWM said the following about retiring at the NRA, from what Ive taken to be 
the existing scheme. It said, the critical yield needed to match your existing benefits is 
9.22% for the main scheme and 11.43% for the [other] part, this means the rate of annual 
growth which would need to be achieved by the Insurance Company to mirror the benefits 
being offered by your occupational scheme. Ive noted that MWM went on to say that these 
rates were not achievable because you are a low medium risk investor 4/10.
However, MWM then also set out in tabular form, a number of critical yields about retiring at 
the NRA using the new BSPS2 and the PPF. At the age of 65 for instance, the critical yields 
were 8.42% if taking a full pension without any tax-free lump sum, and 5.96% if taking a 
reduced pension with a tax-free lump sum. But when considering an earlier retirement (at the 
age of 60) the critical yield rates were much higher than this  up to almost 20%.
If using the PPF, by retiring from this at the age of 65 the critical yield rates were 7.7% (PPF 
pension with no lump sum) and 6.95% (with a lump sum). And for the age of 60, the PPF 
critical yields were 18.67% and 17.12% respectively.We know that taking a lump sum upon retiring was in no way certain here. In fact, Id say it 
was improbable. This is because Mrs Ss means tested benefits were said to be predicated 
on her not having substantial amounts of cash savings available  and a large lump sum 
might have taken their family wealth over the limit she was allowed. Its therefore clear to 
me that achieving any of these critical yields annually should have been viewed as being 
highly unlikely at the time. As Ill explain a little more about later, Mr S wasnt an experienced 
investor and he didnt want to take many risks with his pension monies. So I dont think 
achieving annual growth rates of around 8.42% -to- 18.67% was attainable. I dont really 
think the adviser did either. And although one of the funds Mr S was recommended had 
recently achieved a past performance of around 8%, there was very little supporting 
evidence or analysis to show this was a credible and sustainable growth rate assumption for 
an investor like Mr S. Ill explain why.
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017 was 
only 3.5% per year for just over 8 years to retirement (age 65), which is well below all of the 
critical yield figures Ive referred to above. But for a retirement at 60, the discount rate was 
only 2.8% (3 years to retirement). Ive also kept in mind that the regulator's upper projection 
rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate was 5%, and the lower projection rate 
was 2% although these hadnt been updated for some time and we were in a period then of 
low interest rates and low bond yields. So, if anything, projected returns would realistically be 
lower. 
I therefore dont think the adviser had enough information or evidence to recommend 
transferring away from a DB scheme based on a financial comparison basis. Growth 
assumptions close to the regulators lower projections and also to the discount rate were 
most relevant here in my view. So, I think growth assumptions of around 3-to-5% were much 
more realistic. These were below the critical yield figures for the BSPS2 and the PPF, so I 
think this showed that achieving the critical yield(s), year-on-year, upon transferring out, was 
very unlikely. 
Ive also noted that using the NRA of 65, MWMs own transfer analysis referred to the 
probable cost of purchasing an annuity to provide benefits of equal value to the benefits 
provided by the existing scheme. This was included in the transfer analysis document of 20 
November 2017 and it related to a quote from a specific insurance company which may not 
have gone ahead. But this set out the estimated fund required (also known as the capital 
value)  and at £586,835 it was much higher than Mr Ss CETV. Even to purchase an 
annuity to provide benefits of equal value to the estimated benefits provided by the existing 
scheme, assuming no spouses pension, no increases in payment and no guarantee at 
retirement, the estimated fund required at 65 was £376,922. 
To reiterate, these figures are found in MWMs own analysis based on data the regulator 
required businesses to refer to at the time. And because these figures are well above Mr Ss 
CETV, they represent, in my view, a revealing window into the value of the guaranteed 
pension he would be giving up by transferring away to a personal plan arrangement, rather 
than a similar DB scheme that was on offer here.I therefore think its fair to say that from a financial comparison perspective, MWMs own 
figures, shown partially in its suitability report and more fully in the transfer analysis 
documents, showed that transferring to a personal pension plan would mean Mr S would 
likely receive lower pension benefits in the longer term, when compared against the 
available DB scheme. 
Ive also considered some projections MWM used to help show that if he transferred out to a 
personal plan, the funds could last Mr S well into retirement. I think most of these were 
based on growth projections which were based on past performance. Its also fair to say 
these were certainly not comparing like-with-like. What MWM was showing Mr S were 
comparisons with plans which lacked the guarantees and benefits of a DB scheme.
Of course, according to MWM, its recommendation that he should transfer out to a personal 
pension was not wholly based on the financial comparisons with his current scheme alone. 
Rather, MWM said Mr S also had other reasons to transfer away, so Ive thought about all 
the other considerations which might have meant a transfer was suitable for him, despite 
providing the overall lower benefits mentioned earlier. 
Ive considered these below. 
Other reasons to transfer
MWM recommended that Mr S should transfer away from the BSPS. His CETV was 
£318,171 and the advice was to transfer broadly around 60% of this to a type of hybrid 
annuity which would pay Mr S an annual payment on an escalating (2%) basis, paid 
monthly. The remaining 40% would transfer to a personal pension plan and be invested in 
money market funds. 
The suitability report listed the following rationale for the recommendation:
MWM said hed be able to get the same annual income from the annuity it was 
recommending, as from the BSPS, by using only part of his CETV. It said if he didnt 
need the income form the annuity straightaway then the funds could be redistributed 
back into it.
The annuity income was guaranteed for life.
It said his tax affairs would be easier.
Mrs S wouldnt lose her state benefits.
It said he could choose to take additional withdrawals and / or income at any time in 
the future from the drawdown element of the arrangement.
He could continue pension contributions to other pension plans, subject to the Money 
Purchase Annual Allowance of £4,000. 
I have therefore considered these issues. 
Getting the same income as the BSPS
I think it was wrong to portray that Mr S would get the same annual income as he would 
have gotten from the BSPS, by only using up around 60% of his CETV. The implication here 
was that this was a really good deal because hed be getting the same annual income as a BSPS pensioner, but hed also still have 40% (around £120,000) in a personal pension 
arrangement which would continue to grow by investing.
Mr S is still working as I write this decision and hes now 62 years old. At the time of the 
advice, there were also no concrete plans for him to retire and it was even recorded in the 
documents from the advice sessions that he might reduce his hours (as opposed to retire) 
within 2 to- 5 years.
In this context, he didnt need to start drawing any retirement income. Put simply, he wasnt 
retiring and so the early retirement quote of only £5,776 per year from his existing scheme 
wasnt really a true reflection of what his pension would look like. So, by saying he would get 
the same pension by using only around 60% of his CETV, this was comparing it against an 
unnecessarily low starting point. The annuity may well have been guaranteed for life; but so 
was membership of a DB scheme or indeed, the PPF. There were certain links to inflation in 
BSPS2 and the PPF.
There was also no justification in saying his tax affairs would somehow become easier or 
that by taking up this advice Mrs S wouldnt lose her state benefits. Mr Ss tax affairs werent 
complicated and so there were no such advantages. Also, Mrs S wasnt at risk of losing her 
benefits if her husband remained in the BSPS and then joined either the BSPS2 or migrated 
into the PPF. As long as Mr S didnt take a lump sum at the point of retiring, there was every 
chance that their joint savings wouldnt breach the allowed limit, which was apparently 
£10,000.
In my view, MWM could have portrayed different figures  and more relevant ones - within its 
recommendation. These would have made the benefits of transferring away look quite 
different. For example, we know that the estimated benefits for Mr Ss BSPS2 scheme. And 
for a retirement at the NRA this was £17,346 per year. This annual pension was reduced 
slightly if Mr S chose to take a lump sum with it. But of course, we know he didnt want to do 
this because it would immediately place in jeopardy the annual £8,300 Mrs S received in 
benefits and which was due to be paid (index-linked under normal circumstances) until 2033. 
Alternatively, at the age of 60, Mr S could still retire from the BSPS2 with an annual pension 
estimated to still be £15,079 per year. 
If Mr S hadnt joined the BSPS2 but had migrated into the PPF instead, the same document 
said hed get an annual pension of £15,309 at the age of 65. For retiring at 60 in the PPF it 
would have been £12,396 per year. So, I dont think that MWM was justified in promoting the 
much lower annual pension of £5,776. This is because this represented a more or less 
immediate retirement - and Mr S wasnt intending this course of action.
Mr S had estimated that hed need around £17,000 per year when he retired to maintain a 
reasonable lifestyle. Although clearly an estimate, I think it was probably based on his and 
Mrs Ss current expenditures. For instance, the fact-find said their total expenditures per 
year as of 2017 were £22,274 (this included a £2,000 lifestyle contingency addition). So I 
think that an annual income in retirement of around £17,000 together with Mrs Ss £8,300 
benefits would have broadly met their retirement requirements after allowing for some 
taxation. 
However, Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage was nearing its end and was due to be paid down 
completely well ahead of Mr Ss NRA. So, at some point soon they would see a £350 
reduction in their monthly outgoings. Upon retiring, they might also reasonably have chosen 
to eliminate or reduce the £200 monthly savings they were paying into a cash ISA. These 
things could easily mean that their overall spending could reduce to around £16,000 per 
year. Other relevant factors here were Mrs Ss small pensions yet to be paid out, and the 
state pension(s) which for Mr S would kick in in around 9 years from the point of the advice.Ive also noted that Mr S had joined the new TATA DC pension. I think its easy to discount 
this second pension by saying it had only recently started and therefore didnt have much in 
it. But as Ive said, Mr S accepted he wasnt going to retire for a while just yet and in any 
event, a precursor to retirement was the stated likelihood of him reducing his hours rather 
than giving up work entirely. One could say that Mr S could therefore have been a member 
of this new DC scheme for up to 8 years, although I accept in all likelihood it would be a little 
less than this. However, this DC pension was being significantly contributed towards by both 
Mr S and his employer - 6% and 10% respectively and he seemed to have a modest 
capacity to increase contributions if he wished in the years ahead. Its therefore reasonable 
to say that this pension could have accrued reasonable sums of money by his eventual 
retirement date and so it shouldnt be discounted. 
I think Mr S appeared to have the capacity to transfer to the BSPS2 or the PPF and then 
retire early with enough to live on. Mr Ss income would have been enough to meet their 
stated needs and I think they could have begun reaching this point in Mr Ss early sixties. 
This is particularly true given the smaller additional amounts Mrs P could add to their overall 
income and the likelihood of their day-to-day costs slightly reducing. And if we add Mr Ss 
DC pension, I think this could have supplemented his DB income until he reached state 
pension age.
This means Ive seen nothing explaining why Mr S wouldnt want to continue membership of 
a DB scheme and to use that scheme in exactly the way it was originally intended. If all he 
needed was around £17,000 per year I think the adviser should have pointed out that this 
seemed achievable given the BSPS2 or PPF income and the other income he could call 
upon. I think that by retirement, whenever it eventually came, Mr S could have been in an 
agreeable position. On one hand hed have an existing deferred DB scheme of considerable 
value. This would contain all the guarantees and benefits that such schemes normally bring 
which tend to include a promise to pay a known pension for life. Significant indexation 
guarantees also existed within BSPS2 and the scheme was still underpinned by the PPF. On 
the other hand, hed have also built up a small DC scheme and if Mr S ever found he needed 
some flexibility at the beginning of his retirement and before he got his state pension, then 
hed be able to use the latter, rather than irreversibly transferring away from the former.
Death benefits 
Death benefits are an emotive subject. When asked, I think most people would like their 
loved ones to be taken care of when they die. MWMs recommendation had produced a 
somewhat unusual situation because the part (around 60%) he was advised to move into an 
annuity did seem to contain some death benefits but they were not as good as the DB 
scheme options Mr S had. 
However, I think the fact that Mr S agreed to this part of the recommendation confirms he 
wanted Mrs S to have a chance of something if he died. But the roughly 40% which was 
invested in a standard personal pension plan (a DC scheme) contained no such death 
benefits. I think this element was unsuitable for Mr S. 
The BSPS2 and PPF both contained certain benefits payable to a spouse if Mr S died. The 
benefits included related to both pre-retirement and post-retirement and they were superior, 
in my view, to the annuity. Mr S was married and he was around four and-a-half years older 
than Mrs S. I think the value of these benefits were most likely underplayed because the 
spouses pension provided by the BSPS2 or PPF would have been useful to Mrs S if he 
predeceased her. I think his wife would have found this benefit a source of comfort and 
security, particularly as she herself was unable to ever work and her own pension provision 
was very small. I dont think MWM promoted the real value of this benefit area or made it clear enough. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent on investment 
performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. 
I think the adviser probably discussed with Mr S that hed be able to pass on the whole value 
of a personal pension, potentially tax-free, to anyone he nominated and I think Mr S liked the 
idea of his 19-year-old son having some hope of inheriting part of this. So, the lump sum 
death benefits on offer through a personal pension was probably made to look like a very 
attractive feature to Mr S. But whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, 
and Mr S might have thought it was a good idea to transfer the BSPS to a personal pension 
because of this, the priority here was to advise him about what was best for his retirement 
provisions. A pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think 
MWM explored to what extent Mr S was prepared to accept a different retirement income in 
exchange for different death benefits.
Mr S was still only 56 at the time. Hes said himself he was overweight, but the suitability 
report said he had, some minor health issues, but nothing that threatens your financial 
security. Because of Mrs Ss obvious vulnerability, I think Mr Ss financial priority would 
have been to her, although Im sure hed have expected his son to receive something. But 
an obvious drawback with a personal plans death benefits is that the amount left to pass on 
 to anyone  may be substantially reduced as the pensioner starts to withdraw his or her 
retirement income. To this end, if Mr S had lived a long life there could be nothing left at all in 
his personal pension plan. 
I accept that life insurance was probably viewed as quite expensive in Mr Ss case, but it 
doesnt appear that MWM really took into account the fact that Mr S could have nominated a 
beneficiary, such as his son, of any funds remaining in his other (TATA) DC scheme if he 
died. So, to this end, Mr S still had some options ensuring part of his pension wouldnt just 
die with him.
Overall, in this case I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a 
personal pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr S. I think this 
objective, listed as it was in the suitability report, was no more than a generic comment and 
not meaningful to Mr Ss situation. 
Concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme 
Its clear that Mr S, like many employees of his company, was concerned about his pension. 
His employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme and 
MWM said he lacked trust in the company. Hed heard negative things about the PPF and 
MWM said he could have more control over his pension fund. 
So, its quite possible that Mr S was also leaning towards the decision to transfer because of 
the concerns he had about his employer and a negative perception of the PPF. However, it 
was MWMs obligation to give Mr S an objective picture and recommend what was in his 
best interests.
By the point of the advice being delivered details of BSPS2 were known and it seemed likely 
it was going ahead. So, I think this should have alleviated any concerns about the scheme 
moving to the PPF.
However, even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that MWM 
should have reassured Mr S that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he 
thought. The income available to Mr S through the PPF would have still probably provided a 
significant portion of the income he would have needed at retirement, and he was still 
unlikely to be able to exceed this by transferring out, given his ATR and the effect of pension charges and fees. And although the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, the income 
was still guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. So, I dont think that these 
concerns should have led to MWMs recommendation to Mr S to transfer out of the DB 
scheme altogether.
Other issues
By transferring around 40% of his CETV to a personal pension plan, Mr S was exposing this 
to market forces. He was not an experienced investor and had only ever traded shares 
which Ive taken to be from a building society conversion in the 1990s. Ive seen no evidence 
that Mr S had either the capacity or desire to exercise control over his funds. With his DB 
scheme, Mr S was being offered the opportunity to transfer to the new BSPS2. Its true there 
were some differences in this scheme when compared to the original BSPS, but it remained 
a DB scheme nonetheless and was run for him by trustees. 
I accept that Mr S had his new DC pension with TATA. But Ive seen nothing showing the 
investment strategy for this pension was anything other than an off the shelf mix of 
investments commonly found in most company DC schemes. And I think he would have 
found the complexity, scale and responsibility of managing his remaining c£120,000 or so of 
his own transferred funds from his DB scheme to be onerous in the years ahead. What Ive 
seen tends to show Mr S would have required ongoing financial advice and support, all of 
which would cost him money which his DB scheme didnt require from him. He simply didnt 
have the experience to personally manage the funds.
Suitability of investments 
MWM recommended that Mr S invest his funds in a personal pension. As Im upholding the 
complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr S and I 
dont think he wouldve insisted on transferring out of the scheme if clear advice had been 
given to him, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment 
recommendation. This is because he should have been advised to remain in a DB scheme 
and so the investment in the new funds wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been 
given. 
Summary
I dont think the advice given to Mr S was suitable. 
He was giving up a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within the BSPS2 or PPF. 
By transferring to a personal pension, the evidence shows Mr S was likely to obtain lower 
retirement benefits. Although the recommendation was to transfer part of his pension to an 
annuity with certain guarantees, these were still inferior to the scheme he was in and might 
have transferred to in the form of BSPS2 or the PPF. It also generated an income at the age 
of 56 which Mr S didnt need. MWM portrayed this income as matching his existing 
retirement benefits. But the comparison as I explained, was flawed.
I dont think there were any other particular reasons which would justify the transfer and 
outweigh this. I think MWM ought to have advised him against transferring out of his DB 
scheme for the reasons Ive comprehensively explained.
Because Mr S wasnt likely to take a large lump sum with his pension, I think his 
circumstances here were much more aligned to him transferring to BSPS2 and retiring from 
that when he felt he was ready to do so. This is a departure from what our investigator said  
they said Mr S would have probably moved into the PPF. But this was based on the 
differences in what Mr S might get from either the BSPS2 or the PPF at retirement. Sometimes we find that people closer to retirement age do get higher benefits from the PPF. 
However, this is often dependant on whether or not a lump sum is taken. In reality, the 
financial differences between the BSPS2 and the PPF in Mr Ss situation were minimal.
So, I think its difficult to say what Mr S would have done if advised suitably. But on balance, 
he certainly wouldnt have transferred away  and I think hed have opted for the BSPS2. As 
Ive said, hes still working now.
So, I don't think that it would have been in his interest to accept the reduction in benefits he 
would have faced by the scheme entering the PPF. By opting into the BSPS2, Mr S would 
have retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme nearer to his retirement age if he 
needed to. The annual indexation of his pension when in payment was also more 
advantageous under the BSPS2. On this basis, I think MWM should have advised Mr S to 
opt into the BSPS2.
I have considered, given the circumstances of the time, whether Mr S would have 
transferred to an annuity and personal pension in any event. I accept that MWM disclosed 
some of the risks of transferring to Mr S, and provided him with a certain amount of 
information. But ultimately it advised Mr S to transfer out, and I think Mr S relied on that 
advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr S would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, 
against MWMs advice. I say this because Mr S was likely an inexperienced investor and this 
pension accounted for most of his retirement provision at the time. So, if MWM had provided 
him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in 
his best interests, I think he would have accepted that advice.
In light of the above, I think MWM should compensate Mr S for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr S, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for MWMs unsuitable advice. I consider Mr S would 
have most likely opted to join the BSPS2, rather than transfer to the personal pension if he'd 
been given suitable advice. He has not yet retired and so compensation should be based on 
his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance. MWM 
should use the benefits offered by BSPS2 for comparison purposes.
MWM must undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 and set out 
in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
MWM should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A 
copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr S and our Service upon completion 
of the calculation together with supporting evidence of what MWM based the inputs into the 
calculator on.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ss 
acceptance of my final decision.If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, MWM should:
calculate and offer Mr S redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr S before starting the redress calculation that:
- the redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest the redress prudently is to use it to augment 
the DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr S receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr S accepts MWMs offer to calculate how much of the redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr S for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of the redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ss end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr S as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, MWM may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Ss likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
Our investigator recommended that MWM should pay Mr S for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the unsuitable advice. I have considered the impact this would 
likely have had on Mr S in his particular circumstances. This pension at the time represented 
most of his retirement provision and it was a large amount. In his situation, closer than most 
to retirement, I think the thought of losing material benefits would have impacted upon Mr S. 
So I agree the recommended payment of £500 for distress and inconvenience. MWM should 
pay Mr S this amount in addition to the redress Ive set out above.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and I direct Mallinson Wealth 
Management Limited to pay Mr S the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, 
up to a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I will also recommend 
that Mallinson Wealth Management Limited pays Mr S the balance. I would additionally 
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr S.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 8 December 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman