DRN-2081908
The complaint
Mr C, on behalf of his company which Ill refer to as S, has complained that Barclays Bank 
Plc (Barclays) unfairly charged a merchant processing fee for a card transaction that was 
made in error and refunded.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat all of them 
again here. Instead Ill give a summary, and then Ill focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision.
S is a convenience store which has an agreement with Barclays to provide merchant 
services, enabling the store to take card payments from its customers. In return for the 
services provided by Barclays, S pays a fee for each payment that it takes by card. 
In December 2019, S attempted to take a payment from a customer of £34.50. But Mr C has 
explained that, in error, the Enter key wasnt pressed on the card machine after the amount 
had been entered. So when the customer entered their PIN, they in fact typed this as part of 
the amount to be charged. This resulted in the payment being processed for £345,039.73. 
The customer realised what had happened shortly after leaving the store and returned to 
make it aware. The payment was refunded via the card terminal within three minutes of the 
initial transaction taking place. 
When Mr C received Ss monthly statement showing the charges applicable for December 
2019, he noted hed been charged for the large transaction that was processed in error. 
Each charge is based on a percentage of the transaction value, and in this case the charge 
was £1,794.21. Mr C doesnt think he should have to pay this charge as the transaction was 
clearly an error, and it was refunded within three minutes of the initial transaction taking 
place. 
Mr C also complained that he didnt receive his statement prior to the charge being debited. 
Barclays acknowledged that there was an ongoing issue affecting post being delivered to 
where Mr C lives. It sent Mr C electronic copies of the statements he needed, and gave him 
a direct contact to help him with any further related issues.
Barclays didnt agree to waive the charge, as despite the refund, the transaction had taken 
place. It explained that Mr C could have contacted its Merchant Services department to 
request cancellation of the transaction, rather than refunding it. Barclays did however pay Mr 
C £500 towards the fee, as a gesture of goodwill and in recognition of the inconvenience of 
not receiving his statement.
Our investigator considered what had happened and didnt recommend that the complaint 
should be upheld. Whilst he understood the frustration Mr C felt as a result of the error, he 
didnt think Barclays had acted unfairly, so he didnt think it needed to refund the transaction 
charge. Mr C didnt agree, so the case has been passed to me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator. Ill explain why.
I should start by explaining that I fully accept that a genuine error has been made here, in 
the sense that Mr C (or a colleague) forgot to press Enter after the transaction amount had 
been keyed into the card terminal, and before the customer entered their PIN. And 
unfortunately, it seems the customer also didnt notice this when they were asked to key 
their PIN and press Enter. But I have to think about whats fair in all of the circumstances 
to both parties involved. 
Section 5 of the terms and conditions set out the customers obligations in respect of the 
fees payable. They state You must pay us the charges and fees (plus any VAT that may 
apply) set out in the merchant application form by direct debit each month. You confirm that 
you have read and understood the merchant application form and agree to the charges and 
fees relating to the services and any additional services you have subscribed to together 
with any charges and fees introduced in line with condition 17.
I note from the information on file that theres no question about the amount or calculation of 
the fee  at 0.52% of the transaction value. But Mr C has complained that its unreasonable 
for Barclays to charge such a high fee for a transaction which wasnt in line with his usual 
business transactions, and for a payment that he ultimately didnt receive. So the starting 
point here is for me to consider whether Barclays acted unfairly by applying the fee at all. 
And if it did, how it should put things right.
Mr C has queried where the terms and conditions explain what happens to charges in the 
event of a cancellation or refund of a transaction. Whilst I havent seen an explicit 
explanation of what happens with the fees in these circumstances, the fact remains that a 
fee is payable for each transaction that is carried out  regardless whether the transaction is 
ultimately refunded or cancelled. I dont think the absence of any other explanation 
invalidates this charge, or undermines the term that Ive explained above, and therefore I 
dont think Barclays has incorrectly applied the charge. 
I note that Mr C has highlighted that the size of the transaction was extremely unusual for his 
business  and in line with the nature of his industry in general. I agree with that. And hes 
pointed out that Barclays shouldve questioned this at the time the transaction was 
presented. But I dont think its Barclays responsibility as the merchant acquirer to do this. 
Whilst I can see that Barclays asked for Ss estimated annual turnover when Mr C applied 
for merchant services from Barclays, I dont think the purpose of this question was Barclays 
accepting responsibility to look out for unusual individual transactions. Thats for the 
authorising bank  or the bank of the cardholder making the transaction. In this case, the 
transaction was authorised, so the authorising bank seems to have been satisfied that there 
was nothing suspicious or unusual about the transaction.
Barclays has explained that the fee applicable to each transaction is not solely a fee charged 
by Barclays. It has explained that there are three parties involved; Barclays as the merchant 
acquirer, the card scheme and the customers card issuing bank. And Barclays says that the 
fees are split between these three parties. With this in mind, I think £500 is in fact a fairly 
generous payment by Barclays to acknowledge the unfortunate situation that Mr C finds 
himself in, despite Barclays not having made an error. Having thought about this, it wasnt unfair or unreasonable for Barclays to charge a 
transaction processing fee in line with its terms and conditions for this transaction. I do 
understand that this fee will have had a large impact on Mr Cs business, and Im sorry he 
finds himself in the situation that he does. But despite this, it wouldnt be fair for me to place 
the responsibility for what happened on Barclays. So I dont require Barclays to do anything 
more than it already has done to resolve this complaint.
Turning to the issue of Mr C not receiving his monthly statements, I also think Barclays has 
acted fairly here. I can see that Barclays has explained that theres a known issue with the 
delivery of statements to where Mr C lives. And it has explained that it has raised this issue, 
and its working on a solution. In the meantime it has provided Mr C with electronic copies of 
his statements, and it has given Mr C a contact to help him with any further enquiries related 
to this issue. Barclays has also explained that it considered this issue when reaching its 
payment of £500 compensation. 
Whilst I understand that not receiving statements has inevitably been inconvenient for Mr C, 
I think Barclays has gone far enough to put things right. It has provided the statements to Mr 
C  albeit in an electronic format  and it is working to solve the wider postal issue. It has 
also explained what Mr C can do if the issue happens again. Overall I dont think this is an 
unreasonable way for Barclays to have dealt with this point, and so I dont require it to do 
anything further. 
Id like to reassure Mr C that Ive thought very carefully about everything hes said. And I do 
understand that this was a genuine and honest mistake. But for the reasons Ive explained, I 
dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs (on behalf of his company S) complaint against 
Barclays Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Sam Wade
Ombudsman