DRN-3231813
The complaint
Mrs and Mr W complain Lloyds Bank PLC has not fixed a fault with the interactive voice 
response (IVR) system when they try to make payments to a payee on their bank account.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties and has been detailed by our 
investigator previously. So, Ill summarise the key points Ive focused on within my decision.
Mrs and Mr W say when they try to transfer money to their daughters account using the IVR 
system, they choose the number that they hear against her name, but the system tries to 
pay one of their other payees. Mrs W says this problem doesnt occur when she pays other 
payees. 
Lloyds have said that Mrs and Mr W need to choose option four to pay their daughter, not 
option three. Mrs W says this isnt in line with the options being read out to her on the phone 
and she is unwilling to select option four if the IVR reads that she should be selecting option 
three.
Since the complaint has been with us, the investigator arranged for Mrs W to attend her local 
branch to try and resolve the issue. The purpose was so the bank assistant could hear what 
Mrs W heard and if Mrs W was incorrectly interpreting the system, they could assist her. 
However, it appears this wasnt communicated properly so this wasnt done and the follow 
up emails from the assistant indicates that the customer just told her that to pay her daughter 
it was number three in the options and it always has been. So, it appears the bank assistant 
wasnt listening to the actual options Mrs W was presented with on the call. 
Following the visit, Mrs W was asked to call the fault line. When this was arranged for early 
November, Lloyds advised us that the call was not monitored as arranged, it apologised and 
said Mrs W would need to carry this out again. It was rearranged for the 16 November 2021. 
Lloyds IT department have looked at the behind the scenes input and what the internal 
payee list states. And it believes there is no error with the IVR.
Our investigator felt that Lloyds have had plenty of opportunity to support Mrs W if it 
considers she is inaccurate in her understanding of what the IVR is reading out to her on the 
phone. Our investigator on balance has accepted Mrs W testimony. And as it appears that 
the IVR problem has not been resolved, our investigator made some recommendations in 
her view to try and help move matters forward. She has also said Lloyds should pay Mrs and 
Mr W £150 compensation for any distress and inconvenienced caused.
Mrs W feels the £150 compensation isnt sufficient and says Lloyds have implied that she 
has lied or is incapable of using the IVR. She cant understand why it isnt accepted that 
there is a glitch when she tries to pay her daughter as all the other payees work as they 
should.
So, the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of the issue here is that both parties disagree if there is or isnt an issue with the 
IVR.
Ive looked at all the evidence provided by all the parties. It appears from what Mrs W has 
told us that the issue is she doesnt hear on the options read out to her that there is an entry 
in position two for a savings account. When Lloyds IT department investigated this, it can 
see an internal list that sits behind the system that shows the savings account in position two 
that therefore pushes the daughters account up to position four. So, Lloyds believe from the 
options listed Mrs W should be choosing option four to pay her daughter. But I have seen no 
evidence from anyone at Lloyds that has been assisting Mrs W, that Mrs W is inaccurate in 
what options she hears on the phone. Ive also requested a call recording to see if I could 
hear the options read to Mrs W but unfortunately Lloyds have not been able to provide this. 
I understand that since the complaint has been waiting for a decision Mrs and Mr W have 
changed their list of payees and Lloyds have said they have not used the IVR system since 
November 2021. So, I have been unable to establish exactly what Mrs W heard and I cant 
get her to record the issue as the list has now changed.
Having considered all of the evidence provided, I dont think I can definitely say if there was 
a problem or not with the IVR system, but I can see that the issue had been ongoing for 
about a year and I can understand Mrs and Mr Ws frustration. I feel Lloyds have had plenty 
of opportunity to support Mrs W if it considers she is inaccurate in her understanding of what 
the IVR is reading out to her on the phone. Mrs W maintains that the IVR has always read to 
choose option three to pay her daughter, and she has said she has no problem with paying 
other payees in her list. In the absence of evidence to the contrary Im persuaded by Mrs 
Ws testimony. 
I understand that Mrs and Mr W are not currently using the IVR system and theyve now 
amended their list of payees. However, if they do choose to use it again and the problem 
hasnt rectified. Then Id expect Lloyds to fully investigate the matter including arranging for 
the recording Mrs and Mr W hear to be listened to and compared to any list that sits behind 
the system. Im persuaded that the customer service provided to Mrs and Mr W has fallen 
below standards a customer should be able to expect. 
Having considered the service received, I do think Mrs and Mr W have been inconvenienced 
for an extended period of time. This shouldnt have happened, and nor should the level of 
effort Mrs W had to go into in order to try and get the matter resolved. However, Ive 
considered there were other options open to Mrs and Mr W to make payments i.e. online, by 
phone or in branch although I appreciate these may not have been their preference. I 
therefore agree with our investigator that £150 compensation is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Lloyds has also asked us to extend its apologies to Mrs W 
that she felt it has implied that shes lied or incapable of using the IVR, it says that this is 
certainly not the case. 
Putting things right
I direct Lloyds Bank PLC to pay £150 compensation.
 My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman