DRN-2518405
The complaint
Mr G complains that Lowell Portfolio I Ltd is trying to recover a debt without showing the 
amount it claims is outstanding is correct. 
What happened
Lowell says it acquired a debt in Mr Gs name from the original lender in 2015. The original 
lender says Mr G had two loans, but they were combined into one account when Lowell 
bought the debt. 
Mr G complained to Lowell and said the outstanding balance it was seeking to collect didnt 
match his payment book. Mr G asked Lowell to get copies of his payment book to show 
payments made and the correct balance. Lowell didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint and said the 
original lender had sent information to show the outstanding balance and total payments 
made to his loans. Lowell advised it couldnt provide copies of Mr Gs payment books and 
that the accounts were marked as defaulted by the original lender in November 2014. 
Mr G referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought Lowell had dealt with Mr Gs complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr 
G didnt accept, so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G says the information in his payment book doesnt match the loan balances Lowell has 
given. Mr G has also said he believes the first loan was repaid before the second loan was 
taken out with the original lender. Ive looked at whether Lowell has a reasonable level of 
information available to show whether its seeking to recover the correct amount Mr G owes. 
After Mr G complained, Lowell went back to the original lender to check how much he owed 
and the payments made. Mr G said he didnt believe he could have two loans at the same 
time with the original lender, but it told Lowell that it did offer more than one loan at a time. 
The original lender also provided systems information that showed Mr G had taken both 
loans out in 2014, around ten days apart. The systems information shows Mr G borrowed 
£1,000 on each occasion and made payments totalling £230 to the first loan and £195 to the 
second loan before they were closed. So whilst I understand Mr G says he doesnt believe 
he had two loans at the same time, the information from the original lender shows he did. 
Mr G has asked why Lowell cant provide copies of his payment books for the loan. But the 
original lender told Lowell payment books were left with borrowers to keep track of how 
much they owed. The original lender confirmed it had payments systems in place to record 
the instalments received, which is what it sent Lowell. I think the systems evidence provided 
is a reasonable way to show Mr Gs outstanding balances when the debt was sold to Lowell. 
And, as the payment books were left with borrowers by the original lender, its not something 
they would have access to so couldnt supply copies to Lowell. 
Im satisfied the original lender has provided the necessary systems information to Lowell 
that shows Mr G had two loans. Im also satisfied the original lender confirmed the 
outstanding balance of each. 
I can also see that both the original lender and Lowell wrote to Mr G with a notice of 
assignment when the ownership of the debt changed. Both businesses confirmed the 
amount outstanding. And the amounts contained in the notice of assignment are consistent 
with the payment systems information Ive seen. 
When Lowell bought the debt it took over responsibility for reporting them to the credit 
reference agencies. So Im unable to agree its treated Mr G unfairly by reporting information 
about the status of the debt on his credit file. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr G but I havent been persuaded to uphold his complaint. Im 
satisfied that Lowell has provided sufficient information to verify it acquired two loans in Mr 
Gs name and that the outstanding balance its seeking to recover is correct and in line with 
the information provided by the original lender. As Im satisfied Lowell has dealt with Mr Gs 
complaint fairly, Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman