DRN-2511756
The complaint
Mr E complains about the investment advice that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) provided in 
2008.
What happened
In 2008 Mr E sought financial advice from BoS in relation to inheritance tax (IHT) planning. 
Mr E met with a financial advisor (FA) to discuss his needs and the available funds.
As part of these discussions, Mr E explained he wanted to establish a fund for the future 
benefit of his children and grandchildren. Mr E had £1,000 a month available to contribute to 
this fund and he wanted to avoid paying IHT on this. Mr E said he wanted flexibility to decide 
who should benefit from the investment and control over when the funds would be 
distributed. He told the FA he had no requirement for access to the capital invested or any 
growth achieved by the investment.
The FA recommended a PIP made under a flexible gift trust as a suitable investment vehicle. 
He sent Mr E details of this recommendation and explained that given Mr Es financial 
circumstances, the gift would be exempt from IHT and outside his estate with immediate 
effect, with the entire investment free of IHT if he survived for the next seven years. 
The recommendation also noted that tax may be due upon a distribution of capital from the 
trust.
Mr E proceeded with the investment and the PIP and trust were set up as recommended in 
March 2008.
In 2016 the trustees cashed in the PIP and it was then that Mr E realised he was liable to 
pay tax on the growth achieved by the investment. Mr E felt this could have been avoided 
had another type of investment been chosen and so he complained to BoS. Mr E asked BoS 
to cover his costs.
After looking into things, BoS partially upheld Mr Es complaint. It said the financial advisor 
didnt fully explain that further income tax could be due on the investment. However, it 
maintained that the investment product was suitable for Mr Es needs. BoS noted that Mr E 
had not suffered any loss as the fund had grown in that time.
Mr E didnt think this was fair and so he brought his complaint to our service. Mr E told us he 
couldnt offset the capital growth in the fund against his tax liability as he wasnt the 
beneficiary of the trust  so he felt he had lost out.
 
Mr E said hed have been happy to put the money into a bank account or other investment 
held in trust. In particular, he noted that a family trust in the form of an interest in possession 
trust might have been more appropriate. Mr E noted that the taxable position of this trust is 
that the life tenant is entitled to the income and is accordingly accountable for tax on that 
income. Mr E said he would have been happy with this sort of trust, naming multiple 
grandchildren as life tenants. He highlighted that as minors, his grandchildren are not 
taxpayers.
Mr E felt he should be compensated for his financial loss and refunded the costs of the 
advice he received given that BoS felt this was flawed.
Mr E also felt that BoS should refund the management charges. He stressed that he 
received no advice in relation to his investment and as such no changes were made and 
they did not perform any better than bonds and shares would have. 
After looking into things, our investigator didnt think BoS needed to do anything further. 
In particular, they felt investment product was appropriate and noted Mr E hadnt lost out as 
a result of the advice he received as the investment fund had grown.
Mr E didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues I 
consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful consideration 
to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Having reviewed the evidence and representations made by both parties, I dont think BoS 
need to do anything further here  Ill explain why.
 
Ultimately, I think the product Mr E was recommended was suitable to his stated needs. 
It met his objective of sheltering his funds from inheritance tax and it offered him the 
flexibility he wanted to decide in the future who benefited from the fund and when.
The crux of Mr Es concern about the suitability of the recommendation is that he wasnt 
aware that he would be personally liable for income tax connected with growth in the fund. 
And had he understood this, he doesnt think hed have opted for this investment option.
When providing the recommendation, I would also expect BoS to provide Mr E was sufficient 
information about the product he was choosing to enable him to make an informed choice.
 
I agree with BoS that the recommendation report only briefly mentioned tax implications. 
While it said tax may be due upon a distribution of capital from the trust, I think it would have 
been more helpful if it had expanded on this and explained that income tax would likely be 
payable if a gain was made. But Mr E was provided with product literature with the advisors 
recommendation report  which he was asked to read  to enable him to make an informed 
choice.
The discretionary trust document he was sent doesnt mention income tax liability, only 
inheritance tax. But it isnt the trust that has created the income tax liability here, it was the 
performance of the investment. So I wouldnt expect this document to necessarily comment 
on this. What I have noted is that the PIP Key Features Document (KFD) Mr E was sent 
does highlight potential tax liabilities. It says:
 
Your liability to tax depends on your personal circumstances
If you are a higher rate taxpayer, or any gains make you a higher rate taxpayer, you 
may have to pay extra tax when you cash in all or part of your plan, if you transfer 
ownership of the plan for value or if it ends because of the death of a person covered. The people looking after your estate may have to pay extra tax out of your 
estate if you are a higher rate taxpayer when you die.
If you take one-off or regular withdrawals totalling more than 5% a year of the amount 
or amounts paid into your plan, you may have to pay extra tax
The value of your plan may form part of your estate for inheritance tax purposes.
If you want the plan to be in trust you should speak to an adviser, as different tax 
rules apply.
If you are using the Personal Investment Plan to help you with inheritance tax 
planning you should speak to an adviser from the Bank of Scotland Investment 
Services who can provide you with suitable advice.
In order to fully understand the tax implications of the product that was being recommended 
by the BoS advisor, both documents needed to be considered. I appreciate income tax isnt 
specifically mentioned, but I think the document does enough to stress that there may be tax 
implications in addition to IHT if Mr E was to cash in the plan. 
Ultimately, under the legislation, a key facts document is a suitable means for explaining the 
product in more detail to the consumer. So, whilst I think it would have been better if BoS 
had included more information in the recommendation report, overall, I think it did enough to 
provide Mr E with the information he needed about the product in order to make an informed 
decision. I say this noting that BoS cant provide detailed tax advice about what might 
happen in the future. Im aware that Mr E felt it was inappropriate for our service to suggest 
BoS did enough here, given BoS itself upheld this part of his complaint. But my role is to look 
at the evidence impartially and reach a decision looking at all the circumstances.
 
Mr E was also an experienced investor, albeit I appreciate he was unfamiliar with trusts. 
But I think he ought reasonably to have understood from the documentation he received that 
there would be a potential income tax liability on growth within the investment fund. So, I do 
think it would have been reasonable for him to seek further advice on this, particularly at the 
point at which he decided to cash in the fund. I note that the surrender pack he was sent 
warned Mr E that he will pay tax on any chargeable gains. Mr E has told us that at this stage 
he didnt feel he had any choice. But had he sought further advice, there may have been 
other courses of action available to Mr E which would have reduced the personal liability he 
faced.
 
Ive carefully considered Mr Es observations that there were other investment options that 
would have avoided this tax, for example an interest in possession trust. I think its worth 
explaining that simply because there may have been a more suitable product, doesnt make 
the recommendation of this product unsuitable. What matters is whether the recommended 
product met Mr Es needs. And for the reasons Ive explained above, I think it did. 
When considering the suitability of a recommendation, its also important not to review things 
with the benefit of hindsight but to look at the information available at the time. An interest in 
possession trust is usually set up to provide a regular income from the fund and this wasnt 
something Mr E was seeking to achieve from his investment.
Im aware Mr E also feels that the management charges should be refunded due to the 
performance of the bonds and the lack of recommendation to change the investment 
selections. Mr E also felt the charges wouldnt have been incurred if the unit trusts had been 
wrapped in a different type of product ie. an interest in possession trust. 
I think its worth clarifying to Mr E that the management charges he paid are for the costs of 
managing the fund itself. They are not performance management charges aimed at 
reviewing the investment performance and providing advice regarding movement  these would come at an additional cost. Accordingly, I see no reason why these should be 
refunded.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman