DRN-2028637
The complaint
Mr M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
What happened
In 1996 Mr M took out a loan at the bank along with a PPI policy to protect the loan monthly 
repayments. He borrowed extra and paid upfront for the PPI. So the cost of the policy was 
added to the loan and interest charged. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr M disagrees.
Mr Ms main complaint is that PPI wasnt explained and there was no option regarding it. He 
says he didnt question the policy because he knew nothing about it. Mr M told us that he 
already had enough cover if anything happened to him and he wouldnt have agreed to have 
PPI as he was already protected.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
I havent seen Mr Ms signed credit agreement from the time of sale. Unsurprisingly this isnt 
now available after so long. But thats not a reason for me to uphold the complaint. And 
I dont know exactly what was discussed when Mr M arranged his loan. Ive taken carefully 
into account what Mr M has told us. But it wouldnt be reasonable to expect him to recall 
exactly what was discussed or said about PPI at the time. This means that what Mr M says 
isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold his complaint.
I must look at all the available information and take into account the wider circumstances 
when thinking about whats most likely. I have to be impartial. 
Ive seen an example of the sort of credit agreement Mr M wouldve had to sign to get his 
loan. In my view, the wording and layout of the agreement highlights the fact that PPI was a 
matter of choice. 
I say this because theres a section on the form headed OPTIONAL LOAN REPAYMENT 
PROTECTION and there are YES and NO tick boxes. So I think this showed that having 
PPI (or not) was a matter of choice. 
The NO box is clearly shown on the form and Mr M couldve marked this box if he hadnt 
wanted PPI. And I think he probably did sign a loan agreement of this sort. So I think its 
likely that PPI was added to his loan when Mr M indicated on the form that he wanted to 
have it. 
Lloyds says it recommended the PPI to Mr M. If a business makes a recommendation about 
PPI, it doesnt just have to give important policy information in a clear way. It also has to take 
reasonable steps to make sure the cover it recommends is suitable. 
Ive taken into account what Mr M told us about his sick pay entitlement and other means. 
But PPI provided better cover. Not only would the policy have covered the loan monthly 
repayments for up to 12 months per claim if Mr M lost his job unexpectedly and was 
unemployed. If hed made a successful accident or sickness claim, the policy couldve 
cleared the loan if he wasnt ever well enough to go back to work. 
Mr M doesnt appear to have had any significant other means he couldve used to cover the 
loan monthly repayments if he wasnt working. Hes mentioned that his job was made 
redundant either in the early part of 1996 or in 1997. Although there seems to be some 
confusion about the date this makes no difference to the outcome. Mr M told us that he used 
his redundancy money to clear a loan. This loan wasnt taken out until December 1996, so if 
he was made redundant earlier on in 1996, then he might be referring to paying a different 
loan. And I think thats likely because it seems that this loan ran for its full three year term  it 
wasnt paid early. 
If Mr M was made redundant by his employer around April 1997 (as he originally told us), 
and he used his redundancy money towards his loan at the time, this doesnt affect my 
overall decision. Being entitled to a redundancy payment doesnt mean PPI wasnt suitable 
for him  being entitled to redundancy money wouldnt have helped Mr M if he was off work 
sick. And PPI couldve paid out on top of redundancy money if hed lost his job, giving Mr M 
some additional financial security in those circumstances.
So I cant reasonably say that Mr M didnt need PPI or that the banks recommendation 
wasnt suitable.  
It doesnt look as if there were any significant policy terms or exclusions that wouldve 
affected Mr M being able to make a claim. So even if hed been given more information 
about the policy details, I dont think this wouldve made any difference to his decision to 
take out the cover. 
Its unlikely that Lloyds explained when Mr M bought the cover that he wouldnt get a 
proportionate refund on the PPI if he paid the loan off early. But theres no indication he was 
likely to do this when he took it out, so I dont think that wouldve affected his decision to buy 
the PPI. 
Mr M wouldve seen on the loan agreement what the PPI premium would cost and what the 
total loan would be  even if hes forgotten this now. And the policy seems to have been 
affordable. I agree that it mightnt have been clear how much interest hed pay. But I dont 
believe the amount wouldve been enough to put Mr M off taking out the PPI. 
Overall, its possible there may have been some failings in the way this policy was sold. But, 
given his circumstances and the benefits the PPI offered him, I think Mr M still wouldve 
decided to buy the policy if hed been better informed as the policy gave him useful 
protection in his particular situation.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman