DRN-4283103
The complaint
Ms S is unhappy that Citibank UK Limited blocked a transfer she instructed and with the 
service she received surrounding that blocked transfer. 
What happened
Ms S instructed a transfer of £70 from her Citibank account to a third-party recipient. But the 
recipient never received the money and when Ms S asked Citibank about it they explained 
that the reference details Ms S had included with the transfer had been flagged by their 
systems for further checks.
Citibank then asked Ms S what the transfer was for, and Ms S explained that it was a 
payment for a school trip for her young daughter which was being being paid to a parent of 
one of her daughters classmates, and that the reference included the name of the school 
and the name of her daughter. 
Citibank then asked Ms S to provide her daughters full name and date of birth, which Ms S 
refused to do as she didnt feel that Citibank had any reasonable need for her daughters 
personal information. Citibank then refused to release the payment without this information, 
and so Ms S raised a complaint. Citibank responded to Ms Ss complaint but didnt feel 
theyd acted unfairly by requesting the personal information about her young daughter that 
they had. Ms S wasnt satisfied with Citibanks response, so she referred her complaint to 
this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They didnt feel Citibank had acted fairly by 
insisting on Ms Ss daughters personal information before releasing the money, so they 
recommended that the complaint be upheld in Ms Ss favour and that Citibank should pay 
£100 compensation to Ms S for the trouble and upset shed incurred. Citibank didnt agree 
with the view of this complaint put forwards by our investigator, so the matter was escalated 
to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im in agreement with out investigator that Citibank havent acted fairly 
towards Ms S here by insisting that she provides the full name and date of birth of her young 
daughter before allowing the transfer to complete, and so Ill be upholding this complaint in 
Ms Ss favour.
Both our investigator and I have asked Citibank to provide a reasonable and coherent 
explanation as to why they required the date of birth of a young child to allow the transfer 
that Ms S wanted to make to complete. However, Citibank have failed to do this, and instead 
have explained that theyve followed their process in such circumstances, which includes 
that a date of birth is required.
Its for Citibank to decide its processes, and it isnt within the remit of this service to instruct a 
business to change a process its chosen to implement. But it can be the case that the 
following of a set process can lead to an unfair outcome, and I feel this is whats happened 
in this instance. And, in such a scenario, it is within the remit of this service to consider the 
unfair outcome resultant from the following of the process and to uphold a complaint and 
award compensation because of it.
Ultimately, it doesnt seem fair to me that Citibank would refuse to process a transfer 
because they werent given a date of birth for a young child  a child who the payment 
wasnt being made from or to, but whose name was only a reference for the payment. And 
this is especially the case given that  despite being asked  Citibank havent confirmed how 
they would use that date of birth, given that they wouldnt be able to cross reference it 
against any information about Ms Ss daughter, including her date of birth, which its my 
understanding that Citibank dont possess, and which isnt in the public domain. 
I also feel that if Citibank were attempting to cross reference Ms Ss daughters date of birth 
against the date of birth of someone else, this could have been achieved by other means  
such as by asking Ms S to confirm that her daughter is under school leaving age. 
All of which means that Im satisfied that Citibank have requested personal information for 
Ms Ss young daughter that they had no fair right or reason to request, and because of this 
Ill be upholding this complaint against them. 
Its my understanding that Citibank have already released the £70 transfer amount back to 
Ms S.  However, I hereby instruct Citibank to pay £100 to Ms S as compensation for the 
trouble and upset shes unfairly experienced because of whats happened. In arriving at this 
position, Ive considered the frustration and inconvenience that Ms S has encountered, as 
shes explained it to this service, as well as the general framework this service uses when 
considering compensation amounts, details of which are on this services website.  
Putting things right
Citibank must make a payment of £100 to Ms S.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Citibank UK Limited on the basis 
explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2023. 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman