DRN-2755035
The complaint
Mr E complains that APFIN LTD trading as cashasap.co.uk didnt provide him with the 
service it should have.
What happened
Mr E has explained that he made a loan application with cashasap.co.uk (which was 
declined) but he then noticed his bank details from a previous application had been retained. 
He contacted cashasap.co.uk but says he didnt receive a response. Mr E has explained that 
he suffers with anxiety and depression and not receiving a response caused him distress. 
Cashasap.co.uk issued a final response dated 18 November 2020. The final response letter 
said that Mr Es information was retained to comply with its obligations to help fight financial 
crime. It says it had previously told Mr E that almost all of his personal data had been 
deleted. After reviewing the situation, it said the remaining information about Mr E could be 
deleted which it actioned.
Mr E says he didnt receive the final response and referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He explained that this services role isnt to say 
whether a business has breached data protection laws  that is a matter for the Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO) to consider - but we can consider the impact of whats 
happened. He accepted the issue with the retained details had caused Mr E some upset but 
he didnt think this justified a financial award and he noted that the information had now been 
deleted.
Our investigator said that Mr E complained on 24 September 2020 and a final response was 
issued dated 18 November 2020. He noted that Mr E said he didnt receive the final 
response email, but our investigator accepted it had been sent. 
Mr E didnt accept our investigators view. He said although his data had now been deleted it 
shouldnt have been retained previously as he wasnt an active customer. He said that our 
investigator couldnt be certain the final response letter had been sent out and reiterated that 
he hadnt received this. Mr E said that our investigator didnt know his personal situation and 
the stress this issue had caused him. He said things that may not affect others had an 
impact on him and that trying to resolve this issue with cashasap.co.uk had caused him 
distress. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator.
Mr E raised a concern about his personal data that cashasap.co.uk had retained following a 
loan application. Cashasap.co.uk set out in its final response its reason for retaining the 
information. In response to Mr Es request that the data be deleted it agreed to this and I 
understand this has happened. I find this a reasonable response to the issue raised and 
addresses Mr Es concerns about the retention of his data.
Mr E says that cashasap.co.uk didnt respond to his complaint in a timely way. I have looked 
at the information provided and can see Mr E contacted cashasap.co.uk on 24 September 
2020 and an acknowledgement was sent that day. This explained that cashasap.co.uk had 
eight weeks to look into Mr Es complaint. A final response email was issued dated 18 
November 2020 and while I appreciate that Mr E has said he didnt receive this, as the email 
was sent to the email address Mr E has supplied us, I find it reasonable to accept that this 
was sent and to the correct email. Therefore, I find that cashasap.co.uk responded to Mr Es 
complaint within the required timeframe and as this addressed the issue he had raised I find 
that it did provide the service that was required.
I can understand why Mr E questioned why his data was retained but as our investigator has 
explained it is for the ICO to decide whether a breach of the data protection laws has 
occurred. We can consider any impact that a consumer has suffered. In this case I can see 
Mr E was upset by the issue, and I sympathise with his situation and appreciate issues such 
as this can cause him more distress than may be experienced by a person who doesnt 
suffer with anxiety and depression. However, as I accept that cashasap.co.uk responded to 
Mr Es concerns in a timely way and then removed the information it had retained about 
Mr E, I do not find it is required to take any further action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against APFIN LTD trading as 
cashasap.co.uk.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman