DRN-2432174
The complaint
Mrs T is seeking to recover £8,000 from Metro Bank PLC (Metro), which she lost as part of 
a third-party scam.
Metro says it is not liable for the loss because Mrs T unwittingly authorised the payments of 
£21,000 and £4,000. It was able to recover £17,000 but it says it could not reasonably have 
intervened or done more to try to recoup the remaining £8,000 from the payee bank. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have concluded that the fair and reasonable outcome, in all the 
circumstances, would be to uphold this complaint, broadly for the same reasons as the 
investigator.
It is not in dispute that Mrs T authorised the scam payments of £21,000 and £4,000 (£17,000 
of which was later returned). Mrs Ts husband received a cold call from an investment 
company offering a one-year bond with an interest rate of 7.46%. Following the call, Mr T 
received an email from the investment company and was asked to complete a form which 
Mrs T signed. Despite instructions from the scammer to return paperwork by email, Mr and 
Mrs T returned these by post to the genuine investment company. But Mrs T was duped by 
the scammer into instructing her bank to transfer the sums above into the impersonated 
companys bank account. 
I accept that this was an authorised payment even though Mrs T was the victim of a 
sophisticated scam. She logged into her online banking and made the payments herself 
using her security credentials. So, although she did not intend the money to go to the 
scammers, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and the terms and conditions of 
her account, Mrs T is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Metro should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
There were fraud triggers in this case because Metros staff did in fact call Mrs T. I note that 
Metro does not agree that the act of calling a customer is indicative of it being on notice that 
something untoward might be happening. Metro says it simply called Mrs T to check she 
was happy with the payment that was being made and that it hadnt been carried out by 
someone else. Nevertheless, the call handler does explain that the payment had been held 
at random to make sure it was genuine and to protect against fraud.
The £21,000 payment was being sent to a new payee and it seems that Metro deemed the 
payment to be sufficiently unusual for it to require further checks. In other words, it had been 
triggered by unusual or uncharacteristic activity.  The staff were right to question Mrs T about 
the payment - accordingly, its just a question of whether they did enough in all the 
circumstances. 
Im satisfied Metro ought fairly and reasonably, and as a matter of good practice, to have 
done more. I think it ought to have made enquiries about the purpose of the payment and 
found out more about the circumstances leading up to the payment before it released it. I 
dont think a conversation with Mrs T about whether she had authorised the payment on its 
own was good enough to satisfy Metro that Mrs T wasnt at risk of financial harm. 
I acknowledge that there is a balance to be struck between identifying potentially fraudulent 
payments and minimising disruption to legitimate payments. But, in this case, disruption had 
already been caused, the payment had been stopped for review. Ive thought carefully 
about the conversation that Metro had with Mrs T and Ive listened to the call recording 
which Metro has provided to this service. 
Mrs T is simply asked if she made the payment and Mrs T answers yes. The payment is 
then released. I dont think this call went far enough. And Im not satisfied that simply asking 
Mrs T if it was her that made the payment is enough to fulfil Metros obligations to protect its 
customers from financial harm. Whilst this type of review and follow up conversation may 
protect customers from unauthorised use of their account, in that it informs a customer a 
payment is leaving their account and they then have the ability to stop the payment, it has 
very little impact on customers who are the victims of well-known authorised push payment 
scams - such as this one.
One of the intrinsic characteristics of this type of scam is that the customer makes the 
payment themselves, not knowing they are being scammed. So, a conversation along the 
lines Metro had with Mrs T wouldnt have prevented her from falling victim to this type of 
scam. It potentially fails to protect any customer who believes they are in the process of 
making a legitimate payment. For these reasons, I think Metro ought to have asked Mrs T 
some probing questions about the payment before it released it. Had it done so, I believe the 
scam would have been revealed and prevented. Ill explain why.
If Metro had questioned Mrs T about what the payment was for, she most likely wouldve told 
Metro she was investing the money. Mrs T hadnt been provided with a cover-story by the 
fraudster and she had no reason to say anything else  this is what she believed she was 
doing.
A few basic questions around how this opportunity came about and basic details about the 
investment itself would likely have revealed that Mrs Ts husband had been cold called and 
was asked to communicate with the impersonated company by email. A question about the 
returns on offer would have revealed that the interest rate was unusually high. I accept the bank doesnt have the means to verify if the company was genuine, but it has 
more experience of what scams of this nature look and feel like than Mrs T does. I think if 
Metro had discussed the purpose of the payment, and the reason she was making it, it 
seems likely to me that Mrs Ts answers wouldve put Metro on notice that she could 
potentially be at risk of falling victim to a scam. Metro couldve then educated Mrs T about 
investment impersonation scams and their key characteristics. Had Metro done so, Im 
persuaded that this would likely have produced some doubt in Mrs Ts mind and effectively 
broken the spell so Mrs T wouldnt have gone on to make the payments.
In other words, if the staff had carried out further or better questioning in line with a banks 
duty of care, it seems probable that Mrs T would have become credulous about the scam in 
time and stopped the payment in its tracks. The fraud would have failed; and Mrs T would 
not made either the £21,000 payment or the £4,000 payment the following day and would 
therefore not have lost £25,000 (of which £17,000 was later refunded).  
My conclusions about what is likely to have happened if Metro had asked probing questions 
are reinforced by the fact that Mrs T contacted Metro as soon as she was contacted by the 
genuine company - who were concerned when they received her paperwork in the post. 
In light of my conclusions above, it is not necessary in this case to consider whether the 
bank also exercised enough care and urgency in trying to recover the stolen funds from the 
payee bank. But for completeness, I will say that, Metro did contact the beneficiary bank the 
same day as Mrs T notified them of the fraud and only partial funds of £17,000 remained 
(which have since been refunded).
I have also considered whether Mrs T should bear some responsibility by way of contributory 
negligence. I note what Metro has said about whether Mrs T did any due diligence herself 
when researching this business and whether she questioned whether the return was too 
good to be true. Mr T did google the company and it was the name of a genuine company. 
Ive also seen some of the correspondence Mrs T had with the scammer and can see why 
she didnt suspect she was being scammed. The emails and application document are 
professional looking and include links to the companys website. Overall, I think this was a 
very sophisticated and believable scam. I am satisfied there was no contributory negligence 
on this occasion, Mrs T was simply the unwitting and blameless victim of a clever fraudster. 
The bank was the professional in financial matters; Mrs T was a layperson. 
In the circumstances I am satisfied Metro should fairly and reasonably reimburse Mrs T for 
the loss she suffered without any reduction together with interest to compensate her for 
being deprived of the money she lost. 
My final decision
 For the above reasons, I have decided it is fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint 
about Metro Bank UK plc  and I therefore require the bank to:
Pay Mrs T £8,000 within 28 days of receiving notification of her acceptance of my 
final decision; plus
Pay 8% simple interest on this amount from the date from the date of loss to the date 
of refund1. 
1 If Metro is legally required to deduct tax from the interest should send Mrs T a tax deduction 
certificate so she can claim it back from HMRC if appropriate.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2021.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman