DRN-3703029
The complaint
Ms T, through her representative, complains that Morses  Club PLC lent to her when she 
could not afford it. 
What happened
Using information we have from Morses, here is a brief loan table. 
Reference Date TakenDate Repaid
Instalments Amount Repayment
1 03/03/2017 06/10/2017 33 £100.00 £5.00
2 28/06/2017 02/02/2018 33 £150.00 £7.50
3 30/10/2017 15/08/2018 52 £400.00 £14.00
4 15/08/2018 19/08/2019 52 £400.00 £14.00
5 19/08/2019 28/07/2020 52 £300.00 £10.50
6 06/12/2019 28/07/2020 34 £300.00 £15.00
After Ms Ts complaint had been referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service, one of our 
adjudicators looked at it and thought that Morses ought to put things right for Ms T for 
loans 4 to 6. 
Morses disagreed and the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Morses had to 
assess the lending to check if Ms T could afford to pay back the amounts shed borrowed 
without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to the 
circumstances. Morses checks couldve taken into account a number of different things, 
such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and 
Ms Ts income and expenditure. 
I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks might have been 
proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done more to establish 
that any lending was sustainable for Ms T. These factors include:
Ms T having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Ms T having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Ms T coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Ms T. Our adjudicator that this was the 
case for Ms Ts complaint at loan 4.
Morses was required to establish whether Ms T could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Ms T was able to repay her 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and without 
having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, 
that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, then it 
follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and 
thought about what this means for Ms Ts complaint.
Morses does not disagree with our adjudicators outcome for loans 1 to 3. And although 
Ms Ts representative has acknowledged receipt of the adjudicators opinion it has not 
replied to give its view either way. We have not heard from Ms T directly. 
I have seen from the credit search results Morses carried out that Ms T had a County Court 
Judgment (CCJ) entered against her just six months before she applied for loan 1. This plus 
some other factors that search revealed in March 2017 means that I do think additional 
checks ought to have been done by Morses. But we have nothing from Ms T or her 
representative to give us details of her financial circumstances at the time. And so, I cannot 
progress this further. 
And Morses has given us these figures (see the small table here) which were figures 
declared by Ms T and the income had been checked out by Morses. So, I have nothing over 
and above this evidence to lead me to think that Ms T could not afford the weekly 
repayments for loans 1 to 3 which were relatively low at £5, then a combined sum of £12.50, 
followed by a short time at £21.50 and then £14. 
LOAN INCOME EXPENDITURE DISPOSABLE 
INCOME
1 £429.60 £220.96 £208.64
2 £423.34 £274.03 £149.31
3 £408.00 £249.00 £159.00
So, I do not uphold the complaint about loans 1 to 3. 
After loan 3, when Ms T applied for loan 4, a few things had altered. Morses has reminded 
us that her income was £254 a week, £290 a week and £242 a week for loans 4 to 6 
inclusive. This demonstrated a significant drop in weekly income and one Id expect to have 
acted as an alert to Morses. I think even if it had not done it by that point  August 2018  
I think Morses ought to have carried out more checks. I dont think it did that.And upon closer inspection of the excel spreadsheet Morses has sent us on which are listed 
all the figures in its income and expenditure assessment, then her rent each week halved 
for loans 4 to 6 with no explanation as to why. Her utilities suddenly became hardly anything 
and on two instances £0 and her groceries dropped to £20 and £25 a week which is too low 
to be believed. 
Ms T returning for further borrowing on the same day a previous loan had been repaid 
(loan 3 on 15 August 2018). 
Morses has submitted that the loan sums borrowed reduced but in fact, as loans 5 and 6 
overlapped, her indebtedness to Morses increased as she was liable for loans 5 and 6 
together from December 2019 and was having to repay £25.50 a week. 
By now, it wouldve been reasonable for Morses to have at the very least, started to have 
verified the information it was being given. Ive not seen anything to suggest it carried out 
further checks in this case. 
However, I dont think I need to try and establish, in this case, whether a proportionate check 
wouldve led Morses to conclude these loans were unaffordable for Ms T. 
So in addition to looking at the checks that Morses did Ive also looked at the overall pattern 
of Morses lending history with Ms T, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which 
Morses should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise 
harmful. And so Morses should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further 
loans. 
Given the circumstances of Ms Ts case, I think that this point was reached by loan 4. I say 
this because:
At this point Morses ought to have realised Ms T was not managing to repay her 
loans sustainably. Ms T had taken out four loans in 15 months. So Morses ought to 
have realised it was more likely than not Ms T was having to borrow further to cover 
a long-term short fall in her living costs. And as I have outlined earlier  there had 
been a drop in her weekly income when she applied for loan 4.
it seems that some of loan 4 went towards repaying loan 3 as the balance on Loan 3 
from the Morses statements of account show me that Ms T still owed it £168 before 
she took loan 4 in August 2018. To me, this is a sign that Ms T was using these loans 
to fill a long-term gap in her income rather than as a short-term need.  
Over the course of the lending relationship, Ms Ts weekly commitments generally 
either increased or remained the same. Which may have given Morses confidence 
that Ms T was no longer reliant on these loans. However, the fact that these loans 
were lent in a consecutive manner, ought to have led it to realise these loans werent 
sustainable anymore. 
Ms T wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Morses. Loan 6 was 
taken out  two years and nine months after Ms Ts first loan. Ms T had paid large 
amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Morses over an extended period.
I think that Ms T lost out when Morses provided loans 4, 5 and 6 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Ts indebtedness by allowing her 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended periodthe number of loans and the length of time over which Ms T borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on Ms Ts ability to access mainstream credit and so 
kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im upholding Ms Ts complaint about loans 4 to 6. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened if it hadnt lent loans 4, 5 and 6, as Im satisfied it ought not to have. Clearly 
there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Ms T may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, she may have 
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how she would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Ms T in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Ms T would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. 
So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im satisfied it has 
done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have provided Ms T with loans 4, 5 and 6. 
A. Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms T towards 
interest, fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party 
where applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded.
B. Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Ms T which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms T originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Morses should pay Ms T the total of A plus B.
D. The overall pattern of Ms Ts borrowing for loans 4, 5 and 6 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so Morses should remove these loans entirely from 
Ms Ts credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should 
give Ms T a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Ts complaint in part and I direct that Morses Club PLC 
does as I have outlined above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman