DRN-4083954
The complaint
Mr G says Morses Club PLC irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
Morses lent Mr G five home credit loans. From the information provided, Mr Gs borrowing 
history is as follows:
Loan number Start date Loan amount (£) Repayment (£)
1 12 April 2019 300 15
2 10 October 2019 600 30
3 16 June 2020 600 30
4 10 February 2021 600 30
5 3 June 2021 500 18.75
Our adjudicator upheld part of Mr Gs complaint and thought loans 4 and 5onwards shouldnt 
have been given. Morses disagreed, it said the pattern doesnt suggest Mr G was dependent 
on credit and its checks showed he had sufficient disposable income to repay the loans. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out borrower focused proportionate checks to 
make sure Mr G could repay the loans. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Morses was required to establish 
whether Mr G could repay his loans over the term, and without undue difficulties   not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Gs complaint. I agree with the adjudicator that it 
wasnt unreasonable to lend loans 1-3. I say this because I think given the early stage of the 
lending relationship, Morses checks went far enough. The result of those checks show Mr G 
had sufficient disposable income to repay those loans. So, I dont think Morses was wrong to 
lend those loans.
Ive also looked at the overall pattern here and I think by loan 4, Morses should have 
realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. I say this because:
At this point Mr G had been borrowing from Morses for around 21 months. While 
Morses argues that there were gaps in the lending, I dont think 5 weeks between 
loans 2 and 3 and 2 days between loans 3 and 4 would reasonably show that Mr G 
wasnt dependent on this type of credit. Those breaks werent long enough to have 
given Morses reasonable cause to believe Mr Gs circumstances may have changed.
Mr Gs first loan was for £300 and loan 4 was for £600, double the amount of the first 
loan. 
Although loan 5 was for less than loan 4, it was higher than loan 1 and I think Mr Gs 
borrowing was generally around the same amount and wasnt decreasing 
significantly throughout the borrowing relationship.
I think Mr G was disadvantaged by the continued lending as these loans had the effect of 
unfairly prolonging Mr Gs indebtedness by allowing him take expensive credit intended for 
short-term use over an extended period of time.
Putting things right
refund all interest and charges Mr G paid on loans 4 and 5;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
All entries about loans 4 and 5 should be removed from Mr Gs credit file as any 
information recorded about them is adverse.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to take off tax from this interest. Morses must give Mr G a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Gs complaint. Morses Club PLC 
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2023.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman