DRN-3752075
The complaint
Miss R, through her representative, complains that Morses Club PLC lent to her when she 
could not afford it. 
What happened
Using information from Morses, here is a brief loan table. 
Loan Date of Loan Capital Sum Date Settled Term (w) Weekly 
Repayment
1 23/07/2019 £400.00 26/02/2020 33 £20.00
2 21/01/2020 £200.00 15/09/2020 34 £10.00
3 26/02/2020 £400.00 20/10/2020 34 £20.00
4 08/05/2020 £200.00 27/11/2020 34 £10.00
5 20/10/2020 £600.00 27/11/2020 34 £30.00
After Miss R complained, Morses sent its final response letter (FRL) in which it said her 
average income was around £196 a week, her average expenditure was £103 and so 
Morses said it left Miss R with a disposable income of around £92 each week. So, it said that 
Miss R could afford the loan repayments. 
The complaint was referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
A preliminary view from our adjudicator was that each of the five loans ought not to have 
been approved for Miss R. 
Morses disagreed in respect of loans 1 to 3, but agreed to put things right for Miss R in 
relation to loans 4 and 5. It gave a redress table showing the breakdown of what it planned 
to repay Miss R. From that it seems that loans 4 and 5 are resolved. And this decision does 
not review them. 
Morses noted that the income for Miss R increased as the months went by. It accepted that 
for loan 1 Miss Rs repayment sum of £20 was 16% of her income. It did not think that was 
too high. And that percentage of income used to repay loans 2 and 3 (or the combination of 
more than one of the loans) reduced to 13.2%. So, it says that was satisfactory. 
Morses also said that Miss R paid on time and sometimes early and gave no indication to 
Morses of any financial difficulties.
 
The complaint was reviewed and our adjudicator issued his view in which he considered that 
none of the loans should have been approved for Miss R. And he thought that Morses 
should put things right for all five loans not just loans 4 and 5. 
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about high cost, short-term and home 
credit lending - including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Miss R could afford to pay back the amounts 
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Morses checks could have considered a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Miss Rs 
income and expenditure.
I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks might have been 
proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done more to establish 
that any lending was sustainable for Miss R. These factors include:
Miss R having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Miss R having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period 
of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing 
had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss R coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss R. Our adjudicator considered this 
to be the case for Miss R.
Morses was required to establish whether Miss R could sustainably repay the loans  not 
just whether he technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Miss R was able to 
repay his loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and without 
having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, 
that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, then it 
follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and 
thought about what this means for Miss Rs complaint.
I have decided that the whole complaint ought to be upheld. And I explain here.
Loan 1
Loan 1 was applied for when Miss R was on a very low wage. Miss R declared it as £124 for 
the week. Miss R declared some expenditure which amounted to £44.50. The declared sum 
spent in the week on groceries was £10. Our adjudicator had referred to that being a low figure, and Morses had a chance to respond. 
Its response was that Miss R had had a chance to read through her application and had 
been given the opportunity to sign it as correct and from that I gather that Morses is saying 
therefore the onus was on Miss R. I do not accept that. 
The figure given for groceries  particularly for loan 1 - was so low as to be not reasonably 
believable and, in the circumstances, I do not think that Miss Rs opportunity to sign the 
application as correct is a satisfactory explanation as to what I consider to have been a 
failing in the creditworthiness assessment. Especially where the wage Miss R declared was 
so low. Certain factors might suggest Morses should have done more to establish that any 
lending was sustainable for Miss R and I think that having a low wage is one of those 
factors. And I do not consider it fair, reasonable, or within the spirit of the creditworthiness 
assessment that a low figure which I think should have been an alert to Morses is explained 
away as being part of a set of details Miss R signed as being correct. I do not think that 
makes it alright. 
Morses carried out a credit search and in my view Morses failed to apply some of that 
information it knew about to the affordability assessment. That shows an additional failing in 
relation to the creditworthiness assessment. If it had information it did not apply to the figures 
then I consider that to have been a failing. 
The credit search results showed that Miss R had six active accounts with a total debt value 
of £2,525, and two accounts with zero balances. So, four were still live and one may well 
have been a bank account. And later in the results report was further detail which included 
the balances on the following types of account and three of the live accounts:
Loan and instalment credit £458
Revolving credit and budget accounts  £1056
Home credit      £340
And yet, despite knowing this, Morses spreadsheet which it refers to as its front sheet and 
effectively is the income and expenditure (I&E), no reference was made at loan 1 for any of 
the inevitable payments which must have been paid for these debts. 
And the later entry in the search results gives the figure for total monthly payments on all 
accounts excluding mortgages which are currently active. That figure was £121. So, I think it 
is reasonable of me to calculate, and incumbent on Morses to have noted it at the time, that 
Miss R was committed to paying £121 a month to other lenders which does not appear on 
her I&E for loan 1. 
So, that £121 a month, divided across the weeks of the year  translates to just under a £28 
a week liability to be factored into the figures. 
That plus what I think ought to be a more realistic groceries figure factored into the I&E leads 
me to think that Miss R would not have enough to pay for loan 1. Even if that increase for 
groceries was just an additional £10 a week, then I think Morses would have seen that 
Miss R was not going to be able to afford loan 1.  I uphold the complaint about loan 1.  
Loans 2 and 3
Six months later in January 2020, Miss R applied for loan 2. 
I note that the loan 2 application was made by Miss R when loan 1 had not been repaid and 
so her repayments would have increased to cover two loans from Morses. The Morses I&E document does include a slightly higher sum for groceries and additional 
credit repayment figures - £29 (£20 for other credit and £9 for credit cards). But as Morses 
does not carry out credit searches after loan 1, its not clear whether this £29 is in addition to 
the £28 a month I have referred to earlier in this decision for loan 1, or whether its for the 
same debt. It is feasible that Miss Rs credit record had altered in that six months. 
I have seen that Miss Rs declared income had increased at loan 2. And such a large 
increase in weekly income  while welcome  ought, in my view, to have been checked to 
ensure it was correct. And I say this because it does not look to me from the Morses records 
that the £100 a week increase in the salary was because Miss R got a job  the record says 
that it was benefits, just as it was for loan 1. And I find that such a large increase in her 
benefit income in six months ought to have been checked. Morses records does show that it 
was CRA checked but I have no information on that check. 
For loan 3, it appears to have been applied for by Miss R to repay Loan 1, when the balance 
on that loan was not insignificant and ate into the fresh loan 3 capital to a large degree. And 
it meant that Miss R was left to repay two loans to Morses. 
Morses has referred to the percentage of her monthly income on the Morses loans for 
loans 2 and 3 had come down to 13.2%, but with the other debt as well I think that was too 
high. From Morses own I&E records, it knew Miss R was repaying £29 to other credit 
accounts, £20 to the existing loan  loan 1  and then £10 for the new loan 2. That would 
have made a total debt repayment sum of just shy of £60 a week. That translates into about 
26% of her total net declared salary of £226 a week. And if I just count the Morses loans its 
13%. I dont think that was right for Miss R. And the figures were similar for loan 3. 
The cumulative picture of overlapping loans and applying for a loan to repay an earlier loan, 
plus a relatively high percentage of her net income being paid out on debt, does not lead me 
to be persuaded that Morses lent to Miss R when it was confident she could afford it. I do not 
consider Miss R could afford them easily and so I uphold the complaint for loans 2 and 3. 
Loans 4 and 5 have been agreed by Morses and I have included them all in the redress 
section or completeness.  
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it not lent to Miss R at all, as Im satisfied it ought not to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Miss R may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, they may 
have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. 
From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real 
and substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Miss R in a 
compliant way at this time.Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Miss R would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. 
So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im satisfied it has 
done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have given Miss R loans 1 to 5.
A) Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Miss R towards interest, 
fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party where 
applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded.
B) Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Miss R 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss R originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Morses should pay Miss R the total of A plus B.
D) Miss Rs credit file ought to be amended to remove any adverse payment information. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should 
give Miss R a certificate showing how much tax Morses has deducted if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Rs complaint and I direct that Morses Club PLC does 
as I have outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 November 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman