DRN-3841086
The complaint
H complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc closed its bank account. H is represented by its 
owner, but Ill mainly refer to their actions as having been taken by H.
What happened
H, a small business, had a bank account with HSBC for a number of years. In February 
2021, HSBC wrote to H asking it for information to ensure its records were up to date. HSBC 
calls this a safeguarding review and it was to be conducted online. H wrote to HSBC to say it 
would comply but could not do so online  its owner said he didnt have the skills to do so.
In August 2021, after months of trying to sort out the review, H says it was able to speak to 
someone over the phone. It said HSBC confirmed by email that it had the required 
information. But in November 2021, HSBC wrote to H again saying it hadnt responded to 
the review so its account would be closed. H complained to HSBC.
HSBC looked into Hs complaint. It said it had extended the deadline for completing 
safeguarding several times and had complied with its procedures. It said that during a call on 
3 August 2021, it had arranged an appointment to speak on 19 August 2021. But H had 
been unavailable when called so safeguarding hadnt been completed. HSBC said that if H 
remained unhappy it could refer its complaint to our service. 
H referred its complaint to us and one of our investigators looked into it. She said HSBC was 
acting in line with its terms and conditions by requesting safeguarding evidence from H. Our 
investigator listened to the conversation H had with an advisor at the bank and heard that H 
had been told to ignore the email which said safeguarding was complete. She noted that the 
bank had made an appointment with H to collect the information, but the call wasnt taken. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Hs complaint. HSBC accepted what our investigator said, but 
H didnt. As there was no agreement, Hs complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Part 1 section 9 of the terms and conditions of Hs account allow HSBC to make reasonable 
requests for information from its business customers, and explains that if its not received, it 
may lead to closure of the account. HSBC wrote to H in February 2021 for information to 
complete a safeguarding review. It explained why it needed to carry out the review in its 
letter. I dont think its request was unreasonable. 
The information was chased periodically and the bank wrote to H to say it would close the 
account on 3 August 2021 if safeguarding wasnt complete. On that day, H visited a branch 
as prearranged and called the safeguarding team. Ive listened to that conversation. 
The advisor initially spoke to a member of the branch staff to complete some verification 
steps. The phone was then passed back to H. The advisor acknowledged the account was 
due to close that day and said shed arrange an extension to the process so a review could 
be completed later. To complete the extension the advisor said H should ignore any emails 
received including a completion email. An appointment was booked for 2pm on 19 August 
2021. The advisor said the account would be closed if the process wasnt completed by the 
end of the extension, and if H needed to rebook the appointment it should call the team. H 
confirmed it had the relevant number.
On 4 August 2021, H received an email saying HSBC had all the information it needed for 
the safeguarding review. H says he believed everything was complete at that point. But as 
mentioned above, HSBC had told H it would receive such an email and it should be ignored. 
I dont think it was reasonable for H to have considered the process was complete given the 
conversation held the day before, and that it knew it had an appointment booked for 19 
August 2021 to conduct the review.
Ive seen and heard evidence that HSBC tried to contact H on 19 August 2021 as agreed. 
But H didnt accept the call, so the process couldnt be completed. HSBC wrote to H again 
extending the deadlines further. To date, the process has still not been completed. The bank 
has tried to close the account, but as it is overdrawn, it has been unable to do so.
All things considered, I think it was reasonable for HSBC to request information from H to 
complete a review. It accepted H could not do so online and extended the process on 
several occasions and made an appointment with H to complete the process over the phone. 
H however didnt accept the call and subsequently the review hasnt been completed. 
I do understand that H feels its been treated unfairly as it is a longstanding customer of the 
bank. But as Ive said, the bank is entitled to ask its customers for information  it does so 
with all its business customers from time to time. Ive seen nothing which suggests H has 
been treated differently to any other customer in a similar position. 
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont think HSBC has treated H unfairly in the 
circumstances. Ive mentioned earlier that the account is currently open but inoperable due 
to an overdrawn balance and I can see its not been used for over a year. Id encourage H 
and HSBC to work together to find a suitable repayment plan for the overdraft.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2023. 
Richard Hale
Ombudsman