DRN-3183874
The complaint
Mr K complains U K Insurance Limited (UKI) have cancelled his motor insurance policy 
unfairly.
What happened
Mr K had motor insurance with UKI, and said his family member was paying the direct debit. 
He said he received a letter in early July 2021 saying his policy had been cancelled. Mr K 
said his family member had his bank account blocked  and a lot of letters hadnt been 
turning up as the postal service had delays. After calling UKI up Mr K eventually established 
there was a phone call on 24 May 2021, where his family member had given bank account 
details for a new direct debit to be set up. Mr K says UKIs agents told him theyd get the 
policy reinstated, as this wasnt his fault  but the underwriters then refused to do so. Mr K 
says UKIs agents said they didnt understand why the underwriters were being like this  as 
they usually just reinstate the policy. Mr K said this made him feel humiliated, disgusted and 
clearly discriminated against.
UKI said theyd contacted Mr K to let him know about the outstanding payment, and that the 
policy was due to be cancelled on 1 June 2021. UKI said theyd listened to a call on 24 May, 
where Mr Ks family member gave them new bank details. On this call, it was confirmed the 
policy was due to be cancelled on 1 June 2021. Mr Ks family member said hed call back on 
28 May 2021, but no call was received  and as no call was received, the policy was 
cancelled.
UKI added theyd spoken to their underwriters who said they wouldnt reinstate the policy or 
remove the cancellation from the record, so itd need to be disclosed on future quotes Mr K 
gets. But they did feel they could have explained the urgency with which they needed the 
payment more, so awarded £125 for this.
Mr K contacted us and asked us to look into things as he wasnt happy with UKIs reply  
and said hed not received the cheque they said theyd send yet. I understand that has since 
been sent to Mr K.
One of our Investigators looked into things. Overall, he felt UKI had acted fairly by saying 
they wouldnt reinstate the policy and for the compensation of £125 for the poor handling of 
the call. But said the cancellation notice should be removed and a letter given to Mr K so he 
could show it to any other insurers. 
UKI didnt agree. They said they accepted the call could have been handled better, but this 
was because there was only a week between sending out the direct debit mandate  which 
didnt leave a lot of time  and they could have reiterated the cancellation date later on. UKI 
later added Mr Ks details have already been removed from our barring list. 
Mr K also didnt agree. He didnt think the compensation of £125 fairly reflected the loss of 
income hed suffered as a result of UKIs actions. He said because of their actions he 
couldnt get a new job, leading to loss of income. He felt around £3,000-£5,000 was a fairer 
outcome.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to explain I need to decide whether I think UKI did anything wrong or 
not. If I dont think they did anything wrong in cancelling the policy, then I might not think its 
fair to award the further compensation Mr K has asked for. 
Call of 24 May 2021
Ive not got a copy of the call on 24 May 2021, but I can see the notes from UKIs system. 
These show around £83 was outstanding, the family members bank details were taken, and 
a direct debit mandate was due to be posted out to him. UKIs agent reminded the family 
member the policy would cancel on 1 June 2021, and said the direct debit needed to be set 
up as soon as possible  alternatively he could pay by card. The family member said theyd 
call on 28 May 2021, to make the payment by card. But then didnt do that.
It seems clear from this conversation Mr Ks family member had been made aware it was 
important to make this payment otherwise the policy could be cancelled. On the call on 
24 May 2021, the family member decided to call back to make the payment.
I have noted UKI have awarded compensation because the urgency wasnt really spelt out 
as well as it could have been. But I also cant ignore that it had at least been mentioned on 
this call the policy would cancel in a week if no payment was made  and no payment was 
made on the day of the call. That could suggest, for whatever reason, the family member 
didnt want to, or couldnt, make the payment on that day. 
Overall, although UKI have accepted they could have done more, I think the £125 theyve 
awarded is fair for this issue.
Refusing to reinstate Mr Ks policy
Mr K has said this decision has made him feel, amongst other things, discriminated against. I 
cant imagine how difficult that must be for him to feel. So, what I need to decide, is whether I 
think UKI would have treated anyone else the same in Mr Ks situation.
Mr Ks subsequent awareness of the policy being cancelled is whats brought this situation to 
light. He says he wasnt aware of the policy being cancelled in June 2021  even though 
hes the policyholder. Instead, its his family member who was effectively running the policy  
and hadnt told Mr K about the policy being cancelled. Thats extremely unusual I think in the 
usual order of things.
I have noted Mr Ks explanation for what the family member was going through  which is 
why the family member didnt tell Mr K about whatd happened and didnt feel they could 
make the payment. I hope theyre all OK and recovered now  but I have to be impartial, 
step back, and think about things objectively. Here, UKI are being told a policyholder has a 
family member paying a policy for them, and the family member doesnt tell the policyholder 
about the policy being cancelled  even though they know from a conversation theyve had 
with the insurer the policy was going to be cancelled if a payment wasnt made.
I know Mr Ks concerns have, in part, stemmed from the comments made by UKIs agents. 
Theyll have based those comments on their experience of similar situations  but that 
doesnt mean everyone fits that situation. I cant see that UKI ever fully explained to Mr K 
why they didnt reinstate his policy  but theyre not required to do so. As I said above Mr K says he feels UKI have discriminated against him given the problems 
hes experienced. I can understand why Mr K feels this way but having looked at all the 
evidence I dont think UKI have done so. I think theyve treated him in the same way as they 
would have done for any other customer of theirs in the same situation. Nor do I think UKI 
have acted unfairly or unreasonably on this point for the reasons Ive explained above. I 
hope that it helps Mr K to know that someone impartial and independent has looked into his 
concerns.
Cancellation appearing on Mr Ks record
I can see our Investigator recommended this be removed from Mr Ks records  and that he 
be given a letter to take to any other insurer if needed.
I think that remains a fair suggestion to resolve this complaint. Although I think it was Mr Ks 
responsibility to have ensured he had valid insurance in place, he was relying on a family 
member to look after this for him. Ive seen no reason to disbelieve Mr Ks comments the 
family member didnt tell him about it  as the timeline from UKI supports this.
So, although the policy was cancelled fairly by UKI due to non-payment, I think this having a 
long-lasting impact on Mr K wouldnt feel fair.
Mr Ks compensation claim
I can understand why Mr K would like his loss of earnings to be paid to him  from his 
perspective, he thinks UKI should have reinstated his policy. As Ive explained above, I dont 
think UKI have done anything wrong in not doing so. That means that while I can understand 
Mr Ks claim, I could only ask them to pay that if I thought theyd done something wrong 
leading to that loss for Mr K  and I dont think they have. Theyve fairly cancelled the policy 
due to non-payment of the premium.
Putting things right
I require UKI to:
Provide Mr K with a letter confirming the policy wasnt cancelled by them.
Remove Mr Ks details from any internal or external databases theyve reported the 
cancellation to.
Pay him £125 compensation (if they havent already).  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I uphold this complaint and require U K Insurance 
Limited to carry out the actions in the Putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman