DRN-3328184
The complaint
Mr F on behalf of V, a limited company, complains that Zurich Insurance PLC unfairly 
declined a claim under the public liability section of a Contractors Combined insurance 
policy.
What happened
One of Vs employees fitted equipment to a fuel storage system incorrectly.
Because of the error, the fuel tanks distorted and buckled due to pressure build-up.
Zurich appointed a loss adjuster to investigate the matter.
They said the failure to install the equipment to the tank correctly caused pressure to 
build up inside it resulting in damage.
Zurich concluded that the policy expressly excludes damage to Property being 
worked on, defined as follows:
damage to the part of any property upon which you or any servant or agent of yours is or 
has been working where the damage is the direct result of that work.
Our investigators opinion was that Zurich had acted fairly as the damage was excluded by 
the policy.
Vs insurance broker disagreed with the investigator saying, in summary, that while the 
equipment fitted might not be covered the consequential damage should be as Vs employee 
didnt damage the tanks directly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Policy cover includes public liability, where Zurich will cover all sums V becomes legally 
liable to pay as damages in respect of, among other matters, accidental damage to property. 
However, like most insurance policies there are express exclusions that define 
circumstances where Zurich will not pay a claim. As far as Im aware, V hasnt been declared 
legally liable for any damages and it appears Zurich assessed the claim on the basis that Vs 
engineer had nonetheless been negligent in fitting the valve. And it was likely that should 
proceedings be initiated V would be held vicariously liable. Even if a court had concluded V 
was liable that wouldnt mean the policy would have to respond. It would still be for Zurich to 
consider any claim against the policy terms and conditions.
The most persuasive evidence weve been provided with about the cause of the damage, in 
my opinion, comes from the loss adjuster appointed by Zurich. There is no other evidence to 
contradict or challenge this report. Zurich, in declining the claim, pointed to an exclusion for 
Property being worked on as outlined earlier in this decision (italicised).
The public liability cover isnt professional indemnity cover, the latter commonly associated 
with insurance for breach of a professional duty due to a negligent act or omission. And it 
appears thats whats happened in so far as Vs engineers incorrect fitting of equipment, 
which resulted in damage to fuel tanks. So, looking at the Property being worked on 
exclusion Im satisfied Zurich has applied it fairly in the circumstances. Im satisfied Zurich 
has demonstrated, on balance, that damage was to the property Vs engineer worked on, 
and the damage was the direct result of that engineers work:
- Vs engineer fitted equipment directly to joined fuel tanks.
- That incorrect fitting led to equipment malfunction.
- With fuel in the tanks the internal pressure built.
- And because of the incorrect fitting there was no pressure relief.
- As a result, the tanks buckled because of the internal pressure.
There is an extension of cover under the public liability part for financial loss. But this 
specifically excludes liability arising out of professional negligence and the cost of specified 
things including replacing, reinstating, and repairing any work carried out by or on behalf of 
the insured (here that is V).
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint as the policy doesnt cover the damage Vs engineer caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask V to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2022.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman