DRN-2324206
The complaint
Miss R has complained that the early repayment charge (ERC) she paid to redeem her 
mortgage with Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) is unfair. 
What happened
In September 2017 Miss R took out a fixed rate mortgage with Halifax. The mortgage offer 
explained that if the mortgage was repaid before 30 September 2019 an ERC would be 
applied, to a maximum of £2,052.
In June 2019 Miss R redeemed her mortgage, she then complained about the ERC saying it 
was unfair. Miss R said that she thought the ERC should have reduced more than it had.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, saying the ERC was set out in the paperwork 
and Halifax had calculated it fairly; he said ERCs werent calculated on an individual basis. 
Miss R didnt agree and so its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
Miss R has said that she phoned Halifax in February 2019 and was told the ERC was 
£912.79. Shes said that based on the ERC being over £2,000 at the start she expected it 
would continue to go down significantly, so she was surprised that the redemption statement 
obtained by her solicitor on 30 May 2019 showed it had only gone down slightly to £905.60.
Miss R has also said that in that February 2019 call she asked whether she could overpay 
her mortgage, thus reducing the balance to therefore reduce the future ERC, but was told 
that as the overpayment would be so close to redemption that it wouldnt affect the size of 
the ERC.
Halifax has said it has no record of any call from Miss R in February 2019, and it has 
provided its contact notes to show this. It also said it has searched its call records for 
inbound calls from Miss Rs mobile phone number and not been able to trace the call.
In any event this complaint doesnt turn on that because Miss R hasnt said she was told on 
the call that the ERC would be significantly lower in a few months, and the information about 
making a capital reduction to try to lower the ERC was correct. Miss R has said she 
assumed / expected the ERC would drop by more, not that a Halifax employee told her that. 
But again, even if a Halifax employee had told her the ERC would reduce significantly 
between February and June 2019 it would be what we call a misrepresentation.  When were 
looking at complaints about misrepresentations, we consider the appropriate remedy is to 
place the consumer in the position they would be in if the incorrect information hadnt been 
given. We dont put them in the position they would be in if the misinformation had been 
correct. 
The correct information would have been that the ERC would reduce slightly in that time 
(because the mortgage balance would have decreased, and the ERC is a percentage of the 
balance). Miss R could never have been in a position where the ERC would be significantly 
less than she paid, unless she waited until after 30 September 2019 so there would have 
been no ERC and shes told us she couldnt wait until then.
The ERC was set out in the mortgage contract that Miss R entered into in 2017 and that 
explained there would be an ERC of:
3.00% of the amount repaid on or before 30/09/2018
1.40% of the amount repaid on or before 30/09/2019
There was no sliding scale over the months, it was one percentage (3%) for the first year, 
and then a lower percentage (1.4%) for the second year. It didnt matter whether Miss R 
repaid her mortgage on 1 October 2018 or 30 September 2019, she would still have been 
charged an ERC that equated to 1.4% of the amount she repaid.
Were not the regulator, and Ive no power under our terms of reference to comment on, or 
otherwise determine, how financial businesses operate in general terms. I have to consider 
this complaint by reference to Miss Rs particular situation. When I do that, Im satisfied the 
terms of the ERC were set out in the mortgage offer in a way that should have been readily 
understandable to Miss R; certainly, the information about the ERC was set out in a way that 
met the regulators requirements. So Im persuaded Miss R knew - or at least should have 
known - how much the ERC would be if she repaid the mortgage before 30 September 2019.  
In the circumstances, Im satisfied Halifax was entitled to charge Miss R the ERC as set out 
in her mortgage contract when she repaid her mortgage early. Im also satisfied there was 
no requirement for Halifax to reduce that amount just because Miss R only had a few months 
to go.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of the 
complaint, which means well not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of 
the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 February 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman