DRN-2090095
The complaint
Mr W, on behalf of E complains that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited has 
unfairly refused to pay his shortfall of legal fees under his commercial legal expenses 
insurance policy.
What happened
In 2014, Mr W made a claim on his policy to cover the costs of pursuing legal action against 
his neighbour for demolishing the party wall. DAS accepted the claim and appointed one of 
its panel firms of solicitors. 
About a year later, Mr W got back in touch with DAS as he wasnt happy with the panel firm. 
DAS made some enquiries and were told by the panel firm that Mr W needed to pursue this 
matter via the Party Wall Act before he could continue his claim for nuisance and trespass 
under the policy. The panel firm had taken advice from counsel and it was agreed this was 
the most appropriate way forward. 
As the Party Wall Act is not covered by the policy, Mr W was advised that there was no 
cover under the policy at that time. But that he should revert to DAS when hes completed 
this process. 
In 2016, Mr W got back in touch with DAS to say hed appointed his own solicitor to act for 
him as he was unhappy with the inactivity from the panel firm. DAS reiterated the position to 
Mr W that there was no cover until hed completed the Party Wall Act process. But it invited 
him to provide any further comments for consideration. 
No further correspondence was received from Mr W until 2017 when he got back in touch 
with DAS. He advised that his solicitors had combined the Party Wall Act process and his 
civil claim for nuisance and trespass. And hed gone on to win in court. Hed been awarded 
his legal costs, but as this didnt cover the full amount hed paid, he wanted DAS to pay the 
shortfall. 
DAS has declined cover for these costs. It says they were incurred without its prior approval. 
Furthermore, the court had assessed the legal fees incurred and awarded what it had 
deemed reasonable. As the policy only covers reasonable and necessary legal costs, it 
didnt agree these would be recoverable in any event. 
Mr W didnt agree. He said he received a poor service from the panel firm. And that 
counsels advice was ill-informed and demonstrated a lack of understanding of his claim. He 
felt hed had no option but to engage his own solicitors and that DAS should cover the fees. 
He raised a complaint in 2018. And when it wasnt upheld, he brought it to our service. 
Our investigator said DAS were entitled to rely on the legal advice it had obtained. As Mr W 
didnt provide it with a conflicting legal opinion nor did he inform DAS of the actions he was 
taking, she didnt think DAS was liable for the shortfall. However, she did think there had 
been some failings in the customer service Mr W had received from DAS. There had been 
some delays in DAS responding to Mr W in 2015 and 2018. So, she recommended that DAS 
pay £100 compensation.
DAS didnt respond to our investigator. And Mr W didnt accept her recommendations. The 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its common for an insurer to outsource the legal handling of a claim to an independent firm 
of solicitors. Insurers are not legal professionals, and as such, they will rely on the legal 
advice of experts on how a claim should be progressed. So long as they have obtained 
advice from suitably qualified lawyers, we wont generally question their reliance on that 
advice, unless we think it was obviously wrong or based on factual mistakes.
The policy cover for properties includes cover for damage, nuisance and trespass. While 
there was potential trespass it arose from and was inextricably linked to The Party Wall Act 
issues. The panel firm and counsel advised that Mr W needed to pursue the Party Wall Act 
process before he was able to continue with his civil claim. Ive seen a copy of that advice, 
which was sent to Mr W by email. Within that its apparent that Mr W was also advised to 
seek advice from a local solicitor in respect of obtaining an injunction under the terms of The 
Party Wall Act. However, he chose not to follow that advice. In the absence of any 
information or legal opinion to the contrary, Im satisfied DAS was entitled to rely on the 
advice it received. 
Mr W got back in touch with DAS to say that hed instructed his own solicitor. And DAS 
invited Mr W to provide any comments on counsels opinion and the proposed way forward. 
Im satisfied Mr W had the opportunity to tell DAS that it was his solicitors advice that the 
Party Wall Act and the claim could be combined. But Mr W didnt respond to DAS and so 
deprived DAS of an opportunity to make further enquiries with the chosen solicitor and 
reconsider the claim. 
Mr Ws policy, like most legal expenses policies, says theres no cover for costs and 
expenses incurred before the acceptance of a claim. Whilst I appreciate DAS had accepted 
this claim in 2014, this was for its panel firm only to act and that was made clear to Mr W. 
Cover was subsequently put on hold until the Party Wall Act had been complied with, and 
this too was made clear to Mr W. 
The policy goes on to say that Mr W is free to choose a solicitor of his own choice by 
sending DAS the name and address of the firm. It will then decide whether it accepts Mr Ws 
choice and if so, it will appoint them in accordance with the terms of the policy. This process 
had not been followed and I cant see that DAS were even aware that Mr W had taken this 
matter to court until after he was successful. 
The policy, like every other legal expenses policy Ive seen, will only pay reasonable and 
necessary legal fees. And as the court has assessed the legal fees Mr W incurred and made 
an award, the shortfall is likely to have arisen because the costs were deemed unnecessary 
or unreasonable. 
Overall, Im persuaded Mr W didnt comply with the policy terms and conditions. He engaged 
a firm of solicitors without DAS approval and pursued legal action without DAS knowledge. 
And this was contrary to the legal advice of a panel firm and counsel. As such, I dont agree 
that DAS is liable for his shortfall. I do agree with our investigator that there have been some small failings in DAS customer 
service. I can see that it took some time to respond to correspondence back in 2015. And 
some replies could have been clearer about the position of the panel firm. This caused 
inconvenience to E but Im satisfied £100 compensation is a fair award.
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint in part. And I direct DAS Legal 
Expenses Insurance Company Limited to pay £100 compensation to E for the inconvenience 
caused by delay. 
DAS must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it the final 
decision has been accepted. If DAS pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and require DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited 
to pay £100 compensation to E for the inconvenience caused by delay.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2020.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman