DRN-1937263
 
The complaint
Mr T complains because AXA Insurance UK Plc hasnt paid his claim for cancellation of a 
trip under his travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr T holds a travel insurance policy as a benefit of his bank account, which includes cover 
for business travel. The policy is provided by AXA. 
Mr T was due to travel abroad on 6 March 2020, returning on 14 March 2020. During the trip 
Mr T was planning to attend a four-day event. However, the event was cancelled on 26 
February 2020 because the local government had asked organisers to cancel large events 
to prevent further infection from COVID-19. 
Mr T therefore cancelled his trip and made a claim under his policy with AXA. 
AXA said Mr Ts policy listed specific reasons when claims were covered but the reason for 
Mr Ts claim wasnt one of them. So, AXA said the claim wasnt covered under his policy. 
Mr T complained but AXA maintained its position, saying the policy only covered situations 
where the government had advised against travel to the trip destination. 
Unhappy, Mr T brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened but said he didnt think AXA had 
been unfair in turning down the claim. Mr T didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed 
to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Insurance policies dont cover every eventuality and AXAs responsibilities to Mr T are set 
out in the terms and conditions of his travel insurance policy. 
These say AXA will provide cover for the costs of cancelling a trip as a result of specific, 
listed insured events. These include, under Section A  Cancellation or curtailment charges 
and early return:
2. Compulsory quarantine; and 
7. A government directive prohibiting all travel to, or recommending evacuation from, 
the country or area You were planning to visit or were staying in provided such a 
directive came into force after You have left the United Kingdom. 
Section Q  Travel disruption cover provides for AXA to pay certain costs in the following 
circumstances: 
Before you reach your destination
c. The Travel Advice Unit of the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) or other 
regulatory authority in a country to/from which You are travelling advising against all 
travel or all but essential travel to the country or specific area You are travelling to 
providing the advice came into forcewithin 28 days of Your departure date. 
Ive considered whether Mr Ts claim arose for any of these reasons, and I dont think it did.  
I understand Mr T was concerned about the possibility of being quarantined abroad but, at 
the time he cancelled his trip (or indeed on the dates he should have travelled), no 
compulsory quarantine arrangements were in place either at his intended destinations or in 
the UK following a traveller returning from Mr Ts intended destinations.
While the organiser of the event Mr T was due to attend had cancelled it on 26 February 
2020 on the directions of local government, Mr Ts policy only covers situations where 
governments have advised against travel. There were no local or UK government directives 
in force advising against travel to the destinations in question at the time Mr T cancelled his 
trip. 
The FCO advised against all but essential travel to the countries Mr T was planning to visit 
on 17 March 2020, which was after Mr T was due to return from his trip. The countries Mr T 
was intending to visit also didnt have travel restrictions in place at the time Mr T was due to 
travel. 
  
I can understand why Mr T may not have wanted to travel in the circumstances, but 
reluctance to travel isnt something thats covered under his insurance policy. Cancellation of 
an event which a policyholder is due to attend also isnt an insured event under this policy. 
While I can appreciate, from Mr Ts perspective, the purpose of his trip was to attend the 
event, he would still have been able to travel and use the flights, accommodation and car 
hire hed booked. And, based on the evidence Ive seen, there were no significant 
restrictions on day-to-day life in the areas Mr T was planning to visit at the time he cancelled. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr T and I understand he has been left out of pocket by what has 
happened. But his insurance policy doesnt cover the situation he found himself in. I dont 
think his claim is covered under the terms and conditions of his policy and I dont think AXA 
has been unfair or unreasonable in turning down his claim. So, I wont be asking AXA to do 
anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2020.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman