DRN-3675660
The complaint
Mr D complains about the advice given by D C Financial Limited (DCF) to transfer the 
benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal pension. 
He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ds employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could 
transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
At the time the BSPS scheme closed to new accruals in March 2017, Mr D had 26 years and 
5 months of pensionable service with his employer which gave him a total (index linked 
pension) of £17,552 per year. After the DB scheme closed to new accruals in March 2017, 
Mr D joined his employers Defined Contribution (DC) scheme. At this point Mr D was aged 
53, was unmarried with two non-dependent children and was thinking about retiring from 
British Steel at 55 to take up work as a self-employed electrician or personal trainer.
In June 2017 Mr D had received a Cash Equivalent Transfer Value (CETV) from the DB 
scheme of £432,019.05, valid for 3 months. 
DCF completed a fact-find in late July 2017 to gather information about Mr Ds 
circumstances and objectives. Mr Ds circumstances at the time were noted as follows: 
He was unmarried with two grown up children who were no longer living with him.
He was employed as a team leader earning £40,000 per year.
His approximate monthly disposable income was £800.
His house was valued at £135,000 with an outstanding mortgage of £72,000 with 11 
years to run.
He was paying £180 per month for a car loan that had two years to run and £130 for 
a homeowner loan.
He had £8,000 in savings and £20,000 in a cash ISA along with £10,000 in shares.
He was recorded as being a member of his employers DC scheme, making 
contributions of 10% per year along with employer contributions at the same rate.
That he considered himself a knowledgeable and experienced investor whose 
financial objective was noted as planning for retirement. 
That he didnt want to risk the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or be subject to 
reduction factors (in his pension), and wanted to be able to leave his remaining 
pension fund to his children.
DCF also carried out an assessment of Mr Ds attitude to risk (ATR), which it deemed to be 
moderate or a risk level of 7 on a scale of 1 to 10. It also thought he had the capacity for 
loss as determined by his ATR. 
 
On 4 August 2017 DCF provided Mr D with its suitability report and advised him to transfer 
his pension benefits into a personal pension and invest the proceeds with a provider (L); 
25% in a cautious fund and 75% to be actively managed by DCF. The suitability report said 
the reasons for this recommendation to Mr D were, in summary: 
To prevent the loss of flexible access should the BSPS scheme move to the PPF;
To have control of his pension given the uncertainty surrounding the BSPS scheme.
To be able to access Tax Free Cash (TFC) without having to take an income at the 
same time  unlike the BSPS scheme.
To avoid the penalties for taking retirement before the schemes normal retirement 
date (NRD) of 65.
To avoid the inflexible death benefits of the DB scheme and be able to pass any 
unused pension fund onto his children. 
Mr D accepted the recommendation and signed the transfer forms and a client agreement on 
28 July 2017. The forms were submitted to L and Mr D signed a declaration on 7 August 
2017 to say that he had received and read the suitability report. DCF were remunerated with 
an initial advice fee of £8,000 and an annual ongoing adviser fee of 1% of the fund value. 
L also charged an annual fee of 0.25%. 
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave 
them the option to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choice was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017).
In September 2020, Mr D accessed £30,000 of TFC to make some home improvements and 
help his son pay his builders bill. Mr D remains employed and has not retired. He is now 
aged 58. 
In November 2020, Mr Ds representative complained to DCF that the advice hed been 
given to transfer out of his DB scheme had been unsuitable and that the transfer shouldnt 
have been recommended in his circumstances as they were at the time. 
DCF looked into Mr Ds complaint but didnt agree that it should be upheld. It said the advice 
it had given Mr D was tailored to his personal circumstances and had taken into account his 
current and future plans, needs and objectives. It said Mr Ds main objective was to leave his 
employment and start his own business and that he felt accessing his TFC at age 55 would 
help him achieve this goal. DCF said Mr D had lost all faith with his employer and felt 
strongly against remaining in the scheme. It said he wanted flexibility, better death benefits 
and to avoid the PPF. DCF said the transfer met Mr Ds objectives so was suitable. 
Unhappy with the outcome of DCFs investigation, Mr D complained to this service. Our 
Investigator looked into Mr Ds complaint and recommended that it was upheld. He said he 
thought the transfer wasnt suitable for Mr D because it wasnt financially viable. He also 
thought DC hadnt sufficiently explored Mr Ds objective of starting his own business or 
considered alternative means of achieving his aims. Whilst he accepted that the death 
benefits under the personal pension were potentially better than those under the DB scheme 
(given Mr Ds own personal circumstances) he thought they didnt make the transfer suitable 
especially given that it seemed clear that Mr D would be unable to match, or improve, on his 
BSPS benefits. He also noted that DCF hadnt investigated the option of Mr D leaving a lump 
sum to his children by other means. Our Investigator recommended that DCF should 
compensate Mr D for the losses he incurred by transferring his DB pension and that 
compensation should be based on him having opted to join the BSPS2. He also recommended DCF pay Mr D compensation of £250 for the distress and inconvenience this 
matter had caused him.
DCF responded and made the following comments: 
It had thoroughly advised Mr D of the advantages and disadvantages of his options, 
and their associated risks, prior to the transfer.
That BSPS2 had not been confirmed at the time it was advising Mr D.
To date Mr Ds pension had achieved annual gross growth per year of 7.37% which 
compares favourably to the discount rate of 3.3% for 6 years to retirement and 3.9% 
for 11 years to retirement.
The critical yield figures produced at the time of the advice were based on the BSPS 
which has ceased to exist and wasnt an option for Mr D to remain a member of. The 
critical yields for BSPS2 were much lower.
It was important to Mr D to have access to a lump sum should the opportunity arise 
for him to run his own business; this was a key objective for Mr D.
If BSPS moved to the PPF this would mean there would be no future opportunity 
available to transfer. 
With both PPF and BSPS2, to access TFC Mr D would also have had have taken an 
income at the same time. 
Mr D demonstrated he had a good understanding of investment risk.
It was of high importance to Mr D that his fund benefit himself and subsequently his 
children. Additional life cover was not considered as it wasnt deemed appropriate.
It produced comparisons of estimations of what the BSPS2 could pay at ages 59 and 
63 in comparison with Mr Ds personal pension; the latter was projected to pay him a 
larger pension in both cases.
Our Investigator considered what DCF had said in response to his view but wasnt 
persuaded to change his mind about Mr Ds complaint. He said he could only look at Mr Ds 
circumstances as they were at the time. He also said that whilst Mr D may have been 
inclined to transfer his pension (given his concerns about the financial position of the BSPS) 
it was DCFs responsibility to make sure the transfer was in his best interests. Our 
Investigator said that transferring his DB scheme and losing his guaranteed benefits couldnt 
be justified by the objective of wanting to set up a business which, in any event, he wasnt 
committed to doing at the time of the transfer and for which he had other monies available to 
him which he could have used.
Our Investigator went on to say that whilst Mr D had indeed withdrawn £30,000 in TFC, the 
flexibility that allowed him to do so didnt override the fact that the purpose of a pension was 
to provide an income in retirement and not to act as a form of accessible savings. He said 
past investment performance was no guarantee of future performance whilst, in contrast, 
Mr Ds DB scheme benefits were guaranteed. Our Investigator reiterated that legacy 
planning wasnt a justification for transferring. And Mr D was also a member of his 
employers DC scheme which, with up to 12 years to go until he retired, could be used in this 
way should he so wish. So a degree of legacy planning was available in any event without 
the need to transfer. Our Investigator remained of the view that DCF should compensate 
Mr D for the losses he incurred by transferring his DB pension and that compensation should 
be based on him having opted to join the BSPS2. 
DCF replied to our Investigator to say it still disagreed with his view. It said our Investigators 
assumption that Mr D had been inclined to transfer wasnt based on any fact. It also said that 
if it was correct that Mr D had access to other monies in order to start a business then why 
did he request a withdrawal of TFC from his pension in September 2020. It said it had 
advised him at this point to explore other ways of raising the money but that hed insisted on proceeding because he was unable to do so. DCF said the option of BSPS2 post-dated the 
advice it gave Mr D. 
Our Investigator replied to say he had previously commented on the concerns Mr D had had 
about the financial position of BSPS and his likely reasons for believing he wanted to 
transfer. He also said he couldnt comment on what Mr D had done in September 2020; he 
noted though that in July 2017, Mr D was documented as having £38,000 of accessible 
monies along with £800 surplus monthly income. Our Investigator said these were the 
monies he was referring to when he said Mr D had other monies to assist him with starting a 
business. In respect of BSPS2, our Investigator accepted that it wasnt a guaranteed choice 
until January 2018 but it had been announced as a possibility by the time DCF was advising 
him. This being the case had he not been advised to transfer his DB scheme he thought 
Mr D would have opted to transfer to BSPS2 when he received his options letter in October 
2017. So he remained of the view that DCF should compensate Mr D on this basis. 
Mr Ds representative also submitted some additional comments. It said that had Mr D been 
properly advised he would not have accessed his TFC in September 2020, would have 
chosen BSPS2 and not accessed those benefits until his NRD at age 65. It said this was the 
age that should be used when calculating Mr Ds compensation. 
DCF also sent some further comments to our Investigator. It said any compensation 
calculation needed to be based on the PPF, not BSPS2 because BSPS2 didnt exist at the 
time the advice was given. 
The complaint was referred to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of DCF's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, like our Investigator, Ive decided 
to uphold the complaint for largely the same reasons. 
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6 that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, DCF should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ds 
best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his 
best interests.
Financial viability 
DCF carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) showing how 
much Mr Ds pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the same 
benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield). This analysis was based on his existing BSPS 
scheme benefits, but Mr D didnt have the option to remain in the BSPS; he either needed to 
opt into BSPS2 or move with the existing BSPS scheme to the PPF. 
DCF has argued that at the time it was advising Mr D, the terms of the BSPS2 scheme 
werent known aside from the fact they were predicted to be less favourable than the existing 
scheme. Whilst the details of what BSPS2 would entail werent known, the restructuring of 
the BSPS had been ongoing for a significant amount of time by the time Mr D took advice 
and the details were likely to be announced in the coming months.  But I cant see that DCF 
cautioned Mr D about transferring ahead of knowing what the BSPS2 would entail. So, I 
think DCF should have advised Mr D to wait and see what the terms of BSPS2 were when 
they were announced so that he could see if retirement under the new scheme was 
affordable or not and so he could make a fully informed choice about what action was in his 
best interests.
I appreciate that Mr Ds CETV expired at the end of September 2017, so DCF may argue 
that it had to provide its advice to Mr D before this. But I dont think the expiry of the CETV 
shouldve been a barrier to DCF providing Mr D with suitable advice, which I think would 
involve it considering all of his options before advising him to make an irreversible decision 
to transfer out of the scheme.
According to the fact-find and the suitability report Mr D wanted to retire from British Steel 
early  as early as age 55 as he was possibly considering becoming a self-employed 
electrician or personal trainer for which at which point he wanted to take 25% of his pension 
as TFC. Mr D wasnt sure what income he would need at that stage. But DCF says the only 
way for Mr D to achieve this objective was to transfer his scheme to a personal pension; but 
Im unable to agree. 
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. 
Despite Mr D saying that he was interested at retiring early at age 55, the suitability report 
only set out the relevant critical yields for retirement at ages 65 and 60; these were 8.61% 
and 15.37% respectively in order to match the benefits from Mr Ds existing DB scheme. 
However, as Ive said above, I dont think these figures were particularly relevant as 
remaining in the scheme wasnt an option. But nevertheless, I dont think Mr D could 
reasonably expect to achieve this level of growth if he transferred to a personal pension.The critical yield required to match the benefits provided by the PPF at age 65 was 4.91% if 
a full pension was taken and 4.38% if a reduced pension and TFC was taken. DCF didnt 
provide the critical yield for the PPF benefits at age 60 or at age 55, which it should have in 
order for Mr D to have a meaningful comparison. But given that the funds would be invested 
for less time and would be required to pay income for longer, I think the critical yields 
required to match the PPF benefits at ages 55 and 60 was likely to be significantly higher 
than 4.38%. 
The critical yield of 4.38% per year at age 65 compares with the discount rate of 3.9% per 
year for 11 years to retirement in this case. For further comparison, the regulator's upper 
projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection 
rate 2%. I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount 
rate, Mr Ds attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. Mr D was assessed as having a 
moderate attitude to risk; but given he said wanted to retire in the short-term, Mr D had no 
time or capacity to build up his fund or tolerate any losses. So I think that assessment was 
unreasonable.
There would be little point in Mr D giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB 
scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, 
given the discount rate of 3.9% and the regulators middle projection rate of 5%, even if I 
accepted Mr D had a moderate attitude to risk, I think that Mr D was most likely to receive 
benefits of a lower overall value than those provided by the PPF by transferring his DB 
scheme to a personal pension if he retired before age 65, as was his plan. And even if he did 
continue working until age 65, I think the opportunity to improve on the PPF benefits was 
limited.
I dont consider it to be unreasonable to refer to the discount rate in my findings. Although 
taking this into account was not required by the regulator when giving advice, its important 
to note that I havent based my findings on this. But I do think it a reasonable additional 
consideration when seeking to determine what level of growth was reasonably achievable at 
the time of the advice. Under COBS 19.1.2 the regulator required businesses to compare the 
benefits likely to be paid under a DB scheme with those payable under a personal pension 
by using reasonable assumptions. So, businesses were free to use the discount rate as this 
would be considered a reasonable assumption of the likely returns. And in any event, this 
has been considered in tandem with the regulators published projection rates, which 
providers were required to refer to. And it is this combination, along with Mr Ds attitude to 
risk, which leads me to be believe hed likely be worse off in retirement if he transferred out 
of the DB scheme.
DCF said in its suitability letter: The critical yield required is high and it would be very 
unlikely that an investment could provide a return to match the benefits you are giving up. 
So it is clear to me that DCF realised that by transferring, Mr D would be unable to match the 
benefits he was giving up. 
DCF provided analysis in the TVAS of the critical yields Mr Ds pension would need to attain 
for retirement at ages 60 and 65 and along with analysis of how long his pension last if he 
drew the same income (indexed linked) as provided by his DB scheme (without taking any 
TFC). If he retired at age 60 his pension would run out by the time he was 86 and if he 
retired at 65 it would run out by the time he was 92. If Mr D been advised to remain in BSPS 
and transfer to the PPF however, his pension would never have run out, regardless of how 
long he lived. I appreciate the TVAS analysis is based on matching the existing BSPS benefits and that 
one of the benefits included was a 50% spouses pension. Although Mr D wasnt married at 
the time of the advice, that he would do so at some point in the future cant be completely 
discounted. I note too that the TVAS analyses the hurdle rate (the rate of return required to 
purchase an annuity to provide benefits of equal value to the estimated benefits provided by 
the existing scheme assuming no spouses pension and no index linking). The hurdle rate to 
age 60 was 4.48% and to age 65 was 3.03%. So only the hurdle rate to age 65 is below the 
discount rate I have referred to above. But only by using a method of comparison that didnt 
match the guaranteed benefits in Mr Ds BSPS, could it be argued that the DB scheme 
transfer was financially viable. But of course, index linking is a very valuable guarantee so I 
dont accept the hurdle rate to NRD at age 65 demonstrates that the transfer was suitable 
and in Mr Ds best interests. 
While DCF has referred to the past performance of the funds it recommended to him, as 
DCF will know, past performance is no guarantee for future performance and so I consider 
the discount rates and the regulators standard projections to be more realistic in this regard 
in the long term rather than projecting historic returns forward, particularly over such a long 
period of time. 
In summary, even if the BSPS had moved to the PPF and Mr Ds benefits were reduced as a 
result, if he retired early he would have still been very unlikely to match, let alone exceed, 
those benefits by transferring to a personal pension. By transferring his pension I think it was 
highly likely that Mr D would be financially worse off in retirement. 
For this reason alone a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Ds best interests. Of 
course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, There might 
be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower 
benefits, as DCF has argued here. Ive considered this below.
Flexibility 
It seems one of the main reasons that DCF recommended this transfer was for the flexibility 
and control it offered Mr D. Having considered the evidence, I dont think Mr D needed to 
transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension so he could have flexibility in retirement.
I think its important to note here that Mr D did not have concrete plans to retire at 55. 
Indeed, he is now aged 58 and has still not retired. That doesnt mean that Im using 
hindsight to refute the suitability of the advice, rather Im highlighting that Mr Ds plans were 
not set in stone and were subject to change. Mr D was taking advice because he needed to 
make a decision about his future benefits, so he required advice as to what was in his best 
interests. 
It's evident that Mr D could not take his DB scheme benefits flexibly. Although he could 
choose to take TFC and a reduced annual pension, Mr D had to take those benefits at the 
same time. But Im not persuaded that Mr D had any concrete need to take TFC and defer 
taking his income at the time of the advice. There is reference to Mr D wanting to take TFC 
to help him start a new business in the future, but again, I dont think this was a concrete 
plan that Mr D needed to act upon there and then, it was simply an idea. So, overall, this 
seems more of a nice to have rather than a genuine objective. And an advisers job isnt to 
simply facilitate a customers wants. Any objectives should be thoroughly interrogated to 
determine if they are realistic or not or achievable through other means. And ultimately the 
adviser had to determine whether giving up the secure, guaranteed benefits of available 
through the BSPS (and then the PPF) was in Mr Ds best interests. I dont think Mr D had a genuine need to access his TFC early so I think he could have left 
his funds invested until a later date, or until he was ready to draw his pension. I say this 
because it is clear from the fact-find that Mr D had, at the time of the advice, access to 
various savings that totalled £38,000, along with a monthly disposable income of £800, 
should he need to make any capital expenditure. He had a mortgage and two loans, none of 
which were causing him any financial issues. I can see his mortgage, at the time of the 
advice, ran until he was aged 64.  But I cant see that DCF questioned Mr D about how 
intended to service his mortgage  and his other loans  if he took retirement at age 55. It is 
possible that DCF will say that Mr D intended to become self-employed, thereby giving him 
an income to be able to service his loans. But as recorded on the fact find, that he would do 
so, was merely a possibility. DCF recorded no real contemporaneous information about this 
objective which is surprising given it was one of the primary reasons to justify the transfer.
Whilst I note that DCF has told us it had many conversations with Mr D about purchasing 
premises from where he could run a gym, those conversations werent documented. 
Nor can I see that DCF explored other means of Mr D paying for any intended capital 
expenditure his possible future self-employment might require, or that it investigated with him 
the real timetable for needing the TFC, or whether he actually needed it at all. Overall I cant 
see any reason why Mr D needed access to his TFC at age 55 nor can I see that DCF made 
any real attempt to discover one. I think, given Mr Ds financial situation at the time, the 
financial objectives for transferring his pension to access the TFC arent justified, particularly 
when he couldve used his savings  which were likely to be achieving minimal returns at the 
time  to pay for any items of capital expenditure.
Mr Ds full DB pension (if he took no TFC) at normal retirement age of 65 was forecast by 
DCF to be £24,058 per year. If he took early retirement this figure was subject to a 
downward adjustment of 30% if retiring at age 55 or an 18% one at age 60 (the TVAS stated 
that retiring at age 60 would provide an estimated pension of £21,154).
Of course, these figures are moot given that the scheme they were based on was going to 
move into the PPF. But if DCF wanted to discharge its regulatory obligations to Mr D 
properly then it should have conducted its full analysis based on the scheme moving to the 
PPF (because that was certain to happen) which would have allowed Mr D to make a proper 
comparison. That way he could have seen what benefits he would have been entitled to if 
retiring at 55. All I do know is that at 65, Mr D couldve taken an income of £20,271 under the 
PPF or an income of £15,737 plus TFC of £104,612. Analysing a scheme that was about to 
cease to exist in its current state wasnt having due regard to Mr Ds information needs. And 
its worth noting that the early retirement factors under the PPF were more favourable than 
the existing scheme. 
Ive seen no evidence that DCF explored Mr Ds retirement objectives with him. Most people, 
if asked, say that they would want to retire as early as possible. But if DCF had had full 
regard to Mr Ds information and communication needs I think it should have explored his 
actual retirement plans and what was important to him. I cant see that DCF determined what 
income Mr D would require in retirement. And it should have provided him with more 
information about the PPF, and its associated guarantees, and what he could expect by way 
of a pension at certain ages, so that Mr D could make an informed choice. But without this 
information, Mr D chose to transfer his scheme in part because (as noted on the fact-find) he 
had concerns about the PPF. But I cant see evidence of any explanation or reassurance 
given to him by DCF about the benefits the PPF offered. 
So, DCF should have investigated Mr Ds financial retirement needs in greater depth and 
provided him with forecasts for what a PPF pension and TFC would look like at certain ages. 
Whilst Mr D said he would have liked to retire at 55 it is possible that he might have found retiring under the PPF to have been favourable enough to have met his needs (not to 
mention that it would be index linked). And when Mr Ds state pension became payable it 
would have been in addition to his monthly pension and would not need to be used to reduce 
any drawdown. A pension from the PPF would also have been for life, unlike Mr Ds personal 
pension which could well have run out before he died. But the information Mr D received 
from DCF was incomplete such that he was unable to make an informed decision. 
Overall, I dont think Mr D had an immediate need for flexibility such that transferring out of 
the DB scheme was in his best interests. If Mr D genuinely needed to take TFC when he 
retired in order to put it into his new venture, then he couldve taken TFC from the PPF. And 
I havent seen anything to persuade me that Mr D wouldnt have also benefitted from taking 
a guaranteed income at the same time to meet his essential expenditure whilst his new 
business was getting started. So, it seems to me that accessing his DB pension in the way it 
was intended wouldve been suited to his needs when he retired. And I think DCF at least 
ought to have waited for details of the BSPS2 so Mr D could make a genuine informed 
decision about what would best suit his needs. And its evident that he could also take TFC 
and a reduced pension from the BSPS2 (although I appreciate that wasnt known at the 
time).
Death benefits
According to the fact-find, Mr D said he would like the ability to leave any remaining pension 
funds to his children. 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension were likely an attractive feature to Mr D. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr D might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr D about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think DCF explored to what extent 
Mr D was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death 
benefits.
In Mr Ds circumstances as they were at the time it is arguable that the death benefits 
offered under a personal pension were more favourable than those under his DB scheme. 
But, as the analysis in the TVAS shows, there may not have been a large sum left, or the 
fund may have been depleted, if Mr D lived a long life.  In any event, DCF should not have 
encouraged Mr D to prioritise the potential for higher death benefits through a personal 
pension over his own security in retirement.
Furthermore, if Mr D genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his children, which didnt depend 
on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, I think DCF 
shouldve instead explored life insurance. Its possible this may not have been affordable 
given Mr Ds age, but it should have been explored regardless. And I cant see that there 
was any documented discussion about the fact that Mr D was now a member of his 
employers defined contribution scheme which, had the potential to grow depending on when 
Mr D retired. Ive seen no evidence of any discussion with Mr D about using his DC scheme 
in this way should he so wish. So a degree of legacy planning was available in any event 
without the need to transfer.
In any event, whilst death benefits might be important for consumer, there generally 
shouldnt be a disproportionate emphasis on this compared to their own retirement needs. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr D. And I dont think that 
insurance was properly explored as an alternative.Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
I think Mr Ds desire for control over his pension benefits was overstated. Whilst Mr D ticked 
the box on the fact find to say that he was a knowledgeable and experienced investor Ive 
seen no evidence that bears this out. It appears to me that the concept of control to Mr D 
was related to the security of his pension due to workplace rumours about what was 
happening to the scheme. So, I dont think that control of his pension was a genuine 
objective for Mr D  it was simply a consequence of transferring away from his DB scheme.
I dont doubt that Mr D was concerned about his pension. Lots of his colleagues at the time 
were transferring out of the scheme and he was worried his pension would end up in the 
PPF. He said this is why he wanted to move the pension into his control. So its quite 
possible that Mr D was leaning towards the decision to transfer. However, it was DCFs 
obligation to give Mr D an objective picture and recommend what was in his best interest. 
Mr D was particularly concerned about BSPS moving to the PPF. But from what Ive seen, 
DCF didnt provide Mr D with an objective picture about the PPF and what this might mean 
for him specifically. Mr D was clearly interested in retiring early, possibly at age 55, and early 
retirement reductions were in fact lower in the PPF than in the BSPS but this wasnt shared 
with Mr D. And DCF shouldve explained to Mr D he was still unlikely to exceed the benefits 
available to him through the PPF if he transferred out. Overall, I dont think DCF did much to 
alleviate Mr Ds concerns and fears. Instead, it appears to have used these concerns to 
justify the transfer.
Furthermore, its evident that the BSPS2 was likely to be announced in the coming months, 
which ought to have allayed Mr Ds fears about the PPF. The BSPS2 would still provide 
guaranteed, escalating benefits, which although wouldve been lower than the previous 
scheme, were valuable and risk-free. So, I think DCF ought to have reassured Mr D that his 
benefits moving to the PPF was not a certainty. And if DCF had delayed providing the 
advice, Mr D wouldve known he would be given the choice to opt into the BSPS2 in the near 
future.
Summary
I accept that Mr D was attracted by the idea of transferring. He might have heard from 
colleagues that this is what they were doing. And I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and 
potential for higher death benefits on offer through a personal pension would have sounded 
like attractive features to Mr D. But DCF wasnt there to just transact what Mr D might have 
thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really understand what Mr D needed and 
recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr D was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income if he moved with the scheme to the PPF. By 
transferring, Mr D was very likely to obtain lower retirement benefits and in my view, there 
were no other particular reasons which would justify a transfer and outweigh this. Mr D had a 
vague objective to retire early to take TFC and fund a new business venture, but I dont think 
his plans were fully formed. And I dont think DCF interrogated this objective in any 
meaningful way  it didnt establish how much TFC or income Mr D would need, so it 
couldnt offer any real insight into whether Mr D couldve met this objective by moving with 
the scheme to the PPF or the new BSPS2, or by using the savings already available to him. 
So, I dont think Mr Ds plans or ambitions were concrete enough for DCF to say it was in his 
best interests to give up his guaranteed benefits and transfer out of the scheme.I appreciate that at the time the advice was given there was a lot of uncertainty around the 
pension scheme and Ive fully taken into account that Mr D was likely keen to transfer out as 
he was worried about his pension and colleagues were telling him this was a good idea. 
However, it was the advisers responsibility to objectively weigh up the options for Mr D. He 
should have advised him what was best for his circumstances and explained what he was 
giving up in the BSPS and that moving to the PPF was not as concerning as he thought. For 
the reasons given above, I think this advice should have been to remain in the BSPS. 
If Mr D had stayed in BSPS, he would have shortly after had the choice to move to the PPF 
or transfer to a new scheme, the BSPS2. I carefully considered what Mr D likely would have 
done and on balance I think he would have opted to join the BSPS2. I say this I dont think 
Mr Ds retirement plans were fully formed. So, I don't think that it would've been in his 
interest to accept the reduction in benefits he would've faced by the scheme entering the 
PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more favourable reduction for very early retirement. And 
by opting into the BSPS2, Mr D wouldve retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme if 
he needed to. The annual indexation of his pension when in payment was also more 
advantageous under the BSPS2. So, I think DCF shouldve advised Mr D to opt into the 
BSPS2.
DCF says the BSPS2 was not certain to proceed and that it is unreasonable for us to say 
Mr D shouldve been advised to join this scheme as it wasnt a genuine option. I appreciate 
that the BSPS2 hadnt been confirmed when the advice was given. But I think it was clear to 
all parties that talks were progressing well and it was likely to be going ahead. And in mid-
September 2017, before Mr Ds CETV expired it was announced that Mr D would soon be 
given the chance to opt into the scheme. So, contrary to what DCF has said, I do think this 
was an option that it couldve recommended at the time. And I dont think DCF could be said 
to be acting in Mr Ds best interests by ignoring the progress of the new scheme and failing 
to consider whether opting into this scheme was suitable for him.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr D would've gone ahead anyway, against DCF's 
advice. DCF says Mr D made an informed decision to transfer, so it thinks he wouldve 
chosen to do so even if it had advised him against it.
Ive considered this carefully. Mr D was no doubt unhappy with the situation regarding the 
BSPS. And may have had a negative opinion of his employer and how it had communicated 
and dealt with him and his colleagues. The BSPS scheme and its trustees were though not 
the same as his day-to-day employer. And despite what DCF says I think Mr D was an 
inexperienced investor who sought independent advice and guidance. Mr D was concerned 
about the security of his pension  it made up almost all of his retirement provision, and I 
dont think he wouldve wanted to take any unnecessary risk with it. So, if DCF had provided 
him with clear advice against transferring out of the BSPS, explaining why it wasnt in his 
best interests, I think he wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Ds concerns about his employer or the PPF were so great that he 
wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he 
had sought out, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. And if DCF had 
explained that Mr D was always unlikely to exceed the guaranteed benefits available to him 
by transferring, and that the uncertainty over his requirements meant transferring at that time 
was not in interests and that the other things hed expressed worry about were not things he 
needed to be as concerned about as he was, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. 
So, I dont think Mr D would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme.
For this reason, I think DCF should compensate Mr D for the unsuitable advice, using the 
regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. And its the benefits 
offered by the BSPS2 at age 65 which should be used for comparison purposes. This is because I know that Mr D hasnt yet retired, has said he remains happy at work and has no 
stated intention to retire at present. 
I agree with our Investigator that Mr D will have been caused some distress and 
inconvenience by DCFs unsuitable advice so I think that DCF should pay him compensation 
of £250 in recognition of any trouble and upset it has caused him. 
Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 2022 with 
any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 whilst the consultation takes place. 
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their 
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into 
force after the consultation has concluded.
Weve previously asked Mr D whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for any new guidance /rules to be published. Mr D didnt make 
a choice, so as set out previously Ive assumed in this case he doesnt want to wait for any 
new guidance. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr D. 
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr D, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for DCFs unsuitable advice. I consider Mr D would have 
most likely opted into the BSPS2 if suitable advice had been given.
DCF must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, Mr D has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ds acceptance of the decision.
DCF may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ds 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ds SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ds pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr D as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his/her/their likely 
income tax rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% 
overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr D within 90 days of the date DCF receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes DCF to pay Mr D.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90-day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90-day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect DCF to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
DCF should also pay Mr D compensation of £250 for the distress and inconvenience its 
unsuitable advice caused him. 
My final decision
Determination and money award: I intend to uphold this complaint and require D C Financial 
Limited to pay Mr D the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
D C Financial Limited to pay Mr D any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require D C 
Financial Limited to pay Mr D any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
D C Financial Limited pays Mr D the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr D.
If Mr D accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on D C Financial Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr D can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr D may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman