DRN-3415845
The complaint
Miss P complains that National Westminster Bank Plc wont refund her the money she lost 
when she fell victim to a scam from 2017 to 2020. 
What happened
Four years prior to the start of the scam, Miss P had suffered the loss of a close family 
member. Her relationship had also ended, and Miss P explains all of this had a significant 
impact on her.
In 2017, she was searching online and found someone advertising faith healing services. 
This faith healer had a website saying they could provide spiritual help. I will refer to this 
person as H. 
H said they had a shop in London (although this was too far away from Miss P for her to be 
able to travel to visit it). H offered to carry out rituals which they claimed would help Miss P. 
Miss P was asked to send money for these rituals, but she was told all of this money would 
be returned to her after the rituals were completed.
Miss P proceeded to make payments over the course of the following four years. 
The majority of these payments were made by bank transfer to three different receiving 
accounts (following the instructions of H). The payments totalled £42,910 over 25 separate 
transfers and fall broadly into three categories as set out below.
Firstly, from September to October 2017, Miss P made five faster payments transfers, 
totalling £5,300. This started with £500, with the largest payment of £2,500 being made at 
the end of October 2017.
From November 2017 until May 2018, Miss P sent larger sums, beginning with a payment of 
£7,000. These were sent to a different payee account than that used for the first series of 
payments. In total during this period Miss P sent £35,500.
Finally, between August 2018 and March 2020, Miss P sent a further fifteen transfers 
totalling £2,110. These payments ranged in size from £30 to £500.
At some point during this time, Miss P says that H told her there would be a bad omen on 
her family if she didnt continue with the payments for the ritual. This concerned her. 
Miss P also says that on a number of occasions she asked for H to return her money. She 
was repeatedly told that H was working on this, but didnt ever receive any money back.
But then in November 2020, H blocked contact with Miss P. She realised something was 
wrong. Miss P ultimately thought she might have been the victim of a scam and reported the 
matter to NatWest in April 2021. Miss P hadnt send any further payments after March 2020.
NatWest investigated her report of the scam. It didnt think it was responsible for what had 
happened or liable to refund Miss P for the money shed lost to the supposed healer. 
It said that when Miss P made the first of the larger payments it had questioned her about 
this. It said it had also given her information about the risk of scams. NatWest said that at the 
time, Miss P had reassured the member of staff that she wasnt being scammed and rather 
than explaining the true situation, had instead told them she was transferring money to her 
brother. The staff member had thought what Miss P said was plausible and accepted her 
explanation. NatWest had then allowed this and the subsequent payments to be made in line 
with Miss Ps instructions, as it was obligated to do. 
The last seven payments had been made after the introduction of the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model Code (the CRM Code). This can provide additional protection when 
customers fall victim to Authorised Push Payment scams (APP scams) such as here. 
However, there are exceptions to reimbursement within the CRM Code and NatWest didnt 
consider it was liable to reimburse Miss P for the relevant transactions.
NatWest was later able to recover some small sums from the receiving bank accounts, but 
most could not be retrieved from the beneficiary accounts as no money remained. This 
meant Miss P was left significantly out of pocket as a result of the scammers actions. She 
was unhappy with NatWests actions and complained.
Our Investigator looked into what had happened and Miss Ps complaint about NatWest. The 
Investigator thought that NatWest couldnt reasonably have prevented the loss from the 
payments Miss P had made to the scammer. For the later payments (those covered by the 
CRM Code) she didnt think NatWest needed to pay back Miss P more than had already 
been returned to her. This was because she didnt think Miss P had a reasonable basis for 
believing the payments were for a legitimate service by that point, and NatWest had met the 
standards it was expected to meet.
Miss P didnt accept the Investigators findings. Her case has been referred to me to reach a 
final decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
Having done so, I am sorry to disappoint Miss P, but I havent reached a different outcome to 
our Investigator.
Firstly, I want to acknowledge that I recognise that Miss P has been the victim of a cynical 
scam that took advantage of her situation at the time. Everything I have seen suggests she 
has been the innocent victim of a crime here. I understand Miss P hasnt reported H to the 
Police or Action Fraud, but she may wish to consider doing so. If that were to lead to a 
prosecution, it is conceivable that Miss P may be able to recover some more of the money 
taken from her.
Crucially though, the person who has tricked Miss P into her sending this money was the 
main cause of her financial losses  not NatWest. It does not follow that NatWest is 
necessarily liable to reimburse Miss P for the money she lost to H. 
Under the relevant regulations, and in accordance with general banking terms and conditions, banks have an obligation to execute an authorised payment instruction without 
undue delay. As a consequence, the starting position is that liability for an authorised 
payment rests with the payer, even if they made that payment as the consequence of a fraud 
or scam. 
However, where the customer made the payments as a consequence of the actions of a 
fraudster, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the customer 
even though the customer authorised the transactions. I consider that a bank also has a duty 
to take reasonable steps to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams.
In particular, I consider that as a matter of good industry practice NatWest should have been 
looking out for payments or payment patterns that were significantly out of character or 
unusual and that might therefore be indicative of the potential for financial detriment to its 
customer. 
With the above in mind, Ive thought carefully about whether the available evidence 
demonstrates that NatWest did enough here.
NatWest says it spoke to Miss P at the time of the first larger payment she made (November 
2017). Its records show that Miss P was told about scams and the risk of losing money to 
them. Its records also show that Miss P said the payment was being sent to her brother and 
that her explanation was thought plausible  Miss Ps word being accepted as true by the 
staff member at the time.
Miss P acknowledges that she didnt give the staff member a truthful answer on this point. 
She explains that H had told her to lie to the bank and tell this story. H said that if she told 
the bank the truth, the bank would not allow her to make a large payment like this. Miss P 
says she was solely focussed on making the payment to get the benefits she believed shed 
receive from Hs supposed rituals. So, she didnt think what H told her was concerning.
I think that it was reasonable of NatWest to intervene when it did  at the point of the first 
larger payment to a new payee account. The size and other factors around this payment 
justified NatWest taking additional steps to reassure itself that Miss P wasnt at risk of 
financial harm. I dont consider that was the case for the earlier lower value payments. 
I consider NatWest intervened at the appropriate point here.
While a detailed account of the discussion isnt available to me, Miss P agrees that she gave 
the staff member a false reason for the payment at the time, this being on the instructions 
of H. 
Clearly with the passage of time, there is no way for me to know for certain what happened, 
and I must therefore decide what I think is most likely based on the balance of probabilities. 
Given the agreement on this, Im persuaded on balance that the conversation took place as 
NatWests records show.
I dont think, on the face of it, there was sufficient reason for NatWest to have prevented 
Miss P from making the payment - given she had provided the bank with a false, but 
plausible explanation for what was happening. And based on what Miss P has said about 
her focus on making the payment and willingness to go along with the scammers 
instructions, I dont think NatWest could reasonably have uncovered the truth at this point.
In other words, the bank intervened when it was appropriate to do so, but I do not think it 
would have been able to identify that this was a scam in light of the story Miss P gave it. And 
as a result, NatWest was obligated to make the payment as instructed by Miss P.I dont think it was unreasonable that NatWest didnt intervene again for the subsequent 
payments  those she sent intermittently over the next seven months were being made to 
the same beneficiary (and so to NatWest each would have simply appeared to be a payment 
to the same brother in accordance with Miss Ps prior story). 
The final set of payments (from August 2018 onwards) didnt all go to the same recipient. But 
they were for unremarkable amounts in the context of the typical usage of Miss Ps NatWest 
account  between £30 and £500. They would not have stood out sufficiently that I would 
consider NatWest ought to have had concerns or to intervene again. 
When Miss P made NatWest aware of the scam in 2021, Im satisfied it took appropriate 
steps to attempt to recover her funds. Unfortunately, scammers typically move money on 
from the receiving accounts very quickly, and because a lot of time had elapsed, very little of 
the total sum remained. I know Miss P was unhappy that NatWest couldnt tell her this 
sooner, but it could not have known what might or might not have been recoverable until it 
had heard back from the banks holding the beneficiary accounts. I cant fairly find it at fault 
here.
I have gone on to consider whether, for the payments Miss P made after May 2019, she 
might be due some reimbursement under the terms of the Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(the CRM Code). The reason this can only be considered for the payments after May 2019, 
is because that was when the CRM Code was introduced, and the CRM Code specifically 
excludes any payments made before it took effect.
The CRM Code permits a firm to choose not to reimburse the victim of a scam where it can 
be established that payment was made without holding a reasonable basis for believing it 
was being sent for a legitimate service (amongst other things).
By the time of the payments made between the start of the CRM Code in May 2019 and the 
final payment, Im not persuaded that Miss P could have held a reasonable basis for 
believing that H was legitimate. 
I understand from what she has explained why she thought (at the start of the scam) that H 
could legitimately be a source of help for her. But after the passage of over two years, 
Miss P had seen no results. Given everything that had happened, and the recurrent excuses 
she was being given about why her money couldnt be returned to her, I think there was 
cause for Miss P to have had significant concerns that all was not right. The messages she 
has provided suggest she was at this point capable of recognising and responding to the risk 
given her repeated chasing for the return of her money despite Hs excuses. 
All taken into account, I dont think Miss P made these later payments with a reasonable 
basis for believing that H was legitimate.
Im not persuaded there was any other reason why NatWest might not fairly apply this 
exclusion to reimbursement under the CRM Code. I am also satisfied that, on balance, 
NatWest met the standards required of it by the CRM Code. So, I cant fairly require 
NatWest to refund these payments.
In closing, I am extremely sorry to hear about what happened to Miss P here. The actions 
of H seem to me to have been cynical and cruel, and I am sorry she was the victim and has 
suffered the losses she has. 
However, the impact this had on Miss P was caused by the actions of the person who 
deceived her. I dont find NatWest was at fault in making these payments in line with the 
instructions she gave the bank at the time, and I dont find the bank liable to refund her for any other reason.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Miss Ps complaint about National Westminster 
Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 November 2022.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman