DRN-2298096
The complaint
Mr A and Mrs K complain that National Westminster Bank Plc withdrew a mortgage offer and 
wouldnt explain why.
What happened
Mr A and Mrs K wanted to buy the property they live in through the right-to-buy scheme. 
They applied for a mortgage with NatWest in 2019. NatWest approved their application and 
issued a mortgage offer in March 2019. NatWest says Mr A and Mrs K later changed the 
solicitors they were using for the purchase, so it issued a fresh offer with the new details in 
May 2019. Two days later, it withdrew the offer, without saying why.
Mr A and Mrs K complained. They were unhappy that NatWest had waited until such a late 
stage to tell them it wouldnt give them a mortgage, and they didnt understand why it had 
made the decision it had. They also said they had paid their mortgage broker £1,995 and 
their solicitors £800, and they wouldnt be able to get that money back.
NatWest said it was entitled to withdraw an offer at any stage, and it had done so in this 
case because new information had come to light. It wouldnt tell Mr A and Mrs K what that 
information was, and said it didnt have to.
Mr A and Mrs K got in touch with us. Our investigator wasnt satisfied that NatWest had 
shown it was entitled to withdraw the mortgage offer. He said it had to show that Mr A and 
Mrs K had breached one or more of the conditions in the offer, and it hadnt done so. He 
recommended NatWest refund the fees Mr A and Mrs K had paid to their broker and 
solicitors, plus interest, pay them £250 compensation, and remove any record of the 
application from credit reference agencies and any other databases.
NatWest didnt accept that. It still thought it had done nothing wrong and said it didnt 
understand why it should refund the broker fee in particular.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NatWest issued two mortgage offers to Mr A and Mrs K. Under the relevant rules about 
mortgage lending (specifically, the Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business 
sourcebook in the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook, at MCOB 6A3.1R), those offers 
were binding on NatWest. This means that NatWest couldnt simply change its mind after it 
had issued the offers and decide it no longer wanted to lend. It could only withdraw the offers 
if the conditions in them were breached or not met.
The offer dated 28 May 2019 says it is conditional on NatWest being satisfied that:
There has been no material change in your circumstances since the date of this Offer, 
which we were not aware of, which could affect your ability to afford the loan. By this, we 
mean a change to your circumstances which, had we known about it at the time of making 
this Offer, might have resulted in us being unable to provide the Offer to you or only being 
able to provide the offer to you for a lower amount; and
None of the information which you have provided as part of your application for the loan and 
which we have used to decide whether to provide the Offer to you is untrue, inaccurate or 
incomplete or that you have not withheld information which we have requested from you as 
part of your application for the loan which, if we had received this information, might have 
resulted in us being unable to provide the Offer to you or only being able to provide the Offer 
to you for a lower amount.
NatWest told Mr A and Mrs K that new information came to light which led to it withdrawing 
the offer. It wouldnt tell them what it was. It didnt have to tell them. But it did have to treat 
them fairly and stick to the conditions it had set out in its mortgage offer to them.
NatWest has made submissions to us which it has asked us to treat in confidence, as it is 
entitled to do. Im satisfied its appropriate not to set out details of its underwriting procedure 
here. But, in summary, NatWest has explained it was concerned about what some of its 
checks showed.
However, nothing NatWest has said leads me to conclude that Mr A and Mrs K breached or 
failed to meet the conditions in the offer. Their circumstances hadnt changed, so there was 
nothing to say they might not be able to afford the loan. And NatWest hasnt pointed to any 
information they had given in their application which was wrong or incomplete, or anything it 
had asked them for and which they had withheld.
In these circumstances, Im satisfied that NatWest wasnt entitled to withdraw its mortgage 
offer. And I dont consider NatWest has shown that new information came to light after the 
offer was issued which hadnt previously been available to it. 
Mr A and Mrs K have told us they havent yet applied for another mortgage because of the 
fees involved in doing so, and I share the investigators view that they have lost out because 
of NatWests handling of their mortgage application. I dont think the fair outcome is to 
require NatWest to reinstate its mortgage offer given that it appears it wouldnt have been 
prepared to lend had it carried out its various checks properly in the first place. But had no 
offer been issued Mr A and Mrs K would, through their broker, have had the opportunity to 
apply to other lenders. 
So, in all the circumstances, I find the fair outcome is for NatWest to refund Mr A and Mrs K 
all the fees they paid in connection with their mortgage application, so they can start again 
and look at their mortgage options. I understand they are still living in the property they had 
hoped to buy, so if they accept my decision  which will be binding on NatWest if they do  
they may be able to proceed with the purchase through another lender. I think NatWest 
should also pay Mr A and Mrs K some compensation. They have been caused avoidable 
upset and inconvenience, and £250 is a fair award to reflect that.
Putting things right
National Westminster Bank Plc must:
1) refund any fees which Mr A and Mrs K paid in the course of their mortgage application 
and which they have not already had refunded, subject to their providing NatWest with 
satisfactory evidence of these;
2) pay Mr A and Mrs K £250 by way of compensation;3) remove all records of this application from Mr As and Mrs Ks credit files and any other 
external databases; and
4) pay Mr A and Mrs K 8% per year simple interest on the sums at 1) above, from the date 
they paid those fees to the date of settlement
If NatWest considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) to deduct 
income tax from the interest element of my award, it should tell Mr A and Mrs K how much it 
has taken off. It should also give Mr A and Mrs K a tax deduction certificate if they ask for 
one, so they can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint, and I direct National Westminster Bank Plc 
to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2021. 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman