DRN-3489888
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the conduct of staff in branches of Metro Bank PLC when hes been 
trying to carry out banking activities.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again in 
detail here. This case relates to the branch visit Mr S had in September 2020, about which 
he logged a complaint. And the subsequent visit to a different branch in November 2020. In 
the second branch visit a discussion was had about the complaint raised from the 
September visit and then a further complaint was also raised.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ss complaints. She said there wasnt enough evidence to 
support his version of events. Mr S asked for a decision and that we review the CCTV from 
branch. He said Metro staff would be dishonest about what happened. So the case has been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S is unhappy that we havent reviewed CCTV footage for this complaint. Metro have 
confirmed it isnt available, so its not something I can look at now. Our service was able 
to access CCTV for a more recent complaint Mr S brought about a similar situation in 
branch. Considering the footage we received at that time, I dont think its likely it would 
make a difference in this case due to the view available and that it has no audio.
Mr Ss complaint relates to the conduct of staff members in his two local branches. Metro 
has spoken to the staff and they accept some of the things hes raised, such as the 
branch manager acknowledges looking at Mr Ss final response letter. But he says he 
picked it up as Mr S was referring to it. I accept Mr S didnt want the branch manager to 
handle or read his letter, but I cant say it was wholly unreasonable he did in the context 
of this case.
The staff members dispute being rude to Mr S or causing him unnecessary delays. The 
staff have said that Mr Ss behaviour was inappropriate which is why they wouldnt 
continue serving him. So were in a situation where neither party can support their 
version of events and its Mr Ss testimony against the branch staffs.
One of Mr Ss other points is that hes unhappy a branch staff member didnt pull the 
chair out for him in branch. But I cant say this is something they needed to do. I 
understand its something he considers should be common practice, but it isnt 
something Metro has committed to do. And while Mr S has listed reasons why a person 
may need this sort of assistance, Ive seen no evidence he actually required additional 
help. And so this isnt grounds to uphold this complaint. 
Ive reviewed Mr Ss testimony and weighed it up against what Metro has provided. After 
doing so, Im not upholding this complaint. To do so, I would have to be more persuaded 
that, on balance, Metro staff did act inappropriately towards Mr S and in such a way that 
warranted compensation. I accept some of the conduct Mr S has raised could be seen 
as inappropriate, but I cant safely say that things did happen the way hes described. 
And Metro has also alleged he didnt behave in an appropriate way towards its staff 
either, which is in part what led to some of the interactions Mr S is complaining about.
I note that at this time Mr S has raised a number of complaints against the staff in both 
branches, but we havent upheld these elements of the cases we have looked into. So it 
seems possible that his expectations are higher than wed say is required. The role of 
our service is to be impartial and weigh up the evidence available  and to uphold a case 
we would need to be more persuaded staff members had acted in a way that most 
people would find unacceptable  which hasnt been the case. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman