DRN-2057039
The complaint
Your text here
What happened
Your text here
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold for the following reasons:
Ms M applied for her credit card online, in her own time and without any potential pressure 
from a salesperson. From what Ive seen of the online sales process from the time, her 
application had a section for PPI. It gave an overview of the policys cost and purpose, and 
then had two options to choose from: one to take the policy, and one to turn it down. Both 
options were equally prominent, and neither were pre-selected. According to the electronic 
record of Ms Ms application, she chose the option to buy PPI. Ive not seen any wider 
problems with the sales process from the time, nor any evidence which shows that Ms M 
was misled here. So I think its most likely that Barclays made Ms M aware she had a choice 
about buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it at the time  though I can understand if 
she no longer recalls doing so after so many years.
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Ms M, so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
It did have to make sure Ms M got the information she needed to decide if it was right for 
her. 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Ms M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed her mind. Here, it looks like Ms M chose to take out the policy, which indicates she 
wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, it looks 
like she was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions or 
limitations. And it wouldve paid out on top of her work benefits and covered her for much 
longer. So the policy could have been useful for Ms M in case something went wrong. And 
the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Ms M could cancel it at any time without a 
penalty. Overall, I dont think that better information about the PPI was likely to have put her 
off taking it out. 
This means I do not think that the policy was mis-sold, and so Barclays doesnt have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms M.
But Barclays will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms M  Ill explain why. 
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), 
issued some new rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about PPI.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties. So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. 
Barclays said that the level of commission and profit share it received did create an unfair 
relationship here. So to put things right it has now offered to refund the extra Ms M paid each 
month because the commission and profit share it received was more than 50% of the cost 
of PPI premium. It will also include 8% per year simple interest to compensate Ms M for any 
time she was out of pocket. 
Ms M says there have been court cases in relation to non-disclosure of commission where 
consumers have received everything back. So she thinks Barclays should refund all of the 
money paid for the PPI.
One of the things I need to take into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of Ms Ms complaint is the law. But I also need to take into account the 
relevant regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to be good industry practice at the relevant time.
In this case, Barclays has made Ms M an offer of compensation in relation to the level of 
commission it received - and that offer is in-line with the methods set out by the FCA, which 
seems fair. But Ms M wants Barclays to do something different. 
I have looked at the particular circumstances of Ms M and her complaint to see if theres 
anything about her case that would mean the business should do something different  if the 
remedies set out in the FCAs rules dont lead to fair and reasonable redress for Ms M. But 
there isnt anything about Ms Ms complaint or circumstances that suggest the offer made by 
Barclays isnt fair or reasonable. And as I explained before, I dont think this policy was mis-
sold, so Ive not otherwise found a reason why Barclays should refund all of the cost of the 
policy. 
So in this case, I think Barclays offer is a fair way to resolve the complaint.
What the business needs to do
Barclays has to pay back to Ms M any commission and profit share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. Barclays should also pay back to Ms M any extra interest she paid 
because of that.
That means Barclays should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Ms M the 
difference between what she owes and what she wouldve owed if the commission and profit 
share it got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Barclays should also pay Ms M 8%* 
simple interest if she paid off the credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Ms M can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.Ms M mentioned concerns about the way Barclays works out these offers. From what weve 
seen, theyre generally working out these offers fairly. But if Ms M is concerned about her 
particular offer once she receives it, she can always come back to our service and ask us to 
look at the calculations as a separate case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC doesnt have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Ms M.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Ms M any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I think thats a fair way to resolve the 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2020.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman