DRN-3094722
The complaint
Miss S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC provided poor service and wrongly applied a 
default to her credit file.
What happened
In 2014 Miss S opened a Barclays joint current account with her ex-partner. The relationship 
ended in 2016 and Miss S moved out of the house they shared. The account was overdrawn 
and went into default in 2017. Miss S says she didnt know about that until she applied for a 
mortgage a few years later and discovered Barclays had recorded a default on her credit file. 
Miss S contacted Barclays to see if this could be removed and was told that shed need to 
pay about £280 to clear the overdraft and close the account. Miss S says she tried to make 
the payment but the account number Barclays provided was wrong.  
Not long after Barclays got in touch with Miss R as part of a general remediation project. 
Barclays acknowledged its communication with some customers was poor around the 
relevant time and it contacted customers to offer compensation. Miss S was offered nearly 
£300 but she didnt think that was enough - as compensation wouldnt fix the on-going 
impact of the default on her credit file. She complained to Barclays in 2020. There was a 
delay in logging her complaint and Barclays offered another £25 compensation for that but 
wouldnt do more. Miss S didnt think that was fair so she referred the matter to our service.
Barclays says it identified cases, as part of the remediation project, where it may not have 
offered an appropriate level of support between 2014 and 2017. But, instead of reviewing 
each case individually, it offered a refund whether the individual customer received 
appropriate support or not. Barclays considers Miss S did receive enough information and 
support so it wasnt wrong to default the account and report this to credit reference agencies. 
It offered to increase the additional compensation offered for the delay in dealing with Miss 
Ss complaint from £25 to £100 but doesnt think it should have to do more.
One of our investigators looked into the matter and he didnt recommend the complaint 
should be upheld. He was satisfied that Barclays sent Miss S correspondence about the 
account to the address on record at the relevant time that told her about the debt and what 
she would need to do to avoid a default - but Miss S didnt respond until it was too late. He 
wasnt persuaded it would be fair to ask Barclays to remove the default or do anything else. 
Miss S acknowledges she didnt tell Barclays that she moved and Barclays may have sent 
letters after she left the relevant address. But, she thinks Barclays should have used another 
form of contact as well as the post - it had her telephone number (amongst other things) and 
this didnt change. She doesnt think the offer of increased compensation alone is fair. She 
wants Barclays to remove the default (or offer her a mortgage). She asked for an 
ombudsman to review the matter.
Having considered the relevant information about this complaint, I was inclined to uphold it. I 
thought it was fair to give the parties the chance to consider my provisional findings and 
respond - if they wanted to - before I made my final decision. I issued a provisional decision 
on 31 August 2021 and explained that Id look at any more comments and evidence received 
by 28 September 2021. The reasons for my provisional decision are set out below and form 
part of my final decision. 
My provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of 
the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
I think the crux of Miss Ss complaint here is that shes been disadvantaged because 
Barclays didnt communicate with her properly about her account. Essentially, she says if 
Barclays had telephoned or emailed in 2017 - instead of sending correspondence by letter 
only - she would have paid what was owed and the account would not have defaulted.
Im satisfied communication issues were highlighted as part of the remediation project 
Barclays undertook at the relevant time. I can see two key causes of detriment were failing 
to engage with the customer by telephone after entering collections and failing to attempt to 
call a customer within 28 days of the account falling into arrears as required by Barclays 
policies. And, whilst theres no dispute that Barclays included Miss S within the remediation 
project and offered a refund, it was unclear to me if there was a failure to adhere to relevant 
policies in her individual case.
I asked the investigator to get some more information from Barclays about the policies and 
efforts made to contact Miss S. Barclays responded to say it would remove the default if 
Miss S paid the default balance of £283.63. The investigator put this to Miss S but she didnt 
think it was fair because Barclays offered to clear the balance and pay her £287.63 
compensation, as part of the remediation project. 
As things stand, I consider Barclays seems to acknowledge that Miss S probably didnt 
receive the appropriate level of contact and/or support in 2017  in that it has offered to 
remove the default from her credit file. I think that seems fair. Im satisfied that Miss S took 
steps to try and pay what she owed when she found out about the default in 2018. And I 
think its more likely than not she would have done the same thing if Barclays had followed 
its own policies and telephoned her in 2017 - in which case the default wouldnt have been 
applied. 
I appreciate Miss S says Barclays offered to waive the balance owing on the account as part 
of the compensation offer but Ive seen nothing to show thats the case. I checked Barclays 
contact notes from the relevant time and I think these seem to be fairly detailed and 
contemporaneous. They show the account was closed in July 2017  which is what Id 
expect to happen after the default notice expired and the debt remained unpaid. Im satisfied 
Miss S was asked to pay the default balance when she contacted the bank in 2018 - after 
she discovered the default had been recorded on her credit file. And Ive seen nothing to 
suggest that Barclays agreed to waive the outstanding balance then - or later, as part of the 
remediation project.
Im satisfied that Miss S (as a joint account holder) was liable for the overdraft on this 
account. I think she would have needed to pay the outstanding balance in 2017 - if Barclays 
had contacted her successfully then - in order to avoid the default. And I am minded to find it 
is reasonable for her to pay whats owed before the default is removed from her credit file 
now.
I think Miss S probably experienced distress and inconvenience as a result of what happened. I consider Barclays offer (as part of the remediation project) to pay her 
compensation of £287.26 for poor communication seems fair. Barclays has acknowledged 
additional service failings and offered to pay another £100 for that (inclusive of the earlier 
offer of £25) and I think this seems reasonable for the associated upset and inconvenience.
Its not clear to me how much (if any) of the total compensation offered (£387.26) has 
actually been paid to Miss S already. In light of my findings above, I think its fair for Barclays 
to pay Miss S the £387.26 offered. So, if this amount hasnt yet been paid - or it has only 
been paid in part - Barclays may deduct any unpaid compensation from the balance owing. If 
the unpaid compensation is less than the balance owing, Miss S should pay the difference 
before the default is removed. If she cant afford to pay this in one go Id expect Barclays to 
agree an appropriate repayment plan. In the event the amount of compensation as yet 
unpaid is more than the balance owing, Barclays should deduct whats owed and pay the 
difference to Miss S.
The responses received from the parties
I invited the parties to consider my provisional findings and let me have any further 
comments or evidence (that I hadnt seen before) by 28 September 2021. 
Barclays accepted my provisional decision. It says (in summary) £287.26 was credited to 
Miss Ss account (ending 8658) in August 2020 and it subsequently agreed to pay 
compensation for distress and inconvenience of £125 - not £100 as referred to in my 
provisional decision. Barclays says £158.63 will remain owing if the £125 compensation is 
paid towards Miss Ss outstanding debt (on account ending 1084) of £283.63. And, once 
thats repaid, the default will be removed from Miss Ss credit file.  
Miss S agrees with the outcome overall but shes confused about why Barclays paid her 
compensation when there was a debt outstanding. She thought that debt was written off 
when the joint account was closed. She feels Barclays communication was unclear 
throughout. And she considers it unfair that she has to repay money that Barclays paid her 
previously by way of compensation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons I explained in my provisional decision, I think the compensation offered by 
Barclays - £287.26 under the remediation project and for £125 for later errors  seems fair. 
Barclays has now confirmed that the £287.26 compensation offered under the remediation 
project has been paid already so Im satisfied Miss S had the benefit of that.  
I appreciate Miss S feels its inconsistent that she has to repay a debt of nearly the same 
amount as Barclays paid her by way of compensation. And I can see why it seems odd that 
Barclays paid her compensation when there was still money owing on another account. 
However, for the reasons Ive set out in my provisional decision, Im satisfied that Miss S 
was liable to repay the overdraft (on account ending 1084). I think she would have needed to 
pay that in 2017 in order to avoid the default. And Im not persuaded that Barclays agreed to 
waive this debt when the account closed - I can see that Miss R was asked to pay the 
outstanding amount when she contacted the bank in 2018 after she discovered the default.  
I remain of the view it is reasonable for Miss S to repay that debt before the default is 
removed from her credit file, in this situation. I dont think its unreasonable for Barclays to deduct the (as yet unpaid compensation) of £125 from the balance owing. And I find it fair 
that Miss S should pay the remaining balance outstanding before the default is removed. 
I realise my decision may come as a disappointment to Miss S, as she feels she shouldnt 
have to make any further payment. But, I cant fairly find Barclays agreed to - or should - 
write off the overdraft balance. And I consider this represents a fair and reasonable outcome 
overall. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my decision is I uphold this complaint and require 
Barclays Bank UK PLC to:- 
1. pay Miss S £125 compensation for distress and inconvenience  which may be 
deducted from the balance owing leaving Miss S to pay any balance outstanding;
2. agree an appropriate repayment plan, in the event Miss S is unable to pay the 
outstanding balance (referred to at 1 above) in one go; and
3. remove the default from Miss Ss credit file when the outstanding balance is repaid. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 November 2021.
 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman