DRN-2968941
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G say that a timeshare which they bought in 2009 was misrepresented to them. 
Because they used Mr Gs credit card, issued by Bank of Scotland plc, to pay for the 
timeshare, they say that Bank of Scotland is equally liable with the seller for the 
misrepresentation.  
What happened
In November 2009, while on holiday in Florida, Mr and Mrs G and another family member 
bought a timeshare from a company, M. They paid the purchase price of over US$15,000 
using Mr Gs credit card. 
Several years later, in early 2019, Mr and Mrs G contacted the bank to say that the 
timeshare had been misrepresented to them. That is, some of the things that M had told 
them about the timeshare had turned out to be untrue. But for the statements M had made, 
they would not have bought the timeshare. 
They also said that the bank had not properly assessed whether the lending by way of the 
credit card account had been affordable and that the credit card agreement created an unfair 
relationship under sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Bank of Scotland declined to look at the claim. It said that the claim had arisen in 2009, 
when Mr and Mrs G bought the timeshare, and had therefore been made outside the 
relevant time limit in the Limitation Act 1980. It did however offer £100 compensation in 
recognition of delays in responding to the complaint. 
The complaint was referred to this service, where one of our investigators considered it. He 
thought however that the bank had handled the claim fairly and did not believe it should be 
upheld. Mr and Mrs G did not agree and asked, through their representative, that an 
ombudsman review the case.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I shall deal first of all with the position of Mrs G. I can only consider a complaint which is 
brought by or on behalf of an eligible complainant, as defined in the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys Handbook. In this case, the eligible complainant is the credit card holder  that is, 
Mr G. The credit card account was in Mr Gs name, so only he can bring the complaint. That 
is the case even if Mrs G was an additional card holder. I shall therefore refer only to Mr G. 
Part of Mr Gs complaint is that Bank of Scotland bank did not carry out proper checks to 
ensure that the money it lent him was affordable. 
The rules covering the handling of complaints by the Financial Ombudsman Service say that 
we cannot consider a complaint which is referred to us more than six years after the event 
complained of or, if later, more than three years after the complainant knew or ought 
reasonably to have known that they had cause for complaint. We can disregard those time 
limits if the failure to comply with them was the result of exceptional circumstances. 
The credit card payment in this case was made in 2009, some nine years before any 
complaint was made. Any credit assessment would not have been to assess the affordability 
of the timeshare but would have been made when the bank fixed or changed Mr Gs credit 
limit  that is, no later than and possibly some time before November 2009. 
If no proper credit assessment was made, such that Mr G could not afford to make 
repayments on his credit card, it seems to me that he would have known about that many 
years earlier. For that reason, I believe that this part of the complaint was brought outside 
our own time limits and that I therefore have no power to consider it. 
I turn then to the claim of misrepresentation on the part of M. 
One effect of section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is that, where a customer who 
pays a supplier for goods or services with a credit card has a claim for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation against that supplier, they have a like claim against the credit card 
provider. Financial limits apply, but I dont need to discuss those here.
Bank of Scotland says however that the effect of the Limitation Act is that Mr G no longer 
has a claim against M and therefore no longer has a claim against the bank.  
The Limitation Act does not apply to complaints brought to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. As I have indicated above, its time limits are set out in the regulators Handbook, 
although in many cases the same limits will apply. Mr Gs complaint to this service is about 
Bank of Scotlands response to his section 75 claim; it is not the misrepresentation claim 
itself. The banks response to the section 75 claim was given in February 2019, and Mr G 
told us soon afterwards that he was unhappy with that response. His complaint was 
therefore referred to the ombudsman within our own time limits.
Under the Limitation Act, however, an action (that is, court action) cannot generally be 
brought after six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued. Different time 
limits apply for certain types of claim, but I am satisfied that six years is the relevant time 
limit here. Mr Gs cause of action (assuming what he says about what happened is correct) 
accrued no later than the date on which he signed the timeshare contract and made 
payment  that is, in November 2009. But it was not until some nine years later that he made 
a claim against the bank. 
Mr G says that he did not know until some years later that he could bring a claim. Under the 
Limitation Act, however, time starts running in the case of misrepresentation from the date of 
loss  which here means the date of payment. 
Mr G has suggested too that he could bring a claim under sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act for an order declaring the credit card agreement unfair to him. Such an 
order can only be made by a court, but in any event the time limit for such a claim runs from 
no later than the date the finance agreement ended. Bank of Scotland says that the credit 
card account was closed in December 2011. 
For these reasons, I believe that any claim in court would now be brought outside the 
relevant time limits in the Limitation Act and would be extremely unlikely to succeed. I 
believe it was therefore fair of Royal Bank of Scotland to decline to look any further into Mr 
Gs complaint.  
My final decisionFor these reasons my final decision is that I do not require Bank of Scotland plc to do 
anything more to resolve Mr Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman