DRN-2955243
The complaint
Mr W and Mrs W complain that Oakwood Homeloans Limited (Oakwood) would not check 
their banking records to establish whether it had received a mortgage redemption payment 
they had made. They further complain that Oakwood promised to call them back the 
following morning but failed to do so until the afternoon.
What happened
Mr W and Mrs W redeemed their mortgage account with Oakwood by making a payment 
online. They asked their bank to verify the recipient, but it said it couldnt. So, Mr W and Mrs 
W rang Oakwood and say they were told it would take two days to check and that they would 
receive a call back, but they didnt. 
Mr W and Mrs W said they asked Oakwood if they could check with their bank so they could 
have some peace of mind since they were concerned about the transaction. Mr W and Mrs 
W said Oakwood told them this wasnt their normal business practice and so refused to do 
so.
In responding to Mr W and Mrs Ws complaint Oakwood did say that it was not part of their 
business processes to check to see if redemption funds had been received. It said it would 
raise their comments internally to be considered at a review. 
But Oakwood did accept that it had promised to call Mr W and Mrs W on the morning of the 
16 December but hadnt done so until that afternoon. They apologised for that error, and in 
recognition of the upset caused, paid £25 into Mr W and Mrs Ws account.
Mr W and Mrs W were unhappy with Oakwoods final response and so approached this 
service to see if we could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that there 
had been poor service in relation to the failure to call them back, but not otherwise. And, they 
thought that the compensation payment of £25 was fair and reasonable.
Mr W and Mrs W didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman 
for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W and Mrs W acknowledge that they havent suffered any direct financial loss and that 
the money they sent online was in fact received by Oakwood. Their complaint really relates 
to the two days when they were left worrying about whether it had been received. They were 
particularly anxious because they had been the victims of a scam attempt before. I can 
therefore empathise with Mr W and Mrs W as this must have been a most worrying period 
for them.
Mr W and Mrs W made their online payment to Oakwood on 14 December. Oakwoods 
evidence as to their process is that those funds were received into a holding account and 
held there whilst they were cleared. They were then processed the day after receipt and 
applied to Mr W and Mrs W mortgage account overnight. Oakwood have confirmed that this 
is the process adopted for all its customers.
Oakwood have accepted that when Mr W and Mrs W called on 15 December they did 
decline to contact their bank to check if funds had been received. They have explained to 
this service that they cant confirm receipt of any payments until they have been processed, 
cleared and applied to the mortgage account. And so, in relation to Mr W and Mrs W 
payment they were unable to see it had arrived until 16 December, and it was on that day 
that Oakwood notified Mr W and Mrs W that they had received it.
The role of our service is to look at what happened in the circumstances of any individual 
complaint and check that the business followed its rules and procedures and is applying 
them fairly to all its customers. 
We dont have the power to make rules for businesses, or direct that they change their policy 
or procedures. So, I cant tell Oakwood to change its process for updating its customers 
accounts following a redemption payment. That said, I can see that Oakwood dealt with the 
redemption payment within two days and that is in line with their usual process. So, I cant 
say they have done anything wrong there and I think their procedure is reasonable.
I have considered whether Oakwood should have done more by making the further enquiries 
Mr W and Mrs W wanted. I dont think they were required to. The process they had in place 
was reasonable and worked well and within a reasonable period of time. I do understand 
that Oakwood have considered Mr W and Mrs Ws comments, and along with those of 
others, effected changes to their process, but this does not mean that the process they had 
previously was unreasonable or unfair.
Oakwood have accepted that it promised Mr W and Mrs W a call back on the morning of the 
16 December but failed to do so, resulting in Mr W and Mrs W having to make another call in 
the afternoon and then wait for someone to call them back later that day. In the light of this 
error, it compensated Mr W and Mrs W with £25 and Ive given this some further thought as 
to whether it is a fair and reasonable form of redress.
When this service considers what an appropriate level of compensation might be, we take 
into account a variety of factors, including the trouble, upset, distress and inconvenience that 
may have been caused. We categorise awards and examples of these can be found on our 
website. 
What is important to remember is that there is no set figure, since the facts of each case are 
different, and ultimately it is an exercise of judgement, looking at all the circumstances and 
coming to a figure which feels fair, when set against the effect upon the complainant of any 
particular service failures. Here, the effect of the failure was a delay in receiving a promised 
return call.
In my view any award for the trouble and upset caused here, also needs to be balanced and 
measured against the ups and downs of daily life we all face when dealing with other people, 
businesses and organisations, and recognising that that can be inconvenient at times. So, 
having weighed up all the evidence, I think the offer made by Oakwood of £25 is a fair and 
reasonable recompense for effect upon Mr W and Mrs W of the failure to return the call as 
promised.Although Mr W and Mrs W will probably be disappointed with my decision, and whilst 
Oakwood have indeed made one error, I cant say Oakwood has, other than that, acted 
unfairly or unreasonably.
My final decision
Oakwood Homeloans Limited has already paid Mr W and Mrs W £25 to settle this complaint, 
and I think that is fair and reasonable. So, my final decision is that I dont require it to do 
anything else.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 29 November 2021.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman