DRN-3964674
The complaint
Mrs A has complained that Clydesdale Bank Plc (Clydesdale) mis-sold her a Silver 
packaged bank account in July 2002. Clydesdale discontinued the Silver account in 
December 2002 and switched Mrs A over to the Current Account Choice. The Current 
Account Choice was discontinued in 2008 and Clydesdale then switched Mrs A onto the 
Signature account around September 2008.
Mrs A has said, amongst other things, that she did not need the benefits of these accounts 
as she held them elsewhere and she was not aware she was paying a monthly fee for these 
accounts.
What happened
One of our adjudicators has looked into Mrs As complaint and she didnt think that 
Clydesdale had mis-sold the Silver account and did not do anything wrong in relation to the 
account changes. Mrs A didnt accept this and asked for an ombudsman to look at the 
complaint and make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mrs As complaint.
Having carefully reviewed everything provided, I dont think that Clydesdale mis-sold the 
packaged account to Mrs A or that it treated her unfairly in relation to the account switches. 
And so it doesnt owe Mrs A any compensation. Id like to explain why I think this is the case.
Firstly, I have considered whether Clydesdale gave Mrs A a fair choice in taking out the 
Silver account. After considering everything I think Mrs A wanted the account to decrease 
the cost in having and using her overdraft facility. To explain, using an overdraft facility on a 
fee free account cost £8.50 per month, whereas holding the Silver account cost £4.50 per 
month and avoided the £8.50 monthly overdraft usage cost. So in effect holding this account 
at the time whilst using an overdraft facility potentially saved Mrs A £4 a month in fees. So 
overall I think that she agreed to this account knowing it was optional and she did so for the 
overdraft benefits that it came with.
I note that Mrs A said that she did not need the insurance benefits that the account came 
with. But at the time it was taken out, the account did not come with insurance benefits. 
These were added at a later date, so I cant consider them as reasons why the Silver 
account mayve been mis-sold in the first place. 
This account was not recommended to Mrs A. So Clydesdale did not have to ensure that it 
was right for Mrs A. But it did have to give Mrs A enough information to allow her to do this 
herself. 
I think the main benefit (the overdraft benefit) wouldve been highlighted to Mrs A to make 
the account seem attractive. Mrs A says she was not told about the account fee but overall, I 
think she wouldve queried this earlier if she genuinely thought that the account was free, as 
the cost of the account wouldve shown up on her bank statements since 2002, as well as on 
various the documentation that was sent to her over the years she held the account. So 
overall I dont think the Silver account was sold incorrectly in the first place.
In relation to the account switches, Clydesdale was entitled to switch Mrs As packaged bank 
account to a different account as long as it informed her it was doing so. The information Ive 
seen suggests its likely Clydesdale did notify Mrs A of at least the 2008 switch before it took 
place. But even if I were to accept that Mrs A didnt receive or was not notified about the 
December 2002 switch by Clydesdale, I still need to think about what, if anything, she 
wouldve done differently, if things had gone as they shouldve done.
In relation to the switch to the Choice account, the main difference between it and the Silver 
account was that it cost £7.50 per month and it came with travel insurance. Mrs A has 
informed us that she did travel and did not have her own travel insurance, so given this, 
even if Mrs A was not informed about the switch to the Choice account, I think had she been 
told about it, she would not have done anything differently.
In relation to the switch to the Signature account, as already stated, I think overall that she 
was likely informed, albeit on balance, that the switch was occurring.  I say this because I 
have seen a copy of the template letter that was likely sent to Mrs A that informed all Choice 
account holders that their account was being transferred to a Signature account. So I dont 
think that Clydesdale did anything wrong in relation to this change.
Id like to reassure Mrs A that Ive looked at all the information she has provided about her 
complaint. And Ive thought about everything she has said. But having done so, I dont think 
that Clydesdale initially mis-sold the packaged bank account to her, or treated her unfairly in 
relation to the migrations. So I dont think it owes her any money.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained. I dont uphold Mrs As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman