DRN-3024946
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N feel HSBC UK Bank Plc treated them unfairly by delaying their request to 
withdraw a cash lump sum from their accounts.  
What happened
On 1 November 2020, Mr and Mrs N contacted HSBC to make a cash withdrawal of 
£149,000. On 2 November, the local branch manager called Mr and Mrs N to ask what they 
wanted the money for as per the banks processes. Mr and Mrs N explained this was for a 
new business venture to purchase and restore classic vehicles. They said that due to the 
nature of the business, cash purchases were preferred. 
So the branch manager referred the request internally and it was authorised shortly after. Mr 
and Mrs N arranged to collect the cash on 12 November. On 9 November, Mr and Mrs N 
contacted HSBC again to request a further cash withdrawal of £76,000 for the same 
collection date. 
As this meant the total cash request was above the branch managers authorisation limit, 
they needed to refer this to a more senior level. The bank had further processes for higher 
cash withdrawals, so HSBC arranged for a further conversation with Mr and Mrs N about 
their plans for the money. 
The bank also arranged for the police to visit Mr and Mrs N and check they hadnt been 
asked to remove the money under duress. Mr and Mrs N completed the banks additional 
security requests. However, on 11 November HSBCs area director declined the request as 
he thought releasing this much cash was a risk to both the bank and Mr and Mrs N. 
Mr and Mrs N didnt think this was fair, so they made a complaint. They said theyd provided 
the information HSBC had asked for and done everything requested of them including the 
police visit. They explained they needed the cash to purchase the items when they became 
available as this was the sellers preferred payment option.
HSBC didnt uphold the complaint. They said as a responsible bank, it was their policy to 
ensure large withdrawals for customers were genuine and not made under duress. HSBC 
said they couldnt release that amount of cash with evidence and authorisation and the bank 
said theyd explained the reason the request had been declined. 
Mr and Mrs N remained unhappy and asked this service to look into their complaint. They 
said they lost money as they hadnt been able to complete the purchases they had planned. 
Mr and Mrs N said theyd built and rented storage which they now couldnt use and lost the 
interest on the investments theyd transferred into the account for purchases they now 
wouldnt be able to make. 
Since the complaint has been brought to this service, HSBC has agreed to release the cash 
as requested. The bank has also been provided with all the invoices related to the storage 
costs Mr and Mrs N have incurred. 
One of our investigators wasnt persuaded that Mr and Mrs N had been treated unfairly, but 
after further exchanges between the parties and the ombudsman service, a second 
investigator looked at the evidence again and recommended that the complaint be upheld in 
part. In brief, she made these points:
It was reasonable for HSBC to carry out their security checks, including asking the 
police to carry out a check on Mr and Mrs N. But it wasnt fair of HSBC to withhold Mr 
and Mrs Ns cash after these checks had taken place. Shed looked at the call notes 
between Mr N and the bank and thought Mr N had answered HSBCs questions 
confidently and confirmed he was aware of the risks of storing cash at his home. So, 
HSBC ought to have released the cash at this point - rather than several months 
later.
Mr and Mrs N said theyd lost out financially from HSBCs delay in releasing the cash. 
But the investigator said Mr and Mrs N had chosen to withdraw funds from their tax-
free savings accounts, so HSBC wouldnt be responsible for the loss of interest.
Mr and Mrs N had chosen to build the storage sheds and would still have these even 
if the business venture didnt go ahead, so the investigator didnt feel it was fair to 
ask the bank to cover the cost. However, Mr and Mrs N had rented storage ready for 
the vehicles they couldnt purchase due to HSBCs delay so she felt the bank should 
cover this cost, with interest. 
The investigator also said Mr and Mrs N had been caused distress and 
inconvenience so she thought HSBC should pay them £750 compensation.
Mr N wanted the bank to issue a letter confirming that they could return the cash 
without any issue, but the investigator didnt think this was reasonable as the bank 
would need to comply with its regulatory requirements and a letter of this nature 
would mean that wasnt the case. 
HSBC didnt agree with the investigators opinion. In summary it said:
The bank was being penalised for completing security checks to protect Mr and 
Mrs N and it felt the large cash withdrawal could be seen as tax evasion. 
It wasnt happy Mr and Mrs N didnt have a business account in place yet, and that its 
customers who trade in cash were still subject to the relevant Fraud/Anti-Money 
Laundering checks and needed to provide supporting evidence. 
The rental costs for the barn would have needed to be paid regardless if Mr and 
Mrs Ns business had gone ahead  so it didnt feel it should have to cover this cost. 
Mr and Mrs N had transferred around £70,000 to another bank around the time it had 
declined the cash withdrawal and queried why they couldnt use this money towards 
the deals. 
Mr and Mrs N also didnt agree with the investigators opinion. They said:
Theyd listened to the call recordings and it was clear that HSBC had made mistakes 
and they felt the bank had manipulated the truth. 
Theyd made HSBC aware of the amounts of money needed and never been told this 
would be an issue or that theyd impose a limit on the amount of the withdrawal. They felt HSBC hadnt given them a good level of service  including saying theyd 
attempted to call when they hadnt. Mr and Mrs N also said theyd been given 
conflicting information about repaying the cash back into the branch. 
Theyd based their decisions on the information given by HSBC initially, which meant 
theyd incurred costs such as storage hire. They were also unhappy theyd been 
visited by the police and felt frustrated at the misinformation which meant theyd 
ultimately missed out on the reason for withdrawing the cash in the first place. So, 
they said the compensation recommended wasnt enough.  
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold it in part. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs N and HSBC have both provided detailed evidence about this complaint. Ive 
taken onboard all their points  although Im not going to respond to each point individually. 
Instead Ill address what I consider to be the key complaint points which are whether HSBC 
treated Mr and Mrs N fairly and in line with the policy terms when the bank didnt release a 
cash withdrawal as requested, didnt provide a letter about returning the cash without any 
additional checks and the financial losses incurred as a result of the banks actions. Where 
evidence is contradictory or unavailable, I must reach my decision on a balance of 
probabilities  what I think is most likely to have happened given the evidence available and 
the wider circumstances. And I have come to my conclusions based on this.
Cash withdrawal delay
Mr and Mrs Ns main complaint point is that HSBC shouldnt have restricted them from 
withdrawing their own money in cash when they wanted it. I recognise why Mr and Mrs N 
feel this way as the bank is holding their money, however I also need to take into 
consideration the rules HSBC need to abide by when carrying out this regulatory activity.  
The rules say, a firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence and pay 
due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly so I need to decide if I think 
HSBC have acted in line with these when actioning Mr and Mrs Ns request. 
When Mr and Mrs N asked for the first cash withdrawal, I think it was reasonable for HSBC 
to ask them the questions it did about what Mr N had planned for what was a significant cash 
withdrawal The bank had an obligation to Mr and Mrs N to ensure they werent being 
subjected to fraud or forced into making a large cash withdrawal  which HSBC have said 
was out of character for Mr and Mrs N. 
Ive seen evidence from HSBC that they followed their standard process for dealing with 
large cash withdrawals when speaking to Mr and Mrs N. The bank has an escalation 
procedure and Ive seen that this was followed for both requests. Ive also seen that Mr and 
Mrs N spoke at length to HSBC about their plans for the cash, and the risks involved with 
withdrawing this amount of money. 
This was then followed by a police officer visit to ensure Mr and Mrs N werent under duress 
to remove their savings. These conversations took place on 10 November 2020. I 
acknowledge this may have been frustrating for Mr and Mrs N, but I think it was reasonable 
for HSBC to take these steps. And Im satisfied HSBC took the action they did for Mr and Mrs Ns protection when making their initial enquires.
However, Ive seen evidence of HSBCs call notes which show Mr and Mrs N answered the 
banks questions and clearly understood the risks with making such a large withdrawal. I 
also havent seen any evidence from the bank showing that the police had concerns about 
Mr and Mrs Ns request. So I think it would have been reasonable for Mr and Mrs N to be 
allowed to make their withdrawal on 12 November as theyd originally requested  instead 
the bank refused to release the cash until this service became involved and only agreed the 
withdrawal on 1 February 2021. Nearly three months later.
Looking at HSBCs terms and conditions, I can see it says the bank can refuse to make a 
payment from an account if an account holder hasnt given them any extra information about 
the payment that theyve reasonably asked for. But Im not satisfied that was the case here, 
and I dont think HSBC treated Mr and Mrs N fairly when they declined the second 
withdrawal request.
HSBC told this service they werent comfortable releasing the additional money, as the bank 
had concerns about the tax implications of Mr Ns business venture and that Mr N didnt 
have a business account set up. But I dont think this is a reasonable explanation for refusing 
the cash withdrawal. I say this because, HSBC didnt raise these points as concerns when 
they agreed to the initial cash withdrawal, so the extra amount shouldnt have had any 
bearing on this. Furthermore, Ive seen that Mr N had already explained to HSBC he didnt 
yet have a business account because he wanted to get the business up and running first. I 
think this was a reasonable explanation. 
I acknowledge HSBCs area director had concerns about the level of risk in providing this 
amount of cash to Mr and Mrs N  and I think this was understandable. However, Mr and 
Mrs N had already provided all the information possible at that point and complied with the 
banks required checks as requested. So I dont think there was anything further that Mr and 
Mrs N could have done to satisfy the bank about the withdrawal. I also acknowledge that the 
area director would have been responsible for this decision, but I think the bank could have 
done more here to deal with Mr and Mrs Ns request. 
Looking at the evidence from both parties, I cant see that HSBC made any attempt to offer 
Mr and Mrs N an alternative to withdrawing all the cash on the same day  except to make a 
transfer to a potential seller. And Mr N had already explained to the bank why he didnt want 
to do this. So based on what Ive seen, I dont think HSBC treated Mr and Mrs N fairly by 
declining their second cash withdrawal and delaying their access to the cash for nearly three 
months.
Returning unused cash without additional checks
Mr and Mrs N feel its unreasonable that HSBC wont provide them with a letter confirming 
theyve made a large cash withdrawal, so they can return any unused cash at any point 
without further checks. Mr N also feels its unfair the bank wont change its process for him 
as hes known to the branch. But I dont agree. 
I say this because HSBC have obligations they have to meet as a lender for example to 
prevent fraud and money laundering wherever possible. The bank will undertake checks it 
feels are necessary for it to be satisfied it has met those obligations, and its not for me to 
decide what level or type of checks the bank should apply.
HSBC have told us they are unable to supply Mr and Mrs N with a letter saying they 
withdrew the cash and therefore it can be returned if not needed. And I think this is fair. I 
dont think its reasonable to expect the bank to provide a document that would effectively allow Mr and Mrs N to circumvent the banks security and regulatory processes. I 
acknowledge Mr and Mrs N have said the bank will know where the money has come from, 
but I dont think thats a reasonable assumption for them to make. 
Given that Mr and Mrs N intended to buy and sell classic vehicles  which they said is 
predominantly a cash industry  HSBC wouldnt be able to confirm the cash Mr and Mrs N 
withdrew from the bank was the same money theyd be returning. Therefore I think its 
reasonable the bank didnt want to provide a letter which would mean it wasnt able to meet 
its regulatory obligations. 
Mr and Mrs N said that because they have banked with HSBC for a significant period of 
time, the bank should be able to change its procedures for them. But I dont agree. HSBC 
has to treat all customers fairly, which means the bank cant pick and choose when it applies 
its procedures. And if it did so, its likely this service would say it hasnt behaved in a 
reasonable manner. So I think its reasonable HSBC have said it would ask the same 
questions of Mr and Mrs N as it would for other customers. 
I also think its worth noting here that Mr and Mrs N were originally happy to make the cash 
withdrawal without this letter. So if the withdrawal had gone ahead as planned, they would 
have been subject to the same checks to return any unspent cash as they are at this point 
now HSBC have confirmed the letter wont be provided. And on this basis, although 
inconvenient, I dont think not having this letter from HSBC has prevented Mr and Mrs N 
proceeding with their business venture since 1 February 2021 when the bank agreed to 
release the cash as requested. 
Ive also seen that HSBC contacted Mr and Mrs N in April 2021 to make it clear the bank 
wouldnt be providing the letter as requested. However, the bank explained that if Mr and 
Mrs N were able to provide proof of where the money had come from, along with any related 
transactions that this audit trail would avoid most issues. 
I acknowledge Mr and Mrs N felt HSBC had given them conflicting information and were 
therefore concerned that HSBC would change its stance after theyd made the withdrawal. 
But I havent seen anything that suggests this would be the case. I also recognise they were 
unhappy with the HSBC staff they spoke to about the letter and return of unused cash, but I 
think its likely there would have been notes of this complaint on Mr and Mrs Ns account 
explaining the circumstances and what had been agreed. So I think HSBC have provided a 
reasonable resolution to Mr and Mrs Ns concerns.  
Loss of opportunity and financial impact
Mr and Mrs N told us theyve lost out financially because they were unable to make the cash 
withdrawal when they wanted, and that they received poor service and conflicting 
information. They say Mr N could have purchased stock cheaply and sold it for a profit, so 
theyve lost out on this income, and also incurred storage costs for items they dont have. So 
I need to see whether these losses are as a direct result of HSBCs actions.
When Mr N initially spoke to HSBC, he told the bank he was looking to attend various 
vehicle sales with cash as this meant hed benefit from lower prices. Mr N said because of 
the nature of the business, cash is a preferred method of payment and often leads to a 
better deal. Mr N also told the bank about an impending sale he wanted to attend to benefit 
from this. However, Mr N has subsequently told this service hes missed out on a deal which 
hed been working on for several months. 
Ive looked at the information Mr N has provided to support his claim for the loss of 
opportunity. However, I havent seen anything substantive showing a breakdown of the losses he feels hes incurred. Mr N has mentioned there were vehicles and parts that he 
would have been looking to purchase from auctions or sales, however he hasnt provided 
anything to show what he was looking to purchase, or any proof that he would definitely 
have been able to actually get the items he wanted, and at the price he wanted. 
I acknowledge Mr and Mrs N have said they needed cash for these deals to take place, but 
without any evidence, the potential losses theyve made are hypothetical and I cant award 
compensation for this type of loss. I asked Mr and Mrs N to explain how they felt theyd 
made the losses, but they havent provided a business plan, forecast or shown any details of 
the deals they intended to make with the potential purchase and sale prices. Mr N has told 
us he has many years experience in this field, and thats not disputed by any party. 
However, as Mr and Mrs N dont have any historic figures to support their losses, I dont 
have anything to show that the losses theyve said have been incurred can be substantiated. 
HSBC has also queried why Mr and Mrs N werent able to use the £70,000 they transferred 
to another bank towards these deals. Mr N has told us that he spent many weeks setting the 
deals up as the sellers wanted cash. But again, he hasnt provided details of the deals hes 
mentioned, nor has he explained why all the cash needed to be withdrawn at once if there 
were multiple deals, how he tried to mitigate the losses or why he couldnt use the £70,000 
towards the deals. 
Ive also seen notes from the bank which say that Mr N told HSBC when he spoke to them 
initially in November that if the venture didnt work out, that hed be returning the money to 
the bank in two to three months. So taking everything into consideration, Im not persuaded 
HSBC caused the loss of opportunity Mr and Mrs N have suggested.  
Mr and Mrs N have said theyve also been financially impacted by HSBC as theyve lost 
interest on the investments that they transferred to HSBC to make the cash withdrawal. But I 
dont agree. I say this because Mr and Mrs N had already decided to withdraw the money 
from these investments without any advice or information from HSBC on the basis, they 
wanted to proceed with Mr Ns business venture. And although HSBC did delay Mr and 
Mrs N from accessing the money in cash, it was still available for them to use and withdraw 
as cash from early February. So I dont think the bank were responsible for Mr and Mrs Ns 
decision to close their investments or the loss of interest this then caused.
However, I do think Mr and Mrs N have been caused some financial loss from the cost of the 
storage they rented to begin their venture. Mr and Mrs N told us that once the cash 
withdrawal had been agreed they rented a barn from a third party to store the vehicles, until 
their own storage units they were building were complete. I think this was reasonable given 
that Mr N was looking to move quickly, and the stock would have needed to be covered due 
to the type of product and value. 
HSBC have said that the rental storage would have been payable regardless of their 
decision. But I dont agree. Mr N has provided a receipt showing that he paid £50 per week 
on a three-month contract after hed agreed the initial cash withdrawal with the bank. Based 
on Mr and Mrs Ns evidence and the events that have taken place, Im persuaded that Mr N 
intended to purchase stock with the cash and that the rental storage was for this sole 
purpose. 
I think HSBCs actions prevented Mr and Mrs N from using the storage as planned, and I 
think the bank ought to have been reasonably aware Mr and Mrs N would incur this loss 
when the bank didnt let them make the cash withdrawal as expected. I also agree with the 
investigators recommendation of 8% interest in addition to the refund of the storage costs as 
this was money Mr and Mrs N would have had the benefit of using elsewhere  had they not 
been restricted by HSBCs actions.Mr and Mrs N have also said they feel HSBC should refund them the cost of the storage 
units theyve built. But I dont think this is fair. I say this because, although Mr and Mrs N 
have said they now wont be going ahead with the business venture, they do still have the 
benefit of the units should they decide to go ahead at a later date or decide to use them in 
an alternative way. Initially, Mr and Mrs N said they were looking to remove the units and sell 
the materials as salvage, so they felt HSBC should cover the difference from what they paid. 
I asked Mr and Mrs N to confirm what theyd be able to make as salvage costs so I could 
consider this difference, however, they then asked if the bank would be expected to cover 
the dismantling costs. I recognise this is frustrating for Mr and Mrs N, but as our investigator 
has already explained, as a service we can only look at putting them in the same position 
they would have been before the error took place. So it wouldnt be fair for me to ask the 
bank to cover the costs of assets Mr and Mrs N will still be able to use  albeit not as 
originally planned.
I recognise that Mr and Mrs N feel strongly about this and theyll be disappointed with my 
decision. However, based on the evidence Ive seen, I cant reasonably ask HSBC to pay for 
all the losses theyve told us theyve incurred.
Putting things right
Overall, I think Mr and Mrs N have been caused distress and inconvenience by HSBCs 
decision not to allow their cash withdrawal in November and the impact this had on their 
future plans. I also dont think HSBC treated Mr and Mrs N fairly in both how they dealt with 
the cash withdrawals and the requested letter about redepositing unused cash. So to put 
things right, I think HSBC should:   
Refund the £600 paid by Mr and Mrs N for the rental storage plus 8% from the date 
the payments were made until the date theyre refunded;
Pay Mr and Mrs N £750 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I instruct HSBC UK Bank Plc to follow 
the instructions Ive set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman