DRN-3925448
The complaint
Miss W complains that Lloyds Bank PLC provided her with incorrect information about the 
minimum payment percentage on her credit card account.
What happened
Miss W contacted Lloyds to discuss a new credit card. She asked Lloyds whether the 
minimum monthly payments were 1% of the balance and was told yes.
When the paperwork was generated Miss W noticed that the minimum monthly payments 
were 2.5% of the balance. Miss W queried this with the advisor, who said the minimum 
monthly payment would be 1% during the interest free period and 2.5% after it ended.
Miss W went ahead with the card and made a purchase. She later discovered that she was 
required to make a minimum payment of 2.5% of the balance, which she said was not what 
she had been told and made the credit unaffordable for her.
Miss W complained to Lloyds. In response, Lloyds accepted that Miss W had been 
misinformed about the minimum payment percentage and paid £100 compensation. It said it 
was unable to amend the minimum payment amount.
I issued a provisional decision in which I upheld the complaint. I said there was no dispute 
that Lloyds had provided misleading information to Miss W and I didnt think Lloyds had done 
enough to put things right for her. I said that Lloyds needed to find a way to enable Miss W 
to pay what she was expecting to pay for the duration of the interest free period, without 
causing any negative impact on her credit file.
I invited both parties to let me have any further evidence or arguments they wished to raise 
before I reached a final decision.
Lloyds responded to my provisional decision and said it would like to offer Miss W a 
compensation payment of £1606.45 to cover the difference between the 1% minimum 
payment she thought she would be paying and the 2.5% minimum payment she will be 
required to pay over the 21 month interest free period. Lloyds said the compensation 
payment would be credited to Miss Ws account to reduce the outstanding balance. Lloyds 
said that after the end of the 21 month interest free period, Miss W would be required to 
meet the 2.5% minimum monthly payment on the outstanding balance going forward.
Lloyds also said it agreed with my recommendation that it paid compensation of £250 to 
Miss W for distress and inconvenience.
I provided details of Lloyds response to Miss W and she confirmed that she wished to accept 
the resolution offered. She said she would like the £250 compensation payment to be 
applied to reduce the outstanding balance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered both parties responses to my provisional decision. I think the offer made by 
Lloyds is fair and reasonable and in line with what I recommended. Miss W has accepted the 
offer. In the circumstances, I think Lloyds should settle the complaint by applying the sums of 
£1606.45 and £250 to Miss Ws account.
Putting things right
To put things right. Lloyds Bank PLC must apply the sums of £1606.45 and £250 to Miss 
Ws account.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Lloyds Bank PLC must take the steps Ive set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 February 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman