DRN-3555216
The complaint
Mr B complains that Link Financial Outsourcing Limited trading as Asset Link Capital (No.7)  
(Asset Link) is unfairly pursing him for a debt in his name. 
What happened
In July 2021 Asset Link purchased a loan in Mr Bs name from a business Ill call N. Asset 
Link sent Mr B a notice of assignment confirming the change in arrangements. Asset Links 
letter said Mr B could continue making payments in line with his agreement with N. 
A payment was made in August 2021 but in September 2021 Mr B contacted Asset Link and 
advised he was receiving debt advice. In the months that followed Mr B contacted Asset Link 
to notify it hes vulnerable. Mr B also asked Asset Link to send him loan documentation and 
raised a Data Subject Access Request (DSAR). 
In December 2021 Asset Link sent Mr B a default notice and then a termination notice. Mr B 
contacted Asset Link to raise concerns over harassment and in January 2022 complained 
about its actions. 
Asset Link sent Mr B a final response but didnt uphold his complaint. Asset Link said it had 
provided evidence that his loan had been purchased from N and apologised for any distress 
and inconvenience caused. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Bs complaint but thought Asset Link had dealt 
with it fairly and demonstrated it had acquired his loan. Mr B asked to appeal, so his 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Bs loan was originally taken out with N. Mr B has explained he didnt 
borrow funds from Asset Link. But weve been given a copy of Ns loan agreement with Mr B. 
The terms allowed N to transfer the loan account to another business. They said: 
We may transfer to any other person or business any or all of our rights and our duties 
under this agreement at any time Your rights under this agreement and your legal rights 
will not be affected. 
Businesses can purchase debts and Im satisfied thats what Asset Link has done in respect 
of Mr Bs loan. And Im satisfied the original loan agreement explained the loan account 
could be transferred to a new owner. 
The loan agreement says the borrowers rights under the agreement remain unchanged by 
being assigned to a new owner. I think thats an important point. Whilst I understand Mr Bs 
loan was transferred, I havent seen anything that indicates it operated differently as a result. 
Asset Links notice of assignment, which confirmed the change in ownership, explained 
arrangements would remain the same. The information Ive seen doesnt show Mr B was 
treated unfairly as a result of his loan being reassigned. 
Mr B asked Asset Link to send him a copy of the deed of assignment between it and N. But 
Asset Link hasnt provided a copy to Mr B. The deed of assignment is a private document 
between the businesses involved and would contain commercially sensitive information. 
Asset Link doesnt have to send a copy of the deed of assignment itself. The rules say it has 
to send notice of assignment and Im satisfied it did that in July 2021 when it wrote to Mr B. 
I can see Mr B sent Asset Link numerous letters by recorded delivery. And those letters 
make various points, including providing advice that Mr B is considered vulnerable. I 
appreciate Mr B has given us personal information about his vulnerability. But I havent seen 
anything that shows Asset Link has gone on to treat him unfairly or failed to take his 
circumstances into account. I note Asset Link agreed to amend the way it communicates 
with Mr B after he notified it of his situation. And its Specialist Support Team was engaged to 
assist Mr B. Whilst I dont doubt what Mr B has told us, Asset Link has legitimate reasons to 
contact him about an outstanding debt. Im sorry to disappoint Mr B but havent found that 
Asset Link has treated him unfairly. 
Payments stopped from August 2021 and Asset Link moved to close the loan and report a 
default on Mr Bs credit file. I can see that Asset Link sent Mr B default and termination 
notices and attempted to engage. Given that payments had stopped and Mr B said he was 
experiencing financial difficulties, Im satisfied it was reasonable for Asset Link to close his 
loan account and record a default. I dont doubt this was distressing, but as payment werent 
being made I think the decision to close the loan and stop arrears accruing was the fairest 
approach.  
Im sorry to disappoint Mr B but I havent seen evidence that shows Asset Link has harassed 
him or treated him unfairly. For the reasons Ive given above, Im not telling Asset Link to 
take further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman