DRN-1310079
The complaint
Mr M complains Nationwide Building Society has unfairly closed his Flexaccount with it. 
What happened
Mr M went into a branch on 23 August 2019 to stop a cheque. Although there was a cashier 
free, Mr M wanted to be served by someone he knew. But he was seen by someone else, 
who put a stop on the cheque for him. However, whilst he was in branch he behaved 
inappropriately to members of staff and was told that his account would be closed and was 
no longer welcome in any Nationwide branches. He was told the account would be closed on 
6 September 2019 (although Mr M says 30 August). 
He returned to a branch on 29 August as some money was due to arrive in his account. But 
he was told his account was already closed. Not happy with what had happened he made a 
complaint. Nationwide was satisfied the decision to close the account was correct but it 
agreed he had been given incorrect information about when the account would be closed, so 
it offered him £50 compensation. 
Our investigator concluded Nationwide wasn't acting unfairly or unreasonably when closing 
the account. And she was satisfied £50 was sufficient compensation for being given the 
incorrect closure date. Mr M disagreed and asked for the matter to be reviewed. He doesn't 
accept he was threatening or abusive and says he was actually embarrassed by the staff. 
He says this caused him to be unwell, and he's noted that other account providers give 60 
days notice of closure. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M is right that account providers give 60 days notice of account closure. Indeed, it is set 
out in Nationwide's terms and conditions that two months written notice will be given. But, as 
with all terms and conditions I've seen, there is also a term which allows account providers 
to close accounts immediately without notice. Nationwide's term that allows it to do this can 
be found at 82(d).  This says:
We may close your account immediately and without notice in exceptional 
circumstances. These might include:
(d) you have been threatening or abusive to our staff. 
I'm satisfied the account terms allow Nationwide to close accounts immediately in certain 
circumstances. But I still need to consider whether it was fair for it to do so. 
Nationwide has provided information about what happened on the day in question. I'm 
satisfied from that information, that Nationwide was justified in closing the account 
immediately. It has a duty towards the wellbeing of its staff, and if a member of public 
behaves inappropriately, or is abusive or threatening in any way, then I would expect it to take action accordingly.  I appreciate that Mr M doesn't believe he did anything wrong, but 
Nationwide's information is from more than one member of staff and I find it more 
persuasive. I therefore don't find it was wrong to close the account in the manner it did.
It's unfortunate that Mr M was given the wrong date for account closure, although I do note 
he went back to branch despite being told he was longer welcome. But Nationwide could 
have closed his account straight away on 23 August 2019, instead of giving him further time. 
Overall, I find the offer of £50 compensation to be more than adequate for any 
inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2020.
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman