DRN-3766620
The complaint
Mr S complains about several issues with his banking account with Revolut Ltd.
What happened
Mr S raised several issues with Revolut regarding a Gold card he ordered and various 
aspects of customer service he received. Mr S has spoken to Revolut over 16 times on the 
telephone and these calls total over 10 hours. I havent listed every complaint and issue Mr 
S has raised over all these calls, but the main ones Ive drawn from my investigation. They 
include:
The standard packaging on his Gold Revolut card not being good enough. 
The delay in the card being received.
The delay in getting his terms and conditions in large font.
The way Revolut communicated with him.
The way Revolut has dealt with his disability and vulnerability. 
The closure of his account. 
Revolut investigated the complaint and upheld it in part. Revolut said:
The packaging of the Gold card is not something they advertise as being better than 
the standard card. So, they didnt uphold this point.
There were two occasions when Revolut advisors didnt accommodate Mr Ss needs. 
Revolut upheld this point and paid £80 for this.
The delays to the card delivery were out of Revoluts control. But they did find Mr S 
had grounds to complain and paid £75 compensation and downgraded his card plan 
for free. 
Mr S remained unhappy after Revolut responded to his complaints, so he brought his 
complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think Revolut needed to increase its 
offer of compensation. Our investigators view was that Revolut hadnt discriminated against 
Mr S. She went on to say that Revolut had paid Mr S £80 and this was fair. 
Mr S didnt agree with the investigators view, so the complaints been passed to me to issue 
a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided to uphold this complaint and increase the compensation, Ill 
explain why. 
As a service, its not our role to say whether a business has breached the Equality Act 2010 
or discriminated against its customer. Were an informal alternative to the courts and decide 
complaints on a fair and reasonable basis.
But I want to assure Mr S that the Equality Act 2010 is relevant law in this particular case, so 
Ive taken it into consideration along with other regulations about how businesses should 
treat consumers when considering a complaint.
Ive previously put my reasons for a higher award of compensation to Revolut in an email, so 
Ill summarise my findings again here. Mr S has also agreed to the increase in compensation 
and turned down the option of a phone call from me to explain my decision. 
From the calls I listened to and the chat history I read; it was clear that Mr S didnt always 
speak to Revoluts advisors in an appropriate manner. Having said that, Ive also found 
occasions where Revoluts advisors didnt support Mr S with his disability and recognise he 
was vulnerable. So, its service did fall short of what we would expect. I will explain why. 
On several calls I found Revolut advisors asked Mr S security questions that he had already 
mentioned he couldnt answer due to his dyslexia. The adviser then went on to ask 
alternative questions. Im satisfied that the note on Mr Ss account shouldve been enough to 
prompt the alternative question being asked after the first time it was raised. On these 
occasions I didnt find Revolut had treated Mr S fairly, as they asked a question, they were 
aware he couldnt answer.
When Mr S asked for his terms and conditions in a larger font, it took serval calls to get this 
arranged. This wasnt a complex request and Id expect a business to have access to basic 
documents like terms and conditions in formats that cater for customers with different needs.
Several times Mr S asked for shorter sentences and paragraphs on the live chat and this 
wasnt actioned. This led to Mr S telling Revolut and our service that he had to get support to 
read the messages. Im satisfied that Revolut should increase its offer of compensation due 
to the trouble and upset this caused Mr S. 
Mr S asked for telephone calls at the weekend and was told this wasnt possible. Due to Mr 
Ss disability, Im satisfied attempts to remove these barriers shouldve been made.  
Mr S asked for a manager to call him back at a certain time and it was confirmed this could 
be done. The call then wasnt made, and no reason was given for this failing. Due to this 
failure in customer service, Mr S became frustrated and raised another complaint. On this 
occasion Ive found the complaint to be justified given the failure in service. 
On at least one occasion a manager called back following a complaint and had no 
background or information as to why he was calling. This clearly frustrated Mr S and I can 
understand why, as this isnt in line with the FCAs guidance and the Tell Us Once policy in 
Treating Consumers Fairly.  The process of Mr S using the live chat and having to ask for a manager to call back was 
inefficient. On several occasions Mr Ss request was responded to with more live chat 
messages. Given the FCAs principles for supporting vulnerable consumers, Revolut should 
have had a more effective system in place for customers that require a telephone call.
It took several calls, complaints and escalations before Mr S was contacted by the 
vulnerability team. This shouldve been put in place much earlier given the challenges Mr S 
raised with Revoluts service. The vulnerability team are in place to support individuals like 
Mr S and Im persuaded that its unlikely Mr S wouldve received the service he did if the 
team had stepped in sooner.  
The way Mr S spoke to individuals eventually led to his account being closed. Revolut, like 
most account providers has a broad discretion to decide who they want as a customer. I 
wouldnt generally interfere with their decision to close an account unless their reasons were 
unlawful. Given the relationship had irrevocably broken down and the type of service Revolut 
are providing, which is based mainly around the internet and the live chat function, Im 
satisfied that its in both partys interests that the account remains closed. I also havent 
found that Revolut have acted unlawfully or unfairly when closing it. 
Having considered the point Mr S has raised about the quality of the packaging with the 
Revolut Gold card, I wont be asking Revolut to take any action. I agree that Revolut havent 
advertised the card as having special packaging. It has also raised the point that standard 
packaging doesnt alert potential thieves to what might be in the package, and that sounds 
reasonable to me.
Although Revolut wouldnt have had any control over the postal service once the card was 
posted, Revolut have recognised there was a delay and paid Mr S £75. I find this fair in the 
circumstances. 
Mr S asked that Revolut publish a telephone number on its external website. Having 
considered this point carefully, its not something Ill be instructing Revolut to do. Revoluts 
business model is something it has the autonomy to decide on and its decided that its main 
form of communication will be the chat function. If Revolut were to publish a number, I think 
its unlikely it would be resourced for this and that would create more problems. But as Ive 
mentioned several times above, Id expect Revolut to have more effective processes in place 
for those with additional needs. Revolut have said its working on improving its support for 
individuals with disabilities and vulnerabilities, and although its not the role of our service to 
check that these have been put in place on a wider scale or their effectiveness, its 
reassuring that this is an area Revolut are working on improving. 
Taking all of the above into consideration and looking at Mr Ss journey with Revolut, taking 
into account the FCAs guiding principles for dealing with customers that are vulnerable or 
have a disability, Ive found Revoluts service did fall short. And for that Ive instructed 
Revolut to increase the total amount of compensation to £400. This is something Revolut 
and Mr S have agreed to.
Putting things right
I instruct Revolut to pay Mr S a total of £400 compensation for the trouble and upset its 
service failings have caused. If it has already paid Mr S the £80 and £75, it can deduct these 
from the total. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint against Revolut Ltd.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Tom Wagstaff
Ombudsman