DRN-3519463
Complaint
Mrs D is unhappy that Zopa Bank Limited wont refund payments she made to a gambling 
website which she says was operating unlawfully.
Background
Mrs D has a card with Zopa. She made several payments using her card to an online casino. 
Before she set up an account with this online casino, she contacted it to ask whether it would 
accept customers from the United Kingdom. She has since discovered that the casino isnt 
regulated by the UK authorities at all. As far as Mrs D is concerned, this means it is 
operating unlawfully and her payments should therefore be refunded to her. 
She made a complaint to Zopa but it declined to pay her a refund, so she referred her 
complaint to this service. It was looked at by an Investigator who didnt uphold it. The 
Investigator said that Mrs D had authorised the payments she made from her account and 
so Zopa was entitled to hold her liable for them. She also considered whether Mrs D might 
have had a valid claim under the chargeback rules or under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 but was satisfied that these didnt offer any grounds to refund the payments 
either.
Mrs D disagreed with the Investigators opinion. She said that there was a misrepresentation 
on the part of the casino. She said it claimed it could accept UK customers but in reality, they 
couldnt do so legally. Because Mrs D disagreed with the Investigators opinion, the 
complaint has been passed to me to consider and come to a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as the Investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. I understand Mrs D is unhappy that she only placed bets with the casino after 
she asked whether it accepted customers from the UK. It said that it did, and she took this to 
mean that it must have been subject to the regulation of the Gambling Commission  the 
body that is responsible for regulating gambling businesses in the UK. It's important to be 
clear from the outset that I cant make a finding the conduct of the online casino  thats 
outside the remit of this service. I can only investigate and decide whether Mrs D has been 
treated fairly by Zopa.
The starting point is that Zopa is entitled to hold a customer liable for a transaction that 
theyve authorised. That doesnt seem to be in dispute here  Mrs D accepts that she placed 
bets with the online casino and so these payments were authorised. I recognise that she 
now says that she wouldnt have authorised those transactions if shed been fully aware of 
the legal position of the business she was paying. Nonetheless, there is nothing in the 
regulations that entitles her to a refund in such a situation.
I can also see that Zopa considered whether Mrs D might have a valid chargeback claim or 
whether it would liable under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by the card scheme provider (so in this case, Visa) 
and Zopa is bound by the card scheme providers rules. There is no right to a chargeback. 
Its for Zopa to decide whether it has a basis upon which it can raise a chargeback claim its 
customers behalf. It does so by taking into consideration the scheme providers rules and 
looking at the evidence to see if the claim has any prospect of success. The scheme rules 
set out a range of categories in which a dispute can be raised. Unfortunately, these only 
cover gambling transactions in very limited circumstances and wouldnt be applicable on the 
grounds that Mrs D felt misled by the business saying it accepted customers from the UK. 
Overall, I cant see that any chargeback claim wouldve succeeded, so I dont think Zopa 
acted unreasonably in not raising one on Mrs Ds behalf. 
Zopa also considered whether it was liable under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. This legislation gives a cardholder the right to pursue a like claim for a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation against a creditor (in this case, Zopa) as they would have 
against the provider of the services. Mrs D says that there was a misrepresentation by the 
casino when it told her it accepted players from the UK. Ive considered this point carefully, 
but I dont agree. Mrs D didnt ask the casino whether it was licensed and regulated by the 
UK authorities  she simply asked whether it accepted players from the UK. It said that it did, 
and that statement wasnt false. For me to find that it was a misrepresentation, Id need to be 
satisfied that the statement was false. I dont think that was the case here. For that reason, 
Im not persuaded Zopa needs to pay her a refund on the grounds of that she has a valid 
claim under s75.
Mrs D says that, since the online casino was unlicensed, these payments were illegal and 
therefore must be refunded. Its not my role to make a finding on the legal position of an 
unlicensed casino offering its services to UK customers. However, Im satisfied that that it 
could only have implications for her contract with the casino, rather than the payment 
instructions she gave to Zopa which Im satisfied she consented to.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2022.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman