DRN-4335172
The complaint
Mr N complains about the settlement Covea Insurance plc (Covea) paid under his car 
insurance following a claim for the theft of his vehicle.
What happened
Mr Ns car was stolen so he made a claim to Covea, his car insurance provider.
 
Covea accepted the claim and offered Mr N £13,813, before policy excess deduction, which 
they said was the market value of the car.
Mr N is unhappy with the settlement hes been offered as he says his car was worth around 
£20,000. So, he approached this service.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but she didnt uphold it. She said the 
amount Covea had offered was a fair market value, so she didnt recommend they increase 
it.
Mr N didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and whilst I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Mr N, Ive 
reached the same outcome as our investigator.
Mr N has raised several complaints about Covea, which theyve addressed separately. This 
final decision solely relates to the settlement offer made to Mr N for his vehicle.
Mr Ns policy says that in the event of a claim, the most Covea will pay is up to the market 
value. This is defined in the policy as:
Market value
The cost of replacing your car with one of the same make, model, specification, year, 
mileage and condition. In deciding the market value of your car, we will refer to 
industry recognised guides as well as searching for available vehicles for sale to the 
public.
Covea determined the market value of Mr Ns car using valuations obtained through industry 
trade guides. These were:
Glasss £12,930
CAP £13,459
Cazoo (now Percayso) £16,508
Autotrader £12,490
Cazoo was discounted as an outlier as it was significantly higher than the rest, and I think 
not including that valuation was reasonable. Covea then averaged the three remaining 
valuations which totalled £12,959.67. However, Covea actually paid £13,813 (before excess 
deduction) as settlement, so theyve already paid more than the average of the guides.
Mr N disputes the valuation is fair and thinks this should be around £20,000. 
When investigating Mr Ns complaint, our investigator also checked the valuations for the 
correct vehicle and mileage from CAP, Glasss, Autotrader and Cazoo (now Percayso), 
along with Coveas. And the settlement made by Covea is in the range of all the trade 
guides.
As outlined to Mr N by our investigator, this services typical approach when considering 
complaints about the fair market value of a vehicle is to take into account what the market 
leading motor trade guides say the market value is.
The guides are independent of the insurance industry, and from one another. As a service, 
we find these guides to be particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are 
based on nationwide research and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account 
regional variations. We are confident these guides give a good reflection of the true market 
value of a vehicle. And Im satisfied the settlement Covea paid was in the range of these.
I do acknowledge Mr N has provided his own adverts following research online of similar 
vehicles for sale. However, having seen the links Mr N has provided, these vehicles have a 
significantly lower mileage than Mr Ns car (around a quarter of the amount) which will 
impact the price. 
It also appears on some of the searches that Mr N has also applied a number of filters 
including available within a limited distance, and filtering by price including high to low, and 
this is showing vehicles with a considerably lower mileage than Mr Ns car. Removing the 
filters does show vehicles which are a much closer mileage to Mr Ns, and in the region of 
the amount Covea has offered in settlement of his claim. 
So, Im satisfied Covea has followed a reasonable approach by relying on the trade guides, 
which is in line with how we consider motor valuation complaints. And the trade guide 
valuations relied on have also resulted in a settlement offer which is reflective of being in the 
range of similar vehicles for sale.
Ive considered the additional information and points Mr N has provided, but this isnt 
sufficient to persuade me the valuation reached by Covea was unfair or unreasonable. With 
the above in mind, I wont be directing Covea to increase the settlement amount.My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman