DRN-4352412
The complaint
Mr N has complained that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) provided him 
with an overdraft irresponsibly and allowed him to go over his overdraft limit when he was in 
financial difficulty.  
What happened
Mr N had a £500 overdraft facility with Halifax. Mr N got in touch with Halifax on 12 October 
2022 and informed it he had lost his job and was having financial difficulties and wanted to 
put a plan in place to pay back his overdraft. At the time Mr N was over his overdraft limit 
and had an outstanding balance of around £1,000. Halifax advised him that it needed to talk 
to its support team but as Mr N couldnt stay on the line it put a 30 day hold in place on fees 
to allow Mr N some breathing space and to review his budget.
Following this on 31 October Mr N used his debit card and withdrew £1,100 from three 
different ATM machines. He repeated this on 14 November withdrawing a further £1,250 
bringing the outstanding balance on his account to £3,606.
A few days after this Mr N got in touch with Halifax to discuss his overdraft and put a 
payment plan in place and disclosed that he was struggling with gambling and his mental 
health. Mr N confirmed he had the support of family and friends and that they were assisting 
him financially but that there wasnt any money left at the end of the month. This being the 
case Halifax explained that it wasnt able to set up a payment plan as it wasnt affordable. 
The only option was a nil temp plan where Mr N was able to make payments every month if 
affordable and then contact Halifax and agree a payment plan for the remaining balance at 
the end of this. Mr N agreed to a three month nil temp plan and a further hold on fees was 
put in place. 
Mr N then complained to Halifax about irresponsible lending on his overdraft and that it 
allowed him to go over his arranged limit.  He was also unhappy that he wasnt offered a 
repayment plan.
Halifax upheld Mr Ns complaint and refunded all overdraft interest, fees and charges applied 
to it from the date Mr N was provided it on 16 July 2018 totalling £474.61. Halifax said had it 
completed a manual review at the time of application it wouldve seen evidence of gambling 
in the build up to the application and wouldnt have agreed the overdraft. Halifax also 
compensated Mr N £100 as an apology. 
Halifax explained that if an ATM is offline when used by a customer that it isnt contacted 
prior to the transactions and that this is the reason Mr N was able to go over his limit. If Mr N 
wasnt able to clear the outstanding balance of his account within a reasonable period of 
time with the support of its CFA team it may look to close his account. This would allow him 
to repay the balance over a longer period but may mean a default marker is applied to his 
credit file. If this happened Halifax would backdate the default marker to July 2018.  
Mr N was unhappy with this and brought his complaint to this service. Mr N wants Halifax to 
wipe the balance of his overdraft.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ns complaint and thought that what Halifax had 
already done was a fair way to settle his complaint and didnt think it needed to do anything 
more. 
Mr N disagreed and has now asked that his complaint be progressed for an ombudsmans 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what Halifax has already agreed to
do to put things right for Mr N is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this
complaint. Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been given the credit they shouldnt 
have. But for complaints about funds which shouldnt have been provided this isnt straight 
forward as the funds were provided and, in most cases  such as here, have long since 
been spent.
So we look to try and find some other way to put things right. And where a business 
increases or continued to allow a consumer to use a credit facility which it should have 
realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the consumer in the position theyd 
be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges on that credit. This means wed 
normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any credit from the 
point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable. 
In this case, Halifax has agreed it made an error by providing Mr N with an overdraft when 
there was evidence of gambling in the lead up to his overdraft application. Halifax has 
already done what Id expect it to do to put things right  as outlined above. Mr N was 
refunded all of the interest, fees and charges caused by the overdraft facility. 
Furthermore, Halifax put in place an interest and fee free three month plan and wishes to 
work with Mr N to set up an affordable repayment plan for the remainder of the overdraft 
following this. And Halifax has compensated Mr N £100 for its mistake. All of this is in-line 
with what Id recommend.
Mr N is unhappy with this, he wants his overdraft written off. He says when the hold was put 
in place his card shouldve been blocked and that allowing transactions to go through has 
caused severe financial difficulty. 
I thought about what Mr N has said and what hes said is a reason for upholding his 
complaint rather than a reason for departing from our normal approach to putting things right 
in cases such as his. Mr N never asked for a block to be put in place and in the months 
leading up to Mr N withdrawing the funds in question there was no evidence of significant 
gambling on his statements, nor did Mr N make Halifax aware of his gambling struggles.
Despite knowing that he was already over his overdraft limit Mr N made the decision to 
withdraw as much money as he could using a multiple of ATM machines, on two occasions, 
before he got in touch with Halifax again about his overdraft. Mr N chose to make use of the funds. I dont know what Mr N spent the money on, but he 
had the use of the funds and I dont see why he shouldnt have to pay it back. What Mr N is 
left with to repay are the funds which he requested, so I think its perfectly fair and 
reasonable to expect Mr N to repay these funds. And I dont think that Mr Ns unhappiness at 
having a balance to repay on his overdraft, even after his complaint has been upheld, is in 
itself a compelling reason for me to depart from our usual approach here.
Bearing in mind all of this, Im satisfied that what Halifax has already agreed to do to put 
things right for Mr N is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his case and Im not 
requiring it to do anything more. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Bank of Scotland plc has already done 
to put things right for Mr N is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case. So Im 
not requiring it to do any more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman