DRN-2964762
The complaint
Mr R complained that U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line Insurance didnt properly 
explain how theyd calculated his motor insurance policy premium and had charged him too 
much. 
What happened
UKI offered to renew Mr Rs policy for an annual premium of about £1,200. He contacted 
them and chose to remove his teenaged son from the policy, together with the telematics 
device. This reduced the premium. UKI then offered him a further premium discount as he 
already had home insurance with them. Overall this reduced the first premium theyd offered 
him by about £1000. 
Mr R had understood that having a telematics device reduced policy premiums, so he didnt 
understand how removing it could reduce the premiums. And as the new premium was much 
lower than what UKI had offered Mr R at first, Mr R said it left him feeling theyd overcharged 
him for previous years insurance. He wanted them to compensate him for that and to give 
him a breakdown of how theyd calculated his premium. He also said theyd told him his 
street was high risk and this affected the premium, so he felt that they were penalising him 
for where he lived. 
UKI explained what factors affected the premium pricing, and why and how theyd applied 
them in his case, but they said they couldnt disclose more specific pricing information as it 
was commercially sensitive. He also complained that they hadnt responded to all of his 
complaint points and his call with their agent took too long. 
The investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. He thought that UKI 
hadnt acted unfairly. Mr R didnt agree and so his case has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Policies which include teenaged drivers often have relatively high premiums, and often 
insurers will reduce premiums if they accept a telematics device. UKI said that these two 
things were part of the same pricing element. So I can see that it was the combined effect of 
the removal of Mr Rs teenaged son from the policy and the removal of the telematics device 
which made the premium considerably lower. And so that is not unexpected or 
unreasonable. And while UKI could perhaps have explained that to Mr R better, I think they 
did explain that in their response to him and I dont think theyve been unreasonable. 
The other premium reduction was because Mr R already had home insurance with them. 
He felt that they had failed to notice that in previous years, and this meant had lost out on 
that discount. So he wanted them to backdate that discount now and apply that to his new 
policy. But as the investigator explained to Mr R, although we can hold UKI to their policy 
terms, this was not a policy term but only a discretionary discount. It was not something they 
offered under his policy or were obliged to offer. That means that we cant require them to 
offer Mr R the back-dated discount now. It may be however that, as the investigator has 
suggested, Mr R could perhaps use this to negotiate another discretionary discount on a 
future policy.
I can see that UKI did explain to Mr R that were not trying to penalise him for where they 
lived, but that road data is something they do consider in premium pricing . They said that 
they did use traffic and accident data about the road, but this was only one of the factors 
they considered in pricing a policy and it didnt make any significant difference to Mr Rs 
premium. Again, as the investigator has explained, pricing is a commercially sensitive area, 
and so we are generally not able to intervene on complaints about the price of insurance. 
Insurers can choose what information to consider when setting the price of a policy( the 
premium) and that price is based on the risk they want to take. The factors an insurer 
considers in doing so, and the weight they place on those factors, is the insurers choice, 
and its not our role to question those. And because thats commercially sensitive 
information, we cant require insurers to disclose it. But UKI did explain these factors to him 
as far as they could, which I think was reasonable of them. And they have shown us that 
they have UKI have treated Mr R fairly, in line with their underwriting criteria , in that they 
treated him the same as they would have done any other customer with the same 
circumstances. 
And although Mr R was unhappy with the length of the call with UKIs agent, again as the 
investigator has explained, we dont investigate the manner of complaint handling itself. 
Overall, in all the above circumstances, I dont think that UKI treated Mr R unfairly or 
unreasonably, and so I dont ask them to do anything else. 
My final decision
For the reasons, Ive given above its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
