DRN-1500746
The complaint
Ms J is unhappy about the treatment shes received from Old Mutual Wealth Life Assurance 
Limited (the business). 
Shes unhappy that she wasnt told she could cancel her policy and would like her premiums 
refunded.
 What happened
One of our investigators considered the complaint and initially thought it should be upheld 
because he thought the business failed to tell Ms J that she could cancel her policy in 
December 2018 when she called to ask about the policy. That notwithstanding he was 
satisfied that:
In December 2018, it was explained to Ms J that: 
oThe term and premiums were fixed until the end of the policy in November 
2019. However, the policy also included other benefits that would run until 
she was 65 years of age (in December 2018) after which time only life cover 
would continue. The benefits included: 
Premium Protection (PP) benefit.
Total Permanent Disability (TPD) benefit.
Cover Reinstatement Option (CRO) benefit.
Although Ms J questioned why the premiums wouldn't go down after the additional 
benefits stopped, it was because: 
oThe cost of the PP, TPD and CRO benefits were spread over the entire term 
of the policy and not to when they would stop in December 2018.
oSo, although the additional benefits ended in December 2018, she would 
continue to pay for them until December 2019. This is to ensure she pays the 
same premium throughout the life of the policy.
The business disagreed with the uphold and provided further evidence in the form of a call 
transcript showing that Ms J never asked if she could cancel the policy, instead the transcript 
shows that the conversation was about the benefits and premium of the policy. Furthermore, 
as the policy provider, the business felt it wasnt its role to advise Ms J to cancel her policy. 
The investigator having considered the additional points, was persuaded to change his mind. 
In summary, he said:
He doesn't think the business has done anything wrong.
In May 2019  unlike the call in December 2018  Ms J specifically asked the adviser 
If I want to terminate the policy can I now do that? and she was told that she could.
Because the business is a policy provider rather than an adviser, it didnt have to 
volunteer the information that Ms J could cancel policy (in December 2018) unless it 
had been deliberately asked, which it hadnt.  
Despite Ms J thinking that fixed term  as mentioned in the business final response 
letter  meant she had to continue with the policy until the end, she didnt. It only 
meant that it had a fixed end date. So, what the business told her wasnt incorrect 
despite her interpretation.  It wouldnt be fair to expect the business to tell Ms J she could cancel the policy if it 
wasnt asked directly. So, by not doing so it hasnt done anything wrong.
Ms J disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.
But before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Ms Js strength of feeling about this matter.
She has provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully. However, I hope she wont take the fact my findings focus on what 
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate 
subject heading, its not what Im required to do in order to reach a decision in this case. My 
role is to consider the evidence presented by Ms J and the business, and reach what I think 
is an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to 
decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have 
happened.
I appreciate Ms J broadly questions why her premiums havent gone down after the PP, TPD 
and CRO benefits stopped in December 2018. But this is because the cost of the premiums 
was calculated at the outset, and the cost of life cover with benefits were equally spread 
across the term of the policy rather than only to the point that the benefits stopped.
Im satisfied that the business was aware when calculating the premiums that the benefits 
would stop in December 2018, but the life cover would continue until December 2019, rather 
than it being an afterthought. Therefore, Ms J was in effect paying for benefits that shed 
already received (by December 2018) but hadnt paid for in their entirety until 2019.
I understand that this way of doing things is common industry practice and ensures that the 
customer pays a single premium throughout the life of the cover and isnt unique to the 
business.
I note that in December 2018, Ms J called the business to discuss her policy  in terms of 
the benefits and the premiums  and is unhappy that it didnt tell her that she could cancel 
her policy. But I note that despite raising questions about the policy benefits and premiums 
Ms J never asked the business if she could cancel the policy, and Ive seen nothing 
preventing her from doing so. Im not persuaded that her queries shouldve indicated to the 
business that she was trying to find a way to cancel her policy.
I think the business is right to point out that as a policy provider (and not an adviser) it wasnt 
obliged to offer this information which could then amount to advice. So, as Ms J didnt ask the business in 2018 if she could cancel her policy, Im unable to say that the business has 
done anything wrong by not telling her that she could, in the absence of a direct question.
So, in May 2019, when Ms J specifically asked if she could cancel the policy, she was 
correctly told that she could.
I appreciate that Ms J thought fixed term meant that she had to continue with the policy but 
it meant that the policy had an end date rather being open-ended. This is how such policies 
are typically referred to and Im unable to blame the business for Ms Js interpretation.
I appreciate Ms J will be thoroughly unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator, and I realise my decision isnt what she wants to hear. Whilst I appreciate her 
frustration, Im not going to ask the business to do anything. 
On the face of the available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give her what 
she wants. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2020.
Dara Islam
Ombudsman