DRN-3225928
Complaint
Miss G has complained about the fees National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) applied 
to her account. Shes said the fees and charges added caused her financial hardship.
Background
Miss Gs complaint was looked at by one of our investigators. She didnt think that NatWest 
had done anything wrong as it refunded some of the fees and offered a control function 
which would have stopped further charges. So she didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. Miss G disagreed with the investigator and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Gs
complaint. Ill explain why Ive done so in a little more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
various amounts NatWest charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or proportionate 
in comparison to the costs of the service provided. Ultimately how much a bank charges for 
services is a commercial decision. And it isnt something for me to get involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at NatWest charging structure per se, it wont have acted 
fairly and reasonably towards Miss G if it applied these interest, fees and charges to       
Miss Gs account in circumstances where it would have been unfair to do so. So Ive 
considered whether there were instances where NatWest didnt treat Miss G fairly and 
reasonably. 
I think its important for me to start by saying that Miss G has previously complained to 
NatWest about charges over the years. And NatWest has refunded a significant proportion 
of the fees it added to Miss Gs account. I can also see that it offered Miss G a control 
function which would have made it far more difficult to go into an unarranged overdraft. 
That said, Ive also considered whether NatWest should refund any of the other interest, fees 
and charges that it added to Miss Gs account. But having looked at everything provided, I 
think its fair to say that the majority of the charges Miss G is seeking a refund of were 
incurred because of card transactions she made. The control function, which Miss G refused 
would have prevented these transactions as they simply wouldnt have been authorised. 
There were also regular credits going into Miss Gs account and while Im not seeking to 
make retrospective value judgements over Miss Gs expenditure, nonetheless there are 
significant amounts of non-committed, non-contractual and discretionary transactions 
account going from the account, as well as her significant commitments to her existing 
creditors. 
I accept neither of these things in themselves (or taken together) mean that Miss G wasnt 
experiencing financial difficulty. But there isnt anything in these transactions in themselves 
which ought to have alerted NatWest that it was unfair to add these charges. 
So, in these circumstances, I dont think that it was unreasonable for NatWest to proceed 
with the charges it hasnt refunded. As far as I can see, while I accept the charges wont 
have helped it was Miss Gs spend which was the primary cause of her going overdrawn in 
the way that she did.
As this is the case, Im satisfied that NatWest did appropriately respond to Miss Gs requests 
for assistance by refunding a significant amount of the charges and offering alternatives to 
prevent others. So I dont think that NatWest needs to refund any of the other charges it 
hasnt already refunded and Im not upholding Miss Gs complaint. 
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Miss G especially as it has taken some 
time for her case to reach this stage. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my 
decision and that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 February 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman