DRN-2376959
The complaint
Mrs W is complaining about the way Aviva Insurance Limited have handled her claim under 
her motor insurance policy.
What happened
In September 2018, Mrs W was involved in a car accident with another vehicle. She 
submitted a claim to her insurer, Aviva. Aviva arranged for repairs to Mrs Ws car, and  as 
liability was disputed  engaged a firm of solicitors in December 2018 to act for them in 
sorting out who was responsible for the accident. 
Aviva also engaged a separate firm of solicitors to help Mrs W to recover her excess from 
the other party involved in the accident.
Mrs W has made a few separate complaints about Avivas handling of her claim. In this 
decision, Im only looking at Mrs Ws complaint that Aviva gave her incorrect information 
about the recovery of her excess. This includes her comments that Aviva acted 
unprofessionally, didnt update her, and appointed a second solicitor to recover her excess 
when it was unnecessary.
In their final response to Mrs Ws complaint, Aviva apologised for their poor communication 
and offered Mrs W £50 for the stress and inconvenience caused. Mrs W didnt feel this was 
enough to compensate her for the time shed had to spend on the matter and the stress of 
dealing with it, so she brought her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator agreed with Mrs W that £50 wasnt enough compensation. Her view was 
that £150 would be fair for the distress and inconvenience Mrs W suffered in relation to 
Avivas lack of updates and their miscommunication about recovery of her excess.
Mrs W wasnt happy with our investigators view. She said she didnt think the compensation 
reflected her overall experience during Avivas handling of her claim. She mentioned that the 
length of time the whole thing has taken has had a significant financial impact on her 
because shes had to pay significantly increased premiums. And although our investigator 
explained to Mrs W that the compensation she was suggesting was only intended to address 
this particular complaint, Mrs W wasnt happy and asked for an ombudsman to look at the 
matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ws complaint  and I agree with our investigator that £150 is fair 
compensation. Ill explain why. 
In their final response, Aviva apologised for two specific communications  in September 
and October 2019. But I think the problems started much earlier than this so Ive looked at a 
longer timeframe. Ive concentrated on what happened after the end of January 2019. Thats 
because Mrs W accepted Avivas offer of compensation for various things that had gone 
wrong before that date, including a lack of communication about what was happening with 
the liability dispute.
I can see that Aviva told Mrs W in January 2019 that the liability dispute was in the hands of 
their solicitors.  And I can see they told her in October 2018 that they dont usually keep 
policyholders updated about the progress or outcome of liability disputes. So, I can 
understand why they didnt make efforts to proactively contact Mrs W. However, Mrs W 
raised a number of queries about the dispute. Id have expected Aviva to reply to those  its 
part of treating a customer fairly. 
When Mrs W called Aviva on 4 March 2019, she asked why it was taking so long to resolve 
everything. Its clear from Avivas file notes that she was concerned about the impact of the 
ongoing dispute on her renewal and premium. She asked Aviva why they werent chasing 
the solicitors and was told that the matter was in the solicitors capable hands, and that it 
could take a year to resolve. Listening to the call, I dont think Aviva were taking into account 
the impact the liability decision would have on Mrs W  their view seems to have been that 
the solicitors were solely working for Aviva to recover their costs from the third party so the 
length of time it took shouldnt matter to Mrs W.
During the same call, Mrs W mentioned that shed paid her excess already and asked how 
shed get that back. Aviva told her that a second firm of solicitors had been instructed to act 
for Mrs W to recover her excess and said shed need to contact them separately.  
In June 2019, Mrs W emailed Aviva. She said she hadnt received any updates on the 
liability dispute and was upset that it was affecting her insurance premiums. Although Aviva 
said theyd find out what was happening and update Mrs W, I cant see that they did update 
her. I dont think Aviva treated Mrs W fairly. They should have been clearer about the 
process, and about the potential timeframes. And they should have been more 
understanding of Mrs Ws concerns and explained what impact the liability decision would 
have on her premiums in the future. This would have significantly reduced Mrs Ws stress 
from the incident. 
In August 2019, the second solicitors asked Mrs W if there were two solicitors firms involved 
in Mrs Ws case. This prompted a series of emails between Aviva, Mrs W and the second 
solicitors. Initially the information Mrs W received was unclear and then contradictory. But it 
became clear that the court doesnt allow two sets of proceedings in relation to the same 
case. And, because the first solicitors were already involved in court proceedings for the 
liability dispute, the second ones couldnt issue proceedings to recover the excess. 
It also became clear that the first solicitors could have included the recovery of the excess in 
their court proceedings, if communication between the two solicitors firms and Aviva had 
been better. 
I can see that Aviva followed their usual process in appointing two sets of solicitors at the 
start of the case. They didnt anticipate that the matter would end up going to court and so I 
think it was reasonable that they made this decision. However, in the second solicitors 
explanation to Mrs W, they wrote:
Before I issued court proceedings, I checked with Aviva to see if they had their money back 
that they had paid for your vehicle, which is when they should have told me that proceedings 
had already gone ahead and [the first] solicitors were dealing but they did not. They just told 
me they have no costs to include in the matter.What [the first solicitors] should have done, and what Aviva should have told [the first 
solicitors] to do is include your excess in their court proceedings as a counter-claim.
This email makes it clear that Aviva could have ensured that both matters were brought to 
court under one set of proceedings, by one set of solicitors. 
In summary, its clear to me that Aviva didnt communicate well enough during 2019  with 
either firm of solicitors or with Mrs W. As a result, Mrs Ws had to complete paperwork for 
court proceedings which then werent allowed to go ahead. And shes had to send numerous 
emails and make several phone calls to try to understand what was happening with her 
claim and what she needed to do about it.
Putting things right
I can understand why Mrs W was so upset. She was suffering financially as shed paid her 
excess and her insurance premiums had increased. And on top of this, shed spent a lot of 
time dealing with the matter.
Im asking Aviva to compensate Mrs W for the inconvenience and stress shes experienced 
as a result of their miscommunication and their lack of communication. These have resulted 
in Mrs W spending time on paperwork, emails and calls that could easily have been avoided. 
And, if Aviva had clearly explained the process to Mrs W, they could have alleviated some of 
the stress shes suffered too. Im happy that the £150 our investigator has suggested is fair.
I cant ask Aviva to compensate Mrs W for the financial loss she was suffering. This wasnt a 
direct result of Avivas poor communication  it was a normal part of a claim where liability is 
disputed. Similarly, I dont think their poor communication is responsible for all the stress the 
liability dispute has caused Mrs W. Unfortunately, it can take a long time to get to a court 
decision on liability even when the process goes smoothly.  
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im directing Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Mrs W £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2020.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman