DRN-2383508
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax gave unclear guidance 
about new account rewards. As a result, Mr and Mrs S account was locked into an 
unsuitable reward scheme. 
What happened
In August 2019 Halifax wrote to Mr and Mrs S about changes to the rewards available on 
their current account. Halifaxs letter gave two options for the new reward structure. The first 
option was to receive £5 a month on the basis of spending £500 or more via the debit card. 
The second option was to receive £5 a month if the balance maintained was over £5,000. 
Halifaxs letter said it had automatically set Mr and Mrs S account up to receive the first 
option and asked them to call by 15 October 2019 to select the second. 
In December 2019 Mrs S complained to Halifax as the expected reward hadnt been paid. 
Halifax explained that Mr and Mrs S account was locked into the first option because it 
hadnt received a request to switch to the second option by 15 October 2019. Halifax paid 
Mr and Mrs S £10 to apologise that it was too late to switch options but didnt agree to pay 
the £5 monthly reward for retaining an account balance of £5,000 or more. 
Mr and Mrs S referred their complaint to our service and said the requirement to call Halifax 
and select the second option wasnt made clear. The investigator thought Halifax had given 
clear guidance about how the rewards worked and what Mr and Mrs S needed to do. They 
didnt uphold the complaint and Mrs S asked to appeal. As a result, Mr and Mrs S complaint 
has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Halifax and Mrs S have provided copies of its letter from August 2019. Mrs S has told 
us that the headline information about the different options available was set out in a bold 
coloured box and that she thought the option that most suited their account use would be put 
in place. I understand the information about the different options is prominent, but Im not 
persuaded the rest of the information included in Halifaxs letter is unclear. 
Directly underneath the box setting out the different reward options Halifaxs letter says: 
Weve automatically set you up with an offer to earn £5 by spending £500 or more on your 
debt card a month. If you would prefer to earn £5 by keeping at least £5,000 in your account 
each day of the month instead, call us by 15 October 2019 on 03451299775 The offer you 
chose will run for 12 months, up until 31 October 2020. 
Im satisfied Halifax explained it had set Mr and Mrs S account to receive a reward for 
spending £500 a month via their debit card. I think Halifax made the requirement for 
customers to call it and select the second option, where they would have to maintain an 
account balance of over £5,000 a month, clear. The information isnt buried in the small print 
and is displayed directly below the details of Halifaxs new rewards options. 
Mrs S has explained that she has poor eyesight but, as our investigator has said, that 
information doesnt appear to have been given to Halifax. If Mrs S requires help from Halifax 
to ensure correspondence is readable she can contact it to check what adjustments can be 
made. But as Halifax wasnt aware of the problems Mrs S experiences due to her eyesight, I 
havent found it failed to make reasonable adjustments for her. 
Halifax paid Mr and Mrs S £10 as a gesture of goodwill after it was confirmed the reward 
options couldnt be switched. As I havent found that Halifax provided unclear guidance 
about how to proceed with its new rewards options and Im satisfied its dealt with 
Mr and Mrs S complaint fairly, Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 January 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman