DRN-2959139
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as B, complains about two fixed rate business loans. The 
company says the loans were mis-sold by Lloyds Bank PLC.
What happened
B took out two fixed rate business loans from Lloyds in September and October 2014, for 
£435,000 and £280,000. The company had a rental property business and the purpose of 
the loans was to refinance part of its existing borrowing and to purchase further properties. 
The interest rates on the loans were fixed for 20 years and they were secured on properties 
and a debenture. 
B complained to Lloyds in 2020. The companys representative said the bank had provided 
inadequate information when the loans were sold, particularly regarding the risk of break 
costs and their potential size. The representative also said that there had been numerous 
regulatory failures by the bank, including a failure to assess the customers attitude to risk, 
and that Bs director had felt pressured into the agreements. 
Lloyds offered to settle the complaint by putting B in the position it would have been in if the 
fixed rate on the loans had been terminated on the date of the complaint in 2020 with a 
reduced break cost. B wasnt satisfied with Lloyds offer and referred the complaint to us.
Having looked at the evidence, our investigator didnt think the bank needed to do anything 
further. Her main reasons were as follows, in summary:
The investigator was satisfied that Lloyds had provided B with pre-sale information 
explaining that substantial break costs could be incurred if the lending were repaid 
early. 
However, the bank said it could have done more to explain the potential size of the 
break costs. So the investigator considered whether B would have done anything 
differently if it had been fully aware of the potential size of the break costs. The 
investigator thought Bs choice of long-term rate fixed rates was in line with its 
business plans at the time, maintaining certainty about the level of future payments. 
The evidence showed that B had no intention of selling the properties, and the 
company had a long-term succession plan. The investigator wasnt persuaded that 
the company would have done anything differently even if it had fully understood the 
potential size of the break costs. 
B worked with its accountant throughout the process of arranging the loans. The 
accountant met with the Lloyds relationship manager and was present during the 
phone call confirming the first loan agreement. Even if Bs director lacked business 
experience, she mitigated this by working with the accountant.
Fixed rate loans arent regulated products. Lloyds therefore wasnt required to 
comply with the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) rules in the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) or with the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (MiFID). 
At the time the loans were set up, B acknowledged that the sale was non-advised.
Lloyds sent B an email in September 2014 with information about the loan agreement 
including details about the risks and break costs. The email said no transaction could 
take place for at least five working days in order to allow B sufficient time to consider 
the information, and indicated that it was for B to choose if the company wanted to 
enter into the lending. The lending was agreed in a phone call 12 days later.
In the months before the loan agreements, the bank made changes to the 
relationship managers dealing with B and there was some confusion about this. But 
the investigator didnt think there was any impact on Bs decision about the loan 
agreements.
B didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. The companys representative made the 
following points, in summary:
The investigators view was at odds with previous decisions of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. Bs representative believed that those decisions treated 
hedged fixed rate loans as subject to the same regulatory obligations as if the 
borrower had entered into a standalone derivative product.
The bank alleges that it sent the risk profile information in advance of the first loan 
agreement. But Bs director has kept the correspondence from the time and she has 
no record of the product information in question. Although receipt of the documents 
was acknowledged during the phone call agreeing the loan, the transcript shows the 
director misunderstood another aspect of the lending. 
The loan application does not suggest the risks were considered by a suitably 
qualified adviser. Bs accountant wasnt qualified to advise on derivatives. The 
accountant has recently said, from memory, that he didnt recall seeing or reviewing 
any of the loan documentation and his role at the time of the sale was mainly 
assessing whether the banks requirements were being met in respect of loan to 
value and interest cover. 
Its not possible for the customer to calculate the break costs from the wording of the 
loan agreement. It isnt clear how the customer is expected to find out what the 
market costs or costs of funds are.
The break cost risk on a 20-year fixed rate loan would always outweigh the benefits 
of predictable interest costs. Businesses change their plans. A hedging arrangement 
is effectively a gambling contract in relation to interest rates  a contract which 
wouldnt be entered by someone who is risk averse. 
The bank should be asked how many other fixed rate loans with break costs were 
sold at the time and since then. The representative said Lloyds was not selling them, 
because of problems with them. It cannot be correct to suggest that the complaint 
can be considered on its individual merits without addressing the wholistic, largescale 
problems that arose prior to this sale.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigator that the Lloyds fixed rate business loans taken out by B are not 
regulated products and the sales werent subject to the FCAs conduct of business rules. 
They are not derivative products. As a result, Lloyds was under no obligation to comply with 
the provisions in COBS or MiFID. There was no requirement to assess the customers 
attitude to risk, to ensure suitability or to provide advice. For these reasons, it wouldnt be fair 
or reasonable to treat the loans as subject to the same regulatory obligations as if the 
borrower had entered into a standalone interest rate hedging product. 
Bs representative maintains that this service has previously taken a different approach 
regarding whether such loans ought to be treated as regulated products. But Im satisfied 
that I havent departed from our usual approach and that my understanding of the status of 
these products is in line with the relevant law and regulations. 
For business loans that arent regulated, I would however expect a bank to provide sufficient 
information to enable the customer to make an informed choice about whether to enter into 
the agreement. This would include information about the risk of break costs.
Ive looked carefully at all the documents from the sale of the loans and the period leading 
up to it. In my view, the information given by the bank was enough to alert B to the risk that 
early exit from the loans could result in substantial break costs. On the first loan of £435,000 
the illustration showed a possible break cost of £47,502 after one year and £31,615 after five 
years. The bank also stated that the break costs would be influenced by the interest rate 
environment and market conditions. These documents were sent to B and her accountant in 
advance of the sale. 
Bs director has no copy of the pre-sale information in her records. But in the phone call 
agreeing the first loan, those documents were mentioned and there was some discussion of 
their content. Bs representative has said that during the call the director misunderstood an 
aspect of the loan, but as far as I can tell from the transcript, this was simply a minor 
disagreement about the size of Bs overdraft facility. I dont think the disagreement shows 
any confusion about the loan. From the evidence, Im satisfied that the pre-sale information 
about the fixed rate loan  and in particular about the risk of substantial break costs  had 
been received by B.
The bank has said it could have done more to explain the potential size of the break costs, 
so Ive considered whether B might have made a different decision if the break cost 
illustrations had shown circumstances in which larger amounts would be due. For the same 
reasons as given by the investigator, I conclude that B would still have chosen to enter the 
fixed rate loans, even if it had possessed more information about the potential size of break 
costs. 
From the evidence Ive seen, the company had a positive intention to hold its properties for 
the full length of the loans. There was a family succession plan and Ive seen nothing to 
suggest that B expected anything other than to keep the properties to provide an income 
stream over the long term. For this reason, I think the director would have felt there was a 
very low likelihood that the company would need to dispose of the properties on which the 
fixed rate loans were secured. Moreover, B retained over £275,000 of its borrowing on a 
variable rate, leaving some room for sales and reduction of debt if required. 
The 20-year duration for the fixed rate was a long one, but the possibility of interest rates 
rising during the course of the loans would have been a risk to the family succession plan. 
Borrowing for the properties over the long term therefore carried risk, whether the loan rate 
was variable or fixed  though the risks would be different. For the variable rate, the risk would be that rising rates might make the repayments unsustainable, while for the fixed rate, 
the risk was the possibility of incurring a break cost if B had to exit the loans early. In the 
specific circumstances of Bs long-term business plan, I believe the certainty of interest 
payments over the long term was attractive to the company and would have outweighed 
concerns about the break cost risk. The break costs shown in the banks illustrations were 
substantial and theres no evidence that Bs director expressed concerns about them. Given 
the companys clear intention to hold the properties for the long term, I believe that even if 
the illustrations had shown market scenarios with considerably greater break costs, B would 
have been content to proceed so that the family could be sure the repayments would remain 
sustainable for the full duration of the loans.
The loan agreements werent advised sales and Bs director signed a declaration confirming 
that. The bank offered its products and gave information on them, but Ive seen no evidence 
from the time that it gave advice. As these werent regulated products, there was no 
obligation on Lloyds regarding advice. In the pre-sale documents the bank recommended 
that if Bs director would like advice, she should contact an independent adviser before 
proceeding. 
I accept that Bs accountant didnt provide such advice  indeed the banks pre-sale 
documents recorded that fact. But I note the bank copied the fixed rate lending information to 
the accountant and later he was present during the phone call. Although he didnt give 
advice, I believe the accountant would have been able to help Bs director when assessing 
the sustainability of the borrowing, and he was also involved with the companys long-term 
planning. This strengthens my view that B had a clear and well-informed intention to hold the 
loans for the full term. 
I agree that the customer wouldnt be able to calculate the actual break costs from the 
explanation given in the terms of the agreements or in the pre-sale documents. But I 
wouldnt regard that as unfair, as long as the customer was warned that the break costs 
could vary, would be calculated by the bank at the time of early termination, and would 
depend on a number of different factors, including market factors. Im satisfied these points 
were covered by the banks pre-sale information and, as Ive already said, the illustrations 
showed that the sums could be substantial.
I disagree with Bs representative about information regarding sales to other customers. I 
dont think figures for other fixed rate loan sales are necessary for me to determine a fair and 
reasonable outcome for Bs complaint. Im aware of the general commercial and regulatory 
background to complaints about the mis-selling of hedging products and fixed rate business 
loans. When considering whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint, I 
need to take into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards, codes of practice and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the time. Thats what Ive done here, and Ive given my reasoning above.
I conclude that B was given enough information to alert the company to the risk of 
substantial break costs, and that it would still have entered into the agreements even if it had 
been given more information about the potential scale of those costs. I therefore dont 
require the bank to do anything to settle the complaint.
For each loan, Lloyds has offered to put B in the position it would have been in if the fixed 
rate had been terminated in 2020 with break costs reduced in line with illustrations given in 
2014. The bank has said this offer remains open to the customer. I also understand that the 
costs of exiting the loans at the present time may be lower than they were previously, as a 
result of recent changes in the interest rate environment. The company should contact 
Lloyds directly if it wishes to accept the banks offer regarding the loans, or if it wishes to 
discuss the costs of breaking the fixed rates now.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Lloyds Bank PLC to do anything to settle this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 
Colin Brown
Ombudsman