DRN-3407712
The complaint
Mr D complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) unfairly applied 
charges at the end of his hire agreement. 
What happened
Mr D entered into a 24 month hire agreement with MBFS in July 2018 to hire a car. The 
agreement was due to end on 23 July 2020. Mr D says that he had updated his address with 
MBFS in October 2019 and then again through the dealership when the car was serviced but 
he didnt receive any correspondence from MBFS at the end of his agreement and he 
couldnt get through to it by phone and so he wasnt able to return the car at that time. He 
says when he did make contact, the quote for extending his lease term was unaffordable.
Mr D returned the car and following an inspection he was charged over £1,600 for additional 
days rentals and £850 in damage charges. He says the car was retuned in good condition 
and with a mileage below the allowed mileage.
MBFS issued a final response letter. It said that Mr D hadnt updated his address and so it 
wasnt responsible for him not receiving the end of contract pack. It also said Mr D was 
provided with the Vehicle Return Standards (VRS) at the start of the agreement and these 
are available to view online so Mr D should have been aware of the wear and tear 
expectations. It said the damage charges had been applied correctly and that there was no 
refund for returning the car under the mileage allowance. It offered to pay Mr S £250 
compensation to reduce the amount owed as it didnt raise and investigate his complaint as 
early as it should have.
Mr D didnt accept MBFS response and referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She said that complaint handling isnt a 
regulated activity and so she wasnt able to consider this as part of her investigation. She 
thought the damage charges had been applied fairly. In regard to the additional days hire 
she said that MBFS had said it sent an end of contract pack and that it wrote to Mr D on 
23 July to say the collection company had been trying to arrange a collection. She noted 
Mr Ds comments about updating his address but didnt find evidence that this had 
happened. She said Mr D made contact in August but at that time asked about extending the 
agreement rather than returning the car. As Mr D had use of the car forth extra days, she 
thought it reasonable he was charged for this. 
Mr D didnt agree with our investigators view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This decision is about the charges applied after Mr D returned his car following the end of his 
hire agreement. I can understand why Mr D is upset that he incurred additional charges and 
I note his comments about experiencing difficulties in getting through to MBFS when his 
agreement ended. However, for me to uphold this complaint I would need to be satisfied that 
MBFS had done something wrong or had treated Mr D unfairly.
Mr D entered into a 24 month hire agreement in July 2018 and so the agreement came to an 
end in July 2020. MBFS has said that Mr D would have been sent an end of contract pack 
however I note his address wasnt up to date on the system. Mr D has said he called MBFS 
in October 2019 to update his address but unfortunately there is not record of this on MBFS 
system. He has also said he updated the address with the dealership when he had the car 
serviced and that it said it would update head office. However, there is no evidence this 
happened and on balance I think that as the address hadnt been updated when the car was 
taken for a service it would have been reasonable for Mr D to check this had happened with 
MBFS directly. So, while I note Mr D wasnt aware that his address wasnt up to date, I do 
not find I can say MBFS was at fault for this.
Mr D was aware of the date his agreement would end and when he didnt receive the 
notifications from MBFS I think it reasonable he tried to make contact. I appreciate his 
comments about struggling to get through by phone and I do not doubt this was the case 
given the pressures businesses were under at the time due to the pandemic. However, when 
contact was made in August 2020, Mr D didnt ask to return the car at that time and instead 
asked about an extension. He explained why he needed a car and I think in this case his 
preferred option was to keep the car for longer rather than return it. A quote for an extension 
was provided and I understand that Mr D didnt take this option as it was too expensive. On 
balance I do not find that the delay in the return of the car was due to MBFS doing anything 
wrong.
Mr D continued to have use of the car from July 2020 until it was collected. Given this I do 
not find I can say that MBFS has done anything wrong by charging for this. The charge 
applied has been based on Mr Ds monthly rental payments which I find reasonable.
Mr D has said the car was returned in good condition. He explained that he has hired cars 
previously and not had issues at return and so he didnt think he need to take his own 
photographs. As there are no other photographs available, I have considered the information 
provided in the inspection report. When considering whether damage charges have been 
fairly applied, we consider the business return condition as well as the industry guidelines 
provided by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA). MBFS vehicle 
return condition (VRS) are set out in the hire agreement and are also available online. 
Therefore, I think the information was available to Mr D to understand how the car would be 
assessed.
Damage charges were applied for dents to a door and the tailgate and wheel spoke and rim 
damage. 
The VRS say minor scuffing or damage under 25mm on the wheel rim or face is acceptable 
but scuffs, scratches and chips exceeding 25mm are not acceptable. The BVRLA guidelines 
say scuffs up to 50mm on the total circumference of the wheel are acceptable. But any 
damage to the wheel spoke isnt acceptable. In this case I agree that the spoke damage isnt 
clear but there is wheel rim damage that exceeds 50mm on three wheels and so I do not find 
I can say the charges were unfairly applied.
The VRS say minor body dents less than 13mm are acceptable but no more than one per 
panel. The BVRLA guidelines say dents of less than 15mm or less in diameter are 
acceptable provided there are no more than two per panel and the paint surface isnt broken.Having looked at the photographs of the door and tailgate I accept that these fall outside of 
the wear and tear guidelines and so I do not find I can say the damage charges have been 
unfairly applied.
Overall, I do not find that the charges applied following the return of Mr Ds car have been 
applied unfairly and therefore I do not uphold this complaint.
I note the MBFS offered Mr D compensation in regard to how it handled his complaint and 
he should discuss this directly with it if he wishes to accept.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman