DRN-3195953
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Cs complaint is about a ten-year fixed-rate mortgage account held with Barclays 
Bank UK Plc. Mr and Mrs C are unhappy that Barclays has insisted that if the mortgage is 
repaid before the end of the fixed rate they would have to pay an early repayment charge 
(ERC). To settle the complaint, Mr and Mrs C want Barclays to waive the ERC.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C had a mortgage with Barclays, under its Woolwich-branded residential 
mortgage business. In June 2014 Mrs C attended a branch of Barclays and, after speaking 
to a mortgage adviser, switched to a new product  a ten-year fixed rate mortgage.
The initial appointment was for 10 June 2014, but the application and illustration are dated 
17 June 2014 so I think it is more likely that the appointment was on that date; indeed, I note 
Mrs C recalls the appointment having to be re-arranged.
An illustration was provided dated 17 June 2014, followed by a mortgage offer dated 15 July 
2014. The mortgage offer showed Mr and Mrs C were borrowing just over £330,000 over a 
term of nine years and eleven months, with the entire term being at a fixed rate of 3.89%. 
The mortgage was on an interest-only basis. The mortgage offer assumed a start date for 
the mortgage of 1 August 2014.
If the mortgage was repaid during the term, an ERC was payable. This would be 6% of the 
amount repaid until 30 June 2021 or 3% of the amount repaid from 1 July 2021 to the end of 
the term. The mortgage also allowed for overpayments of up to 5% per annum without 
incurring an ERC.
At this point the accounts given by the parties differ.
In her initial letter of complaint to Barclays sent in 2020, Mrs C says that her recollection is 
that when she got home from the appointment (which, as I have said above, was most likely 
on 17 June 2014), Mr C told her that shed done the wrong thing in taking out a ten-year 
fixed rate, as they wanted to retire early. Mrs C said she phoned the mortgage adviser the 
following day (so 18 June 2014) and asked her to change the product to a five-year fixed 
rate, but was told it was too late, as the application had already gone through. Mrs C said 
she didnt argue, as the adviser had been helpful the day before, and she was embarrassed, 
but she later wished shed asked the adviser to change the mortgage to a five-year fixed 
rate. 
Mrs C said she didnt really understand what shed been agreeing to, and that it was only 
when she and Mr C were looking to re-mortgage in 2019 that they first realised the fixed rate 
was for ten years and ended in June 2024. They wanted to pay off their mortgage, but if they 
did, would be faced with a penalty. of about £15,000.
Barclays says its records show that the rate switch application was processed on 15 July 
2014 (the date the offer was issued), to commence on 1 August 2014. However, Barclays 
says it wasnt until 23 July 2014 that Mrs C contacted the bank to ask about a five-year fixed-
rate product. Mrs C was told shed need to speak to the mortgage adviser who had 
processed the application. There is no record of any call to the mortgage adviser.
Barclays rejected Mr and Mrs Cs complaint, and so Mr and Mrs C contacted the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. In the meantime, they repaid their mortgage, incurring an ERC of over 
£11,000.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think the evidence 
supported Mrs Cs contention that shed contacted Barclays immediately after the 
appointment to change the product. Based on the available records, this didnt happen until 
23 July 2014, by which point the application had already been processed.
Mr and Mrs C didnt accept the investigators findings. They said Barclays was lying and had 
deliberately deleted evidence that proved Mr and Mrs C were in the right. Mrs C denied ever 
contacting Barclays on 23 July 2014 and said this was a fabrication.
Mr and Mrs C says that, as they already had a mortgage with Barclays and were just 
re-mortgaging onto a new product, there was no pressure on Barclays at all to offer a new 
product within 6 days (before the new product began on 1 August 2014).
Because the matter is unresolved, it falls to me to issue a final decision on it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I have based my findings 
on what I think it likely to have happened  looking at the evidence that is available.
I think its appropriate here to explain a little how fixed-rate mortgage products work in the 
wider context of Barclays operations.
In simplistic terms, Barclays borrows funds at a particular rate, which in turn allows it to offer 
those funds to mortgage borrowers at a certain rate of interest. So for each product, there is 
a fixed amount of money available, and borrowers apply for a tranche of those funds, 
sometimes reserving the amount they want by paying an application fee for that specific 
tranche or, as in this case, without a fee. Once all the funds have been reserved, the product 
is withdrawn. 
The mortgage illustration from June 2014 shows the product over a ten-year term, but by the 
time the offer was issued, the term was nine years eleven months, reflecting that the product 
Mr and Mrs C were taking out was based on funds Barclays had borrowed over a ten-year 
term from July 2014.
Mr and Mrs C say that the day after the appointment, Mrs C contacted the adviser to say 
they wanted a five-year fixed rate product, but was told the application had already gone 
through.
Having looked at the contemporaneous notes (that is, notes recorded on Barclays system at 
the time), there is no record of any call to the adviser after the appointment in June 2014. 
The records show the application was processed on 15 July 2014, and the offer sent out. It was only after the offer had been sent out that Mrs C contacted Barclays, when she was told 
shed need to speak to the mortgage adviser.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs C believe these notes have been fabricated and that the notes of 
Mrs Cs calls have deliberately been destroyed. But on the other hand, Mr and Mrs C havent 
been able to provide any evidence (such as phone bills) to show they called Barclays when 
they said they did. I am entitled to rely on the contemporaneous notes as being an accurate 
record of what happened, and those notes simply dont support Mr and Mrs Cs version of 
events.
In the circumstances, Im not persuaded they were told the day after the appointment with 
the mortgage adviser that they couldnt switch to a new product. Im satisfied the call to 
Barclays didnt happen until after the application was processed and the offer issued  by 
which time the funds reserved by Mr and Mrs C for their ten-year fixed-rate mortgage had 
already been ring-fenced for them. 
Ive noted what Mr and Mrs C said in response to the investigators findings. Mrs C says: I 
do not believe I did [contact Barclays] and if I did why would I then not contact the Mortgage 
Advisor As we already had a mortgage with Barclays and were just re-mortgaging with 
them, there was no pressure on them at all to offer a new product within 6 days..
The new product started on 1 August 2014, and the call recorded in Barclays notes was on 
23 July 2014. So the 6 days Mrs C refers to would be the time period between the call and 
the start of the new mortgage product. So although Mrs C disputes having made a call on 
23 July 2014, the evidence is persuasive that she did. But there is no evidence she called 
the adviser, either the day after the appointment in June 2014 (as Mrs C claims) or after she 
spoke to Barclays on 23 July 2014.
Mr and Mrs C also said in their initial complaint to Barclays that (although they were 
complaining they were on a ten-year fixed-rate product) they didnt understand they were on 
a ten-year fixed-rate product. However, Im satisfied that the illustration and offer both state 
the term of the mortgage, that the mortgage is subject to an ERC and the dates from which 
this will apply. 
In the circumstances, I dont think Barclays has done anything wrong and so there is no 
basis on which I can order the bank to reimburse the ERC which Mr and Mrs C had to pay 
when they redeemed their mortgage in November 2020.
I know this isnt the outcome Mr and Mrs C were hoping for. But after reviewing everything 
they and Barclays have said, Im unable to find the bank has done anything wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman