DRN-2509944
The complaint
Miss M complained that National Westminster Bank Plc caused delays with an overseas 
transfer she wanted to make, which she says caused her distress and cost her extra money.
 
What happened
Miss M planned to export a car from the UK. She asked NatWest to make a large overseas
payment for her, to pay some of the costs of this. That payment was expected to arrive
within a couple of days, but it actually took almost three weeks.
NatWest said not all of this delay was its fault. The money didnt arrive on time because the
intermediary bank asked for more information, which NatWest has no control over. But it
also said that it hadnt passed that request for more information on to Miss M promptly, so it
thought that meant this delay was longer than it needed to be.
NatWest said it had also made a mistake when Miss M contacted it to chase up the
payment, because it had asked the intermediary to check if it had arrived, instead of asking
the beneficiary. NatWest said this didnt cause any further delay to the payment, but it did
delay Miss M getting the reassurance that this bill had been paid.
Miss M wanted compensation for the distress shed experienced, and she said that this
delay had greatly increased her costs. After some discussion, Miss M accepted that some of
the costs shed initially mentioned to our service would always have been incurred as part of
exporting this car. But she said that the delay meant that the transporter that was collecting
the car travelled twice to do that. The first time it hadnt been released, because the bill
wasnt paid. she wanted NatWest to pay £1,250, which she said was the cost of the first,
wasted trip to collect the car.
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld, but she didnt think NatWest had to
pay as much as Miss M had asked for. Our investigator said she wouldnt ask NatWest to
pay £1,250 because Miss M hadnt provided evidence of these costs. But she thought
distress and inconvenience had been caused to Miss M and this should be recognised. So
she said NatWest should pay £50 in compensation.
Miss M didnt agree with that. Her partner, who is also her representative, replied to say that
invoices would be supplied, and he then sent handwritten invoices for transport, and
accommodation. He said the additional cost was actually £1,750.
Our investigator said shed asked Miss M for statements to show that the money was paid to
the transport company, but those hadnt been received. She asked again for statements
showing that payments were made to Miss Ms representative, and to show that once this
money was received, it was then used to pay these additional costs. Miss Ms representative
replied, setting out why these extra costs had been incurred. But he didnt include the
requested evidence. So our investigator didnt change her mind.
Miss M wanted her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me
for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
I think NatWest should pay a little more compensation, but I dont think it has to pay 
the additional amount of £1,750 that Miss M has asked for. Ill explain why I think 
that.
Miss M said that shed paid £3,000 in total for transporting the car, and that the price 
was £1,250 higher because of the delay NatWest caused. She then said this was 
actually £1,750, there were additional accommodation costs too.
Our investigator asked Miss M for information on how she made these payments. 
Miss M has told us about £3,000 in total in transfers made to her partner and 
representative, who was assisting her with this importation. But these transfers 
spanned just under a year, between early October 2019 and August 2020. So it isnt 
obvious that they would all be related to the cost of transporting the car in spring 
2020. We asked for evidence that the money was used in this way. But Miss M and 
her representative havent sent it.
If Miss M would like to supply further evidence now, it would be helpful to have her
statements showing these transfers to her partner, and his statements showing the 
money was spent on car transport. It would also be helpful to explain why the 
transport company set off to pick up the car, and incurred the first set of costs, when 
the car hadnt yet been released from customs, and to explain the amounts involved.
Without further evidence, I dont think I can be confident that these additional costs 
were all incurred in the way Miss M has said, and I cant fairly ask NatWest to pay 
Miss M £1,750. 
But I do think that NatWest caused an additional delay in transferring this payment. It 
was contacted by the intermediary bank, to ask for further information, on 27 
February. This request was passed to the branch, but the branch didnt contact Miss 
M right away.
I think if the branch had sought to contact Miss M right away, then her funds wouldve 
been likely to be received on 6 March, not 16 March. And I think this additional delay 
caused Miss M distress. Miss M spent some time being concerned that if the money 
didnt arrive, her car would be sold.
I also think that Miss M was caused additional stress by the delay in confirming that 
her funds had been received. They were received safely on 16 March. Coincidentally, 
Miss M asked NatWest about this on the same day. But because of how NatWest 
chased this payment, she wasnt told her funds had been delivered until mid-April.
Fortunately, Miss Ms car wasnt sold, and she was able to import it, although slightly 
later that shed hoped. But I do think NatWest should pay Miss M compensation for 
the additional stress it has caused her. And I dont think £50 is quite enough for that. I 
think NatWest should pay Miss M £150.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
NatWest didnt reply. Miss M and her representative both replied, to reject my decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Ms representative replied to say that he and Miss M would be rejecting my decision. 
Miss Ms representative said they lost £1,750, so they wanted £1,750, and were prepared to 
take the matter to court. 
Whether or not to take court proceedings is, of course, entirely a matter for Miss M. If she 
wishes to do that, she will need to reject my final decision, so shes not bound by it. That 
would also mean that NatWest wouldnt be obliged to pay the £150 I proposed to award.
Miss M also replied to say that £150 was unacceptable for the distress and extra costs 
incurred as a result of the delays in sending her money overseas. She said our service had 
misconstrued her complaint, and hadnt asked her to check for any errors. And Miss M said 
the initial offer of £50 was an insult.
When this case came to me, I completed a full review, and reached a slightly different 
conclusion on the appropriate award in this case. I know that Miss M says shes lost much 
more. Our service has invited her to comment, including on my provisional decision. And 
weve repeatedly encouraged her to send further evidence of her losses, but shes not taken 
that opportunity. And on the evidence I have, I still dont think I can fairly recommend that 
NatWest pays the amount Miss M would like. 
I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the award I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc must pay Miss M £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman