DRN-3180743
The complaint
Mr M complains Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) didnt tell him it sold the 
rights to his account to a third party and is unhappy that following this, it forwarded payments 
he made to the account to the third party. 
What happened
In December 2019, Halifax closed Mr Ms account and sold the rights to a third party Ill refer 
to as T.
In March 2020, Mr M says he applied for universal credit and says he provided them with his 
Halifax account details for payments to be paid into the account. In July 2020, Mr M 
complained to Halifax and said he didnt know his account had been closed, he was 
unhappy Halifax forwarded Universal Credit payments to T and says it paid his debt without 
his knowledge or authority. He said as a result of this, overpayments were made to the loan, 
but he has since received a refund of the overpaid amount. He says this was his only income 
at the time and this caused him severe financial pressure.
Halifax looked into Mr Ms complaint in September 2020. It said it told him it had sold the 
account to T in January 2020 and if any further payments were made to the account, it would 
forward these to T. It suggested Mr M contact T if he had any queries. Unhappy with this,   
Mr M referred his complaint to this service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ms complaint but didnt think Halifax had done 
anything wrong. She thought Halifax had provided Mr M with sufficient notice that the 
account was closed and said it was obliged to forward any payments it received to T after 
the account was sold.
As Mr M remains in disagreement, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at whether Halifax told Mr M it had closed his account and also whether it needed 
to tell Mr M it was selling his account to T. Having done so, I think Halifax did tell Mr M it had 
closed the account. Ill explain why.
Halifax agreed to provide Mr Ms account with an arranged overdraft of £1,000. Ive seen 
copies of bank statements for Mr Ms account. On 1 August 2019, a Direct Debit was paid 
out of the account. As a result of this, Mr Ms account went over its arranged overdraft limit 
and into an unarranged overdraft. Halifax applied daily overdraft interest charges to the 
account until 3 September 2019. As no further payments were made into the account, 
Halifax issued Mr M with a formal demand for payment of the overdraft balance on             
26 November 2019. 
And as Mr M still didnt bring his overdraft balance within the limit, Halifax issued a final 
warning telling Mr M his account would be closed 30 days later should his account not be 
brought up to date. Mr Ms failure to credit his account resulted in Halifax closing it on           
6 December 2019 and it sent Mr M a closing statement which confirmed this. So Im satisfied 
Halifax told Mr M his account was closed well in advance of March 2020 and Mr Ms 
application for Universal Credit was made.
As part of closing Mr Ms account, Halifax defaulted Mr Ms overdraft and sold the 
outstanding balance to T on 6 December 2019. The balance at this point was £1,098.10.
I know Mr M says he wasnt told the debt had been sold to T. But Halifax is authorised and 
regulated by Financial Conduct Authority, so it follows the FCAs rules in respect of 
consumer credit activities. Part of these rules are set out in The Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC) which sets out specific rules and guidance firms must follow when 
carrying out credit regulated activities and ancillary activities. 
CONC 6.5.2.4 (1) states:
Where the rights of a lender under a regulated credit agreement are assigned to a firm, that 
firm must arrange for notice of the assignment to be given to the customer:
1. (a) as soon as reasonably possible; or
(b) if, after the assignment, the arrangements for servicing the credit under the agreement do 
not change as far as the customer is concerned, on or before the first occasion they do.
In this case, the firm is T. So Halifax didnt have to tell Mr M it had assigned the rights to his 
balance to T. This was Ts responsibility as it now owned the debt. I do understand why     
Mr M may feel that this is a matter between him and Halifax. But as Halifax assigned the 
debt as it was entitled to, I dont think it did anything wrong here. 
Ive gone on to consider whether it was fair for Halifax to forward any payments made into 
the account, after it had sold it to T.   
Between January 2020 and July 2020, payments totalling £1,865.31 were made using the 
sort code an account number of Mr Ms closed Halifax account. Its important to note that as 
the account had already been closed, Mr M no longer had an account with Halifax. So each 
time a payment was sent to Halifax using these details, it forwarded them on to T, as it was 
the party that was owed money by Mr M, not Halifax. 
Ive also looked at the payments made to Mr Ms closed account to see whether it would 
have been fair and reasonable for Halifax to have taken greater care given the nature of the 
credits themselves. But the entry for the payments dont suggest that these may be 
Universal Credit payments. Each payment paid to Halifax simply states third party bank 
provider name Standing Order Payment. 
Having thought about whats happened here, I think it was reasonable for Halifax to send 
any payments made using Mr Ms former account details to T. I say this because Halifax 
wasnt party to any arrangements between Mr M and T about the debt and wouldnt have 
known what M Ms balance was when it forwarded payments to T. I cant see that Halifax 
was aware the payments were Universal Credit, or that it ought to have known this and Mr M 
didnt alert it to this fact until July 2020. 
In any event, whilst I appreciate Mr M is unhappy his Universal Credit payments were used 
to repay the debt, Mr M told our service he didnt try and withdraw any of his Universal Credit 
between March 2020 and June 2020, as he was waiting for sufficient funds to be paid into the account to clear his overdraft. By June 2020, the overdraft had been repaid. So I think 
its likely Mr M always intended that his universal credit payments would be used to pay the 
outstanding overdraft. So I cant see how Mr M lost out as a result of Halifax selling his 
balance on to T and then passing on the credits to clear this debt.
Overall, I think Halifax did tell Mr M it had closed his account and following this, I think it was 
fair for it to forward any payments made to the account to T. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman