DRN-2218005
complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken in 
2002. Mr C says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold him the PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which include the PPI 
policy benefits, limitations and exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all 
of this information here. Mr C was employed at the time of the sale and in good health. 
Nationwide has sent papers showing that Mr C signed to cancel the PPI on his card in 2006 
and that the last premium charged was at the end of 2005.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the mis-sale complaint but thought Nationwides offer to pay 
back some of the cost of the PPI, because of the non-disclosure of high commission and 
profit share Mr C paid, was fair in the circumstances. 
Mr Cs representatives disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new 
or additional points but repeated complaint points and arguments theyd previously made. 
Mr C also requested an ombudsmans decision.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Cs. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Cs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided Nationwide should have disclosed 
the commission it received - but that Nationwides offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to 
compensate for the unfairness caused, is fair in the circumstances. Ive summarised my 
reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
Mr C has said the PPI was just included with his card. But his application form for the 
card had a separate Payment Protection Insurance section with boxes to tick to say 
either I want or I do not want the cover. On Mr Cs form, which he signed to take the 
card, the box to say he wanted the PPI was ticked  and I think he wouldve known that if 
he didnt want the cover the box to say he didnt want it shouldve been ticked instead. 
Also, nothing on the form said Mr C had to take the PPI or had to tick the box to take it. 
With all this in mind, based on what I have I think Nationwide made it clear Mr C didnt 
have to take the PPI and he chose to take it.
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr C - so it didnt have to check the PPI was 
right or suitable for him. But it did have to give Mr C enough clear and timely information 
so he could decide for himself if it was right for him.
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found he chose to take it, and his application form told him it 
was cover for his card payments in case he couldnt work because of unemployment, 
accident or sickness - so it looks to me like he wanted this type of cover. Also, nothing 
about his job or employment wouldve made it hard for him to claim, there were no extra 
restrictions on cover for mental health or back problems and he hadnt any health issues 
the policy mightve excluded  so Mr C wasnt affected by the significant exclusions or 
limits on the cover and it wasnt fundamentally wrong for him. 
Also I think the policy was affordable. Mr C was told the cover would cost 60p per £100 
outstanding and, although this wasnt the whole story, with the cost of the cover in mind, 
I think it likely Mr C wouldve still thought the policy benefit worthwhile had he been told 
more about its cost, even allowing for the work benefits he had. 
Overall, I dont think the cover was too dissimilar to what its likely Mr C thought he was 
buying from the information he was given  and, with this and all Ive said above in mind, 
I dont think he wouldve declined the cover had Nationwide done anything more.
Overall, I consider Mr C wouldve still taken the PPI. It was sufficiently close to what its likely 
he thought he was getting and couldve provided a useful benefit at a difficult time, given his 
circumstances at the time. And, in those circumstances, I think he wouldve taken the policy 
in any event.
Mr Cs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; that these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and that the duty of utmost good faith meant Nationwide should have disclosed the poor 
value and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had 
on the chances of making a claim.
Mr Cs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Cs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Cs particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint. For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. This means Nationwide doesnt have to pay back all the 
cost of the PPI to Mr C.
non-disclosure of commissionAs I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Nationwide should have disclosed the commission it received 
and that Nationwides offer, to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the 
unfairness caused, is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Nationwide didnt tell Mr C about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this 
case. So, taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the 
non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- the FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Nationwide and Mr C was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 
because Nationwide didnt tell him about the high levels of commission and profit share 
in this case; 
I dont think Nationwide acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr C, because it 
failed to disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mr Cs representatives have made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on his complaint.
In summary they have said Mr C should get back all the money he paid for the policy 
because: Nationwide failed to tell Mr C about the high commission and profit-share rates 
paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say 
that meant the policy was poor value, they say I should find Mr C wouldnt have taken the 
policy had he known about the level of commission and he should receive a refund of all the 
premiums he paid.
But I dont agree. 
Im mindful of the following:
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- a court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a court 
would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a consumer 
would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; and
- the FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge the 
considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance about 
mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) and that the 
impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it should be 
considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for Mr C 
in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Nationwide not disclosing the high level of 
commission to him before he purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mr Cs representative suggests, driven to conclude that he wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for Nationwides failure to disclose the level of commission for 
the reasons Ive given above;
I think it was fair for Nationwide to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance 
and return some of the money Mr C paid for his PPI policy. 
I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Mr C 
with the policy Ive concluded above he wouldve still taken if Nationwide had done 
everything it should have done  but with lower commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that Nationwides payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms, is fair in all the circumstances. 
Nationwide has told us it paid this to Mr C in May 2019. As Nationwide has already paid 
Mr C compensation on this basis, I dont consider it should do anything further. 
Im grateful to Mr C for his courtesy and patience throughout our consideration of this matter.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mr Cs complaint or make any award in 
favour of him for this part of the complaint.But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that 
Nationwide Building Society should pay Mr C an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where 
applicable). As Nationwide Building Society has already paid compensation on this basis, I 
do not consider that Nationwide Building Society should do anything more.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2022. 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman