DRN-1902870
The complaint
L, a limited liability partnership, complains that Amtrust International Underwriters DAC 
refused cover for a claim on its professional indemnity insurance policy.
Where I refer to Amtrust, this includes its claims handlers and agents acting on its behalf.
What happened
L is a limited liability partnership that provides financial services to its clients. In June 2014 a 
client contacted L to say he was unhappy with some advice given to him and wanted to 
pursue a claim for losses arising out of that advice. A few days later he called to say he had 
decided not to pursue the matter and he then confirmed that in writing.
In August 2014 the client contacted L again to say he would in fact be pursuing a claim. L 
contacted Amtrust to advise of the claim. Amtrust asked why it had not been referred in 
June, saying this was a breach of the duty to give notice immediately of any claims, or any 
circumstances that might give rise to a claim. Amtrust said it was reserving its rights about 
providing cover but appointed solicitors to assist L, in the hope that would lead to the claim 
being resolved. Some correspondence followed but the client then took no further action for 
some time.
In 2017 L advised that it had heard from solicitors acting for the client regarding proposed 
legal action. Amtrust then said it would not provide cover for the claim because it had not 
been notified immediately. L complained but Amtrust did not change its position. In its final 
response Amtrust said the requirements to give notice immediately were a condition 
precedent" to cover meaning that, unless they are strictly complied with, it has no liability to 
provide cover.
When L brought the complaint to this service our investigator thought Amtrusts decision to 
refuse cover was unfair. She said Amtrust couldnt reject a claim on the basis of a breach of 
a condition of the policy, unless the breach related to the circumstances of the claim. And 
she thought the late notification hadnt caused any prejudice to Amtrust.
Amtrust disagreed. Its solicitors raised a number of points on its behalf, in particular that the 
approach adopted by the investigator would only apply to a claim by a consumer and, as L is 
a business, wouldnt be relevant here; businesses are expected to understand and to comply 
with contracts they enter into. They said the investigators view ignored the weight of law 
supporting Amtrusts position and she hadnt explained why she was departing from the law.
As no agreement was reached the complaint was passed to me to decide and I issued a 
provisional decision. In the provisional decision I said 
The policy includes cover for any claim for compensation and/or damages (including legal 
costs) made against L which it may become legally liable to pay and which arises out of, or 
concerns the conduct of, Ls professional business. So cover is available under the policy for 
the type of claim made by Ls client in this case.However, the policy terms say its a condition precedent to cover being provided that L 
gives notice immediately of any claim, or any circumstances that may give rise to a claim. 
Circumstance is defined in the policy terms as
information or circumstances of which the Insured is aware which suggests that a claim may 
be made against the Insured which the Insured may become legally liable to pay and which 
arises out of the exercise and conduct of the Insureds Professional Business.
The policy terms are clear that L had to notify Amtrust of any claims or circumstances that 
may lead to a claim immediately, and that this requirement is a condition precedent. So 
thats the starting position when considering the complaint; in effect, Amtrust only wishes to 
provide cover if any claim or circumstances that may lead to a claim are 
notified immediately.
Amtrusts solicitors say the legal position is clear  L is a business, not a consumer, so 
doesnt have the same protections that consumers have; a business is expected to 
understand the nature of the contracts it enters into. And in any event, it says the breach of 
the condition (Ls late notification of the claim) was related to the circumstances of the claim. 
Finally, they say the question of prejudice is irrelevant since there is no legal basis to 
introduce this concept.
I have to take into account the policy terms and the relevant law. But Im not bound by them 
in the same way as the courts. Ultimately my role is to decide whats fair and reasonable, 
taking into account all the circumstances. Bearing that in mind, Ive considered whether it 
would be fair to apply the policy terms strictly in the circumstances of this case.
Amtrust says the claim should have been notified immediately when the issue first arose in 
June 2014. I dont think it would be fair to treat that as a claim. The client contacted L within 
a few days to say he didnt intend to pursue the matter and confirmed that in writing a week 
after his initial letter. I can see why L thought there was no claim at that point.
However, even if the client said he wasnt going to pursue the claim, there was nothing to 
stop him changing his mind  which of course is what happened. So Amtrust says L should 
have been aware these were circumstances that could lead to a claim. The clients letter 
explained that he thought he had lost around £300,000 as a result of poor advice, and said 
decades of prudent financial planning, mostly following advice from L, had been blown out 
of the water The client said that due to the sums involved, there was a very significant 
problem with his pension fund and he couldnt walk away from this. So even if there wasnt a 
claim at that point, L was aware this was a serious issue for the client. On that basis it was 
always possible the client might come back again. So I think these were circumstances that 
might lead to a claim. And that means, on the basis of the policy wording, L should have 
notified Amtrust at that point but didnt.
So L was in breach of the condition in the policy. I appreciate that its a condition precedent 
so, strictly speaking, Amtrust would not have to provide cover. Thats the position set out by 
the policy terms. And I have taken that into account, but I have to decide whats fair and 
reasonable.
Ive considered what would have happened if L had notified Amtrust in June 2014. At most, 
Amtrust would have asked for some more information; there was no further action that could 
have been taken at that point. L contacted Amtrust promptly in August, and Amtrust was 
able to deal with the matter; appointing solicitors to assist L. So in reality, it made no 
difference whether L contacted Amtrust in June or in August  things would have proceeded 
in the same way. There was no prejudice to Amtrust.Amtrusts solicitors say the issue of prejudice is irrelevant. That may be the strict legal 
position but looking at this on a fair and reasonable basis, the position is rather different. In 
my judgment, it wouldnt be fair to reject a claim in these circumstances, where Ls actions 
made no difference to how the claim could be dealt with.
The aim of the condition precedent is to emphasise the importance of giving notice of claims 
early. Theres a good reason for that  it allows Amtrust to step in and manage the claim 
from the start, making sure it has the information it needs and is able to control how the 
claim is handled. Any delay may affect that  for example if L had made admissions to their 
client or incurred substantial legal costs which Amtrust had no control over, that would make 
it harder for Amtrust. I understand why it wouldnt wish to cover a claim in those 
circumstances. But looking at the specific circumstances of this case, I dont think it would be 
fair to reject the claim when no steps had been taken at all and the position was exactly the 
same. Amtrust was able to consider the claim in August 2014 in the same way as it would 
have done in June.
I understand L was able to settle the claim brought by the client by paying him the sum of 
£55,000 to cover both compensation and his legal costs. So Amtrust should reimburse that 
sum, together with any reasonable legal costs L incurred in defending the claim.
On that basis, I said I intended to uphold the complaint and direct Amtrust to reimburse the 
sum of £55,000 and reimburse any legal costs L had incurred, and pay interest on those 
sums.
L has replied to the provisional decision to say it accepts the findings. Amtrust has not 
accepted the provisional decision and its solicitors have made detailed comments, which I 
have summarised as follows:
While it accepts the ombudsman is able to depart from the law if it considers it fair 
and reasonable to do so, this power should be used sparingly and in very limited 
circumstances. 
The ombudsman must also be consistent in its approach to dealing with what is fair 
and reasonable in cases of breach of conditions precedent by commercial 
policyholders. In other similar cases involving a condition precedent, the ombudsman 
has confirmed that the strict legal position applies and breach of the condition allows 
the insurer to decline the claim.
ICOBS specifically allows an insurer to reject a claim for breach of condition if the 
breach is connected to the circumstances of the claim  which is the case here.
This case involves a commercial customer, who should have understood and 
complied with the policy conditions and, if it did not, it should not be given the same 
protection as a consumer.
The issue of prejudice does not apply, even for consumers, in cases like this and the 
Ombudsman cannot rely on prejudice to justify finding against Amtrust on fair and 
reasonable grounds. A decision on another complaint confirmed that section 11 of 
the Insurance Act 2015 did not apply as the contract pre-dated this legislation (as it 
does in this case). So the common law position applies, where the breach of a 
condition precedent entitles the insurer to decline the claim.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.In its response, Amtrusts solicitors made a number of comments about the investigators 
findings. Our investigator provided her view on the case but once the complaint was passed 
to me I reviewed the whole matter afresh and reached my own conclusion. Any views given 
by the investigator do not form part of my decision. 
Amtrust has set out the legal position and referred to other cases decided by this service 
which it says support that position. Ive summarised those points above but the broad thrust 
of their argument is that an insurer is entitled to decline a claim where there has been a 
breach of a condition precedent by a commercial customer, and the issue of prejudice is 
irrelevant. It says the provisional decision goes against this logic and cant be considered fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this case (where its accepted there is a breach of 
condition precedent by a commercial customer, and the breach is connected to the claim).
Ive considered all these points carefully. But I made it clear in my provisional decision that I 
understood the legal position. And while we aim to be consistent in our decision-making, 
every case has to be considered on its own facts. So what was decided in one case wont 
necessarily affect the outcome of another. As Ive explained, I have to take account of the 
law, but I need to decide whats fair and reasonable taking into account all the 
circumstances.
Although L didnt report the incident immediately, Ive taken into account that the client had 
said - both on the phone and subsequently confirmed in writing  that they did not intend to 
pursue a claim. Strictly speaking, L should have notified Amtrust  although there wasnt a 
claim at that point, there were circumstances that could potentially have led to a claim. But I 
can see why L may have thought the matter did not need to be reported. And it did notify 
Amtrust immediately once it became apparent there would be a claim.
As I have also explained, Amtrust was able to appoint solicitors and provide support. So the 
short delay didnt make a difference. And while Amtrust says the issue of prejudice isnt 
relevant, the circumstances of this particular case, and the sequence of events that took 
place, are relevant. Looking at everything in the round, it wouldnt in my view be fair to apply 
the strict legal position, where I think L acted reasonably and Amtrust was able to deal with 
the claim in exactly the same way it would have dealt with it, had the claim been reported 
sooner.
For these reasons it remains my view that, in the particular circumstances of this case, it 
wouldnt be fair to decline the claim,. 
Amtrust has made one final point, namely that if the claim were covered, an excess of 
£2,500 would need to be paid and it doesnt seem L has paid this. If the excess hasnt been 
paid, then that may be deducted from the settlement.
Putting things right
To put things right, Amtrust needs to reimburse to L the sum of £55,000 it paid to settle the 
claim (less any excess payable), together with any reasonable legal costs incurred in 
defending the claim made against it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Amtrust International Underwriters 
DAC to pay to L 
the sum of £55,000 (less any excess payable under the policy terms, if it hasnt been 
paid) and any reasonable legal costs incurred in defending the claim made against it.
 
Amtrust International Underwriters DAC must also pay interest on the sum of £55,000 at the 
simple rate of 8% per year from the date L paid that money to its client to the date it makes 
the payment; and pay interest at the same rate on the legal costs incurred by L from the date 
those costs were paid by L to the date it makes the payment.
 
* If Amtrust International Underwriters DAC considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell L how much its taken off. It 
should also give L X a certificate showing this if L asks for one, so they can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask  to accept or reject 
my decision before 9 July 2020.
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman