DRN-4183568
The complaint
Mr R complains Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited unfairly declined a claim 
on his mechanical breakdown warranty policy. 
The policy is administered on Red Sands behalf but, for ease, Ill refer to Red Sands 
throughout this decision.
What happened
Mr R bought a motor warranty to start in January 2022. The warranty is designed to cover 
the mechanical and electrical components of the car against sudden failure. 
On 11 April 2023, Mr R claimed when he noticed oil within the wheels of the car. Mr Rs car 
was booked in for an inspection with an authorised repairer on 19 April 2023. The repair 
centre diagnosed the fault as n/s/f cv gaiter split and leaking grease. 
Red Sands reviewed the diagnostic report and declined the claim. It said the Constant 
Velocity (CV) joint gaiter (also known as a CV boot) isnt a mechanical part and therefore not 
covered under Mr Rs policy. 
Mr R disagreed and brought his complaint to this service. He accepts the CV gaiter isnt an 
electrical part. But he says, because it isnt cosmetic or software related either, it must be a 
mechanical part. And the warranty information displayed on the sellers website led him to 
believe this would be covered. Also, he feels Red Sands shouldve told him it wouldnt be 
covered when he first reported the claim as he had a wasted trip to the approved repairer. 
Our Investigator thought Red Sands acted reasonably in declining Mr Rs claim. They
said the warranty wording is clear. And, although the CV gaiter isnt specifically listed as an 
excluded part, this was because it isnt a mechanical or electrical part. They also thought 
Red Sands was reasonable to refer Mr R to an approved repairer before declining the claim. 
Mr R disagreed. As the matter remains unresolved, it now falls to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the Investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. 
Mr Rs warranty isnt a maintenance contract, so its not intended to cover on the go repairs. 
The terms explain the warranty specifically covers the following. 
all mechanical and electrical parts (including labour costs to fit them) against 
mechanical breakdown. It includes wear and tear for vehicles up to 6 years or 60,000 
miles at time of claim. Mechanical breakdown is the failure of a part, causing it to 
suddenly stop working. 
mechanical breakdown is defined as the failure of a mechanical or electrical 
component, causing a sudden stoppage of its function, for a reason other than 
deterioration or negligence
There are two tests which must be considered for a successful claim. Firstly, the failed 
component must be either electrical or mechanical in nature. Secondly, the failure of such an 
electrical or mechanical component must have been caused by a mechanical breakdown, 
as defined in the terms. It follows where a part isnt a mechanical component, it cant suffer 
mechanical breakdown. 
I can see Mr R has said because the CV gaiter isnt an electrical, cosmetic, or software-
related component, it must be a mechanical part. But he hasnt sent this service any 
persuasive evidence in support of this. 
Given what I know of the part, Im satisfied the CV gaiter isnt a mechanical part. I say this 
because the CV gaiter is a flexible rubber covering used to extend the life of a CV joint. Its 
primary function is to protect the CV joint by acting as a dust cover to keep out residue and 
keep in the grease that lubricates the CV joint.  
Whilst the CV gaiter plays an integral part in prolonging the lifespan of the CV joint, it isnt 
part of the CV joint mechanism itself. Its a separate part to the CV joint and can be replaced 
separately to it. The authorised repairer reported the nearside front CV gaiter as split. And 
Im not persuaded the splitting of a rubber covering can be considered a mechanical failure.
Taking everything into account, I dont think Red Sands have acted unfairly in saying the CV 
gaiter isnt a mechanical part. It follows Red Sands isnt responsible for its replacement 
under the terms of this mechanical breakdown warranty. 
I understand Mr R is frustrated with the way Red Sands dealt with his claim. He feels it 
wasted his time by not telling him sooner it wouldnt be covered. But I wouldnt expect Red 
Sands to decline a claim without being clear about the cause of the problem to decide 
whether it was covered by the warranty terms. Given some parts of the CV joint may be 
covered under the policy, I dont think it wouldve been reasonable for Red Sands to have 
concluded the fault was only with the CV gaiter and wouldnt be covered after just the initial 
call with Mr R. 
I note Mr R says the CV gaiter isnt specifically listed as an exception in his policy when it is 
listed as an exception on another policy available from the same seller. However, if a 
component is neither electrical nor mechanical, I wouldnt expect it to be mentioned in a list 
of mechanical and electrical parts not covered. I also note the policy Mr R refers to is one 
which covers only specified parts and so its direct reference to the CV gaiter being excluded 
doesnt mean its included in the policy Mr R has.
I appreciate Mr R believes the website setting out the details of the policy isnt clear enough. 
But this isnt something I can consider in this complaint because Red Sands is the 
underwriter of the policy. The warranty was sold to Mr R by a different party. If hes unhappy 
with how it was sold to him, hell need to raise it with the seller in the first instance and give it 
the opportunity to investigate his complaint.
Whilst Im sorry for any disappointment my decision might bring, for the reasons explained, 
Im satisfied the CV gaiter is not a mechanical component. It follows Red Sands made a fair 
and reasonable decision when declining Mr Rs claim for the replacement of it under the terms of his mechanical breakdown policy.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2023.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman