DRN-2949399
The complaint
Mr H complains that Capital One (Europe) plc irresponsibly allowed him to open a credit card 
account which was unaffordable.
What happened
Mr H says Capital One should not have allowed him to open his credit card account as it was 
unaffordable. He says no affordability checks were carried out and he had numerous 
defaults and a County Court Judgement (CCJ) on his credit file at the time. Mr H says the 
lending was irresponsible and would like Capital One to remove any adverse information 
from his credit file.
Capital One says Mr H applied for the account in 2015 and told it he had an income of just 
under £30,000 a year and additional household income of £20,000 a year. It says there was 
adverse information on Mr Hs credit file but some time before the lending and says it did 
carry out affordability checks which didnt show any concerns. It also says it approved a 
modest credit limit of £200. Capital One says a default was correctly registered in March 
2016.
Mr H brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Capital One had carried out appropriate checks and checked Mr Hs credit file which 
showed the adverse information was some time before the application. The investigator also 
thought Capital One had fairly tried to contact Mr H about the account and made well in 
excess of a 100 telephone calls to him, all of which were unanswered.
Mr H doesnt accept that view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr H will be disappointed by my decision.
Lenders and credit provider should carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on any 
lending or credit application. Those checks will of course vary depending on the type and 
amount of the lending. This was an application for a credit facility rather than for example a 
mortgage and so I wouldnt have expected Capital Ones checks to have been as detailed 
here compared to other types of lending such as a mortgage or loan.
I have looked at Capital Ones records and can see that Mr H applied for the credit card 
account in 2015 declaring a total household income of just under £50,000 a year. I can see 
that Capital One did look at Mr Hs credit file and concluded that any adverse information 
was of some age and that there were no affordability concerns. So, Im satisfied that Capital 
One did carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr Hs application and that on the 
face of it the lending was affordable. I appreciate Mr H says no such affordability checks 
were carried out, but having seen Capital Ones records, I find they were carried out. It 
follows that I dont think Capital Ones lending decision was irresponsible.
I dont think Mr H has provided us with a copy of his credit file or information about his 
financial circumstances at the time such as bank account statements. So, I dont think its 
clear why he says the account wasnt affordable. Im also satisfied that Capital One 
approved a very modest credit limit of £200 which I think ought to have been affordable.
Im satisfied that Mr H didnt make required repayments which he was required to do in line 
with the account terms and conditions. And so, I dont think Capital One made a mistake by 
registering a default on Mr Hs credit file. I also think it tried to contact him to discuss his 
account on numerous occasions but without success.
Overall, Im satisfied Capital One carried out reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr Hs 
credit card account application and acted fairly by registering a default when required 
payments were not made. In those circumstances I cant fairly order that Capital One 
remove the default from Mr Hs credit file.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman