DRN-2750181
The complaint
Mr K complains that charges were unfairly applied by Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK 
Limited trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance (MBFS) at the end of his hire purchase 
agreement (Personal Contract Plan) (the agreement).
What happened
Mr K entered an agreement with MBFS in December 2016 to acquire a car. At the end of the 
agreement he decided to return the car and an initial inspection was carried out on 27 
January 2020. Mr K says that he was told at that time the only charge would be £52 for a 
missing literature pack. A second inspection took place on 3 February 2020 at which further 
damage was identified and charges applied. Mr K didnt dispute the charge for the door seal 
but didnt accept that the bumper was damaged before he returned the car.
MBFS says that Mr Ks agreement ended in December 2019 and the car was returned, and 
an initial inspection took place. It says the conditions were wet and dark at the time of the 
first inspection and that it was confirmed at that time a second inspection would take place. It 
says that on the second inspection further damage was identified that fell outside of its wear 
and tear tolerances and so charges were applied. It issued its final response in November 
2020 not upholding Mr Ks complaint.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said the agreement included information 
about what would happen when the car was returned. He noted the charges applied and 
considered these against the vehicle return conditions in the agreement and the industry 
standards provided by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA). He 
thought the damage identified in the inspection report fell outside of fair wear and tear and 
so didnt think he could say the charges had been unfairly applied.
Mr K responded to our investigators view. He reiterated that the car was collected, and the 
additional damage not identified at that time. He said that once collected the car should have 
become the responsibility of MBFS and that MBFS couldnt be sure the damage didnt occur 
while in their possession. He thought that MBFS should have exercised some goodwill given 
his loyal custom. Mr K also said that he had subsequently found the vehicle literature and 
returned this and had returned a third key which was valued at £255.
Our investigator thought that as the vehicle literature was returned much later than the return 
of the car he couldnt say MBFS was required to remove the charge. He also said there was 
nothing in the agreement to show that the third key could be used to offset the other 
charges. Overall while noting Mr Ks comments he didnt think he could say MBFS was 
wrong to apply the charges.
Mr K didnt agree. As a resolution hasnt been found, this complaint has been passed to me, 
an ombudsman, to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K entered into an agreement with MBFS which set out the return conditions for the 
vehicle. MBFS has explained that these were also sent to Mr K six months before the end of 
his agreement and were available online. Therefore, I find it reasonable to accept that Mr K 
was aware of the return conditions when he decided to return the car.
The agreement sets out that when a vehicle is returned a Vehicle Return Standard 
Inspection will be carried out by trained technicians at the nominated Centre. When the car 
was collected an initial inspection was carried out (27 January 2020) and this records the 
literature pack as missing. MBFS has noted the conditions for the first inspection and having 
looked at the video recorded at that time I can see it was dark and wet. The initial inspection 
clearly states that a second inspection will take place and so I find that Mr K was made 
aware that the initial inspection wasnt the final assessment of the car.
The second inspection took place on 3 February 2020. Mr K hasnt disputed the charge for 
the damaged seal. I note Mr Ks comments that although the literature pack was missing at 
return he subsequently returned this to the dealer, however, I think it is reasonable that the 
charge is applied at the point the car is returned and as Mr K wasnt able to return the 
literature pack until much later, I do not find I can say it is unfair this charge remained. 
The outstanding dispute relates to the damage to the bumper. I have looked at the 
information provided and based on the second inspection report, I accept that this damage is 
present and falls outside of the fair wear and tear guidelines therefore I accept it is 
chargeable. I have considered Mr Ks comment about when the damage occurred. Having 
looked at the first inspection dated 27 January 2020 I cannot say whether the damage was 
there but noting the conditions I accept that was why a second inspection was needed. The 
mileage at the first inspection was recorded as 8,531 miles and this had increased to 8,578 
miles in the second inspection so limited mileage was driven after the car was collected. 
While I cannot say for certain, given the information provided, I think it more likely than not 
that the damage to the bumper occurred while the car was in Mr Ks possession and 
because this falls outside of the fair wear and tear guidelines I do not find I can say this 
charge should be removed.
Overall, I do not find that I can say the charges applied were unfair. I note Mr Ks comments 
about the additional key he returned and the value of this. However, there is nothing in the 
agreement which suggests any additional items will be offset against any end of agreement 
charges. 
I appreciate the comments Mr K has made about being a loyal customer and that MBFS 
should show some goodwill. However, my role is to assess whether I find that the charges 
were applied fairly and reasonably and as in this case I agree they were, I do not find I can 
uphold this complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman