DRN-3926970
The complaint
Mr M complains that Moneybarn No 1 Limited terminated his finance agreement. He says he 
was told that he could enter into a payment plan but that instead Moneybarn issued court 
proceedings to obtain a return of goods order for the car.
What happened
In September 2019 Mr M was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional sale 
agreement with Moneybarn.
Mr M fell behind with the payments and as a result the agreement was terminated on 6 
August 2021.
Mr M contacted Moneybarn on 13 August 2021 and was provided with post termination 
options. He said he wanted to proceed with a consent order and provided details of his 
income and expenditure.
Mr M then discovered that Moneybarn had instructed solicitors to obtain a return of goods 
order for repossession of the car. He complained to Moneybarn. 
In response, Moneybarn said that Mr M had missed several payments since the agreement 
was terminated. It said that because of Mr Ms failure to make payments the arrears had 
increased and the request for the consent order had been declined and that it would 
continue with proceedings to recover the car. 
Mr M wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service. Hes unhappy that he 
was told he could do a consent order but that the solicitors then issued proceedings to take 
the car back.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has said that his complaint isnt about the fact that Moneybarn terminated the 
agreement. Its about what happened afterwards.
For the sake of completeness, Ive looked into the circumstances under which the 
agreement was terminated. Having done so, I can see that the agreement was in arrears 
and that a default notice was issued on 15 July 2021 requiring payment of the arrears in full 
by 4 August 2021. The arrears werent paid so the agreement was terminated.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Moneybarn terminated the agreement within the 
terms and conditions of the account. I cant say that Moneybarn made an error or terminated 
the account unfairly.
Following the termination of the agreement, I can see that Mr M contacted Moneybarn on 13 
August 2021. Both parties agree that a consent order was discussed. Moneybarn asked Mr 
M to provided details of his income and expenditure and to pay 25% of the arrears, which he 
did around one week later.
Moneybarn instructed solicitors to manage the case and the consent order. However, Mr M 
failed to make his monthly payment in September 2021 and October 2021. He made a 
payment in November 2021 but then missed payments for several months. This meant that 
the arrears on the account increased substantially. 
Mr M contacted Moneybarn in December 2021 and said hed become aware that the 
solicitors were looking at a possible repossession of the car. Mr M says he was assured by 
Moneybarn that it was a consent order which was being processed and not a return of goods 
order. Mr M says he left things for a few months because he was unable to contact the 
solicitors, but he then received paperwork from the court for a return of goods order. 
Mr M complained to Moneybarn, who said that because monthly payments hadnt been 
maintained, Mr M no longer met the criteria for a consent order and that its solicitors were 
looking to obtain a return of goods order.
I appreciate that Mr M feels that hes been misled about the consent order. Theres no 
dispute that Mr Ms account was initially passed to solicitors to deal with a consent order. 
However, as Moneybarn has explained, a consent order is a discretionary process and 
because Mr M missed several payments, he no longer met the criteria for a consent order. 
Mr M has said that Moneybarn didnt fully advise him about the consent order process and 
that it was Moneybarn who cancelled his direct debit. I havent been able to listen to the calls 
between Moneybarn and Mr M which took place in August 2021 so I cant be certain of what 
was said. However, based on the fact that Mr M made a payment I November 2021, I think 
its likely that he was aware of his ongoing obligation to make payments. Taking all the 
circumstances of the case into account, I dont think Moneybarn acted unfairly here. I wont 
be asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman