DRN-3688460
The complaint
Miss T is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC will not extend the term on her expired residential 
mortgage or offer her a capital repayment mortgage.
What happened
Miss T has a residential interest-only mortgage account taken out in 2005 with the residential 
lending division of Lloyds. The mortgage term expired in 2019 and the balance has not been 
repaid. There is currently about £323,000 outstanding on the account.
This complaint follows on from a complaint Miss T brought to us in 2020, when she 
complained that Lloyds wouldnt extend the mortgage term on her residential mortgage or 
switch the mortgage to capital repayment. That complaint was resolved in November 2020 
after Lloyds agreed to offer Miss T a grace period until February 2021 to allow Miss T more 
time to sell some of her buy-to-let (BTL) properties. (I understand Miss T has six BTL 
properties in total, one mortgaged to Lloyds and five to another lender.)
In August 2021 Miss T contacted us again to make a new complaint. She told us that Lloyds 
had agreed, due to the pandemic, to give her until January 2022 to repay her mortgage to 
Lloyds but shed not been able to sell her other properties. Miss T didnt think Lloyds was 
acting fairly by not extending the term any further. 
Lloyds issued a final response letter in September 2021 explaining that the bank wasnt 
prepared to extend the 12-month hold it had put in place in January 2021 while Miss T sold 
two of her BTL properties. The bank didnt think it had treated Miss T unfairly, given that the 
mortgage term had expired in 2019.
Miss T asked us to look at the complaint. However, our investigator didnt think Lloyds had 
done anything wrong. He was satisfied that switching the mortgage to capital repayment 
wasnt affordable. He also didnt think Lloyds was required  as Miss T wanted  to confirm 
that the hold on her account was indefinite or that Lloyds was required to grant any further 
term extension. The investigator was satisfied Lloyds had given fair consideration to Miss Ts 
proposals but ultimately the bank was entitled to decline her requests as they didnt meet 
lending criteria.
Miss T didnt agree with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review 
the complaint. Miss T says shes been maintaining the monthly payments, plus additional 
payments, but other than an Income & Expenditure assessment in 2019, Lloyds has offered 
her no assistance or solutions at all.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator, for largely the same 
reason. I know this will be disappointing for Miss T. However, these are my reasons.
First of all, weve already explained in the complaint we concluded in November 2020 that 
Lloyds hadnt acted unfairly in declining a switch to capital repayment on the basis of 
affordability. Given this, and in the absence of any evidence from Miss T of a substantial 
increase in her income that might affect affordability since November 2020, I will not be 
revisiting this issue. It appears nothing has changed in this respect since we last determined 
that Lloyds hadnt acted unfairly in declining a switch to capital repayment on the basis of 
affordability.
In deciding whether or not Lloyds has treated Miss T fairly, the starting point here is that 
Lloyds lent Miss T the funds to buy her house on the basis that the loan would be repaid 
when the term ended in 2019. I fully understand that Miss T had expected to be in receipt of 
her state pension before then, with the end of the mortgage term coinciding with her 
proposed retirement age, but that the state pension age was later increased. I understand 
that this affected Miss Ts plans.
Miss T says that the lender on five of her BTL mortgages has extended the terms on those 
mortgages, so she cant understand why Lloyds wont agree to do this on her residential 
mortgage and convert it to capital repayment. A BTL mortgage is, however, a commercial 
loan and so the regulations that apply to residential mortgages dont apply to BTL 
mortgages. Lloyds is required to assess affordability where a borrower is seeking to change 
the term of their residential mortgage from interest only to capital repayment or to extend the 
mortgage term, and to consider what the repayment strategy is for paying off the debt. 
In this case, Miss T has said there are two BTL properties she can sell to pay off the 
mortgage, and that she has had them on the market for some time. I appreciate Miss T 
might not want to sell the properties at a price thats lower than she thinks they are worth. 
But I dont think this is reasonable  and I have to be fair not just to Miss T but to Lloyds as 
well. The mortgage is now three years overdue, and I think Lloyds has shown considerable 
forbearance in waiting for payment of the outstanding debt.
I acknowledge that the pandemic has had an effect on Miss Ts ability to sell the two BTL 
properties she has had on the market. But the extension granted by Lloyds to February 2022 
has long since passed, yet Miss T still hasnt repaid the outstanding mortgage. In the 
circumstances, I dont think, given the length of time that has elapsed, that Lloyds has acted 
unfairly.
The mortgage balance is now overdue, and, if repayment proposals cant be agreed, Lloyds 
will be entitled to pursue recovery action through the courts, as a last resort. I would not want 
Miss T to underestimate the seriousness of this.
I think it is important to explain here that lenders will generally agree to put recovery action 
on hold whilst we look at a complaint, but they dont have to and we cant force them to. If 
the Financial Ombudsman Service had that power it would undermine our impartiality 
between the parties to a complaint. It would also create the potential risk of consumers using 
our service to bring multiple complaints with the intention of obstructing businesses that were 
trying to take legitimate action through the courts to recover money owed to them. 
I do not wish to alarm Miss T, but I would not want her to be under any misunderstanding 
that we would tell Lloyds that it must suspend any recovery action in the event of a new 
complaint being raised. This is the second complaint in which we have determined that 
Lloyds hasnt acted unfairly in declining a term extension. Given this, in the event that Lloyds 
is left with no option but to commence legal action, and Miss T then brought another 
complaint about Lloyds requiring payment of the mortgage balance, we may decline to consider the complaint if it is about the substantially same issues we have already 
considered. 
We can also decline to consider a complaint if we think it is more suitable for consideration 
by a court, or where there is ongoing court action. Our rules allow us to do this. I think it is 
only fair to explain this because I would not want Miss T to be under the mistaken belief that 
she could, in effect, buy more time by raising a new complaint with us about the expired 
mortgage term.
I sincerely hope Miss T is able to resolve the situation with Lloyds and is able to make 
arrangements to repay the mortgage in the foreseeable future. As I said above, as a last 
resort, Lloyds is entitled to pursue recovery through the courts. Where a mortgage term has 
expired, the options available to the borrower to ask the court to suspend possession are 
very limited. However, I think it would help Miss T to discuss her situation with an 
independent financial adviser, and to explore other lending options such as an equity release 
lifetime mortgage to ascertain if this would be a viable option for her to raise the funds to 
repay her mortgage to Lloyds. 
I note that Lloyds agreed to put legal action on hold pending this final decision. This decision 
concludes our consideration of the complaint, and so, in the absence of firm payment 
proposals provided to the bank and supported by evidence from Miss T, Lloyds will be 
entitled to pursue its legal remedies. I reiterate in closing that it would not be appropriate for 
us to interfere in the postponement of any future legal action should this be the only option 
left for Lloyds. I do understand that Miss T doesnt want to lose her home, and I hope she is 
able to repay the mortgage in the near future. But it would be remiss of me if I did not 
emphasise that Miss T needs to address this as soon as possible.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman