DRN-3331212
The complaint
Mr B complains about how One Sure Insurance Limited administered his commercial motor 
insurance policy. He wants it to waive its cancellation charges. Mr B is represented in this 
complaint by Ms G. 
What happened
Ms G said she thought she had arranged a combined policy for Mr Bs motor trade business. 
But they found that separate amounts were being taken from their account for two policies to 
cover motor trade, public liability and contents. So they cancelled the policies and found 
cover elsewhere. One Sure didnt act on the cancellation instruction and this was later 
backdated.
But One Sure asked Mr B to pay the insurers charge for time on cover and its own 
arrangement fees, cancellation fees and charges for loss of commission. It tried to take this 
from Mr Bs card details held on file. Mr B was unhappy with this and wanted the charges 
waived.
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought the 
motor trade policy had auto-renewed before Mr B asked One Sure for a combined insurance 
policy to cover his new premises. And he thought the policy documents were sent to Mr Bs 
online account and they were downloaded. 
One Sure didnt offer a combined general policy, so he thought it couldnt have misled Mr B. 
He also saw that the start dates for the policies were different and separate premiums were 
charged. He thought that the cancellation had been backdated and the charges applied in 
keeping with One Sures Terms of Business. So he didnt think it had done anything wrong.
Ms G replied that theyd cancelled within 14 days of taking out the policies and the charges 
shouldnt be applied. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the brokers acted in line with its 
Terms of Business and fairly and reasonably.
Mr B had a motor trade policy taken out through One Sure. This covered just his vehicles, 
not his property or contents. The policy auto-renewed and, from what I can see, it wasnt 
until 20 days later that Mr B called One Sure to say that he was getting new premises and 
wanted a quote for combined insurance. This was set up 6 days later and the documentation 
was sent to Mr Bs online account. 
One Sure has told us that it doesnt offer a policy where motor trade and combined 
insurance are both included. From what I can understand, Mr Bs motor trade policy had 
auto-renewed and then he took out a separate combined policy. The policies have different 
start dates and end dates, separate premiums, and different documentation. So I agree with 
our Investigator that its most unlikely that One Sure misled Mr B that these would form one 
policy.
Mr B said hed not received the policy documents before he decided to cancel his policies. 
But I dont agree. Mr B accepted One Sures Terms of Business when he bought his policies 
and One Sure has provided evidence that the self-service area of its website had been 
accessed and the policy documents downloaded. 
One Sures Terms of Business sets out its non-refundable charges, cancellation charge, 
charge for loss of commission and that consumers will be charged by the insurer for time on 
cover. Mr B had paid less than this and so a balance remained outstanding. One Sure tried 
to collect this amount from the card details Mr B had provided. I think this is set out in its 
Terms and Business, and so I cant say it was unfair or unreasonable for it to do this. 
Ms G said they cancelled the policy within 14 days of taking it out. But, as our Investigator 
has explained, cooling off periods usually only apply to personal, not commercial, policies. I 
cant see that One Sures Terms of Business allow for a cooling off period. 
I can see that One Sure arranged with the underwriter to backdate the cancellation to the 
date that Mr B provided proof of alternative cover. I think that was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances as One Sure acted to correct an error in not cancelling the policies sooner 
and I cant see that the delay caused Mr B any loss. 
So I think One Sure made Mr B aware that he had bought separate policies. I think it applied 
cancellation charges in keeping with its Terms of Business. So I dont think One Sure did 
anything wrong or needs to waive any outstanding balance. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman