DRN-4256118
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Q complain that Santander UK Plc (Santander) wont refund a payment of 
£949 made from her account that she says she didnt authorise.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. In brief summary, Mrs Q fell victim to a scam in August 2022 after she was 
contacted by a third party (the scammer) claiming to be from Amazon. She was told that 
her account had been subject to fraud and had been used to purchase a mobile phone.
The scammer told Mrs Q that, in order to receive a refund, she would need to open an 
account with Wise, a regulated Electronic Money Institution. The scammer talked her 
through how to open an account, and a payment of £949 was made into it on 5 August 2022 
from Mr and Mrs Qs joint Santander account.
Mrs Q later realised she had been scammed and reported the transaction to Santander, as 
she said she didnt authorise it. However, Santander thought the transaction was likely 
authorised by Mrs Q. It also said it wouldnt be covered under the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM Code) as the payment was made to an account in Mrs Qs 
own name. Unhappy with this, Mrs Q referred the matter to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said the evidence showed that a One Time 
Passcode (OTP) had been sent to Mrs Qs registered mobile phone to set up an Open 
Banking payment to be made to her Wise account, and that the payment was authenticated 
using her passcode. As the investigator couldnt establish any point of compromise, she 
didnt think it was likely that anyone else had made the payments, so concluded they must 
have been authorised by Mrs Q. 
Mr and Mrs Q disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it, as I think the payments were most likely authorised by Mrs Q. Ill explain 
why.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations; the regulators rules, guidance and standards, the codes of practice; and, 
where relevant, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The disputed transaction complained about took place in August 2022, so of particular 
relevance to my decision are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs)  which apply 
to payments like the one made from Mr and Mrs Qs account.
The PSRs say that a payment transaction is authorised by the payer where they have given 
their consent to the execution to the payment transaction. Such consent must be given in the 
form and in accordance with the procedure agreed between the payer and the payment 
service provider.
Unless the payment service provider can show consent has been given, it has no authority 
to make a payment or debit the customers account. Where a payment service user denies 
having authorised a payment transaction, it is for the payment service provider to prove that 
the payment transactions in question were authorised by the customer.
Having considered the facts before me as well as the relevant law, it seems to me that the 
key question I need to determine here is whether it is more likely than not that Mrs Q 
authorised the transactions. In other words, I need to decide whether Mrs Q made the 
transactions herself or gave someone permission to do so. This is important because a 
customer will usually be liable for payments theyve authorised and, generally speaking, a 
bank will be liable for any unauthorised payments.
In this instance, Santander has provided evidence to demonstrate that a One Time 
Passcode was sent to Mrs Qs mobile phone in order to complete an open banking payment, 
which I can see was sent to the same phone number she has provided to this service. The 
payment was then authorised using her passcode via the mobile app. 
Mrs Q said that the scammer seemed to take over her phone. However, she has also 
maintained that she didnt download any remote access software, so it doesnt seem this 
would be possible. A third party cannot take control of a device simply by calling it. She also 
hasnt said that she disclosed any of her security details or One Time Passcodes to the 
scammer, so its unclear how an unauthorised third party would have been able to authorise 
the payment using her credentials. 
So, theres seemingly no other explanation for how the payments came to be made, other 
than them being made by Mrs Q. I accept its possible she may not recall doing this at the 
time if she was under pressure from the scammers to try and get the money back she was 
told shed lost. But given no one else had access to Mrs Qs device or security information, 
there is seemingly no point of compromise for the payments to have been made by anyone 
else. 
Therefore, the only plausible conclusion is that either Mrs Q set up the payment, or she gave 
her details/device to somebody else, thereby giving her consent and authority for payments 
to be made on her behalf. I appreciate that Mrs Q disputes this but given no one else had 
access to her details or device, there is no other plausible explanation for how the payment 
could have otherwise been made. 
As a result, I dont think Santander has acted unfairly by failing to treat the payment as 
unauthorised. I do not doubt that Mrs Q has been scammed in these circumstances though 
and may have unwittingly made the payment at the scammers instruction, so I ve 
considered whether Santander ought reasonably to have intervened at any point based on 
the transaction appearing suspicious or out of character. However, the payment wasnt for a 
significant amount, so I dont think it ought to have appeared suspicious to Santander either. 
Therefore, I dont think the bank has acted unfairly by failing to make further enquiries with 
Mr and Mrs Q before allowing the payment to be processed. 
Santander is also under no obligation to refund the money to Mr and Mrs Q under the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code) either, as the Code does not apply to 
payments which the payer has made to themselves (which would have been the case here 
given the payment was made to Mrs Q account shed opened with Wise). There wouldve also been no prospect of Santander being able to recover the money either given it was 
swiftly paid out of Mrs Qs Wise account and on to the scammer. 
Overall, Im not persuaded Santander has acted unfairly in these circumstances, so I wont 
be asking it to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs Q to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman