DRN-4053581
The complaint
Mr G complains that he lost out because Trading 212 UK Limited gave him a fraction of a 
share only when he took part in a promotion that advertised successful participants would 
receive a free share.
To put things right, Mr G wants Trading 212 to make up the part share he was given to a 
whole share.
What happened
Mr G took part in the Invite-A-Friend promotion campaign run by Trading 212. 
The terms of the scheme included the following:
Help your friends make the right choice as well by inviting them to join Trading 212. Both of 
you will be rewarded with a free share! It's a win-win!
Under the definitions part, the Reward share was described as:
each and any of the equity-based financial instruments transferred by Trading 212 to both 
the Referrer and the Referral as a reward pursuant to the Terms of the Campaign or the 
monetary value of such equity-based financial instruments where Trading 212 is unable to 
provide the instruments
Trading 212 went on to say: Reward Shares are randomly selected and unique to each 
Participant with a price of up to 100 EUR (which will appear in the default currency of the 
Participant's account).
On 11 January 2023, Trading 212 rewarded Mr G with 0.147968 free shares in a well-known 
global company I will call B. The monetary value of the received B shares was 11.01 EUR.
Unhappy that hed received only a fractional share instead of a whole share, Mr G 
complained. Trading 212 didnt uphold his complaint. In brief summary, it said the terms of 
the scheme (to which it provided a link) were that he would be rewarded with a bonus share, 
which could consist of either full shares or fractional shares of companies whose shares 
were potentially more valuable. Trading 212 however confirmed an offer it had made to Mr G 
as a gesture of goodwill, which enabled him to use a one-off code to redeem another bonus 
share. 
Mr G didn't feel this was enough to resolve his complaint, saying that Trading 212 had 
modified its terms and conditions since hed complained to justify not having given him a full 
share. 
One of our investigators looked into what happened. Our investigator didnt feel he had seen 
enough to uphold Mr Gs complaint, saying (in summary):
the terms and conditions originally didnt state that Mr G would receive only a fraction 
of a share but equally, they didnt state that Mr G would receive a whole share 
Trading 212 had amended the terms to make them clearer and wasnt at fault for 
doing this 
Trading 212s offer of an additional promotional share acknowledged the fact that 
Mr G felt hed been misled, which the investigator thought was reasonable.
Mr G disagreed with our investigator. He mainly said:
he was promised a share not a fraction of a share
his view reflected general understanding of the ordinary meaning of a share and the 
dictionary definition of a single unit of a thing
his complaint should be judged against the original terms and conditions and he 
questioned the legality of the revised terms and conditions. 
As the complaint hasn't been resolved, it comes to me for a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We provide an informal complaints handling service and this is reflected in the way Ive 
approached the complaint. My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr G and 
Trading 212 and reach an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of 
the case. And having thought about everything I've seen and been told, Ive independently 
reached the same overall conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain why I say this. 
Despite what Mr G has said about the legality of Trading 212 revising its terms and 
conditions following his complaint, its not for me to determine whether or not theres been 
any wrongdoing in law, in the same way that a court or tribunal would. That would go beyond 
the scope of what we can offer as an alternative dispute resolution service and outside my 
role as an ombudsman. 
I can however consider the way Mr G was treated by Trading 212. 
Mr G was entitled to expect that Trading 212 would act towards him in a fair and reasonable 
way. So this is the focus of my decision.  
Looking at the terms and conditions that Mr G responded to when he decided to take part in 
the scheme, I appreciate Mr Gs disappointment at not receiving a full share. But I think it's 
fair to say that the terms and conditions didnt specify this would happen and that the 
wording does arguably allow scope for Trading 212s preferred interpretation. 
Ive also kept in mind that Trading 212 said its understanding and intention all along was that 
a share might mean a fractional share and this is the way the scheme worked for all its 
customers who participated. 
Mr G received a fractional share within the promised value range. So, on balance, I dont find 
that I've seen enough to be able to uphold Mr Gs complaint on the grounds that he was 
treated unfairly or unreasonably by Trading 212 when he wasnt rewarded with a full share. I also find it was fair and reasonable for Trading 212 to update the wording used in the offer 
as this could have been helpful to anyone participating in the scheme. It was clearly stated in 
the new version of the terms and conditions that The Reward Shares may be less than one 
share. This removed any ambiguity and clarified that the way the scheme worked might 
result in participants receiving a fractional share, as happened in Mr Gs case. 
In order to uphold Mr Gs complaint I would have to find that Trading 212 acted unfairly or 
unreasonably  and for the reasons I have explained, I havent seen enough here to do so. 
So I cant award the redress Mr G would like me to. 
Trading 212 has indicated that its goodwill offer remains open to Mr G and it has said that if 
he tries and the code it gave him previously is no longer valid, it can arrange for an 
additional code to be sent to him. I am aware that Mr G has previously said that he didnt 
want to accept Trading 212s offer, but he can contact Trading 212 directly about this if he 
changes his mind. I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr G but I hope that setting things out 
as I've done helps to explain how I've reached my conclusions. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman