DRN-4324037
The complaint
Mr B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt return all his funds after he tried to make an 
international payment.
What happened
Mr B holds a current account with HSBC. In May 2023 he tried to make an online 
international payment to a current account he holds in another country, but the payment 
didnt go through. It was returned to Mr Bs HSBC current account in early June  but the 
amount was less than when he tried to make the payment.
Mr B complained. HSBC responded and explained that it processed the online payment as 
instructed but it was rejected by the beneficiary bank. On return, HSBC had to exchange the 
funds back to GBP and in doing so, Mr B received less money. HSBC explained that 
customers are made aware when making these types of payments that if they are rejected or 
returned there may be losses or gains depending on the currency market.
Mr B remained unhappy about brought his complaint to this service. One of our investigators 
looked into the matter and didnt think HSBC had done anything wrong. They were satisfied 
that HSBC had made the payment as instructed and that the amount of money returned was 
due to a loss when exchanging the funds back to GBP. They were satisfied HSBC had 
warned Mr B that this could happen.
Mr B disagreed. He wanted the full amount of money back. He asked for an ombudsman to 
consider the case  so its been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as the investigator for broadly the same 
reasons.
The terms and conditions of Mr Bs HSBC account explain that when making international 
payments HSBC tells the customer the HSBC Exchange Rate and if asked to make the 
payment straight away, it applies the rate from that date. 
They go on to say that if a payment is returned to HSBC or the payment cant be made for 
any reason, then it will reverse it using the exchange rate at that time, which may have 
changed. They explain that the amount HSBC pays back may be more or less than originally 
taken from the customers account.
Ive also reviewed an example of what Mr B wouldve seen when he made the online 
international transfer. This shows the exchange rate applied at the time of the transfer and at 
the bottom there is a section called Important Information. Which further explains that if the 
payment is cancelled by HSBC, the payee bank or any other bank used to send the payment 
and the exchange rate has changed, the customer could get back less than the original 
amount.
Taking this into account Im satisfied that HSBC gave Mr B fair warning about what could 
happen if an international transfer didnt go through.
Next, Ive considered whether HSBC attempted to complete the online transfer correctly. Ive 
seen evidence of the input Mr B made when he completed the online transfer. This is inline 
with Mr Bs recollections. Ive also seen the SWIFT messages between HSBC and the 
receiving bank, and Im satisfied HSBC attempted to make the transfer as instructed by Mr 
B. It also chased the payment with the beneficiary bank and when the funds were returned it 
applied the exchange rate from that date.
Overall, Im satisfied that HSBC attempted to make the transfer as instructed by Mr B. He 
received less back than when he tried to make the payment, but this wasnt due to an error 
made by HSBC  it was because the exchange rate had changed. 
I understand Mr B feels strongly about his case but given what Ive said above I dont think 
HSBC has done anything wrong.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2024.
 
Rachel Killian
Ombudsman