DRN-3452141
The complaint
Mr M says Everyday Lending Limited (ELL), trading as Everyday Loans, irresponsibly lent to
him. 
What happened
This complaint is about a 36-month instalment loan for £5,000 that ELL provided to
Mr M on 8 July 2021. The monthly repayments were £308.34 and the total repayable
was £11,118.60.
Mr M says the lender pressured him into taking a loan he didnt want and manipulated his 
data. This led him into financial difficulties and impacted his mental health.
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Ms complaint and thought ELL shouldnt have given the
loan. ELL disagreed and so the complaint was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Ms complaint. These two
questions are:
1. Did ELL complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr M would
be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way without experiencing significant adverse
consequences?
- If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
- If not, would those checks have shown that Mr M wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did ELL act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required ELL to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of Mr Ms ability to make the repayments under this agreement.
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so ELL had to think about whether repaying
the loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Mr M. In practice this meant that
business had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Mr M undue
difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for ELL to simply think about the likelihood of it getting
its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr M. Checks also
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of 
income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of 
time during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that 
repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
ELL has provided evidence to show that before lending it asked for some information
from Mr M. It asked for his monthly income and estimated his living costs using national 
averages. It asked about his rent and obtained a copy of his tenancy agreement. It carried 
out a credit check to understand his credit history and his existing credit commitments. It 
reviewed recent bank statements to verify his salary and some outgoings. Based on these 
checks ELL thought it was fair to lend.
I think these checks were proportionate, but I dont think ELL made a fair lending
decision based on the information it gathered. Ill explain why.
ELLs affordability assessment showed Mr M would have £125.88 disposable income each 
month. This was based on an income of £1,477.57, living expenses of £585.34, a 
contribution to rent of £250 and ongoing credit commitments of £516.34. Our adjudicator 
said ELL ought to have included the full rent of £500 and this meant the loan was 
unaffordable for Mr M.
ELL argued that Mr M was co-habiting and his partner contributed to the rent. Mr Ms 
testimony does not support this: he says he lived in a shared house and paid £500 rent - his 
partner lived with her parents, but ELL told him to submit that they co-habited and that she 
paid £250. I cannot know what was discussed between the parties at the time of the 
application, so I have looked at the available documentation to decide what I think is most 
likely. Mr Ms bank statements show he paid a monthly rent payment of £500, there was no 
corresponding payment into his account for £250. And he is the sole named person on the 
tenancy agreement. So I think as he was both contractually responsible for the full £500, and 
also seems to have been paying it in full, ELL ought to have used £500 for his rent cost. This 
means the affordability assessment would have shown the loan to be unaffordable for Mr M.
ELL also argues that it understated Mr Ms income in its assessment. So even if the full £500 
for rent is taken into account, the additional income shown on Mr Ms bank statements 
means the loan was still affordable. But I dont think this is a reasonable position. At the time 
of lending it opted not to include this second income stream in its assessment. As it seems to have been variable - and not certain given its nature - I think this was the right decision. 
And I dont accept it should now be included.
In its final response letter ELL replied to Mr Ms comment that it manipulated the data he 
provided by saying he signed to confirm that the figures were a true and accurate 
representation of his circumstances. And I accept he did this, but this doesnt change the 
lenders obligation to make a fair decision based on the checks it completed.  And for the 
reasons set out above I dont think it did that here.
It follows I think ELL was wrong to give this loan to Mr M.
Ive also thought about whether ELL acted unfairly in some other way towards Mr M and I 
havent seen any evidence that it did. 
Mr M told us he wanted to use the loan to repay another loan, but the lender persuaded him 
to use it to repay two credit cards and a mail order account. I dont doubt this is his honest 
recollection, but the lenders notes from the time of the sale indicate the initial plan changed 
as they read we are not paying off loan x as we have received the settlement figure and it 
is higher than the guessed settlement amount, so we are now paying off credit card a and 
credit card b leaving £2k to pay off a large amount of loan x, customer has agreed to this.  
So I think its most likely Mr M accepted which debts this loan was going to settle directly, 
and that he was going to arrange the part-settlement of his other loan.
Putting things right  what ELL needs to do
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr M to repay the capital amount that he borrowed,
because he had the benefit of that lending. But he has paid extra for lending that should
not have been provided to him so ELL needs to put that right.
It should:
refund all interest and charges Mr M paid on the loan;
if reworking Mr Ms loan account results in him having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then ELL should refund these overpayments with
8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments
would have arisen, to the date of settlement*;
if reworking Mr Ms account results in there still be a capital balance outstanding ELL
should work with Mr M to agree an affordable repayment plan; and
remove any negative information about the loan from Mr Ms credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires ELL to take off tax from this interest. ELL must give Mr M a
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Ms complaint. Everyday Lending Limited (ELL), trading as Everyday
Loans, must put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman