DRN-2175064
The complaint
Mr C complains that he was misled by Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money about 
the expiry of a money transfer offer.
What happened
Mr C opened a Virgin credit card account and made a money transfer which he thought was 
0% for 38 months. He says he found out in 2020 that the money transfer offer period was for 
20 months and that he was misled by Virgin. Mr C says he could have repaid the money 
within 20 months if he had known and says Virgin didnt tell him about the end of the 
promotional period. He would like the interest refunded and says he didnt log into his 
account as he assumed there was 38 months to repay the balance.
Virgin doesnt accept making a mistake and says Mr C opened the account online in 
November 2017 with a money transfer offer period of 20 months. It says it applied interest 
when that offer finished in line with account terms and conditions. Virgin says the information 
about the end of the offer was clearly displayed in the application stage and on every 
account statement. It also says it sent Mr C information about the end of the promotional 
period before it expired.
Mr C brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Virgin wasnt responsible for Mr C not appreciating the time periods and thought Mr 
C ought to have noticed the information about them on the account statements. The 
investigator thought Virgin had also sent Mr C details about the end of the offer.
Mr C doesnt accept that view and says he didnt receive any information from Virgin about 
the expiry and says there wasnt information about the expiry date when he did login to his 
account when it was first opened. He maintains the information from Virgin was confusing 
and questions why he should have checked the position.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the overall view that Virgin hasnt made a mistake or acted 
unfairly. I realise Mr C will be disappointed by my decision.
Im satisfied that Mr C applied for the credit card account himself and made the money 
transfer to that account. I also think he agreed to the account terms and conditions which I 
can see say that interest will be applied when any promotional rates expire. There is no 
doubt here that the money transfer offer expired in July 2019 and as there was an 
outstanding balance, I dont think Virgin made a mistake by applying interest from that date.
I appreciate that Mr C says he was misled by Virgin and that the information about the 
transfer periods was confusing. So, I have looked at Virgins online process that was in place 
when Mr C made the application. Having done so, I am satisfied that the information about 
the balance transfer and money transfer is separate and clear and makes clear that there 
are different expiry periods for each offer. I dont think the information was confusing and I 
am satisfied the money transfer promotional period was for 20 months and a balance 
transfer for 38 months.
I accept that Mr C believed the money transfer period was for 38 months, but I cant fairly 
hold Virgin responsible for that mistake and I would have expected Mr C to have checked 
the position when he opened the account if he was in any doubt about its length. I can also 
see that details of the promotional period expiry were recorded on every account statement 
and I would have expected Mr C to have checked at least the first statement if not the 
others.  
I appreciate Mr C says he didnt receive any correspondence from Virgin about the end of 
the promotional period. I think on balance information was sent to Mr C via his online 
account, but I can see that Mr C says he didnt log into his account and didnt have his login 
details in any event.
Overall, I find Virgin hasnt made a mistake and I cant fairly hold it responsible for what I 
think was Mr Cs mistake. I dont think Virgin misled Mr C or gave him misleading 
information. It follows that I cant fairly order Virgin to refund any interest as Mr C would like.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2020.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman