DRN-1340086
The complaint
Miss O complains that Fairmead Insurance Limited withdrew an offer to settle her legal 
expenses insurance claim. She is also unhappy with the level of service she received. 
Where I refer to Fairmead this includes their agents and claims handlers.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So Ill only provide a 
brief summary here. Miss O had the benefit of insurance for certain legal expenses which 
was provided by Fairmead.
In April 2019 Miss O contacted Fairmead to make a claim. She wanted legal assistance to 
pursue her former employer at an Employment Tribunal. Fairmead agreed to review the 
claim and it was also agreed that Miss O could use her own solicitor. It was then decided 
that a barristers opinion was required. 
In August 2019 a barrister provided his opinion which recorded that the only part of the claim 
that enjoyed prospects of success of 51% (which was a condition of cover) was the claim for 
breach of contract / unlawful deductions. This was valued at around £600. He said the rest 
of her claim didnt have reasonable prospects of success and also noted that Miss Os 
former employer was asking her to return around £1,500 of the wages shed been paid. 
On 6 September 2019 there was a phone call between Fairmead and Miss Os solicitor. 
During this call Fairmead made an offer to settle the claim on a commercial basis by paying 
Miss O £2,500  instead of continuing to fund the legal action. Miss Os solicitor asked that 
this was put to her in writing.
On 9 September 2019 Fairmead withdrew that offer. Theyd realised that they hadnt 
correctly considered the information in the barristers opinion. They asked Miss Os solicitor 
to pursue a drop hands agreement with the other side  that being both parties agreeing to 
cease their action against the other. 
Miss O complained about the offer being withdrawn. Fairmead partly upheld the complaint, 
they said they were entitled to withdraw their previous offer but acknowledged that this would 
have caused Miss O some distress and inconvenience. So they offered her £150 to 
compensate for this, but maintained that they wouldnt be paying her £2,500 to settle the 
claim. 
Being unhappy with this Miss O referred her complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators didnt think it should be upheld. She concluded that Fairmead werent 
responsible for significant service failings in their handling of the complaint. And that the 
compensation theyd already offered was fair in the circumstances.
As she still disagrees, Miss O has asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator and for essentially the same reasons. I know 
this will be disappointing for Miss O, so Ill explain why.
Miss Os policy includes a term where Fairmead can make an offer to settle a claim by 
paying its value rather than continuing to cover the costs of the legal action. Both sides 
agree that Fairmead made an offer like this during a phone call with Miss Os solicitor on 6 
September 2019. Fairmead say that this was a mistake. I agree that this was an unusual 
step to take in the circumstances in relation to the advice they had on file. Theyd been 
provided with the barristers opinion on 23 August 2019 so by that point they should have 
been aware of its content. 
It may well have been Miss Os intention to accept that offer, but I dont think it had been 
accepted at that point as the solicitor had asked for it to be put to her in writing. And when 
preparing to do so Fairmead realised their mistake and withdrew their offer. I dont think it 
was unfair for Fairmead to change their mind when they realised their error. But I can 
understand why this upset Miss O when she found out.
So, I agree that Miss O should be compensated for the trouble and upset this caused. When 
considering how much compensation is warranted, Ive taken in to account that the offer was 
originally made on Friday 6 September 2019 and withdrawn on Monday 9 September 2019 - 
which was the next working day. So, the mistake was promptly corrected. And having 
thought carefully about this, I think the £150 Fairmead have already offered is fair 
compensation. So Im not going to tell Fairmead that they have to increase this amount. If 
this hasnt already been paid Miss O should contact Fairmead if she wishes to accept that 
amount.
I also agree with what our investigator said about the service Fairmead provided in their 
handling of the claim up until that point. There were occasions where Fairmead could have 
responded more promptly. But from reviewing the file whenever an extension was needed, 
the other side agreed. So, I dont think it impacted on Miss Os legal action and Im not 
persuaded the impact of this was sufficient that further compensation needs to be paid.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 May 2020.
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman