DRN-2792260
The complaint
 Mr M complains that Santander hasnt refunded him all of the money he lost when he fell 
victim to a scam.
What happened
 The details of this case have been clearly set out by our investigator - when he wrote to 
Santander upholding Mr Ms complaint. As such, the facts are well-known to both parties, so 
I dont need to repeat them at length here. In summary:
On 12 February 2020, Mr M received a text message from who he thought was 
Santander, saying there had been unusual activity on his account. The text said that, 
if it hadnt been him that had carried out the transactions, Mr M should call the 
number provided on the text.
Mr M hadnt carried out the transactions that were detailed in the text, so he called 
the number and spoke with a lady, who claimed to be from Santander. But unknown 
to Mr M at the time, he was speaking to a fraudster. The fraudster told Mr M his 
account was at risk and that, in order to protect his money, he should transfer the 
money to a new account that would be set up for him.
Mr M asked the person he was speaking to how he could be sure it was Santander 
he was speaking to. The fraudster told Mr M they could call him back and he would 
be able to see that they were calling from a Santander number. Mr M was called 
back, and he checked the number that had called him, with the telephone number on 
the back of his bank card  the numbers were the same. Mr M has said he was also 
asked security questions, as he would have been if it had genuinely been Santander 
who had called him.
Believing the call to be genuine and thinking that his money was at risk, Mr M went 
ahead and made two transfers for £25,000 to two different accounts, the details of 
which had been given to him by the fraudster. Mr M has told us he isnt technically 
minded and the fraudsters coached him through making the payments. 
Mr M became suspicious later in the day, after speaking with his son about what had 
happened, and he raised the fraud with Santander who looked into things.
The case was considered under the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code). 
This is a voluntary scheme Santander has signed up to, designed to reimburse customers 
that have fallen victim to a scam. The starting position under the CRM Code is for a 
customer to be refunded. A firm might choose not to refund if it establishes that a customer 
hasnt met their requisite level of care under the CRM Code. In making such an assessment, 
a firm may consider whether it can establish that the customer:
ignored an effective warning;
made the payment without having a reasonable basis for believing that it was for 
legitimate purposes; or
has been grossly negligent.
Santander found that the second payment Mr M had made, had been cleared by a call to 
Santander, which had been made by the fraudster, rather than Mr M. So, Santander 
refunded Mr M the full £25,000 for the second payment that had been made. 
Santander was also able to recover £10,110.71 of the first payment, from the receiving bank 
and it returned this to Mr Ms account. But it declined to refund the remainder of Mr Ms loss. 
Santander issued its final response on 8 March 2020. It said that due to Mr M making and 
authorising the payments, it could not be held liable for the loss.
Mr M then brought his complaint to our service, as he was unhappy with Santanders 
decision. 
Santander has told us that it isnt upholding Mr Ms complaint because he was provided with 
sufficient warnings before he made the payment. It believed it had completed an appropriate 
level of duty to review the payments with Mr M, prior to the payments being debited. 
One of our investigators looked into things and upheld Mr Ms complaint. He didnt think the 
warnings provided would have been impactful in the circumstances of Mr Ms complaint. He 
said this as Mr M didnt recall seeing the warnings and that the fraudster, who Mr M 
genuinely thought was his bank, were coaching him through how to make the payments.  
Our investigator added that the warnings also didnt explain what a safe account scam 
looked and felt like.
Alongside this, our investigator also thought that Santander could have done more to contact 
Mr M before allowing the payments to be progressed. While our investigator recognised the 
payments had been picked up by Santanders fraud systems, he didnt think the actions it 
took went far enough, considering how out of character the payments were, compared with 
how Mr M typically ran his account. 
It was our investigators opinion that had Santander spoken to Mr M prior to releasing the 
payments, the scam would have come to light and Mr M wouldnt have lost his money. 
Overall, our investigator said Santander ought to have reimbursed the remainder of Mr Ms
loss under the provisions of the CRM Code.
He said Santander should settle the complaint by refunding Mr M with the unrecovered part 
of the payment made to the scammer, together with 8% simple interest per annum from the 
time the money was lost, to the time it was returned to his account.
The investigators findings were sent to both parties on 19 March 2021 with a deadline for
responding of 16 April 2021. That deadline has now passed and the bank did not respond.
As such, the case has been escalated to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, Im upholding it.
Our statutory rules provide  at DISP 3.5.8 to 3.5.15 of the Financial Conduct AuthorityHandbook  that we may give case-management directions and fix or extend deadlines; and
that we may:
reach a decision on the basis of what has been supplied and take account of the
failure by a party to provide information requested;
And that
If a respondent fails to comply with a time limit, the Ombudsman may: (1) proceed
with consideration of the complaint; and (2) include provision for any material distress
or material inconvenience caused by that failure in any award which he decides to
make.
Ive therefore concluded that, in the absence of a response from Santander to the
investigators initial assessment, it is fair and reasonable to proceed on the basis of the
evidence we already have and/or to take account of Santanders failure to reply to the
investigators opinion.
Ive considered whether, under the CRM, Mr M ought to have been reimbursed when he
notified Santander of the scam. In doing so, Ive considered whether or not he met his
requisite level of care under the CRM Code. I believe he did, and for substantively the same
reasons the investigator has already explained, so it would be fair and reasonable
for Mr M to receive a refund of the remainder of his loss.
Putting things right
For the reasons set out by the investigator and above, Ive decided that Mr M ought
reasonably to have been fully refunded under the CRM. I therefore direct Santander UK Plc
to pay Mr M:
- the remainder of the money he lost as part of the scam - £14,889.29  within 28 days 
of receiving notification of his acceptance of my final decision; plus
- interest at the simple rate of 8% per year on that amount (less any tax properly 
deductible) from the date of the transaction, until the date of settlement.
-
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ms complaint about Santander UK Plc, as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2021.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman