DRN-3229409
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy about the way AmTrust Europe Limited (Guardsman) has handled his claim 
under his Guardsman Furniture Protection Plan Insurance.
What happened
Mr E bought a large sofa from a furniture retailer in 2018 and took out a protection plan 
provided by Guardsman to cover it against accidental damage or stains.
About two years later, Mr E discovered a mark on the seat of the sofa that he thought was 
glue and made a claim under the policy. Guardsman sent a technician who tried to remove 
the mark and he applied a solvent that did not remove the mark but exposed it making the 
area look worse than before the repair was attempted.
The technician realised that the repair could not be completed and recommended that the 
damaged section was replaced. 
Guardsman offered Mr E the option of taking a cash settlement or having the damaged 
areas replaced. In their letter Guardsman say as these parts are made to order we are 
unable to guarantee an exact match of colour, pattern or grain which may be an issue if your 
furniture is well worn or has faded significantly since new. We will do all we can to get as 
close a match as possible however putting a new part on an older item of furniture may 
highlight differences between them.
Mr E raised a complaint about the repairer making the problem worse and that Guardsman 
were not able to guarantee the new parts would match the existing sofa. Mr E wants 
Guardsman to replace the entire sofa with a new one.
Guardsman rejected Mr Es complaint, so brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into things and didnt think Guardsman needed to do anything more.  
They thought that Guardsmans offer of a cash settlement or replacement of the damage 
part was fair and reasonable and in line with the policy terms and conditions. So our 
investigator didnt uphold the complaint. 
As Mr E remained unhappy with the view, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. 
This is set out below:
Guardsman have already accepted that the stain damage to Mr Es sofa is covered under 
the policy. Mr Es complaint is about the settlement offered by Guardsman, and so my 
decision will focus on this.
I can see from the evidence provided Guardsman initially sent a technician to attempt to 
remove the mark from the sofa. The technician was unable to complete the repair and 
advised that Guardsman would look to replace the part of the sofa that had been affected.
Mr E is not happy that the technician caused more damage to the sofa by attempting to carry 
out the repair and has suggested that the mark should not have been repaired or not 
touched at all.
Ive looked at the policy terms which say:
SECTION 6  CLAIMS PROCEDURE
6. Guardsman will settle valid claims by, sending out a specialised stain remover (if 
appropriate), or by cleaning or repairing your damaged product at their discretion up to 
the value of your product and not exceeding the maximum liability. When a satisfactory 
clean or repair is not possible Guardsman will replace the damaged product.
It seems clear to me that Guardsmans policy is one that tries to repair the damaged 
furniture in the first instance, so its reasonable that their technician attempted to carry out 
the repair. Looking at the technicians notes, he says that the mark looks like a small burn 
and Just to make sure it wasn`t superglue, I used liqua gel and a solvent for melting glues 
before confirming that the damage wasnt repairable and that he recommended that the part 
should be replaced under the policy.
I think that the technicians actions have been fair and reasonable and in line with the policy 
wording so Im not going to ask Guardsman to do anything further.
Mr E is also unhappy about the replacement part being offered by Guardsman. The Claims 
Procedure goes on to say:
b. although Guardsman will always do its best, we do not guarantee an exact match 
of grain, sheen or pattern in the event of your product being repaired or replaced. 
Neither is exact colour match guaranteed, replacement parts will be matched to an 
inconspicuous area of the item. In such circumstances liability is limited to the best 
endeavours of a Guardsman approved technician.
It seems clear to me that Guardmans offer to settle by replacing the damaged fabric or to 
pay cash as an alternative is in line with their terms and conditions. There is no requirement 
for Guardsman to replace the damaged sofa or to re-cover the whole sofa if a suitable repair 
of the damaged part is possible.
I know that Mr E is worried that the replacement fabric will not be a good colour match. 
However, at the moment we dont know how good the match will be as no replacement has 
been attempted.
For all the reasons mentioned above, I dont intend to uphold this complaint. I dont think it is 
reasonable to expect Guardsman to replace the entire sofa at this stage before any attempt 
has been made to replace the damaged fabric. I also think that it is premature for me to 
decide what might happen if the replacement fabric doesnt match. I think it fair that 
Guardsman should be given the opportunity to deal with this themselves first.
Mr E has been given two settlement options by Guardsman. He can either accept the cash 
offer which will close the claim, or he can choose to ask Guardsman to replace the damaged 
fabric. 
Response to my provisional decision 
Mr E did not respond to my provisional decision. Guardsman said it had no further 
comments to make.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party presented me with any further information to consider, then my final 
decision and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2022.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman