DRN-4389968
The complaint
Mrs O complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner
Finance (BPF), unfairly turned down her claims under the Consumer Credit Act 1974
(CCA).
Mrs O is assisted in bringing her complaint by a legal representative, but for ease Ill refer to
anything thats been said on her behalf as if Mrs O had said it herself.
What happened
In 2009 Mrs O took a trial membership for a timeshare and in September 2011 decided to
upgrade to a full membership financing this with a fixed sum loan agreement provided by
BPF. This credit agreement was for 180 months.
In October 2013 Mrs O settled the balance of the credit agreement with BPF in full.
Mrs O says the benefits of the timeshare membership were misrepresented to her; that she
had been the subject of a pressured sale, that the terms of the membership were unfair (for
instance the increases applied to the management fees) and that there were no affordability
checks carried out by BPF before she entered into the credit agreement as she had actually
been unemployed at the time.
In December 2017 Mrs O made a claim to BPF under sections 75 and 140(A) of the
Consumer Credit Act 2015. She said there hadnt been an adequate transparent explanation
as to the terms and conditions of the timeshare product.
BPF didnt accept Mrs Os claims. It disagreed that there had been any misrepresentations
made by the holiday company or that there had been any pressure on Mrs O to take the
timeshare membership. It also said the terms of the timeshare agreement were fair and had
been provided to Mrs O so that she could make an informed decision before entering into
the agreement.  BPF said that there had been credit checks and assessments conducted by 
itself prior to providing the credit agreement. It said Mrs O had reported she was employed in 
her credit application.
Mrs O disagreed with the view of BPF and complained to this service. Our investigator didnt
recommend her complaint should be upheld as she didnt think BPF had acted unfairly when
looking at Mrs O claim.
In respect of Mrs Os claim under section 75, our investigator said that due to the amount of
time that had passed, BPF would have a defence to a claim that the timeshare agreement
had been misrepresented as it was now out of time as under the Limitation Act 1980.
In respect of a claim under section 140A, our investigator said that she hadnt seen enough
evidence to suggest that there were any relevant considerations that might mean the
relationship between Mrs O and BPF had been unfair.
When looking at the affordability of the credit agreement our investigator said that the
business checks made by BPF didnt appear to have shown any signs that Mrs O would
have found the lending sustainably unaffordable. Based on the information it appeared she
had reasonable disposable income after expenses to make the payments.
Mrs O disagreed with the view of our investigator and provided a 46-page opinion from a
barrister covering a number of generic submissions.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint was passed to me. I issued 
a provisional decision along the following lines.
As Id said above, Mrs O had provided an opinion by a barrister called Generic
submissions on behalf of complainants. As Mrs O had suggested that the opinion was 
relevant to this complaint, I took it into account but only insofar as it discussed points that 
were of direct relevance to this complaint. That is, as it related to the matters raised by Mrs 
O with BPF.
Under the rules that govern how I consider and decide complaints, I must take account of
law and regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice and
good industry practice. I must also focus on what I think is material and relevant to reach a
fair and reasonable outcome. So, although I have read everything that has been said and
provided, I might not address every point that has been raised.
Mrs Os section 75 claim
A claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75) can be made when
a consumer uses certain types of credit to make purchases of goods or services. Under
section 75 in certain circumstances the consumer has an equal right to claim against the
provider of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or services if there has been a
misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
Mrs O said that she was told that she would be able to sell her membership back to the
holiday company or sell it on and recoup the costs; that she would be able to book holidays
where she wanted when she wanted and that the management fees would only rise in line
with inflation. She said none these things were true.
BPF disagreed that there were any misrepresentations made by the holiday company. It
said that after the amount of time that had passed since September 2011 it was unrealistic to
think Mrs O could recall exact statements made to her by the holiday company. It had 
provided a copy of the Members Declaration which had been signed by Mrs O at the time 
she had entered the timeshare contract. This document set out that the product wasnt an 
investment and that the holiday company wouldnt re-purchase it. It also said Mrs O had 
agreed she had been given adequate time to review the timeshare agreement paperwork 
before signing it.
BPF said that Mrs O had been provided with a directory which contained the resorts she 
would be able to book through her membership. It said it would be reasonable to expect that 
as bookings were on a first come first served basis, there would be times that some places
wouldnt be available. It said Mrs O hadnt provided any details about the difficulties she had
encountered with bookings.
BPF also said that the management fees and how these were calculated were covered in
the clubs rules that were provided to Mrs O. These rules hadnt stipulated that any increases
wouldnt be above the rate of inflation.
Our investigator thought a claim under section 75 would be time barred under the Limitation
Act 1980. And although I appreciated BPF hadnt itself raised this; I thought that it was fair Iconsidered whether the Limitation Act could give rise to a potential defence to BPF against 
Mrs Os claim. I didnt think I could reasonably ignore a potential defence if that was open to 
a business when deciding if it had acted fairly or unfairly when declining a consumers claim.
So, looking at the time limits set out by the Limitation Act 1980, there is a time limit for a
misrepresentation claim (whether under section 2 or section 9 of the Limitation Act) and this
limit is six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued (which is when
everything needed to make a claim had occurred). As Mrs O would have suffered a loss at
the point she had entered into an agreement based on an alleged misrepresentation, her
cause of action arose in September 2011; at the point she had signed the agreement. Mrs O
would therefore have had six years from then to bring a misrepresentation claim against
either the holiday company or BPF. But no claim regarding misrepresentation had been 
made to BPF until December 2017, which was outside of the time limit set out in the 
Limitation Act. I therefore thought BPF was likely to have a defence to a claim here. 
Mrs Os Section140(A) claim
Although, as set out above, I thought a claim for misrepresentation would be caught by the
Limitation Act, I considered what Mrs O said she had been told about the timeshare by the
holiday operator when assessing unfairness under Section 140A.
Mrs O said that there had been an unfair relationship between herself and BPF. She said 
that the sales representative(s) used a pressured selling technique to induce into entering 
into the contract. Only a court has the power to decide whether there is an unfair relationship
between Mrs O and BPF for the purpose of section 140A. But, as its relevant law, I needed 
to consider it along with what I thought a court was likely to conclude.
Mrs O had complained about the selling technique that was used in 2011. She said she was
given a free holiday as a trial member, a condition of which was that she attended a sales
meeting. However, I thought Mrs O would have known she didnt have to say yes at this 
second meeting and that she could walk away.
Mrs O complained that there wasnt an adequate transparent explanation provided at the
meeting as to the terms and conditions of the timeshare membership. I havent seen enough
evidence to reasonably say she wasnt able to make an informed decision before signing the
agreement or that the salesperson(s) conduct fell so short of the standard that could
reasonably be expected that it made the relationship between Mrs O and BPF unfair.
Mrs O also has concerns about the lack of transparency when it comes to the terms and
conditions governing the ongoing costs of membership. But I couldnt see that the terms in
question were operated unfairly by the supplier. So, even if there were problems with the
way in which the terms were written and/or presented, I wasnt persuaded they caused or
contributed to an unfair relationship between her and BPF.
Id seen that Mrs O had signed the members declaration and confirmed that she had read 
and fully understood it. Although it was possible Mrs O had been told things that differed 
from what was in the documents she had signed, in this case I didnt think there was enough 
evidence for me to find that had happened. I thought that if this information had differed from 
what she had been told by the salesperson for the holiday company, then it would be 
reasonable to have expected her to have queried it before signing it.
Mrs O had raised the interest rate charged on the credit agreement as she said this was
unfairly high. However, the interest rate and amount of interest charged on the loan amount 
was clearly shown on the fixed sum loan agreement. I couldnt reasonably say Mrs O wasnt
aware of the rate. I thought if she was unhappy then she would reasonably have known shecould decline.
In summary, I hadnt seen enough evidence to be able to reasonably say that Mrs O had
been told that the holidays would have unlimited peak time availability; that there was a
ready re-sale market or that the maintenance charges would only increase with the rate of
inflation. As set out above, I didnt know what had been said to Mrs O at the point of sale and 
I hadnt seen sufficient information to be satisfied false statements of fact had been made.
In light of the above, I didnt think Mrs O had been induced into entering into the agreement
for the timeshare by misrepresentations made by the holiday company.
I also didnt think Id seen enough evidence to show that Mrs O had been the subject of 
undue pressure to buy the timeshare membership in September 2011. And I wasnt 
persuaded Mrs Os ability to make a choice about entering into the agreement had been 
significantly impaired.
So, I hadnt seen enough evidence to be able to reasonably say that the terms of the
agreement had actually operated unfairly against Mrs O after the sale in question. And 
overall, therefore, on balance, I wasnt persuaded that there was sufficient evidence to show 
that it would be likely a court would find there was an unfair relationship as set out in s 140A.
Mrs Os complaint about affordability checks
Mrs O said BPF had failed to carry out proper credit checks when lending to her and that she
had been told the holiday company at the time she entered into the credit agreement she 
was about to made redundant. She said this was a breach of the Office of Fair Tradings
guidelines. Mrs O had also supplied bank statements from the relevant time with her
complaint.
BPF said it was itself, and not the holiday company, that had carried out the checks and Mrs 
O had declared herself as employed on the application form for the fixed sum loan.
As set out above, I didnt know what had been said at the time Mrs O had entered into the 
credit agreement about the forthcoming change in her financial circumstances. Id seen from 
the income and expenses figures that had been provided by Mrs O at the time she applied 
for the loan that there didnt appear to have been an issue with affordability as she had an 
income coming in and that her earnings werent being used to pay for the mortgage or 
utilities. There was therefore sufficient disposable income to meet the loan repayments and 
to do so sustainably.
I didnt have enough evidence before me to reasonably say that BPF had deliberately and/or
unfairly manipulated Mrs Os income and expenses form so that no account would be taken
of her forthcoming redundancy. However, looking at the length of the loan I thought it would
have been proportionate and reasonable for BPF to have made enquiries as to whether
there were any expected changes to her financial situation. I didnt know if this question had 
been raised with Mrs O by BPF.
However, even if I were to conclude that BPF or its agents hadnt carried out the proper
checks for creditworthiness and sustainable affordability when arranging a loan for Mrs O, I
still needed to be satisfied that the lending was unaffordable for her and/or that she had lost
out as a result, in order to uphold this part of her complaint. Having asked Mrs O about her
circumstances following her redundancy, she had told me that she had become self-
employed for the following six years. Mrs O hadnt provided me with any details as to her 
income and outgoings during that time or whether she had experienced any financial 
difficulties.Mrs O had paid the loan repayments regularly up until October 2013 when the outstanding
balance had been cleared. Id seen this loan might have been paid off in full using an 
inheritance received by Mrs Os husband, though Mrs O had (very fairly) said she cannot 
recall if that was the case.
So, although it seemed BPF might not have carried out proportionate enquiries as to
affordability with Mrs O (and I made no findings on that) I hadnt seen anything to
persuade me that if it had, it would have found the loan hadnt been sustainably affordable 
for Mrs O. And I didnt think this was a reason to uphold this complaint given its 
circumstances.
For the reasons set out above, I wasnt intending to uphold Mrs Os complaint as I didnt 
think BPF had acted unfairly when considering her claim.
Neither party has asked me to review any parts of my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I havent been asked to look again at my provisional decision, I have still reviewed 
the evidence and the conclusions that I reached. And I havent changed my mind.
I still think that BPF has a defence to any claim about the purchase of the timeshare made 
under section 75 by virtue of The Limitation Act 1980. I also dont think there is sufficient 
evidence to show that there was an unfair relationship between Mrs O and BPF.
And as I havent been provided with any new evidence about Mrs Os financial 
circumstances around the time she entered into the financial agreement, I remain 
unpersuaded that BPF would have found the loan unsustainably affordable for her had it 
made proportionate enquiries into her finances.
So, for the reasons set out above Im not upholding Mrs Os complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given Im not upholding Mrs Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman