DRN-3980151
The complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc has declined to refund payments he made as 
part of an investment scam.
What happened
For the purposes of this decision, Ill refer to Mr H in relation to both his submissions and that 
of his professional representatives.
Mr H says he was contacted through social media with an investment opportunity. He was 
convinced he was dealing with a broker who could help him profit from investing. As 
instructed, Mr H made card payments to a cryptocurrency trading platform. He then sent 
cryptocurrency on to a third partly, thinking he was paying a genuine investment company. 
Mr H continued to make several payments between 16 November and 10 December 2021, 
in total spending over £7,000. Mr H realised this was likely a scam when he had trouble 
withdrawing funds and reported the matter to Barclays.
Barclays declined to reimburse Mr H on the basis that he not undertaken any due diligence 
before making the payments.
Mr H complained that Barclays didnt do enough to protect him from the risk of fraud in the 
circumstances, but Barclays didnt agree it had made an error.
When the matter was referred to our service, the investigator didnt uphold the complaint. In 
summary, they said they didnt think Barclays failed to identify suspicious payments. They 
didnt think a chargeback would have been successful and explained that the contingent 
reimbursement model (CRM) Mr H had mentioned didnt apply to card payments. 
Mr H accepted the points around chargeback and the CRM but said Barclays ought to have 
identified the payments as high risk. He said he had made multiple payments to a 
cryptocurrency platform in a short space of time. And that this activity on a new account was 
a well-known pattern for fraud.
So, the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint for fundamentally the same reasons as the 
investigator. I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr H - and while he has lost money as 
part of a scam, Ill explain why I dont think Barclays is responsible for this.
Mr H has confirmed that he made the disputed payments and so they were authorised. This 
means the starting point under the relevant regulations is that Barclays was expected to 
execute those payments without undue delay. 
Barclays also has certain duties to protect its customers, including against the risk of 
financial loss due to fraud. Barclays should have systems in place to identify unusual 
transactions or other signs that might indicate its customers are at risk of fraud. 
Here, Barclays didnt identify the activity as potentially fraudulent, so Ive considered whether 
the disputed payments here were so unusual or suspicious that they ought to have given 
Barclays sufficient grounds for suspecting fraud. Having done so, I dont think they were for 
the following reasons:
Mr H says that a new payee, on a new account, to a cryptocurrency provider 
represents a high risk of fraud. Such that Barclays ought to have intervened when he 
began making payments. 
To this point, I dont think its unusual for new payees to be set up on new accounts. 
There is a balance to be struck between the need for Barclays to protect its 
customers from potential fraud and its obligations to process payments in line with its 
customers instructions. Here, theres no suggestion that the payee isnt a legitimate 
cryptocurrency platform. And so, while I agree this type of payee can be considered a 
relevant risk indicator, I dont think this combination is enough on its own to warrant 
an intervention.
Mr Hs account was newly opened and so there was no historic account activity to 
compare the disputed payments to. This means Barclays wouldnt have been able to 
assess whether the payments were uncharacteristic for Mr H. And Barclays would 
not have known that Mr H was new to using cryptocurrency.
The payments arent in themselves for particularly large amounts  each being for 
under £1,000. They are spread out over the course of around a month and dont 
follow a particular pattern, for example ever increasing amounts. In terms of 
frequency, mostly there is only one per day, with occasionally two being made, and 
sometimes several days pass between payments. As this pattern of spending is not 
particularly suspicious, I dont think Barclays has failed in its obligations by not 
identifying the payments as potentially fraudulent.
For these reasons, I dont think it would be fair to conclude that Barclays ought to have done 
more to identify Mr H was the victim of a scam and prevent the payments.
For completeness, I have considered the steps Barclays took once it was made aware of the 
scam. I agree that the CRM isnt relevant in the circumstances as it doesnt apply to card 
payments. Further I agree a chargeback would unlikely have been successful in the 
circumstances. The cryptocurrency platform Mr H used had provided the service of 
converting fiat currency to cryptocurrency and crediting this to his account. He was then able 
to use this cryptocurrency. Mr H controlled the funds in his account with the cryptocurrency 
platform, but he had sent these to a third party, so there also wouldnt have been anything 
for Barclays to recover.
So, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think Barclays has treated Mr H unfairly in 
declining to refund the disputed payments.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2023.
 
Stephanie MitchellOmbudsman