DRN-3797990
The complaint
Mrs L and Mr P complain about the settlement offered by Admiral Insurance Company 
Limited after a claim on their motor insurance policy. Mr P is a named driver on Mrs Ls 
policy. 
What happened
Mrs Ls car was stolen and not recovered. Mrs L was entitled to a like for like replacement 
car under her policys terms and conditions. But the car model had been discontinued. So 
Admiral said that, in keeping with the policys terms and conditions, it would pay her the cars 
market value at the time of its loss. After Mrs L complained, Admiral increased its settlement 
offer. But Mrs L remained unhappy. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Mrs L was 
entitled to a new vehicle replacement under the policy. But she didnt think it was fair or 
reasonable for Mrs L to receive the pre-loss market value of the car because a like for like 
replacement wasnt available. So she thought Admiral should have paid Mrs L the price she 
paid for the car. And she thought it should increase its settlement to this amount, adding 
interest on the difference. And, because of the trouble and upset caused, she thought 
Admiral should pay Mrs L £500 compensation. 
Admiral replied that it had paid Mrs L the cars market value in keeping with the policys 
terms and conditions. Admiral referred to a similar case where its decision had been upheld 
by an Ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Admirals final offer to Mrs L in settlement of her claim was £25,485. It said this was the cars 
pre-loss market value. Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers 
acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
Admiral referred to another case that has come to our service. But we consider each case 
on its individual merits. And, whilst there are similarities between the two cases, they arent 
identical. 
Mrs Ls car was less than 12 months old, so I can see that she was entitled to a new vehicle 
replacement, with the same model and specification, under her policys terms and 
conditions. The cars make was no longer in production. So Admiral relied on a policy term to 
pay Mrs L the cars market value. 
Our approach is that if a like for like replacement is no longer available, were unlikely to 
agree if an insurer pays the consumer less than what it would have paid to replace the 
vehicle with a new one had it been available. Sometimes an insurer may offer the next 
model up in the range and we are likely to consider this to be fair.
But we usually decide that its fair for an insurer to pay the original new price of the vehicle 
that was written-off if its the only way that a policyholder can buy the nearest equivalent new 
replacement.
So, in keeping with our approach, I dont think Admiral has treated Mrs L fairly or reasonably. 
Im satisfied that it should pay Mrs L the price she paid for her car, £29,460, less her policy 
excess, in settlement of her claim. Admiral paid Mrs L £25,485, less the policy excess of 
£350. So Mrs L received £25,135 when she should have received £29,110. So I think 
Admiral should now pay her an additional £3,975 to restore her position. 
And as Mrs L has been without her money for some time, I think Admiral should add interest 
to this increase from the date of the initial payment to the date of the final settlement. 
Admirals handling of the claim has caused Mrs L and Mr P considerable trouble and upset:
They have had to repeatedly contact Admiral to try and get their losses made good and 
this caused avoidable stress at a difficult time.
They couldnt buy a similar replacement car with Admirals initial settlement. 
Our Investigator recommended that Admiral should pay Mrs L £500 compensation for this 
trouble and upset. I think thats fair and reasonable in the circumstances as its in keeping 
with our published guidance for this level of impact.
Putting things right
I require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to do the following:
1. Pay Mrs L the difference between £25,135 and £29,110, which is £3,975, adding interest 
to this amount at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the date of the original 
settlement up to the date of payment. 
2. Pay Mrs L £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
If Admiral considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mrs L how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs L a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Admiral Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 December 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman