DRN-2749561
The complaint
Ms Js complaint is about AXA Insurance UK Plcs decision to decline a claim for storm 
damage under her home insurance policy.
All references to AXA include its appointed agents.
What happened
In November 2020, Ms J raised a claim to AXA for damage to her property. She noticed 
water ingress in one of the rooms and this was traced to a loose tile on the roof.
AXA looked into the claim and considered that the only event under Ms Js policy which 
would cover the damage would be for a storm. AXA then looked at the weather conditions 
around the dates Ms J reported the water damage and the dates of a recently reported 
named storm that she also referred to. But it concluded that all the weather conditions 
werent sufficient to meet the definition of a storm under the policy. So it declined to cover 
the claim. 
Ms J disagreed and complained to AXA. She said she had already got the tile replaced and 
the internal work done out of necessity. She didnt think AXA had taken an accurate weather 
report close enough to her property and hadnt considered wider media reports of the named 
storm.
AXA responded to Ms J and said that to review its decision further it would need evidence 
such as an independent report from Ms Js builder. AXA confirmed it had reviewed weather 
records back to the previous summer and felt the reports it considered were sufficient given 
the highest wind speed was far below the policy definition.
Ms J provided a builders report which attributed the slipped tile to a storm. AXA reviewed 
the report and said that the cause of damage was inconclusive and had ruled out impact 
damage. So it maintained its decision to decline the claim based on a lack of storm 
conditions. It said that even allowing for some tolerance, the maximum wind speeds still fell 
below those required to meet the policy definition of storm.
Unhappy with AXAs response, Ms J referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked at everything and recommended the complaint not be upheld. They found AXAs 
decision to decline the claim was fair in the circumstances, as they said the damage couldnt 
be linked to a one-off storm event. They concluded the weather data from around the time 
didnt meet the policy storm definition for either wind or rainfall.
Ms J disagrees. She says she had no way of knowing whether the tile on her roof slipped 
due to a storm or something else.
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered whether AXA has assessed Ms Js claim fairly under the terms and 
conditions of her policy. When a policyholder makes a claim, its accepted that it is for them 
to show that an insured event has happened. Where it is unclear an insured event has 
happened as Ms J has mentioned, I would expect the insurer to show it has assisted the 
policyholder by carrying out proportionate investigations to reach a fair outcome on the 
claim.
Taking Ms Js policy cover and the circumstances of the claim into account, I agree that it 
was reasonable for AXA to consider the damage reported under the storm peril. So to see if 
AXA has assessed the claim fairly I need to consider:
1. Was there evidence of a storm around the time of the claim?
2. Is the damage typical of the damage that would be caused by a storm?
3. Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
And in order for the claim to succeed, the answer to all three questions must be yes.
Was there evidence of a storm around the time of the claim?
Ive looked at Ms Js policy terms to see how it defines a storm, and it says, A period of 
violent weather with wind speeds of at least 55mph, or rainfall of at least 25mm per hour, or 
snowfall of at least 30cm in 24 hours. 
In order to determine whether the policy conditions were met Ive considered the weather 
reports from the time Ms J first reported the damage to AXA. Ive then worked backwards to 
see if there was any evidence of a defined storm in the previous months  taking into 
account that Ms J is unsure of exactly when the event might have happened and how long it 
would reasonably take the water damage to show. 
Having done my own checks on weather reports around the time of the damage, Ive not 
seen any variance from what AXA and our investigator have already found. The wind and 
rainfall measurements for this period dont meet the definition of a storm as set out in the 
policy. So on the face of it, it doesnt appear there is an insured event for AXA to cover here.
Ive considered Ms Js comments about the distance of the nearest weather station to her 
property, and therefore the accuracy of the results. But in doing my own checks Ive not seen 
anything to dispute that these were accurate records of the weather at that time. So while 
Ive no doubt there may have been strong winds around the time Ms J says, the policy terms 
are clear on what threshold needs to be met to define a storm. 
Ive also considered the builder report that Ms J provided to AXA. I find that it isnt specific as 
to what might have caused the damage to the roof tile. Whilst I do acknowledge it says that it 
was highly probable the tile slipped due to a storm, this in itself isnt sufficient to show that a 
one-off event happened when weighed up against the wider weather data and evidence 
available. Therefore I find it reasonable for AXA to decline the claim on the basis that I dont 
agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to have 
happened.Ive considered if any of the damage in Ms Js claim could be covered under another section 
of her policy, such as Accidental Damage for the internal water damage. But under the 
Accidental Damage section of the policy it states, Cover is only provided where You or Your 
guests cause the damage, unless We explicitly state otherwise. So the damage wouldnt 
meet this definition either. 
Overall I am satisfied AXA has declined Ms Js claim fairly based on the evidence its seen. 
And for these reasons, although I understand Ms Js disappointment, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint about AXA Insurance UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2021.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman