DRN-1394252
The complaint
Mrs T has complained to Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as 
Audi Finance regarding its actions and that of its appointed agent in collecting and 
inspecting a car after she voluntarily terminated her hire purchase agreement with it. 
Mrs T has brought her complaint to this Service through a representative but, for simplicity, I 
will generally refer to her throughout. Similarly, with Audi Finance and its collector.
What happened
Audi Finance agreed a hire purchase agreement for Mrs T in September 2015 in order for 
her to acquire a car. The agreement was to run for four years with a fixed monthly 
repayment of around £300 and a final large payment of over £10,000.  Mrs T exercised her 
right to voluntarily terminate the agreement in May 2019, several months before it was due 
to end, having repaid more than half the amount owing.
Mrs T has complained about the actions of Audi Finance and its collector regarding 
collection of the car following her termination of the agreement. The facts of this case are 
well documented through Audi Finances customer notes and call recordings, and through 
correspondence with both parties and this Service. In summary, it took several months for 
the car to be collected after Mrs T terminated her agreement. She is not happy about the 
length of time taken to arrange collection and the resulting inconvenience to her.
One of our investigators has looked into Mrs Ts complaint and found that Audi Finance 
didnt do anything wrong that caused a loss to her and so didnt recommend that it pay her 
compensation. Mrs T disagreed with this outcome and asked for her complaint to come to an 
ombudsman to review and resolve. 
As mentioned, Mrs T brought her complaint to this Service through a representative. This is 
Mrs Ts husband who, I understand, made monthly payments for the car and insured it. Hes 
said this matter caused him great inconvenience as the car was parked on his drive for 
several months waiting for collection. He asked to be compensated for this by way of 
payment for storage of the car and loss of earnings incurred while waiting in for the collector.
As our investigator explained, the agreement in this case was between Mrs T and 
Audi Finance and she is the person entitled to make a complaint. Any compensation 
therefore would be awarded to compensate her loss or inconvenience, not that of her 
representative.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time.
As the facts of the case arent in dispute I wont set out what happened in great detail. 
Briefly, Mrs T terminated her hire purchase agreement on 2 May 2019 and several months 
passed before the car was collected. 
Mrs T complained to Audi Finance when it hadnt collected the car within a week and was 
told that it could take over a month to arrange collection. I appreciate that that this was not in 
line with Mrs Ts expectations but this doesnt seem to me to be an unreasonable timescale, 
and I understand that she wasnt being charged for collection. 
Following that, contact to arrange collection was instigated by both parties but opportunities 
to collect the car were missed. On one occasion (in June 2019) Audi Finance were unable to 
collect the car as, unexpectedly, neither Mrs T nor the car were present. Later (in early July) 
Audi Finance failed to attend. 
It seems there were quite limited opportunities to collect the car as either Mrs T or her 
representative were away. For example on the 9 July 2019, the day after Audi Finance failed 
to collect the car, Mrs T told it that the next possible collection date would be the following 
month, despite being offered a collection potentially later that day or the next.
Having carefully considered everything, I am not upholding Mrs Ts complaint. I appreciate 
that this will be disappointing and I want to reassure her that I have reviewed all the 
information available to me and taken into consideration everything shes said. I also want to 
take the opportunity to say that Im sorry to hear she suffered a bereavement at that time 
and can understand that having to deal with the collection of her car must have been difficult.
It seems to me Audi Finance attempted to arrange collection as it said it would at the outset, 
within about four to five weeks. And, while I acknowledge that Audi Finance missed an 
opportunity to collect the car, it seems to me its attempts to put this right were hampered by 
Mrs Ts limited availability. So I dont think its fair in this case to ask it to pay her any 
compensation as I think responsibility for the delay in collecting the car lies between them.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mrs Ts complaint about Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Finance and do not require it to pay 
compensation to her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2020.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman