DRN-3235253
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy with what Vitality Health Limited did when he tried to claim on his policy. 
What happened
Mr P took out private medical insurance policy underwritten by Vitality in March 2020. The 
policy was taken out on a moratorium basis so Mr P isnt covered for any medical condition 
(or related conditions) that existed in the five years before the policy started. But after 
inception, if an existing condition had been trouble-free for a period of two consecutive 
years, he could claim for that condition. 
In February 2021 Mr P required physio treatment for a muscle injury in his left leg, so he 
made a claim on his policy. Vitality said they would cover the cost of five sessions, but 
further treatment required Mr P to provide evidence from his GP to show this wasnt a pre-
existing condition or related to one that was present before the policy started. 
Mr P says Vitality are concerned with an unrelated injury from 2019 on a different leg, which 
is unfair because this is a new injury. And he is unhappy hes being asked to pay for the 
report from his GP. He has cancelled the policy and asked Vitality to refund the cost of the 
physio sessions or the premiums hes paid for the policy 
Vitality said it is common practise and in line with their terms and conditions to ask for a 
claim form and evidence from a GP to review the eligibility of the requested treatment - 
especially when claims are made within the first two years of the start of a policy on a 
moratorium basis. 
Our investigator looked at what had happened and said he didnt think Vitality had acted 
unfairly in requesting further information before agreeing to cover any future sessions. And 
he thought it was reasonable Vitality has asked for evidence the sessions theyd agreed to 
cover took place before he cancelled the policy. 
Mr P didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman decision. In summary he said: 
This was a new injury to a different leg so it shouldnt be pre-existing. 
He explained that muscular injuries can happen to the same muscle but be new 
injuries to that muscle. So the terms around pre-existing conditions are irrelevant to 
muscular injuries
He remained unhappy about having to pay for GP records and said this would delay 
treatment even further waiting for the practice to provide it.
He now thinks the policy is worthless so his premiums should be refunded. 
The restrictions on pre-existing conditions werent made clear to him when he took the 
policy out. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant regulators rules say an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they shouldnt turn down claims unreasonably. 
I appreciate Mr P says the injury he is claiming for cant be related to a previous 
muscle injury because it is a different leg. But it isnt unreasonable in a moratorium 
policy such as this for an insurer to request to see medical records- regardless of the 
type of injury (muscular, broken bone, mental health). And in this case I can see 
Vitality agreed to cover the cost of the initial five physiotherapy sessions, without the 
need for any supporting evidence. So I think they have acted fairly. 
As the investigator has already explained, I am not making a finding on whether or 
not Vitality should treat this condition as pre-existing or related to a previous injury 
because Vitality require more information to determine if Mr Ps treatment is eligible. 
And as explained above, I dont their request for medical records is unreasonable. 
The onus is on the consumer to prove their claim, and the policy terms make it clear 
Vitality will not pay fees charged by a medical practitioner for completing a claim 
form. I dont think it was unfair for Vitality to apply this term and ask Mr P to cover this 
cost during his initial claims on the policy. 
Mr P has said the policy is worthless so his premiums should be refunded. As our 
investigator has explained, Vitality would have paid out for any successful claims 
from the date he took out the policy, until he cancelled it. Vitality were covering the 
risk of him making a successful claim during this period, so it wouldnt be fair to ask 
them to refund any premiums.
Mr P has made reference to being unhappy about the sale of the policy because he 
wasnt told about the restrictions on pre-existing conditions. Vitality has confirmed 
this policy was sold via a broker, so if Mr P is unhappy with the sale this is something 
he would need to raise separately with that broker. 
I know this will be disappointing to Mr P, but I dont think there are reasonable grounds upon 
which I could fairly ask Vitality to accept his claim for any further treatment, without providing 
medical evidence.  
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2022.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman