DRN-3495463
The complaint
Mrs S complains about charges for damage when she returned a car at the end of a hire 
agreement provided by Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS).
What happened
In October 2019 Mrs S acquired a new car using a hire agreement with MBFS. She took the 
agreement over a period of two years.
In November 2021 the car was collected by a company Ill call J, and an initial inspection 
was carried out.
The car was then taken by J and a second, more detailed inspection was done a few days 
later. MBFS then sent Mrs S an invoice for the following damage to the car:
Right hand front alloy excessive metal missing £530
Door shut inner left hand front dented £130
Door frame left hand front dented £130
Door pad left hand front hole £50.40
Compressor £130
Front bumper £210
Front bumper centre moulding £35
Left hand rear quarter panel £90
Total £1305.40
It also charged her £255.53 for extra days hire as the car was returned late.
Mrs S was unhappy with this and complained to MBFS. 
MBFS issued its final response. It said, in summary, that it was removing the charges for the 
compressor, bumper and rear quarter panel. But, it said all of the other damage fell outside 
of the Vehicle Return Standards (VRS) that Mrs S agreed to. It said Mrs S had seen these 
when she took the agreement, and it sent a copy to her six months before the end of the 
agreement.
MBFS said that when it went to collect the car, J was told by a family member that the 
engine had a blow out and so the collection had to be aborted. It said because of this it had 
charged a daily rate until it could be collected.
Mrs S brought the complaint to our service. She said the car was in excellent condition when 
it was returned. She said the wheel only had small scuffs on. She said she couldnt see any 
dents. And she said she wasnt allowed to inspect the car again after it had been taken.
Mrs S also told us the car wasnt collected when it first shouldve been due to a 
misunderstanding with a family member on the phone.
Our investigator issued an opinion explaining they didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. In summary, they said the disputed damage fell outside of fair wear and tear, so he 
thought MBFS could charge for it. And, he didnt think the misunderstanding about the 
collection was MBFSs fault, so he thought it could charge for the additional rental period.
Mrs S remained unhappy with this. She said the car was in excellent condition when it was 
returned. She said the first inspector only noted slight damage to the wheel, so she thought 
further damage must have been caused by J. She thought it was unusual for a second 
inspection to have taken place. She said the photos from the second inspection might not 
have been of her car. And she reiterated the reasons the car wasnt initially collected.
Our investigator explained this didnt change his opinion. So, the case has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
I want to reassure Mrs S that Ive very carefully considered everything shes said in relation 
to this complaint. Im going to focus on what I think are the key issues here. Where I havent 
commented directly on something, this doesnt mean I havent thought about it  this just 
reflects the informal nature of our service.
Mrs S complains about charges in relation to a hire agreement. Entering into regulated 
consumer credit contracts like this is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can consider 
Mrs Ss complaint about MBFS. 
Ive firstly thought about whether MBFS could charge Mrs S for damage. Looking at the 
agreement she took, this says:
you must return the vehicle in line with the Vehicle Return Standards
If you fail to take reasonable care of the vehicle and fail to maintain the vehicle in 
accordance with the manufacturers guidelines and/or the Vehicle Return Standards, you will 
have to pay our costs either of repairing and/or refurbishing the vehicle, or the cost of the 
consequent reduction in the sale value of the vehicle
So, considering this, I think Mrs S agreed to return the car in a condition in line with the VRS 
and she agreed to be charged if this wasnt the case. 
Ill go one to consider if the charges were fairly applied. As well as the VRS, Ive also 
considered the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA) guide to fair wear 
and tear. I understand MBFS are not BVRLA members, but Im happy this is a useful 
benchmark when considering whats fair and reasonable.
Mrs S has accepted the charge for the door pad  so I will only focus on the areas of 
damage in dispute.
In relation to wheels, the VRS says the following is unacceptable:
cracked or distorted wheel trimsThe BVRLA says:
Dents on wheel rims and wheel trims are not acceptable
 
Looking at the photos of the right hand front wheel, I can see what appears to be a dent or 
gouge on the rim. This takes up a significant proportion of the depth of the rim. Im satisfied 
this falls outside of fair wear and tear.
I appreciate Mrs S questioned the amount charged for this. And I agree this is higher than I 
would expect to see for a wheel refurbishment. But, on balance, I dont think a refurbishment 
would repair this damage due to the depth of it. So, it follows I dont think MBFS have acted 
unfairly here by charging a higher amount.
In relation to the bodywork, the VRS says the following is acceptable:
Minor body dents, typically those caused by door-to-door contact, provided that:
a)they are less than 13mm (1/2) in diameter
And the following is unacceptable:
Any chipping and scratching of paintwork that has penetrated the base coat
The BVRLA says:
Dents of 15mm or less in diameter are acceptable provided there are no more than two per 
panel and the paint surface is not broken
Looking at the photos of the door shut, I can see several dents. Im satisfied once of these is 
over 15mm and another has broken the paintwork. So, Im satisfied this falls outside of fair 
wear and tear guidance.
From the photos of the door frame, I can see two dents. Its hard to tell the size of these. But, 
Im satisfied one has penetrated through the paint. So, it follows Im satisfied this also falls 
outside of fair wear and tear.
Mrs S says she believes the damage might have occurred after the first inspection when J 
had the car. So, Ive gone on to consider this. The first inspection notes a dent to the left 
hand front door and the left hand front door shut. It noted rim damage to the right hand front 
alloy. The inspector took photos of these areas. And, the first and second inspections were 
only three days apart and the car had only covered around 24 miles between them. Thinking 
about this, Im satisfied on balance its most likely the damage occurred when Mrs S had the 
car and not J.
Mrs S questioned if the car photographed in the second inspection was hers. But, it is the 
same make and model, and the number plate matches that on her agreement. So, I think on 
balance its likely her car.
Mrs S also said she has leased other cars before and has never had a second inspection. 
But, this isnt unusual. And, the agreement Mrs S signed says an inspection would take 
place at a defleet centre once the car was collected. Either way, Im satisfied the damage 
was likely there at the first inspection. So, I dont think MBFS did anything wrong here.Finally in relation to the damages, I dont think MBFS acted unreasonably when it declined 
Mrs S the opportunity to further inspect the car after it was collected as I dont think this 
wouldve been practical. And the car had already been inspected twice at that point.
Ive then gone on to consider what Mrs S said about the delayed collection. Mrs S says a 
family member was arranging this and got confused between two cars which were being 
picked up. Mrs S says they gave J information about the other car which is what caused the 
problem. I appreciate J didnt attend to collect the car, and this conversation took place on 
the phone. But, Im satisfied the issue was caused by Mrs Ss family member  not MBFS or 
J. 
Mrs S says J couldve collected the next day and avoided the charges. But, it doesnt seem 
unreasonable that J couldnt attend immediately. And Ive seen no evidence to suggest it 
couldve attended earlier than it did.
Ive carefully thought about everything Mrs S said about this. But, given Im satisfied the 
issue was likely caused by Mrs Ss family member, I dont think MBFS did anything wrong by 
charging her for the additional time she had possession of the car.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman