DRN-2714662
The complaint
Mr T complained that when he transferred funds in June 2020 to an overseas account, this 
had been done in a currency he hadnt wished to use. Mr Ts this caused him loss which he 
attributes to Lloyds Bank Plc.
What happened
Mr T attempted to make an overseas transfer via online banking with Lloyds. Mr T wanted to 
make the transfer in British sterling. Albeit its said the figure appeared on the screen in US 
Dollars. When Mr T tried to proceed with the transfer he was required to speak to Lloyds to 
verify his transfer request. The contents of the conversation between Mr T and the Lloyds 
adviser arent agreed.
Mr T says he asked the Lloyds adviser why the figure was shown in US Dollars (USD), and 
referred to wanting it to be transferred in an alternative currency. He says hed explained 
hed never done this type of transfer before. Lloyds dont accept this was what happened.
Its not disputed Mr T was told that if he requested the transfer was requested in a specific 
currency (here British sterling (GBP)), that was how the transfer would be made, with the 
relevant exchange rate.
The next day Mr T returned to complete the transfer. The online banking screen showed the 
transfer figure in US Dollars. Mr T went ahead with the transaction. The receiving bank told 
Mr T they'd received $31,018 USD, and when converted it came to £24,195.
Mr T complained and says he relied on what the adviser said which caused him a loss of 
£905. Mr T was also unhappy with the exchange rate Lloyds used.
Lloyds rejected Mr Ts complaint. They said their adviser had told Mr T that he needed to 
select the currency for the transaction, so theyd provided the right information during the 
call. Lloyds also said Mr T was informed about the exchange rate to be applied prior to 
authorizing the transaction, and so he was free whether to go ahead or not.
An investigator at our service considered Mr Ts complaint. She thought Mr T had been 
accurately advised and provided with the right information. The amount being transferred 
appeared in USD when Mr T was making the transfer, there was a visual indication of this 
and she thought this had been clear enough. 
Once Mr T selected the currency, he was shown the exchange rate, the amount in GBP and 
the fee to be charged to make the transfer, before being asked to press continue to review 
the transfer and confirm the payment. Mr T chose to transfer £25,100, and the system 
informed Mr T how much would be sent to the receiving bank in USD. 
The investigator didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint as she thought Mr T had been sufficiently 
informed about the currency selection and relevant exchange rate. She highlighted the 
option to change the currency was available, so the Lloyds adviser hadnt mis-led Mr T. 
Mr T didnt agree. He told us her reasoning didnt match what hed been told by the Lloyds 
adviser. Mr T said hed told the adviser the system was showing US Dollars when he wanted 
to send the money in GBP. He also said that when he filled in the online application, hed 
stated hed not used this type of transfer before, so he thought a prudent adviser ought to 
have explained the further steps. Mr T felt hed lost out and Lloyds ought to agree to pay half 
of what he identified as his loss.
The investigator didnt change her thinking. She appreciated completing such transactions 
for the first time could feel challenging, but as Mr T didnt ask Lloyds for help or indicate he 
was having any problems, she didnt think they ought to be expected to have done anything 
further.
Mr T continues to disagree. He thinks the Lloyds adviser ought to have realised Mr T needed 
help and should have provided full information on the system. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
Lloyds provided accurate information to Mr T during the telephone conversation and their on-
line system provided currency options for Mr T to select on transfer. Mr T was informed 
about the exchange rate to be applied prior to authorizing the transfer.
I appreciate Mr T says he doesnt think he had sufficient experience or understanding to 
complete the transfer in the way he says hed wanted to. However theres nothing that 
suggests to me Mr T informed Lloyds he needed help or that Lloyds did something wrong 
here. 
Ive listened with care to the recording of the call between Mr T and the Lloyds adviser. This 
call came about because Lloyds flagged the transaction for further enquiries. During the call 
Mr T explains the money he wants to transfer to his account overseas, has recently been 
transferred into his Lloyds account from another of his accounts in the same overseas 
territory. Mr T refers to a number of different accounts and international transfers.
Mr T doesnt refer to not understanding the transfer system, this being his first experience or 
requiring any help. He is asked at one point whether he had made payments previously from 
his Lloyds account to this overseas account and his reply is that he thinks its the first time 
he has made a payment to this account.
The main thrust of this call is providing and confirming sufficient information in relation to 
whether the transaction might be related to fraud. After Mr T confirms he wants to make the 
transfer, hes advised hell need to log out and log back in to proceed. He is also told to 
check the transaction details once he does so before continuing, and Mr T confirmed this 
information.
It is only at the end of the call there is a short exchange about the transaction currency to be 
used. Mr T tells the adviser he wants to select a currency option and the Lloyds adviser 
informs Mr T this is something he will need to select online. And he sets out the currency will 
be what Mr T selects on the online information so if youve chosen sterling it will go in 
sterling.When Mr T logged on, he had options to select his chosen currency for the transfer. I accept 
the currency used wasnt the one Mr T wanted. But this doesnt mean Lloyds did anything 
wrong. I think the options available were sufficiently clear and he was informed of the 
exchange rate prior to acceptance. Once Mr T selected the currency (or left the default 
unamended) he was shown the exchange rate, the amount in GBP and the fee to be 
charged. Mr T was then prompted to press continue to review the transfer and confirm the 
payment. So Mr T could have stopped to ask for assistance or if he had any queries, or if he 
wanted to reject any aspect. Based on what Mr T says, I dont think its unreasonable to 
have expected him to do this. I dont accept the Lloyds adviser provided inaccurate 
information. Mr Ts recollection of what took place in the call isnt accurate. I dont think the 
adviser ought to have understood Mr T required help or that he ought to have done anything 
differently.
My final decision
So for the reasons given I dont uphold Mr and Ms Ts complaint against Lloyds Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 June 2021.
 
Louise Wilson
Ombudsman