DRN-4445663
The complaint
Mr Y complains about the service he was provided with Barclays Bank UK PLC when he 
visited the branch to get statements printed.
What happened
in February 2023 Mr Y went to his local branch of Barclays to get some statements printed at 
the online banking point in the branch but there was no paper in the machine. He asked a 
member of staff about this and he was told to wait. He asked to make a complaint and was 
taken to a room so he could see the manager. He waited for ten minutes but then had to 
leave because he was very busy.
Mr Y complained to Barclays and was told that the branch had an issue with its online 
banking points, which affected its branches nationwide. It upheld his complaint but didn't 
offer compensation. It was pointed out to him that he could make use of online banking. And 
further, that Mr Y had previously made a similar complaint about not being able to print 
statements and he had been paid £100 compensation.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service, Mr Y further complained that he had been 
racially discriminated against. Although he had not raised this with Barclays, it told us that 
the staff had been spoken to and did not recall Mr Ys visit. Generally the branch manager 
confirmed that they are a hugely diverse team and no one would look to treat a customer (or 
colleague) differently due to their race, or colour of their skin.
Our Investigator said that he didn't think that Barclays needed to do anything more here. 
This is because it had provided Mr Y with alternative options to receive his statements and 
so didnt need to use the machines in branch which arent currently working. He didn't think 
that Barclays needed to pay any further compensation.
Mr Y did not agree, and the matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Regarding Mr Ys visit to the branch, it appears that its online banking points were not 
working and this was an issue he had come across before. I appreciate that he wanted to 
get his statements printed at the time but Barclays has explained that this was an issue 
which affected its branches nationwide. I appreciate that Mr Y does not believe this but 
I have no reason to disbelieve what Barclays has told him.
On the question of waiting to speak to a manager, I understand that this is a busy city centre 
branch so it would not be unreasonable, as Mr Y did not have an appointment, for him to 
have to wait. He told us in his complaint form that he waited 10 minutes and then left but 
I don't think that was an unreasonable time to wait.
I understand that Mr Y does receive paper statements from Barclays, and he can apply for 
duplicate copies by post. If he needs to produce those statements for any reason 
I understand that he has access to online banking, and often companies will accept 
electronic copies. While I appreciate that he received £100 compensation when he had a 
similar issue before, I don't think it's appropriate to ask Barclays to pay any further 
compensation.
Further, as it appears to be a general issue that Barclays has with its online banking points 
and that concerns the way it generally runs its business, I can't ask it to take any steps 
regarding the banking point in this particular branch. I do think that Mr Y has been offered 
reasonable alternatives.
On the question of racial discrimination, of course Barclays must take any complaints about 
this seriously. But Mr Y has not specified any issue where he thinks he was discriminated 
against. The problem with the online banking points affects all customers, as does the fact of 
this being a busy city centre branch. I don't think he was treated unfairly in having to wait to 
see a manager. In any event as members of staff at the bank don't recollect Mr Ys visit, and 
he did not put this point to Barclays at the time, it wouldn't be fair on the members of staff 
concerned for me to make any findings regarding this.
My final decision
As I think that Barclays Bank UK PLC has dealt with Mr Ys complaint fairly, I won't ask it to 
take any further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman