DRN-3219967
The complaint
Miss A complains that Phoenix Life Limited (trading at the time as Abbey Life) provided her 
with inappropriate advice about her future pension savings in March 1989.
What happened
The advice that Miss A received was provided by an advisor who was an employee of 
Abbey Life. However Abbey Life is now part of Phoenix, and so it is that firm that has 
responsibility for dealing with the complaint. For simplicity I will generally refer in this 
decision to Phoenix as the advising, and responsible, business, although I acknowledge that 
Miss A has had little, if any, direct dealings with that firm.
In 1989 Miss A was advised by Phoenix that she should contract out of the State Earnings 
Related Pension Scheme (SERPS). Miss A says that her recent pension forecasts suggest 
that the personal pension she was sold by Phoenix will provide her with far less income than 
what she gave up by contracting out of SERPS. She says that Phoenix failed to make her 
aware of the risk of that reduction in her retirement income when it provided its advice.
The advice that Miss A received has been considered by one of our investigators. He 
thought that at the time Miss A met the required criteria to suggest contracting out of SERPS 
might be in her best interests. So he didnt think the advice she had received was 
inappropriate, and so didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Miss A didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Miss A and by Phoenix. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
The advice that Miss A was given was more than 30 years ago. So I have to be mindful that 
over such an extended period of time even the most careful of memories can, and do, fade. 
Whilst I have no doubts that Miss A has provided her complete and honest recollections of 
her circumstances at the time, and the discussions she had with the advisor, I must be 
guided to a large extent by the paperwork that was completed, and signed by Miss A.
In 1989, when this advice was given, consumers were incentivised by the government to 
contract out of SERPS. The amount of national insurance contributions they made would 
remain unchanged. However once contracted out, part of those national insurance 
contributions would be rebated by the government to a personal pension arrangement. The 
expectation at that time was that those rebates would provide a higher pension at retirement 
than the SERPS portion of the state pension.
Firms providing advice to consumers about this sort of decision needed to ensure that the 
consumers circumstances were such that they would benefit from contracting out. The main 
drivers behind that decision were the consumers age, and their annual earnings. So, with 
the assistance of their actuaries, firms devised a set of trigger points that needed to be met 
before providing advice to contract out of SERPS.
Ive looked at the parameters that were in use by Phoenix in 1989 when the advice was 
provided to Miss A. From those I can see that she was well below the maximum age that the 
firm would apply, and earning significantly more than the minimum salary on which 
Phoenixs projections were based. I can see that Miss A has said that her salary was below 
the threshold at the time. But, on balance, as Ive explained above, I think the paperwork 
from the time is more likely to be an accurate record of her actual circumstances.
 
I appreciate that Miss A says that the pension she now has available to her from her 
contracting out decision is much less than what her state pension forecast suggests she has 
given up. And so I can understand why she feels the advice she received was inappropriate. 
But Im sorry to tell her that I dont agree that means Phoenix did anything wrong.
The assumptions that were made in 1989, and supported by the regulator at the time, about 
likely investment growth have not proved to be accurate. So the amounts of pension that 
might have been reasonably expected at that time are not reflected in the annuities that can 
be purchased today. But that doesnt mean the information or advice given about likely 
growth in 1989 was incorrect. The figures I have seen in the information provided to Miss A 
appear to be entirely in line with the regulators guidance at that time.
And Im not persuaded that any shortfall has arisen because of any excessive commission 
that was paid to her advisor. The remuneration of the advisor would have been paid by 
Phoenix  and those costs would have been incorporated in the forecasts used by the 
actuaries in producing the likely investment returns for a consumer deciding to contract out 
of SERPS. So I dont think any shortfall that has now arisen suggests any wrongdoing on the 
part of the firm.
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Miss A. But I think the advice on 
contracting out of SERPS that was provided to her was in line with best practice at that time. 
So I dont think Phoenix has done anything wrong and so it doesnt need to pay any 
compensation to Miss A.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Phoenix Life Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 November 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman