DRN-3329903
The complaint
Mr D, who is represented by a third party, has complained that Santander UK Plc 
(Santander) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in April 1990 when 
he was arranging a mortgage loan to make a house purchase.
What happened
The policy included cover for accident and sickness but not for unemployment.
Initially, one of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and found that the policy hadnt 
been mis-sold. Those representing Mr D then gave us some further information about Mr D 
having had back problems, the treatment hed received and the time hed taken off work. 
Another adjudicator then looked at the complaint and this time thought that the policy had 
been mis-sold. This was because they thought it wasnt made clear enough that Mr D, who 
had suffered with back problems in the past, wouldnt be able to claim successfully on the 
PPI policy for his condition or any illness or condition related to it. 
I issued my provisional decision on 24 January 2022, where I explained why I wasnt 
intending to uphold Mr Ds complaint. I set out an extract below:
As the sale took place so long ago, its understandable that we no longer have access to 
much of the paperwork from the sale. But given that this was an advised sale, and that Mr D 
took the policy out at a meeting in branch, I think its likely that there was some discussion 
about PPI at the time. Santander needed to ensure that the policy was suitable for Mr D and 
that he was given enough information about the cover in order to make an informed choice. 
I see that Mr D chose to take out PPI cover by ticking a box on the mortgage application 
form and selecting accident and sickness cover only. If he hadnt made any selection he 
wouldnt have taken out the cover. So I think he ought to have been aware he had a 
choice about taking out the policy. Im also aware that Mr D would have been required to 
complete a separate application form, but unfortunately Santander no longer holds a copy 
of this. 
I think its also relevant to point out, as Ive mentioned above, that its likely there was 
some discussion about the PPI at the time given that Mr D had the option of taking out 
cover with or without redundancy protection and took the decision not to have that 
additional cover, which tends to be taken with most policies. 
Ive also looked carefully into what Mr D has told us about his situation at the time. Mr D 
said he was entitled to some work benefits if he was unable to work. However, in the 
event of a successful claim, the PPI would pay out for up to two years, and in addition to 
his existing work benefits and any other financial resources he might have been able to 
fall back on. I think Mr D would have found that reassuring as his mortgage would have 
been be a substantial and long-term commitment. 
Mr D says he had back pain in or around 1990 which required medication. He says he 
saw a doctor about it and has continued to do so since then. He also says he has taken 
time off work because of it. Our adjudicator requested evidence of this but those 
representing Mr D said that he was unable to provide such evidence due to the passage 
of time. We then asked for details about the time Mr D took off work and Mr Ds 
representative said this would have been for about 3 to 4 weeks in late 1989 or early 
1990 but didnt have any further details. We were also told that due to his ongoing 
symptoms Mr D continued to visit his doctor about his condition on an almost yearly basis 
to be prescribed further medication an continues to take time off work.
Ive also noted that Santander says that any pre-existing medical conditions and the 
policy exclusions affecting him would have been discussed as part of the suitability 
checks that usually happen in advised sales. Ive no way of knowing for sure if that 
discussion took place but Ive kept in mind that had this been mentioned at the time I 
would have expected Mr D to talk about his back problems. 
Ive seen what Mr Ds representatives have said about the impracticality of obtaining 
evidence to support Mr Ds condition, when it occurred and the time hes taken off work. 
But given that this is a condition that has continued for many years and led to various 
instances of time taken off work, I would have expected there to be a good medical history, 
documenting how long Mr D has been experiencing these symptoms and, crucially, when 
they first occurred. Without having good evidence or information about that, as things stand 
I dont consider Ive seen enough information or evidence to support Mr D having his 
medical condition prior to taking out the policy and that the nature of the condition was 
such that that PPI cover on his mortgage would have been unsuitable for his situation.
Santander also had to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. 
Obviously I cant say Santander provided all the information it should have done. But given 
what Ive seen so far about Mr Ds situation, even if there had some shortfall in the level of 
information provided, I still think its likely he would have gone ahead with taking out the 
cover.
It follows that Im currently not intending to uphold this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that Mr D hasnt responded to my provisional decision with any further evidence or 
information, and nor has Santander, I wont be departing from my provisional findings. And 
as Ive already set out my full reasons for not upholding Mr Ds complaint, I have nothing 
further to add. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint and so theres nothing further 
that Santander UK Plc needs to do. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman