DRN-2899976
Complaint
Miss S has complained that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (AXA) as the insurer, should accept 
the responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA in my decision. 
Background
Miss S bought the policy in 1997 at the same time as taking out a store card. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
and has said the box indicating she wanted PPI was pre-ticked. So the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
On 27 May 2021, I issued my provisional decision. In my provisional decision I explained 
that I agreed with the outcome reached by the adjudicator. But I provided some further 
clarification and gave Miss S and AXA an opportunity to respond. Below is an extract of what 
I said: 
AXA should have taken reasonable steps to make it clear the PPI was optional and gain 
Miss Ss consent before adding it to her store card. However, Miss S has said she was 
strongly advised to take it, leading her to believe she had to have it. 
AXA has provided a copy of Miss Ss store card application form from the time of sale. The 
form has a section for the PPI titled PAYMENT & PURCHASE PROTECTION and requires 
customers to sign this section if they wish to take out the PPI. The section reads Payment & 
Purchase Protection Insurance (details attached) covers your Account Card repayments.If 
you would like cover, please tick the box below and the customers had to tick next to Yes, I 
want my Account covered by Payment & Purchase Protection Insurance (subject to 
eligibility). Looking at Miss Ss form, the box has been ticked. 
Ive also noted that on the application form, Miss S had the option of selecting whether or not 
she wanted Card Protection Plan. This product wasnt selected, so I think Miss S would 
have known she had a choice about taking out either product. 
Ive considered what Miss S has said about the conversation with the adviser at the time of 
the sale and how the application form was presented. In order for me to conclude that      
Miss S was told she had to take out the PPI by the adviser or the PPI section was already 
ticked for cover to be taken out, I would need to see persuasive evidence to support this. 
Even if I accept that a staff member physically filled in parts of the application form for     
Miss S (something I dont find surprising or unreasonable given the context of the sale), 
whilst I cant be sure of exactly what was discussed when the policy was sold, Ive got no 
reason to think they didnt discuss the PPI section with her before this option was selected 
and she signed the application form agreeing to its contents. So on balance, I think its more 
likely than not that Miss S agreed to the PPI knowing she had a choice and I havent seen 
anything persuasive to suggest Miss S was pressured by the adviser into taking the PPI. 
Miss S has said that AXA recommended the PPI to her. AXA on the other hand has said that 
it didnt. I dont know what was discussed between Miss S and AXA, so I have thought 
carefully about what Miss S has said, what I know generally about AXAs sales of PPI and 
the available information. Having done so, I havent seen enough to suggest that AXA made 
a detailed assessment of Miss Ss individual circumstances or tailored a recommendation 
when it sold Miss S the policy. So I dont think that it recommended the PPI to her. This 
means AXA didnt have to check if it was right for Miss S. But it did have to make sure she 
got the information she needed to decide if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information AXA gave Miss S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But Miss S was eligible for the cover, including the requirement to be actively 
working in paid employment for at least 16 hours or more a week in the UK. And she doesnt 
appear to have been affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover  such as  
pre-existing medical conditions. I also havent seen anything to suggest the policy wasnt 
affordable for Miss S.
Miss S has told us in recent correspondence that she would have been received 24 weeks 
full pay followed by 24 weeks half pay from her employer if she was too unwell to work. 
Having thought about this, I dont think it means she wouldnt have found the policy useful. I 
say this because the PPI would have paid out in addition to any sick pay Miss S would have 
received from her employer and would have potentially paid out for longer than she would 
have received full pay. The PPI also would have paid a benefit if Miss S was ever made 
redundant. Shes also told us she didnt have any savings or other means she could have 
used to cover her credit card payments if she ever fell on hard times. 
So overall, I think Miss S could have found the policy useful if she ever fell on hard times and 
I dont think that any better information would have put her off from taking out the policy.
I asked everyone to send me any further comments and information before I reached a final 
decision.
Both Miss Ss representative and AXA confirmed receipt of the provisional decision and they 
didnt have anything further for me to consider.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken that into account in deciding this case.
As neither Miss S nor AXA provided any further evidence or arguments for me to look at, Ive 
reached the same conclusions I came to in my provisional decision, for the same reasons. 
So I dont uphold Miss Ss complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and within my provisional decision, I dont uphold Miss Ss 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 July 2021.
 Donna Parsons
Ombudsman