DRN-3117651
The complaint
Mrs H has complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly turned down her loss of rent 
claim after the business she rented property to was impacted by Covid-19.  
Mrs H has been helped in bringing this complaint but, for ease of reading, I will refer to all 
actions and comments as being those of Mrs H. 
What happened
Mrs H held a property owners insurance policy with UKI. She claimed on the policy for loss 
of rent after the business she rented property to was forced to close by the Governments 
response to the national pandemic. 
UKI turned down Mrs Hs claim. It said the core loss of rent cover under the policy and some 
extensions to the cover require there to have been damage to property and Covid-19 didnt 
cause damage to property. UKI added that while the policy did provide cover for a list of 
specified diseases, Covid-19 wasnt one of the diseases on the list. 
Unhappy with UKIs response, Mrs H brought her complaint to our service. She said Covid-
19 wasnt known about at the time the policy was written and so couldnt include Covid-19. 
She referred to the Supreme Court judgment in the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) test 
case as a reason why UKI should be paying her claim. 
Our investigator looked into Mrs Hs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as he 
didnt think the policy provided cover for the circumstances of her claim. 
Mrs H asked for an ombudsmans decision. She said it was unfair that the policy didnt 
include cover for unknown diseases and said Covid-19 wasnt specifically excluded by the 
policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Mrs H. However, I wont be upholding her complaint. Ill explain why.
Loss of rent cover offers protection from risks common to property owners, but different 
policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if UKI has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Mrs Hs claim.
I will focus my decision on the extension for disease at that is the main point in dispute. 
However, for completeness, I would like to reassure Mrs H that I have considered the rest of 
her policy but there isnt anything in it that would provide cover for the circumstances of her 
claim.
The relevant part of the extension for disease covers:
Loss as insured arising from the closure of the Premises or any part thereof on 
the order or advice of any local or governmental public authority due to any 
occurrence of the following at the Premises:
acute encephalitis, acute poliomyelitis, anthrax, chickenpox, cholera, diphtheria,
dysentery, legionellosis, legionnaires disease, leprosy, leptospirosis, malaria, 
measles meningococcal infection, mumps, ophthalmia neonatorum, paratyphoid 
fever, bubonic plague, rabies, rubella, scarlet fever, smallpox, tetanus, typhoid 
fever, viral hepatitis, whooping cough or yellow fever;
 
Given Covid-19 wasnt in existence at the time the policy was entered into, I wouldnt expect
it to be included in the list of diseases. But there are similar policies on the market that 
provide cover in the circumstances of the pandemic, e.g. policies which cover all notifiable 
diseases as set out and updated on a Government-defined list. Mrs Hs policy is not like this 
 it sets out a defined list of the diseases which are covered. And there is nothing in the 
wording of the policy which implies it would provide cover for any new diseases which might 
emerge. So, I dont think the policy can fairly be read as covering all and any new diseases.
While the policy doesnt have an exclusion for new diseases, there isnt anything in the 
policy that would provide cover and therefore this doesnt provide cover for Mrs Hs claim.
Mrs H has also referred to the FCA test case. However, whether a claim should be paid or 
not depends on the specific wording of each policy and in this case the judgment doesnt 
impact on Mrs Hs claim as her policy includes a defined list of diseases and this wasnt 
considered by the Court. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mrs H was hoping for but, having considered the matter 
very carefully, I dont think I can fairly require UKI to pay Mrs Hs claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman