DRN-3673082
The complaint
Ms L complains that Santander UK Plc has made a series of errors in handling her accounts, 
and has not treated her fairly or sympathetically in light of her personal circumstances.
What happened
The details of this complaint as well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in full 
here. The key facts are:
- On 7 February 2021 Ms Ls husband left the family home following a breakdown in 
his mental health. He had also physically attacked Ms L.
- Ms L contacted Santander to discuss what needed to happen with the outstanding 
overdraft balance on their joint current account going forward. At the same time she 
opened a sole account with Santander.
- On 24 February 2021 Ms Ls joint account was marked as being in dispute.
- In late February 2021 Ms L visited her local Santander branch and had an interaction 
with staff there that she found extremely distressing.
- Over the next month or so Ms L and Santander had a series of conversations, but 
nothing was resolved so Ms L referred her complaint to our service.
- Santander did not consider it had done anything wrong in how it had handled Ms Ls 
accounts or in how its staff had spoken to her. 
One of our investigators looked at what Ms L and Santander had said and, ultimately, they 
did not think Santander needed to do anything more. They found that, overall, Santander 
had been sympathetic to Ms Ls circumstances, and felt Santander was reasonable to hold 
Ms L liable for the outstanding overdraft balance on the joint account and to record 
information about that account on her credit file. 
Ms L did not agree with the investigators findings. She maintains that Santanders actions 
have made an already difficult time for her even more distressing. In summary, to resolve 
her complaint, she would like compensation for Santanders failings and for the poor service 
she feels she has received, for her credit file to be updated to remove any record of missed 
payments, and for interest and charges incurred after her joint account was placed in dispute 
to be refunded. 
As no agreement could be reached, Ms Ls complaint has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator, and for largely the 
same reasons. I understand this will come as a disappointment to Ms L, particularly in light 
of the very difficult personal circumstances shes told us about. But Ill explain why Ive 
reached the conclusions I have, and I hope that Ms L will then at least feel that her concerns 
have been listened to.
Firstly, although I have only summarised the background and arguments above, I would like 
to assure both parties that I have read and considered everything provided. I wont 
necessarily be detailing every event or point of contention, but that doesnt mean that Ive 
not thought very carefully about everything that has led us to this point.
 
Ms Ls complaint comes down to two main areas  how Santander has handled her 
accounts, and how individual staff members at Santander have treated her both on the 
phone and in person in light of her particular vulnerabilities. 
Ms L told Santander of the issues with her husband in early February 2021. Unfortunately, 
we dont have a recording of that initial conversation with Santander, but we do have 
recordings of the many subsequent calls, which I have listened to. Its clear that Ms L was 
extremely distressed by what had happened and was looking for some advice about what to 
do going forward regarding the account and the overdrawn balance. I appreciate that some 
of these conversations were very difficult, but overall Im satisfied that Santander did what I 
would expect it to do. Ill explain why Ive reached this conclusion. 
After speaking with Ms L in detail about what had happened, Santander advised her to 
cancel the direct debits on the joint account before it applied any block. Ms L said she 
wouldnt be able to do this until her new sole account, which she had just recently opened, 
was available for her to view online. It appears that when Ms L had opened this new sole 
account the name on the account was slightly different to the name on her joint account, so 
the two profiles were not linked and could not be viewed using the same online credentials. 
Santander had offered to send new online credentials out so Ms L could access the sole 
account online, but Ms L said she wanted to be able to see everything in the same place, so 
asked for the profiles to be merged, and Santander agreed to do this but said it may take a 
few days. 
Around this time Santander also discussed with Ms L what it might be able to do regarding 
the outstanding overdraft balance on the account. Ms L wanted her husband removed from 
the account; but firstly her husband would need to agree to this, and then the terms and 
conditions of the account meant that she could be held liable for the full outstanding 
overdraft balance. Ms L and Santander agreed that would not necessarily be the fairest 
outcome here. So Santander explained to Ms L the exceptions process it had for situations 
like Ms Ls where domestic violence may be a factor. Essentially, Santander explained that if 
Ms L could provide some evidence of what had happened, such as a police report or 
comments from her doctor, it would be able to consider removing Ms L from the account and 
only asking her to repay half of the outstanding overdraft balance. During this call Santander 
also confirmed that it would waive interest on the overdraft balance for one month, but that 
going forward interest would continue to accrue. 
A few days later Santander spoke with Ms Ls neighbour, who was supporting her in her 
complaint and then spoke to Ms L again. At this stage Ms L was extremely distressed. She 
felt that Santander was not doing enough to help her and made comments which caused 
Santander to be very concerned for her welfare. During this call Ms L passed the phone to 
her neighbour who discussed that it may be beneficial for Santander to contact social 
services for more support for Ms L given how difficult her situation was. On speaking further 
with Ms L Santander confirmed it was still working on getting her profiles merged so she 
could see her sole account at the same time as her joint account, but given Ms Ls concerns 
it agreed to block the joint account at this time even though Ms L didnt yet have full online 
access to her sole account. Santander confirmed to Ms L that when the account was 
blocked she would be unable to do anything with it, so would need to contact the individual companies where her direct debits were going to ensure those had been cancelled. 
Santander then went on to explain its exceptions process again, and that if Ms L could 
provide some evidence of the attack by her husband then it could look to have her removed 
from the account. But Ms L was clear in this call that she was unwilling to get that evidence 
herself. She felt that Santander should be contacting third parties like the police or Ms Ls 
GP itself. 
At this stage, as it said it would do, Santander contacted adult social services about Ms L, 
and it appears that social services then contacted a support group who got in touch with 
Ms L directly. Ms L was extremely upset by this. She was concerned that her data had been 
breached and did not feel it was appropriate for Santander to have made any contact with 
social services or the support group. Having listened closely to the conversations Ms L was 
having with the bank around this time, I dont think it was unreasonable for Santander to 
have contacted social services. Banks have an obligation to take action if they feel a 
customer is at risk of harm. And Ms L had made several comments to suggest she may be a 
danger to herself, was evidently hugely distressed, and Santander had made it clear to her 
that it would be contacting social services to see if they could support her. It was then up to 
social services to decide what to do following that contact from Santander, and evidently 
they decided that contacting the support group who ultimately got in touch with Ms L was the 
best way forward. That was not Santanders decision. 
Ms L attended her local branch to resolve some issues with her card and raised her 
concerns about the contact with social services during this visit. Its clear that Ms Ls 
discussion with staff members at the branch did not go well. Ms L felt that she was being 
intimidated and belittled by staff members, and the branch staff feel she was aggressive and 
causing upset to other customers. I cannot know exactly what happened during these visits, 
theres no CCTV, but I do have copies of the notes that branch staff took at the time of 
Ms Ls visits. And those notes do suggest that the branch staff were doing their best to help 
Ms L at a time when she was very upset. So while I dont wish to downplay how distressing 
Ms L clearly found these interactions, I also dont think I can fairly find that any particular 
staff member intentionally caused that distress.
By early March 2021 Ms L confirmed she could now view her sole account online, but she 
now could not see the joint account. During calls with Santander it explained that this was 
because the joint account was marked as in dispute and so Ms L (and her husband) no 
longer had online access to it. Santander agreed to send Ms L a list of all her direct debits 
and standing orders on the joint account so that she could see what she needed to move to 
her new account. Ms L reiterated that she wanted to repay only her half of the outstanding 
overdraft balance. She says this is what Santander had told her would happen. Ive not 
found any evidence that Ms L had been told this in her earlier conversations with Santander. 
Santander had explained it would need some evidence in order to consider whether this 
splitting of the outstanding debt was something it could do, and Ms L had not supplied any 
such evidence. Ms L also says during these calls that she had been told the joint account 
would be closed, but again that is not supported by the phone calls Ive listened to. She was 
told the account would be blocked, but that interest would continue to accrue on the 
outstanding balance, and that she would need to arrange to cancel direct debits and 
standing orders. At this stage it was agreed that Santander would cancel all the direct debits 
on the joint account, and would look into whether it could do anything more to agree a 
repayment arrangement that didnt require Ms L to repay the full outstanding balance of the 
account.
Ms L then referred her complaint to our service, and on 15 April 2021 Santander issued a 
final response letter. In this letter it said she should get back in touch if she wanted to 
discuss a way forward regarding the overdraft facility on the joint account. Since then Ms L has raised further concerns about collections activity on the joint account and the impact of 
the overdraft on her credit file. 
I can see that the interest and the monthly account charge being applied to the joint account 
took it over the arranged limit in September 2021. Interest and the monthly account charge 
were then no longer applied to the account from November 2021 onwards. And in December 
2021, following an attempt by our investigator to mediate this complaint, Santander asked 
Ms L to complete an income and expenditure form so that it could ensure any repayment 
plan agreed going forwards was affordable to her. Ms L was unwilling to complete this form 
as she said she was not in financial difficulties and did not want to make any arrangement 
until agreement had been reached about how much of the overdraft balance she would be 
paying back.
I understand that Ms L is now back in contact with her husband, has reached an agreement 
with him regarding repayment of the overdraft, and is able to access the joint account to 
make payments towards the debt.
Looking at everything that has happened here, Im satisfied that Santander has treated Ms L 
fairly. From listening to all the call recordings provided its clear to me that Santander was 
trying to assist Ms L by offering her a potential solution regarding the joint account overdraft 
balance. I appreciate that Ms L was not happy that she would need to provide some 
evidence herself in order for that solution to be considered, but I think it was reasonable for 
Santander to ask for some impartial evidence to support what she was saying. And while 
there were some issues with the way Ms Ls sole account was set up, so she couldnt initially 
see it in her online banking, it seems Santander also offered a solution there  that it could 
send out separate login credentials for the sole account. But Ms L wasnt happy with this 
solution, so it then took slightly longer for the two online profiles to be merged so that Ms L 
could see her accounts all on the same profile.
I appreciate Ms L then couldnt view the joint account, but Santander had been clear that the 
block on this account meant she would not be able to do anything with it. And did then offer 
to send out details to help her cancel and reset her direct debits on her new account.
So overall, I consider that Santander did take reasonable steps to help Ms L. It made 
suggestions for a way forward and was willing to make exceptions to its usual process to try 
and make things easier for her. I appreciate that the suggestions Santander made werent 
what Ms L wanted, but I dont think that means Santander did anything materially wrong 
here.
Regarding the outstanding overdraft balance, the charges and interest applied to that, and 
the impact that has had on Ms Ls credit file, Im again satisfied that Santander acted 
reasonably. It clearly explained to Ms L that interest would continue to accrue on the 
overdraft until a repayment plan was agreed, and then nonetheless stopped interest and 
charges when the account went over its limit to stop the situation worsening further. I 
appreciate that Ms L feels she had been trying to arrange a repayment plan for months, but 
shed not provided evidence to allow Santander to consider splitting the liability for the 
overdraft, and was unwilling to agree a repayment plan for the entire amount outstanding, so 
I dont think Santander could have done more to agree a plan with her during that period. 
And given that no repayment plan had been agreed, the account had gone over the 
arranged limit, and no payments were being made to the account, the data recorded on Ms 
Ls credit file does seem to be an accurate reflection of what was happening. And Santander 
has an obligation to provide the credit reference agencies with accurate information about 
accounts. So I think it was fair for Santander to record the information it did.Ive also thought about the general level of service Ms L has received from Santander over 
this period. And I acknowledge that there were some occasions where perhaps things could 
have been explained more clearly, or where it would have been helpful for Ms L to have only 
one person from the bank contacting her rather than several. I also acknowledge that some 
of the calls Ms L had with Santander were very long. And I can see that some administrative 
issues did cause extra worry for Ms L, like her standing order for her loan continuing to be 
debited from the joint account after the loan was repaid  although its not clear exactly why 
this happened, and all of these overpayments were returned to the joint account within a 
couple of days of being made. But overall, Im not persuaded that Santander has done 
anything materially wrong here in how it has dealt with Ms L, or that the customer service it 
provided is poor enough to be worthy of compensation being paid.
While I have a great deal of sympathy for Ms L, I must be fair to both parties. And from 
everything Ive seen, and all that Ms L and Santander have said, Im satisfied that overall 
Santander has treated Ms L fairly. It follows that I wont be asking it to do anything more. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman