DRN-2693045
The complaint
Mrs D complains that MotoNovo Finance Limited didnt tell her that making overpayments on 
her hire purchase agreement (HPA) using her credit card would result in additional charges. 
She wants the additional charges totalling £255 to be refunded.
Mrs D is represented by Mr D but for the purpose of this decision I have referred to Mrs D 
throughout.
What happened
Mrs D entered a HPA with Motonovo in March 2020 to acquire a car. She says that she 
acquired the car through a HPA as the garage didnt accept card payments and she wanted 
the additional protection a HPA would provide her. She says she had the funds available to 
pay for eh car and so after entering the HPA she made overpayments to reduce the 
outstanding balance on her agreement. She says she wasnt told these payments would be 
treated as cash transactions on her card and would incur charges and interest.
Motonovo didnt accept it was liable for the charge Mrs D had incurred when making the 
payments. It said it had no input into the charges applied by Mrs Ds credit card company 
and noted the credit card companys terms and conditions set out that cash like transactions 
would incur a transaction fee and noted that cash transactions included repaying borrowing.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said that Motonovo had processed Mrs Ds 
credit card payments and had no influence on how her credit card company listed the 
transactions or the associated charges. 
Mrs D didnt accept our investigators view. She said that Motonovo would have made the 
decision to process the cash transaction and so would have known that a cash transaction 
fee may be applicable. However, no information was provided to say that a charge may be 
applied by the card provider.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This decision relates to the charges Mrs D incurred on her credit card when she made 
payments towards her HPA. Having considered the information in this complaint I agree with 
the conclusion reached by our investigator for the following reasons:
Mrs D entered a HPA with Motonovo. The contractual payments were set out, and 
Mrs D decided to make overpayments as she had the funds available. Mrs D chose 
to use her credit card to make the payments and I think it reasonable that she would 
have checked whether fees would be charged by her credit card company had this 
been a concern. Having looked at the credit card companys terms and conditions it 
sets out that cash-like transactions will incur a fee and that repayment of borrowing is 
listed as a cash like transaction.
Mrs D said that Motonovo didnt tell her when she made the transaction that it would 
be treated as a cash payment and additional fees may apply. I also note the further 
comment about Motonovo knowing how it processed payments. However, Motonovo 
has confirmed that all card payments are processed in the same way  whether 
credit or debit. I wouldnt expect Motonovo to tell Mrs D how her payment was being 
categorised as this would be determined by the card provider.
I have nothing to suggest that Motonovo did anything wrong in the processing of 
Mrs Ds payments or that it charged any unexpected fees. Fees were charged by 
Mrs Ds credit card company. Motonovo doesnt have any influence over the charges 
applied by the credit card company. So, while I understand why Mrs D is upset that 
she incurred fees when she used her credit card to make the overpayments on her 
HPA I do not find that Motonovo did anything wrong by not informing Mrs D of these 
potential fees. 
Because of the reasons set out above, I do not find I can uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against MotoNovo Finance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman