DRN-3980897
The complaint
Ms G is unhappy that John Lewis Financial Services Limited (JLFS) have closed her credit 
card.
What happened
Ms G had a Partnership Card through John Lewis Plc. The credit provider was JLFS  a 
subsidiary company of HSBC UK Bank Plc. John Lewis made a decision to change their 
finance partner from JLFS to a new provider. 
JLFS wrote to all their affected customers, including Ms G, informing them of this change 
and confirming that their existing Partnership Card would become inactive from 31 October 
2022.
Unhappy with this, Ms G wrote to HSBC to question whether John Lewis had the legal right 
to take this action. She explained she didnt want her credit card to be closed and she didnt 
want to apply for a new card either.
JLFS explained that the decision made by John Lewis to change credit providers wasnt 
taken lightly and couldnt be overturned. They said they have the right to terminate a 
customers account at any point as per the terms and conditions, and in most circumstances, 
they provide formal notice which was given in this case via mass distribution. 
Ms G referred her complaint to our service. She feels she shouldve been given the choice to 
stay with HSBC. She explained she is disabled and housebound. She also doesnt use the 
internet and she hates forms. So, she doesnt feel due consideration has been given to her 
circumstances as required by the Equality Act 2010.
Our investigator said JLFS hadnt acted unfairly as they gave Ms G notice that her account 
would be closing in line with the terms and conditions of the account. Ms G disagreed and 
asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Ms Gs credit card agreement. This explains that 
JLFS can end her credit card agreement by giving her two months notice in writing.
JLFS have told us that they sent out notice of closure letters to all their customers between 
19 July and 15 August 2022. Im satisfied Ms G received this correspondence since she 
confirmed in her letter of 22 August 2022 to HSBC that shed been informed that her credit 
card would be closing on 31 October 2022. 
This means Ms G was given more than two months notice of her credit card being closed. 
So, Im satisfied JLFS have acted in line with the terms and conditions of the credit card 
agreement.
I dont doubt Ms G has been inconvenienced by no longer having access to her Partnership 
Card, since she used it to make purchases over the phone and pay her electric bill. I also 
appreciate that applying for a new credit card would be challenging for Ms G as shes told us 
she doesnt use the internet and hates forms. But this doesnt mean JLFS have done 
something wrong. They were simply exercising their rights under the terms and conditions of 
the credit card agreement.
JLFS arent the credit provider for the Partnership Card after 31 October 2022. This was due 
to John Lewis changing their finance partner to a new company. I cant fairly hold JLFS 
responsible for any decisions made by John Lewis about which finance partner they use as 
the credit provider for the Partnership Card.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied this change applied to and impacted all consumers 
with a Partnership Card prior to 31 October 2022 and not only Ms G, so I dont think shes 
been treated unfairly by JLFS. 
Ms G has said that she believes JLFS has failed to take her circumstances into account as 
per the Equality Act. Im unable to make a finding on whether or not JLFS closing Ms Gs 
account was a breach of the act, as only a court of law can decide that. However, Ive taken 
the obligations set out in the act into consideration when deciding whether or not I think Ms 
G has been treated fairly, or if JLFS should have done more for her. 
Ms G has explained that the new credit provider for the Partnership Card is online only and 
she doesnt use the internet. I cant fairly and reasonably hold JLFS liable for any reasonable 
adjustments Ms G may require when applying for a new Partnership Card. She may wish to 
speak to John Lewis or the new credit provider directly about her options, for example, 
applying over the phone.
I appreciate Ms G feels that John Lewis is the third party to her account, and she should be 
allowed to keep her card or be given the choice to stay with HSBC. Ms G didnt apply for her 
credit card through HSBC  instead she held a Partnership Card through John Lewis, and 
the credit was provided by JLFS. 
Since JLFS were no longer the credit provider for the Partnership Card after 31 October 
2022, they couldnt continue providing the credit card facility to Ms G. They also couldnt 
allow her the option to stay with HSBC  while JLFS is a subsidiary of HSBC, they are two 
separate legal entities. That said, Ms G would be within her rights to apply for a HSBC credit 
card should she wish to do so.
I know Ms G has been caused a lot of upset and inconvenience by her Partnership Card 
closing and that she doesnt want to apply for a new card elsewhere. However, while 
businesses are required to provide reasonable adjustments, that doesnt mean that they 
must provide customers with their preferred option. 
JLFS were entitled to end the credit card agreement and they did so by providing the 
required notice under the terms and conditions. This was following a commercial decision by 
John Lewis to end their association with JLFS, and it isnt a decision our service can force 
them to revoke. 
Therefore, having taken everything into consideration, Im satisfied JLFS have treated Ms G 
fairly, so I wont be asking them to do anything.My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman