DRN-3867678
The complaint
Miss M is unhappy that Zurich Assurance Limited terminated her income protection claim.
What happened
Miss M was the beneficiary of an income protection policy provided through her employer. 
The policy, which carried a 26-week deferred period, was held with Zurich Assurance 
Limited. 
Early in 2018, Miss M became unwell and sought support with her mental health. She was 
also struggling with some physical health problems. Unfortunately, her condition meant she 
was unable to work and in May 2018, a claim was raised with Zurich. The claim, which 
related to her mental health difficulties, was accepted and benefit payments started from 
August 2018.
As part of its assessment of Miss Ms ongoing eligibility for benefit, Zurich regularly sought 
information about her treatment and prognosis, from her GP and other practitioners who 
were treating her. In July 2020, Zurich also arranged for Miss M to be seen by an 
independent medical expert (IME), a Consultant Clinical Psychologist. 
In his report, the IME gave his opinion on Miss Ms diagnosis and commented positively on 
her on-going treatment with Eye Movement Desensitization and Reprocessing (EMDR). He 
didnt think she was ready to return to work but thought she would be in 8 weeks time once 
shed had further EMDR treatments. He recommended a phased return to work plan be put 
in place ready for her to return to work from September 2020.
Miss M disagreed with the IMEs report and didnt think she would be ready to return to work 
in 8 weeks time. She wanted more time to discuss the plan with her treating therapist. She 
also referenced an operation she needed to treat her physical problems. 
Zurich considered Miss Ms need for surgery but decided it didnt change the IMEs opinion 
about her ability to return to work. But it agreed to continue to pay benefit until November 
2020. 
Between November 2020 and the end of January 2021, Miss M took holiday shed accrued 
during her absence from work; her phased return began in February 2021.
But Miss M remained unhappy with Zurichs decision to terminate her claim. She was 
unhappy it hadnt requested further information from her treating therapist, and she didnt 
agree with its position that her physical problems were unrelated to her mental health 
difficulties. Zurich did not change its decision
An investigator here considered Miss Ms complaint but didnt think Zurich had done 
anything wrong.  He was satisfied it could rely on the IMEs report and as Zurich had 
continued to pay benefit beyond the time the IME had suggested, he didnt uphold Miss Ms 
complaint.
Miss M remains unhappy and so her complaint has been passed to me for final 
determination. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered the obligations placed on Zurich by the regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority, to handle claims promptly and fairly, and to not unreasonably reject a claim. Based 
on the information provided to me, I agree with our investigator and for the same reasons.  
To protect Miss Ms privacy, I wont go into specific details of her physical or mental health 
problems here. But I would like to reassure the parties, Ive considered everything provided 
to me but will only comment on those matters I think most relevant to the outcome Ive 
reached.
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy held with Zurich. The policy terms 
relating to incapacity say:
Incapacity or incapacitated means an illness or injury that causes the Member to be 
unable to work and is applicable under this policy. The incapacity definition that 
applies is in your policy schedule. The Member must be under the regular 
supervision and treatment of a Medical Practitioner.  We can ask for medical 
evidence at regular intervals throughout a claim.
To terminate Miss Ms claim, Zurich would need to show that she no longer met the definition 
of incapacity. And in relying on the IME report, I think its reasonable for Zurich to have 
reached that conclusion because:
Treatment with mental health therapists had, historically, been a little sporadic.
Miss M was not under specialist mental health care or receiving any treatment for her 
mental health for several months prior to the IME assessment. 
The IME assessed Miss M and gave his opinion on her diagnosis and agreed she 
should continue with the EMDR sessions in readiness to return to work in 8 weeks 
time. Ive seen evidence which shows Miss Ms EMDR treatment continued in line 
with his expectations. 
Zurich continued to pay benefit beyond the time recommended by the IME. It hasnt 
been provided with any evidence which contradicts the IMEs opinion on her 
readiness to return to work.
I appreciate Miss M will be disappointed by my decision on her complaint but given the 
above, I dont think Zurich terminated her claim unreasonably.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and wont be asking Zurich Assurance 
Limited to do anything more.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 January 2023.
 
Sian Brightey
Ombudsman