DRN-3050750
The complaint
Mr F complains about Metro Bank PLC and the interest and charges applied to his overdraft 
attached to his current account.
What happened
In 2012, Mr F opened a current account with Metro. In August 2015, Mr Fs overdraft limit 
was increased to £2,000. This was increased again in October to £2,750 and then £10,000 
in December following Mr Fs request.
At the time of these changes, the interest rate on any overdraft amount was 15% EAR 
(variable). So, Mr F was charged interest at this rate for any amount in his overdraft. In July 
2018, Metro reduced this interest rate to 8% EAR (variable) for all customers.
But Mr F didnt think Metro had applied charges to his overdraft fairly, so he raised a 
complaint. Mr F referred to the terms and conditions of his account, which stated Metro could 
charge him a maximum of £60 per month for overdraft charges. And he thought Metro had 
exceeded this, which he felt was unfair. He was also unhappy with the amount the charges 
for using his overdraft varied each month and he thought this showed Metro wasnt applying 
the charges correctly. Mr F was also unhappy about one specific swift transaction, where a 
£25 charge was applied. And finally, he thought Metro had acted unreasonably by refusing 
to credit his account with enough funds to allow him to arrange transport for hospital 
appointments. Because of the above, he wanted to be compensated for the upset hed been 
caused and refunded for any financial losses he incurred.
Metro didnt agree. They thought theyd applied interest and charges to Mr Fs overdraft 
correctly. So, they didnt think they needed to do anything more. Mr F was unhappy with this 
response so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She explained the £60 limit 
was for charges applied to Mr Fs overdraft, not the interest. So, shed seen no evidence to 
show Metro had ever exceeded that limit. And she explained Mr Fs interest was based on 
the proportion of the overdraft facility he used, and the interest rate at the time. And she 
thought this explained the changes in interest charges, as Mr Fs overdraft limit increased 
and the interest rate being charged decreased.  She also thought Metro acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the account by charging Mr F for the swift transaction in 2017. And 
finally, she explained she wouldnt expect Metro to credit Mr Fs account to allow him to 
arrange transportation to hospital appointments as she didnt think it was Metros 
responsibility to pay for this. So, she didnt think Metro had acted unfairly and didnt think 
they needed to do anything more.
Mr F didnt agree. He maintained his view that Metro had acted unfairly. And he made 
comments related to other complaints handled within this service. As Mr F didnt agree, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
Before explaining my decision, I think it would be useful for me to explain what Ive been 
able to consider. This decision focuses solely on Mr Fs complaint about the overdraft 
charges and interest. Im aware Mr F has raised several other issues about Metro but these 
have been dealt with under separate complaint references and Im unable to consider the 
content of these as part of my decision.
And I also want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr F. Im aware Mr F has 
become unwell, which has had a significant impact on his life. Part of this impact has been 
Mr Fs inability to complete a book deal he signed, which led to the increase of his overdraft 
facility. I recognise how upsetting and worrying this would have been for Mr F and how his 
financial situation wouldve been impacted. So, I can understand why Mr F would look at his 
finances, and in particular his current account at the time, and raise questions about fees he 
was being charged. But for me to say Metro have done something wrong, Id need to be 
satisfied of one of two things. Either, that Metro failed to work within the terms and conditions 
of the account when charging Mr F fees and interest. Or if I think they did work within those 
terms and conditions, that they were unfair to do so. And in this situation, I dont think thats 
the case.
Ive seen the terms and conditions for Mr Fs account. And Ive seen the overdraft 
information that accompanied this. Mr F has pointed to one particular section, which states 
Metro are unable to charge more than £60 in overdraft fees each month. And Ive seen a 
table of charges hes provided, which shows the interest he was charged doubled this 
amount in some months. But crucially, interest doesnt qualify as overdraft fees. Overdraft 
fees included charges for making certain types of transactions, or if a customer enters an 
unarranged overdraft. Having reviewed Mr Fs statements, Ive seen no evidence to show 
Metro ever exceeded this £60 limit for overdraft fees, so Im unable to say they failed to act 
in line with the terms of the account. And because of this, I cant say theyve acted unfairly 
on this point.
And Mr F has referenced a £25 charge applied to his account when he made a swift 
payment in 2017. But Ive seen in the terms and conditions of the account which states swift 
payments would incur a £25 charge. So, when Mr F made the payment of £1,375, I think 
Metro were fair to apply this charge and cant say theyve done anything wrong.
Ive then thought about the interest Mr F was charged. Mr F has raised concerns about how 
much the interest amounts varied and he feels this shows the interest was charged correctly. 
But Ive seen nothing to show this is the case. The interest rate Mr F was charged for his 
overdraft changed in July 2018 to 8%, having been 15% previously. So, Id expect the 
interest he was being charged to reduce around this time. And I can see the interest Mr F 
was charged dropped from £114.41 in June to £74.38 in July. So, I dont think this change is 
evidence that the interest was charged incorrectly.
Ive also seen that Mr Fs overdraft limit increased from £2,750 to £10,000 in December 
2015. And the interest Mr F was charged was calculated on a percentage of the total amount 
used in his overdraft. Ive seen Mr F made use of the majority of his overdraft after this 
increase, so there was a higher amount in his overdraft account to accrue interest on. So, Id 
expect Mr Fs interest amount to increase and I dont think this is evidence that the interest 
was calculated or applied incorrectly.Having looked through all of the information provided to me, Ive seen no evidence that 
shows Metro calculated or applied interest to Mr Fs account incorrectly. Because of this, I 
cant say theyve acted unfairly and so, I dont think they need to do anything more in relation 
to this.
Im also aware Metro have since taken the decision to write off Mr Fs overdraft and close his 
current account. And by doing so, Metro have written off around £4,611 more than Mr F ever 
paid in interest. So, hes received this as a financial benefit. And Im aware Mr F feels this 
signifies Metros admittance that theyve acted unfairly. But I dont think thats the case. I 
think this shows Metro acting positively and sympathetically towards Mr Fs financial 
circumstances, which were impacted by his ill health. I dont think this in anyway shows 
Metro admitting theyd made errors regarding the fees and interest applied to Mr Fs 
overdraft and so, this hasnt impacted the decision Ive reached.
Finally, Ive thought about Mr Fs complaint regarding Metros failure to credit his account so 
he could attend hospital appointments. I recognise Mr F was very close the limit of his 
overdraft most months. But, Ive also seen Mr F received an income each month, which 
couldve been used to organise transportation. I wouldnt expect Metro to credit Mr Fs 
account to pay for this transportation, as it wasnt their responsibility to do so. And given Mr 
Fs financial circumstances at the time, I wouldnt expect Metro to increase Mr Fs overdraft 
facility as this wouldve placed him into further debt which I dont think hed have been able 
to repay. So, I dont think Metro have done anything wrong by declining these requests and I 
dont think they need to do anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr F was hoping for. And I recognise its been a difficult 
time for Mr F, due to his ill health and the impact this has had. But I hope this decision 
makes it clear exactly what Ive been able to consider and goes some way to providing Mr F 
with some closure regarding his complaint about the interest and fees his overdraft accrued.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint about Metro Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman