DRN-3325272
The complaint
Mr S has complained about his motor insurer Admiral Insurance Company Limited as shortly 
after he had arranged cover with it, it sought to increase his premium.
What happened
In September 2021 Mr S arranged cover online with Admiral, he added his wife as a named 
driver on the policy. He didnt tell it about an incident the year before with his wifes car, 
which was settled by another drivers insurer. Whilst it was doing some post-application 
checks Admiral found details of that claim.
Admiral wrote to Mr S and told him hed have to pay an increased premium (about a third 
again of what hed been originally charged). Mr S was unhappy with that, he felt it was 
particularly unfair as it was his wifes car that had been affected and it wasnt even dealt with 
as a claim against her policy as the other drivers insurer dealt with everything. Admiral said 
Mr S could cancel free of charge if he wanted to. Mr S complained to us.
Our investigator asked Mr S if he had cancelled his policy. Mr S said he hadnt, as he 
expected hed have to pay a similar price to any other insurer. Our investigator considered 
Admirals pricing criteria. He explained this couldnt be shared with Mr S, but that he was 
satisfied that it had charged Mr S as it would all other policyholders in a similar position. He 
noted the option Admiral had given Mr S to cancel. So he felt it had acted fairly in the 
circumstances.
Mr S said he felt it was unfair and there was nothing that said Admiral could just charge what 
it wants without sharing the reason for that with him. Mr S said he feels pricing of insurance 
should be capped as is the case with the utility industries. He said he has a van too  but the 
price for his van insurance had not gone up. His complaint was passed to me for 
consideration. I issued a provisional decision. My findings of which were:
Was Admiral entitled to demand a further payment from Mr S?
I appreciate that it was frustrating for Mr S to be told Admiral wanted to, and was going to, 
increase his premium. But Mr S did give Admiral incorrect information when he arranged the 
policy. He was asked to tell it, in respect of him and any named drivers, of all incidents and 
claims whether fault or not. And he didnt tell it about the incident involving his wifes car 
which was settled by the other drivers insurer. I accept, as Admiral seems to have done, 
given it didnt seek to end the policy, that Mr S had just been mistaken in not giving it this 
information. He doesnt seem to have acted recklessly or deliberately. But he should have 
taken more care to answer that question correctly. If he had done then Admiral would have 
offered him cover at the full price  and hed have had the chance to decide whether or not 
to agree to that cover, for that price. So he misled Admiral into offering him the policy it did. 
As such its not unreasonable for Admiral, having found out about that, to want to remedy the 
situation. And Admiral did tell Mr S that he could, as an alternative, cancel the policy. So he 
wasnt being forced to pay the additional amount.
However, theres a problem with Admiral having done this. The problem for Admiral is that 
there is legislation which sets out the rights and liabilities for insurers and policyholders when 
arranging and renewing insurance. That is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (the Act). And demanding payment or offering the policyholder, in 
the alternative, to cancel the cover, arent the remedies allowed for by the Act in this sort of 
circumstance.  
The Act says that where a prospective or renewing policyholder misleads an insurer in the 
way that Mr S did here, that is a qualifying misrepresentation. And where a qualifying 
misrepresentation occurs the Act allows the insurer a number of remedies (dependant on the 
nature of the impact the misrepresentation had on the insurer). Where the misrepresentation 
caused the insurer to charge a different price than it otherwise would have done, the Act 
does not allow the insurer to change the price of cover once the misrepresentation is 
uncovered. However, that doesnt mean the policyholder will get full cover at a lower price. 
Rather the Act allows the insurer two options as remedy. The insurer can either cancel the 
cover, or it can opt to tell the policyholder that cover will remain but that any claims made 
during the policy year will be settled proportionately. That is the insurer will only be liable for 
the portion of the claim reflected by the proportion of the premium the policyholder has paid. 
This service views those two remedies as the starting point for resolving this type of 
situation. 
I say starting point because this service encourages insurers to inform policyholders that 
this is what the Act entitles it to do, with a view to then working out a fair and reasonable way 
to resolve things. Knowing what the Act entitles the insurer to do means the policyholder can 
then make an informed decision about what to do. An insurer acting reasonably can give the 
policyholder the option of continuing the cover whilst paying the additional premium and, 
thereby, avoiding the risk of the need to settle any claims proportionately. And the insurer 
can give the policyholder, as an alternative to either paying the further premium or having 
claims settled proportionately, the option of cancelling the cover themselves, without penalty. 
That way both parties are free to go their separate ways and the policyholder wont have a 
cancellation by an insurer on their record.
Here Admiral did give Mr S the option of cancelling his policy, even without the penalty of a 
cancellation charge. But Admirals failure here was that it only offered Mr S the option of 
cancelling the cover as an alternative to its demand for payment of the additional premium. 
So Admiral didnt seek a remedy for this which is allowed by the Act. And whilst this service, 
as I said, often encourages insurers to offer the policyholder a chance to pay the outstanding 
premium or cancel the policy  those options should be given as a part of a fuller package of 
options, which include the remedies available under the legislation. That way the 
policyholder can make an informed decision about what they want to do. And it is this 
package of options that Im, provisionally, going to direct Admiral to give Mr S now. If my 
final decision remains that of my provisional, and Mr S accepts it in the timeframe given, that 
is what it will have to do.
From what Ive seen I think Admiral has likely already taken the further premium payment 
from Mr S. If that is the case and he chooses to cancel, or move ahead with the risk of 
proportionate payments, then it will have to pay that sum back to him plus interest from the 
date it took it  which I believe was sometime in September 2021. Admiral will argue that 
Mr S has had cover since that time, so he should only get a proportionate refund. But 
Admiral didnt give him all the options in September 2021, so he was unable to make an 
informed decision about what to do. If he decides now to cancel, or to take the risk of 
proportionate cover in the event of a claim, I think its fair to say that is likely the same 
decision hed have made then, had he had all the facts. And in that event Admiral would 
never have taken the money from him. So he should get it back, plus interest.  Was the total price for cover fair?
I know Mr S has concerns about the further premium Admiral feels it would always have 
charged had he given it the correct information about the incident with his wifes car. But Ive 
seen Admirals pricing criteria. And, having done so, Im persuaded that Admiral would 
always have charged the full sum to Mr S had the incident details been given to it. The 
pricing criteria shows that when Admiral re-priced his cover, which generated the further 
premium it asked Mr S to pay, the same price would have been charged to any other 
customer of Admirals, who presented the same set of risks as Mr S. And that includes the 
risk presented by anyone named to drive on the policy. In terms of setting a fair premium, 
that is all Admiral needed to do. 
I cant say why the premium for Mr Ss van hasnt been affected. But, in any event, Admiral 
isnt bound to price its cover in line with what other insurers charge. Each insurer is entitled 
to decide for itself what risks it does or doesnt want to cover and indeed how it rates that 
risk, which results in it determining what premium it chooses to charge. And, currently, the 
regulator, the financial conduct authority (FCA), hasnt seen fit to dictate a pricing cap on the 
motor insurance industry. Consequently, this service doesnt interfere on matters of fairness 
about how insurers view risks and what they choose to charge as a result. We do make sure 
that everyone is treated fairly though, and we do that by making sure an insurer charges 
everyone that presents with the same risk criteria, in the same way. As I said above, in 
respect of how Mr Ss policy, based on all the correct facts, was priced, Admiral has done 
that here. 
I know Mr S would like to see Admirals pricing details  that he feels he cant know if its 
been fair without seeing them. But Im not at liberty to share that information. The pricing of 
policies is highly sensitive commercial data and consequently this service treats such 
information as confidential. More so as we publish our final decisions too. In respect of 
confidential information, even when we rely on it in decisions, as I have done here, we dont 
share it with the other party to the complaint. Nor do we put details of it in the public domain. 
But, as explained above, I have seen that detail and I think Admiral, in respect of re-pricing 
Mr Ss cover, acted fairly.
In summary
Ultimately the increase occurred for Mr S because he didnt tell Admiral in the first instance 
about the incident. If he had hed have seen the full correct price for the policy offered by 
Admiral whilst searching for cover and had a choice whether or not to accept it. And Im 
satisfied the total price for cover has been reached fairly. So it now remains for Mr S to be 
given the full range of choices he should have been given when Admiral found out about the 
misrepresentation he had made when arranging the policy. 
Admiral said it had nothing further to add. Mr S said he still feels this is unfair as he and his 
wife have decades of accident free driving behind them  and yet the owner of the car that 
crashed into his wifes car only suffered a premium increase of £70. He said all he had 
wanted from this was his £330 back  but it seems insurers can just charge what they want. 
Mr S concluded that none of the three remedies I offered (in my section, putting things right 
below) would really benefit him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I appreciate that this is a disappointing outcome for Mr S. And that is regrettable. But it is my 
job to, first, determine if an insurer failed its policyholder. Here, I found that Admiral had 
failed Mr S  he was treated unfairly when Admiral demanded the £330 from him with no 
other choice given but to cancel. Then its my job to put Mr S back into the position he would 
have been in but for Admirals failure. And, in this case, that is to offer Mr S one of the three 
options set out below. Unfortunately for Mr S theres no scenario, in respect of his cover with 
Admiral, where I can fairly and reasonably make Admiral reimburse him his £330 and keep 
him on cover for the remainder of the year.
But, if Mr S wants his £330 back he can opt for a proportionate claim settlement if a claim 
arises later in the year. Or choose to cancel the cover and find a policy with another 
provider. As hes seen from the other driver (whos insurer only increased their price of cover 
by £70), and I said provisionally, not all insurers view and rate risks in the same way. Whilst 
Mr S and his wife have never had an accident before, and they didnt cause this accident, 
the fact of this accident was important to Admiral and did affect the price it would charge 
Mr S for cover for his car. As I also noted provisionally, if Mr S had declared the accident 
when arranging cover, its likely he would never have looked at the policy from Admiral  
because the price of it  which would have included the £330  would simply have not been 
attractive to him. 
Mr S is right, at this time, insurers are free to choose what they want to charge. But its also 
true that policyholders can shop around. They arent bound to go with any particular 
provider, nor are they bound to stay with an insurer year on year, no matter the renewal 
price. That is the nature of many business models  if the price one supermarket charges for 
groceries is unacceptable to you, you can shop elsewhere. But, Admiral, as all insurers 
must, has to treat all its policyholders fairly and cant charge one, presenting with the same 
set of risks, differently to another. As I said provisionally, Im satisfied that, here, anyone 
presenting with the same set of risks as Mr S, whose wife was a named driver on his policy, 
would have been charged the same. As such I cant fairly and reasonably make Admiral 
offer him cover for less.
Putting things right
Bearing in mind what Ive said above about what the legislation entitled Admiral to do, 
I require it to give Mr S the choice of resolving this by picking one of the following options:
Cancellation  The policy will be cancelled (without penalty), by Mr S. If Mr S picks this 
option, Admiral must reimburse to Mr S the £330 extra premium it took, plus 8% simple, 
per year interest* from the date of payment until settlement is made. 
Proportionate liability for claim  Mr S will continue the policy based on the original 
premium charged, but in the knowledge that in the event of a claim, Admiral will only be 
liable for any loss (to him or any other party) based on the proportion of the premium 
paid against the full cost of cover. If Mr S picks this option, Admiral must reimburse to 
Mr S the £330 extra premium it took, plus 8% simple, per year interest* from the date of 
payment until settlement is made.
Full cover/full payment  Mr S will move ahead with the policy, until its renewal later this 
year, on the basis of full cover being in place. If Mr S picks this option, Admiral will not 
have to reimburse to Mr S the £330 extra premium it took.
*If income tax is to be deducted from the interest, appropriate documentation should be 
provided to Mr S for HMRC purposes.
 My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to provide the remedy, 
as chosen by Mr S, from the list of three set out above at putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman