DRN-1309885
 
The complaint
Mrs C has complained that Santander UK Plc mis-sold her a credit card payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mrs C took out the policy in February 2008 during a phone call.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs C disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Im not upholding Mrs Cs complaint and Ill explain why.
Mrs C took out the PPI when she called Santander to activate the credit card. As her 
application for the credit card had already been accepted at that point, I doubt Mrs C would 
have thought she had to agree to the PPI in order for the credit card account to be approved.
Ive seen a copy of the call script that Santander was using at the time. The advisor 
describes the PPI as optional. I dont have any reason to believe that the advisor deviated 
from the script on this occasion. On balance I consider that Mrs C would have known she 
had a choice about the PPI. It seems to me that she decided to buy the PPI, knowing that 
she didnt have to.
Santander didnt recommend the policy to Mrs C, so it didnt need to ensure that it met her 
needs. But it did need to provide Mrs C with enough information for her to make an informed 
decision about whether or not the policy was right for her.
Mrs Cs employer would have given her six months full pay, followed by six months half 
pay, if she was off work sick. But the policy would have paid out in addition to this and 
potentially for longer than Mrs C would have received full pay for. And Mrs C didnt have any 
other means, such as savings, to fall back on. So I think the policy could have provided a 
useful benefit to her at what would have been a difficult time. And indeed Mrs C did benefit 
from the policy as she made a successful claim on it.
Its possible that Santander didnt provide as much information about the policy as it should 
have, particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mrs C wasnt affected by any of 
those things. As I think that she had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont 
think that further information would have caused her to change her mind.This means that Santander doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs C. But 
Santander has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs C because: 
When the policy was sold, Santander expected to get a high level of commission and 
profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs C about 
that. Because Santander didnt tell Mrs C, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Santander has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Santander UK Plc does not have to pay back all of the cost 
of the PPI to Mrs C.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mrs C any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman