DRN-3761229
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained about AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited 
(AAUICL)s decision to reject a claim they made for storm damage under their home 
insurance policy. 
What happened
In February 2022 following a named storm Mr and Mrs M made a claim to their insurer, 
AAUICL for damage to the roof of their home. 
AAUICL initially rejected their claim - but Mr M was very unhappy with its decision as this 
was based on photos provided by them. So AAUICL agreed to arrange for a Surveyor to 
inspect the damage. 
The Surveyor reported that damage to the front of the roof should be declined as it showed 
signs of existing wear and tear and previous repairs. But they recommended the damage to 
the rear of the roof should be met under the claim. 
AAUICLs in house assessor reviewed the Surveyors report and didnt agree with it. 
AAUICL maintained its decision to decline the claim in full. It said the storm had highlighted 
pre-existing issues with the roof and wasnt the dominant cause of the damage. 
Mr and Mrs M asked us to look at their complaint. Our Investigator recommended their 
complaint should be upheld. He thought AAUICL should reconsider their claim in full - in line 
with the Surveyors report. The Investigator didnt think there was sufficient evidence to show 
the damage to the front of the roof should be declined. 
For the distress and inconvenience caused by AAUICLs decision to reject the claim, the 
Investigator thought it should pay £100 compensation. 
AAUICL didnt agree. In summary it says the photos show the roof was not in good condition 
with missing mortar and nail fatigue. 
Mr and Mrs M say the only person who did a thorough inspection of their roof was the 
Surveyor who inspected it. 
As AAUICL didnt agree, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We ask three questions in order to consider if an insurer has fairly declined a claim for storm 
damage. These are:
 Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
 If so, is the damage being claimed for consistent with damage that a storm typically 
causes? and;
 Were storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer to all these questions is 'yes' then the claim is likely to succeed. But, if the 
answer to any of the above questions is 'no' - the claim for storm damage is unlikely to be 
covered.
There seems to be no dispute from AAUICL that storm conditions occurred - and I think the 
damage being claimed for is consistent with damage a storm would cause. So the answer to 
the first two questions is yes. 
The remaining question is whether storm conditions were the main cause of the damage Mr 
and Mrs M claimed for. 
The Surveyor who inspected Mr and Mrs Ms home provided photos of the front and rear of 
the roof. This shows damage to the same side of the roof, front and rear, indicating damage 
caused by strong winds. 
The inspecting Surveyor said that the damage to the rear roof should be met as it had been 
maintained to a decent standard. He found that the damage to the front of the roof should be 
rejected - as the front roof showed signs of previous repairs. 
AAUICL has provided a further copy of some of the photos its already provided to support 
its view that the claim shouldnt be met. Ive carefully considered all of the photos provided 
by Mr and Mrs M and the inspecting Surveyor. My view is that although there are some signs 
of previous repairs to the front of the roof - this doesnt always mean that the roof couldnt 
have withstood storm conditions. The damage is at the same end of the house and starts 
right at the edge of the roof - theres nothing in the photos or any other evidence to outweigh 
that. 
I think this is a finely balanced case, but overall Im not persuaded that there is enough 
evidence to show Mr and Mrs Ms roof was not functioning due to wear and tear in order to 
conclude that storm damage wasnt the dominant cause. And the reason the inspecting 
Surveyor gave for declining a claim for the front of the roof (previous repairs) doesnt deal 
with the clear evidence in the photos that do look consistent with storm damage. 
So I think a fair and reasonable outcome is for AAUICL to include the damage to the front 
roof under the claim. 
Im therefore upholding the complaint in line with the Investigators view as set out below.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AA Underwriting Insurance 
Company Limited to do the following:
Meet Mr and Mrs Ms claim for storm damage under the terms of the policy. 
Pay Mr and Mrs M £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of 
the date on which we tell it Mr and Mrs M accept my final decision. If it pays later than this it 
must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at a simple rate of 8% a year.
If AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue 
& Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs M how much 
its taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs M a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, 
so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman