DRN-1557631
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained that ERGO Reiseversicherung AG (ERV) unfairly refused to 
pay their claim under their travel insurance policy.
References to ERV includes all its agents.
What happened
Mrs M said she had a medical condition which prevented her from flying. So she booked a 
cruise which she and Mr M were to join in southern Europe. To get to the cruise, they 
travelled from the UK by train. 
When they arrived at their cruise ship, they discovered that Mrs Ms passport had been 
stolen on route. Unfortunately the cruise operator wouldnt let them join the cruise without a 
valid passport. It took a few days to get a new emergency passport and by that time their 
cruise had departed. Given Mrs Ms inability to fly, they couldnt get to the cruise to join it 
later and had to arrange their travel home to the UK by train.
They made a claim to ERV which paid them £500 each for the extra accommodation, travel 
money that was stolen and the cost of the emergency passport. However it said the cost of 
the lost cruise wasnt covered.
Mr and Mrs M thought this was very unfair and complained. But ERV wouldnt change its 
stance. So they brought their complaint to us. The investigator was of the view that ERV 
hadnt done anything wrong given the terms and conditions of the policy.
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree so their complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why. 
First, I am very aware how disappointed Mr and Mrs M will be. However insurance policies 
dont cover every eventuality and unfortunately here Mr and Mrs Ms policy simply doesnt 
cover their loss of their cruise due to her passport being stolen.
As the investigator explained, the role of this service and therefore me is to assess whether 
ERV did anything wrong as regards the terms and condition of its policy.
The policy provides cover for cancellation and curtailment.  
Under the cancellation term, the cover is only available up to the time you leave your home 
in the UK. And as Mr and Mrs M had left the UK travelling by train when Mrs Ms passport 
was stolen, there is no cover for cancellation in those circumstances. In any event the cover 
is limited to the cancellation being caused by illness to include a close relative or a travelling 
companion, travel delay due to adverse weather and/or industrial action etc, jury service, 
redundancy, police requiring your presence back home to accidental damage or robbery of 
your home, the Foreign Office banning travel etc. None of these apply to Mr and Mrs Ms 
circumstances of the lost passport issue plus her inability to fly causing the effective 
cancellation of the cruise, since it was impossible for her to get to the cruise ship once she 
had her emergency passport issued.
The curtailment cover is likewise limited to being caused by unforeseen illness, jury service 
or needing to come home due to accidental/criminal damage to your home. Again none of 
these apply to Mrs Ms circumstances.
Mrs M said she opted to include cruise cover, however that only covers a missed departure 
of the cruise due to a breakdown or accident or public transport issues, again none of which 
apply to Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances.  
Its not unusual in travel policies that cover for the lack of a passport is very curtailed as Mr 
and Mrs M have sadly discovered. The reason for this is because no travel insurer including 
ERV, wants to be liable for the extensive difficulties losing a passport might entail. Thats 
because generally its the policyholders duty to look after their travel documents to include 
their passport. Here however, Mrs M was properly looking after her passport but so very 
unfortunately and sadly was subjected to it being stolen from her handbag most likely in 
busy railway stations, as she changed trains to get to the cruise ship.  
Despite how unfair it seems, ERV hasnt done anything wrong in not paying for the loss of 
the cruise in these circumstances, so I cant require it to do anything more. There simply isnt 
the cover in this policy to cover the circumstances Mr and Mrs M found themselves in.
Again I do understand and appreciate how disappointed Mr and Mrs M will be with this 
decision. And I wish to extend my sympathy for the horrible experience theyve endured 
given this was such a special holiday, that they were so looking forward to enjoying. 
My final decision
So for these reasons its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 December 2020.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman