DRN-3981102
The complaint
Mr D says Studio Retail Limited (Studio Retail) irresponsibly lent to him. He has requested 
that the interest and late payment charges he paid on the account be refunded. 
What happened
This complaint is about a shopping account Studio Retail provided to Mr D. The account 
was opened in October 2016 with a credit limit of £300. There were then five credit limit 
increases between November 2016 and September 2017, taking the credit limit up to £750, 
plus a further three credit limit increases in 2020 and 2021, taking the credit limit up to 
£1,750. 
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint from the June 2017 credit limit increase, from £375 to 
£450, due to changes in Mr Ds financial circumstances in the lead up to that increase. 
Studio Retail said it didnt agree as it said its own information suggested that Mr D was 
managing his account reasonably well. The complaint has therefore been passed to me for 
a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website.
Studio Retail needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr D 
could afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the 
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Studio Retail should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of 
income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the frequency of borrowing, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been indebted (reflecting the risk that 
prolonged indebtedness may signal that the borrowing had become, or 
was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Our adjudicator has set out in some detail why he now thinks Studio Retail shouldnt have 
provided Mr D with any further credit from June 2017 onwards, when Mr Ds credit limit was 
increased from £375 to £450. Nonetheless in preparing this decision Ive looked at the overall 
pattern of Studio Retails lending history with Mr D, based on the evidence and information 
provided by both Studio Retail and Mr D, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which 
Studio Retail should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or 
otherwise harmful. If so, that would mean Studio Retail should have realised that it shouldnt 
have increased Mr Ds credit limits.
Ive seen that Mr D had some other borrowing in place at the time the account was 
opened, including two revolving credit accounts that were in active use. But I dont think 
it was necessarily unreasonable for Studio Retail to have approved the account. I say 
this taking into consideration that at that time Mr D didnt have any defaults or other 
adverse issues such as a county court judgment recorded on his credit record. 
Ive seen that Studio Retail granted Mr D his first credit limit increase around a month after 
the account was opened, but this was relatively modest, from £300 to £375. But going 
forward I would have expected Studio Retail to carry out credit checks for each increase 
that would have included reviewing Mr Ds income and level of credit commitments 
elsewhere. I say this having also seen that prior to the June 2017, Mr D had been using 
between 80 and 100% of the available credit on the account. 
Our adjudicator noted that in April 2017, Mr D had defaulted on a catalogue credit account 
hed taken out in 2014. And on another catalogue account, also taken out in 2014, Mr Ds 
credit limit had been suspended since December 2016, with the account eventually going 
into default in November that year. I agree that this suggests that by June 2017 Mr Ds 
financial situation was likely to have been deteriorating to the extent that he could begin to 
struggle to manage the credit he already had with Studio Retail. I can see that there was 
some evidence of the difficulty Mr D was experiencing visible within the credit bureau data 
Studio Retail was relying on. So this ought to have prompted Studio Retail to carry out 
enquiries in order that it could make a proportionate assessment before granting Mr D any 
further credit. 
I think it follows that in giving Mr D the further credit limit increase in June 2017, 
Studio Retail ought to have carried out better checks on Mr Ds income and committed 
expenditure at that time. Had it done so its likely it would have found that Mr D was already 
getting into serious difficulty with managing his finances to the extent that his total level of 
borrowing was becoming unsustainable.
To summarise, I consider that Studio Retail actions in further increasing Mr Ds credit limit 
from June 2017 had the effect of worsening his financial situation by making the account 
unaffordable to him and unsustainable going forward. So Studio Retail should put things 
right.I would add that I would expect Studio Retail to continue to act with appropriate 
forbearance in seeking to support Mr D in his efforts to find a fair and manageable way to 
pay back any balance that may still be owing on his account.
Putting things right  what Studio Retail needs to do
Rework Mr Ds account to ensure that from 29 June 2017 onwards, interest is 
only charged on balances up to £450 (being the credit limit in place before that date), 
including any buy now pay later interest, to reflect the fact that no further credit limit 
increases should have been provided. All late payment and over limit fees should also 
be removed; and
If an outstanding balance remains on the account once these adjustments 
have been made Studio Retail should contact Mr D to arrange an affordable 
repayment plan. Once Mr D has repaid the outstanding balance, it should remove any 
adverse information recorded on his credit file from 29 June 2017 onwards. 
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and 
returned to Mr D, along with 8% simple interest per year on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. Studio Retail 
should also remove any adverse information from Mr Ds credit file from 29 June 2017 
onwards.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Studio Retail to take off tax from this interest. Studio 
Retail must give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for 
one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out, Im partially upholding Mr Ds complaint. Studio Retail Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman