DRN-4263310
The complaint
A club Ill refer to as E complains about the workmanship undertaken by Aspray Ltd 
following a storm damage claim against its insurance policy. 
What happened
The background to the complaint is known to both E and Aspray so I wont repeat it here. In 
this decision Ill summarise the complaint and focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
Es clubhouse suffered storm damage after branches fell on its roof. Aspray were appointed 
by Es broker to arrange the necessary repairs. They say this included replacing some 
decking board and a section of bitumen roof. Following repairs, however, members of E 
inspected them and were concerned whether these produced a lasting and effective repair. 
E appointed an independent surveyor who expressed concerns over the adequacy of 
repairs, the materials used, and concluded broadly that they needed to be redone because 
they were poor. E sent this to Aspray, so they appointed an independent contractor to 
assess the repairs. They concluded, broadly, that other than thinner decking boards being 
used which shouldnt cause a problem to the effectiveness of the repair, all was in order. 
Aspray also say following repairs, tree surgeons walked on the newly repaired roof causing it 
to crease, amongst other things. They were satisfied repairs were adequate. E didnt agree, 
so it asked our Service for an impartial review. 
I issued a provisional decision on 14 July 2023 which set out the following: 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why 
The key question to answer is whether Im satisfied Aspray provided E with a lasting and 
effective repair. To answer this question, Ive reviewed the various reports and photos 
provided. And having done so, my current thinking is the answer to this question is no. Ill 
explain why. 
Following repairs, E appointed an independent surveyor to provide a report. This set out, 
broadly, that: 
The roof seemed to be in good working order other than the patched area completed 
by Aspray, and the standard of repairs were poor with a number of defects
Different decking thickness had been used whereas the same thickness should have 
been used for repairs 
Felt coverings were poorly fitted, not bonded in places, which has led to cracking 
over a short period. And the standard of repairs  in their professional opinion  were 
exceedingly poor, and remedial works would require removing the old works and 
carrying out new repairs. 
I acknowledge Aspray say both their repairer and independent contractors concluded correct 
materials were used and the repair was adequate. But I dont agree. I say this because all 
professional parties involved concluded new decking boards were thinner than the original 
boards. And Asprays independent contractors said this shouldnt [bold for my emphasis] 
cause a problem. I dont think this comment supports correct materials were used, or that a 
lasting and effective repair was successfully completed here. Es main concern is over the 
longevity of these repairs, so I understand why this comment  along with its independent 
surveyors findings  gave it no confidence repairs would be lasting and effective. 
I note nothings happened  fortuitously in my view  since repairs were completed. No 
water has entered the clubhouse via the roof, for example. To be clear here, repairs were 
completed around March 2022, and while the repairs have stood up to the test of time for 
this short period, I dont think that automatically means its safe to conclude this was a 
lasting and effective repair. E pointed out its concerns for the future being an amateur club 
with limited finances. And I think its concerns are reasonable given the evidence it provided 
to support those concerns. 
Aspray say damage was due to E appointing tree surgeons who walked on the roof shortly 
after repairs to cut down trees. They say E was verbally informed no activity should take 
place on the roof for 12 months by the repairer. Es representatives, however, say this wasnt 
communicated, and also no guarantee for the works was provided. Theres a lack of 
evidence to support this was communicated to E  such as some form of repairs completion 
report setting out this very important information. All things considered  I find it more 
unlikely E would have allowed for contractors to walk on a recently repaired roof shortly after 
being told not to as this would compromise the repairs. I say this because Ive found the 
testimony of those representing E in this case to be reasonable, plausible, and consistent 
throughout. 
Ive reviewed photos provided by the repairer and Es independent surveyor. The repairers 
photos show the area of the clubhouse roof with works completed. While Es independent 
surveyors photos show the impact of using thinner decking, creasing, and other issues to 
support their findings. Im not a roofer and so I must rely on the opinions of experts. And in 
cases where a policyholder considers repairs to be inadequate, or not lasting and effective, 
the onus is on them to demonstrate this. Given the compelling independent surveyors 
findings, and photos to support these findings, its my opinion E took reasonable steps to 
support its concerns. 
Therefore, in this case, Im more persuaded E took reasonable steps to demonstrate repairs 
werent lasting and effective. Im not satisfied the issues reported by the independent 
surveyor is the result of E allowing contractors to walk on the roof having been told no 
activity should take place for 12 months. As such, I currently intend to require Aspray to put 
matters right. 
I dont consider it would be appropriate to require Aspray to reattend to undertake the further 
repairs required. So, Aspray should cash settle the repairs now required to complete a 
lasting and effective repair to the area of the roof damaged by the storm claim. Because Im 
satisfied E has reasonably demonstrated repairs werent lasting and effective, Aspray must 
also bear the cost E incurred in appointing the independent surveyor for their findings, and 
include 8% simple interest, from the date this was paid, to the date of settlement. 
My provisional decision 
For the reasons Ive mentioned above, my provisional decision is I uphold the complaint. I 
intend to require Aspray Ltd to: 
Cash settle the repairs required to put right the claim-related repairs; and 
Reimburse the costs incurred by E in appointing an independent surveyor to provide 
a report, including 8% simple interest, from the date this was paid by E, to the date of settlement. 
Responses to my provisional decision 
E accepted my provisional decision, but Aspray didnt. They said, broadly, that repairs have 
stood the test of time, they were validated by an independent contractor, and theres no 
evidence of poor workmanship they would have taken steps to put right if that was the case 
here. Ive considered Asprays response and will now go on to set out my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This is a finely balanced dispute involving conflicting expert opinions. My role here isnt to 
determine the adequacy of repairs because Im not a roofer. My role is to consider the 
evidence and decide whether Im persuaded E has taken reasonable steps to support its 
concerns that Aspray failed to provide a lasting and effective repair. 
In my provisional decision, I acknowledged repairs have stood the test of time since their 
completion in March 2022. I also said its my opinion this is more likely fortuitous given the 
photos of the issues highlighted by Es independent surveyor to support their findings that 
repairs were exceedingly poor and to a low standard. Therefore, I dont find concluding a 
lasting and effective repair has been achieved simply because nothings happened so far 
reaches a fair and reasonable outcome. 
As set out above, if a policyholder considers repairs to be inadequate, or not lasting and 
effective, the onus is on them to provide supporting evidence to demonstrate the same. In 
this case, its my opinion E has taken reasonable steps to do this by providing a compelling 
report from an independent surveyor that sets out in detail issues found with the repairs, and 
whats required to achieve an adequate, lasting, and effective repair. This report doesnt 
support Asprays conclusions that repairs were adequate, or issues with the roof were the 
result of members of E allowing tree surgeons to walk on top of the roof despite being told 
no activity should take place on it for 12 months. It follows I now require Aspray to put 
matters right. 
Putting things right
Aspray must cash settle the claim-related repairs now required to complete a lasting and 
effective repair. And Aspray should also bear the cost E incurred in appointing the 
independent surveyor to inspect the repairs and provide their findings. They should include 
8% simple interest on this payment from the date E made payment (if applicable), to the date 
of settlement. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is I uphold the complaint. I now require 
Aspray Ltd to put matters right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2023.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman