DRN-3578353
The complaint
Ms K complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited cancelled her life assurance policy.
Ms K has been helped by her partner, Mr O, in raising the complaint. But, for ease of 
reference, Ill mainly refer to Ms K. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
Ms K held a life assurance policy with Aviva that provided £220,000 of cover for premiums of 
about £51 per month. Aviva cancelled the policy  stopping the cover  in July 2019 due to 
Ms K missing a premium payment. 
In August 2021, following a phone call with Aviva, Ms K complained about the policy being 
cancelled. She said she didnt receive any letters from Aviva about this and questioned why 
they didnt email or call her at the time. Ms K explained the cancellation of life assurance is a 
serious matter and asked Aviva to reinstate the policy.
Aviva didnt uphold the complaint. They said their cancellation process had been followed 
correctly as theyd sent several letters at the time about the missed premium payment, 
including that the policy would be cancelled if it wasnt paid. Aviva said the letters were 
correctly addressed and werent returned, so they could only assume they were delivered 
correctly. But even if they werent, they couldnt be held responsible for that. 
Aviva also added that it is the policyholders responsibility to ensure all premiums are paid 
and, although they contact customers by post to inform them payments have been missed, 
theyre not required to do so. And so, they wouldnt reinstate Ms Ks policy as she requested.
The complaint was referred to the Financial Ombudsman. Our investigator didnt think Aviva 
had to do anything further. In short, he said:
He was satisfied Aviva made sufficient efforts to advise Ms K of the missed premium 
payment by sending the notification letters. He noted these letters may not have 
been received by Ms K but, if they werent, Aviva couldnt be held responsible for 
failings in the postal service. 
He didnt think Aviva were required to contact Ms K by email or telephone. 
The premiums may have been paid from Ms Ks partners account, Mr O (who was 
also a customer of Aviva). But the policy was in Ms Ks sole name and so Aviva 
would only contact her, being the policyholder, about any missed premiums.
Aviva gave more than the required 30 days notice, required under the terms and 
conditions, for cancelling the policy due to the premium not being paid. 
Aviva had also provided a call note showing that Ms Ks partner, Mr O, contacted 
them in May 2019  after the premium payment was missed  saying that a cheque 
would be sent for the missed payment. So, this suggests there was an awareness of 
the missed premium payment at the time.
Ms K disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide. In short, shes said:
Aviva didnt do enough to inform her about the missed premium payment and that 
her policy lapsed. It cannot be sufficient for Aviva to only send letters for a missed 
premium payment when a policy has been in place for many years. And so, Aviva 
ought to have realised something was wrong and taken more steps  such as 
contacting her by email or phone (which wouldve been at a low cost to them).
Aviva hasnt provided any evidence to show the letters were sent. Nor have they 
shown they were sent by a signed for delivery method, which wouldve been 
appropriate. Aviva had her correct address and she hasnt experienced any problems 
with mail. 
Cancellation of life assurance may have serious consequences and so Aviva has an 
important responsibility to their customers. They should have strong procedures in 
place for this situation. 
Aviva must show theyve fulfilled their legal and contractual obligations. And, as far 
as she can see, there isnt anything about lack of premium payments in the policy 
terms. 
Although Aviva may not have been obligated to contact Mr O, given the seriousness 
of the cancelling life assurance they ought to have. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted Ms Ks strength of feeling towards the importance of life assurance and so I 
understand her disappointment with the policy being cancelled. But what I must consider 
here is whether Aviva cancelled the policy fairly and in line with the terms and conditions. I 
know this isnt the outcome Ms K is hoping for but, for similar reasons to our investigator, I 
think they did. Ill explain why. 
The terms and conditions set out the contractual obligations for both parties. Ms K agreed to 
these terms when setting up the policy and so I think its fair for Aviva to apply them. They 
say:
1. PREMIUMS
(d) Thirty days grace is allowed for the payment of each Premium after the first. 
Should a claim arise during this period, the unpaid Premium will be deducted from 
any Benefit payable.
(e) If any Premium is not paid on the due date or within the thirty days grace allowed, 
the Policy will be cancelled and all Benefits and Options under it will cease.
I therefore consider Aviva made it clear that if a premium payment wasnt paid, the policy 
would be cancelled after 30 days. The policy was cancelled in July 2019 after Ms K missed 
the April 2019 premium payment. Im therefore satisfied Aviva cancelled the policy in line 
with the terms and conditions as they provided more than the required 30-day grace period. 
I understand Ms K says she never received notification of the missed premium payment or 
that her policy was cancelled. And that she thinks Aviva ought to have gone to more effort, 
such as contacting her by email or phone rather than sending letters. While I appreciate 
Ms Ks feelings about this, the policy terms and conditions dont include any obligation on Aviva to inform her about missed premiums. That said, I do think it would be considered 
good industry practice to expect an insurer to inform their customers in this type of situation. 
In this case, Aviva wrote to Ms K on several occasions about the missed premium payment 
 including their letter of 4 July 2019 which explained the policy had been cancelled but 
which provided a further 30-day period for Ms K to request it be reinstated. I appreciate Ms K 
says she didnt receive these letters, but Im satisfied they were correctly addressed and 
sent to her. And, given most mail is successfully delivered, I think its more likely than not 
that at least one of the letters wouldve been received by Ms K. This, in my view, is 
supported by Avivas call records which show Mr O contacted them on 20 May 2019 about 
the missed payment(s). It says:
Premium payer will send cheque for missed payments. He wanted to make a 
payment today could not do so as it was not from a UK bank account
Although the call involved Mr O, not Ms K, it suggests there was an awareness about the 
missed premium payment at the time. And, as the premiums were paid from Mr Os account, 
it seems plausible that Ms K wouldve asked him to speak with Aviva about the matter 
instead of dealing with it herself. So, on balance, I think Ms K likely knew a premium 
payment was missed and that it had to be made up for cover to remain in place.
But even if I were to conclude the letters werent received by Ms K, I dont think I can fairly 
hold Aviva responsible. This is because I dont think Aviva were obligated to send the letters 
by a recorded delivery method, and any postal issues that may have occurred wouldve been 
outside of their control. Furthermore, although Im aware Ms K feels Aviva shouldve 
contacted her by email or phone, I dont think Aviva were required to, or that they acted 
unreasonably by only sending letters. Neither do I consider Aviva were required to contact 
Mr O as he wasnt the policyholder. I think sending multiple correctly addressed letters about 
the missed premium and, ultimately, policy cancellation to Ms K was appropriate in the 
circumstances.   
I think its important to add that, under the terms and conditions, it was Ms Ks responsibility 
to ensure the premiums were paid. So, while Ive noted her point that the cancellation of life 
assurance may have serious consequences, I think Aviva acted fairly and in line with the 
policy terms and conditions when cancelling the policy as Ms K didnt fulfil her contractual 
obligations when she didnt pay the premium.  
I know this wont be the outcome Ms Ks hoping for but, for the above reasons, I dont think 
Aviva unfairly cancelled the policy. It follows that they dont need to reinstate it. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman