DRN-4461788
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank irresponsibly
agreed a loan for her.
What happened
Tesco agreed a loan of £14,999.29 for Mrs G in January 2019. The total amount owed was
£18,528.60 to be repaid at £308.81 a month over 5 years. £3,000 of the loan was used to
repay an existing debt with Tesco and the remainder was paid directly to Mrs G.
Mrs G complained that Tesco was irresponsible to have agreed a loan for her. She said that
it agreed the loan without properly considering her financial situation and was negligent in
allowing her to take on such a large debt. I understand that Mrs G made her repayments
until March 2023 when she lost her job. She fell behind on all her repayments and is now
working with a national charity to help manage her debts.
Tesco didnt agree that it had lent irresponsibly. It told Mrs G that in addition to checking the
information she provided in her application form it also gathered information from credit
reference agencies. Tesco said it had no concerns regarding her application and her loan
was approved. Tesco also said that Mrs G had made all her repayments until her
circumstances changed and noted that it had declined another loan application from her in
April 2021.
Mrs G was unhappy with this response and referred her complaint to us. Our investigator
looked into her complaint but didnt recommended that it be upheld. They didnt have enough
information to say that Tesco should have gone further in its checks but, even had it done
so, it would still have offered Mrs G the loan because it seemed from the information on her
bank statements that she would be able to afford the repayments.
Mrs G didnt agree with this recommendation and asked for the complaint to come to an
ombudsman to decide. It came to me and I issued a provisional decision on 19 October 
2023 explaining why I didnt plan to uphold Mrs Gs complaint. I allowed time for either party 
to comment on what Id said or provide any new information they wished me to consider 
when making my final decision. Ive had no response from either party. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything again and having no new information to consider, I see no 
reason to depart from my provisional conclusions and so I am not upholding Mrs Gs 
complaint. Ill set out my findings and conclusions again in this final decision. 
As before, Ive also had regard to the regulators rules and guidance on responsible lending 
(set out in its consumer credit handbook  CONC) which lenders, such as Tesco, need to 
abide by. Tesco will be aware of these, and our approach to this type of lending is set out on 
our website, so I wont refer to the regulations in detail here but will summarise them.
Before entering into a credit agreement, Tesco needed to check that Mrs G could afford to
meet her repayments out of her usual means for the term of the loan, without having to
borrow further and without experiencing financial difficulty or other adverse consequences.
The checks needed to be proportionate to the nature of the credit (the amount borrowed, for
example) and to Mrs Gs circumstances and Tesco needed to have proper regard to the
outcome of its checks in respect of affordability risk.
Ultimately, Tesco needed to treat Mrs G fairly and take full account of her interests when
making its lending decision. It would not be lending fairly if it targeted customers with
regulated credit agreements which are unsuitable for them, by virtue of their indebtedness,
poor credit history, age, health, disability or any other reason.
My considerations are did Tesco carry out a proportionate check before lending to
Mrs G and, if not, what would such a check have shown? Was the loan suitable for Mrs G
and did Tesco make a fair lending decision?
Tesco provided the information it relied on when making its lending decision which included
Mrs Gs application and summary information from her credit file. Mrs G said her monthly
income was £3,065 and the credit file information Tesco relied on showed that Mrs Gs
existing unsecured debt amounted to £26,494. This comprised an existing Tesco loan
balance of £3,625 with repayments of £279 a month, and revolving credit balances of
£22,869 with repayments of £686.
Tesco told Mrs G in its final response that there was no obligation on it to obtain evidence of
her income based on the other checks it carried out. Im afraid I dont wholly agree with
Tesco on this point. The regulations at the time stated that it wasnt generally sufficient to
rely solely on a customers statement of current income in a creditworthiness assessment.
Agreeing this loan with repayments of £309 potentially committed Mrs G to paying almost
£1,000 a month towards her debts (this loan plus her existing revolving credit payments)
which was around a third of her stated income. I think it would have been proportionate for
Tesco to have verified the income figure it relied on.
I think it would also have been reasonable and proportionate for Tesco to have found out
what Mrs Gs usual expenses were in order to check that shed be able to meet her
repayments for the loan without adverse impacts over the course of the loan term. I
understand that it considered national statistical datasets to estimate a figure. However,
Mrs G was taking out a £15,000 loan repayable over five years, which was a relatively
considerable commitment on top of her existing non-Tesco debts of £23,000. The purpose of
the loan was to refinance her Tesco debt with a settlement figure of around £3,000. This left
£12,000 capital, which might have been to consolidate other debt but I havent seen any
evidence that this was discussed with Mrs G.
Mrs G provided us with her bank statements from the time. To be clear Im not suggesting
this is the information Tesco should have relied on but I think its reasonable for me to rely
on it to understand what a proportionate check was likely to have revealed. I can see from 
the statements that Mrs Gs income was slightly lower than shed said at around £2,890 a 
month. She transferred a regular amount of £83 into the account which Ive assumed was 
monthly child benefit payment so altogether she had an income of around £2,975. Ive 
estimated based on identifiable transactions that Mrs Gs usual household costs including 
her mortgage payment came to around £1,200 and other costs such as food, fuel and child-
related costs came to around £500. This potentially left Mrs G with around £1,275
to meet her loan repayments and repay her other outstanding debt. I think Tesco would havefound the loan repayments affordable for Mrs G, even had it carried out further checks
before lending to her and wouldnt have declined her application on this basis.
I have also considered whether Tesco made a fair lending decision here even though it
seems that the loan repayments would be affordable for Mrs G on a pounds and pence
basis. There wasnt any adverse information on the credit file information Tesco provided,
but while Mrs G might have been managing to service her debts successfully (including her
existing loan with Tesco) it doesnt seem to me that she was managing to make inroads into
clearing it, given her earnings werent taking her out of her overdraft of £4,500 which she
was fully utilising. I think its fair to say that Mrs G was overindebted at this point  she had
outstanding debts of around £31,000 altogether, most of which was revolving credit. While
Mrs G may have been able to meet her loan repayments, this loan was potentially unsuitable
for her given her high level of existing debt and it clearly increased the amount she owed in
the short term.
As mentioned, Mrs G used all of the loan capital towards her existing debts and I think she 
would have told Tesco she intended to do this, had it asked. This left Mrs G with her new
Tesco loan of around £18,500 with monthly repayments of £309, credit card balances of
around £11,000 and her £4,500 overdraft going forwards. I can see that Mrs G met her
repayments for the loan on time for four years until her circumstances changed and is now in
an arrangement to pay the outstanding balance.
I think agreeing this loan was more likely than not going to reduce Mrs Gs monthly
repayments on debt. It more than halved her revolving credit balances; the loan repayment
was around £30 more a month than her existing Tesco loan, a relatively low increase, and
Im not aware that she had any other loans. I appreciate Mrs G took on more debt in the
following years and is now working with a national debt charity to help her manage
everything, but I dont think this was foreseeable by Tesco at the time. Having considered
this point carefully, Ive decided that Tesco didnt make an unfair lending decision in this
instance.
Mrs G has shared with us that losing her job and dealing with her debts has been an
extremely stressful experience for her and that she is very unwell. I am very sorry to hear
how difficult things have been, and continue to be, for Mrs G and that I cant provide the
outcome she was hoping for. Taking everything into account, I cant find that Tesco lent
irresponsibly on this occasion and I am not upholding her complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above I am not upholding Mrs Gs complaint about Tesco 
Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman