DRN-3733284
The complaint
X has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC registered a marker against him at CIFAS, the 
national fraud database.
What happened
Both sides are most familiar with the case, so Ill summarise things in brief.
In 2021, X received the proceeds of fraud from a victim, then forwarded the money on to 
another account.
X explained that he thought this was a loan for him. He said that this loan was given to him 
either by a stranger who hed been introduced to after he got in financial trouble, or by a 
close friend of a friend who hed been talking to long before he got in financial trouble. X said 
this person had offered him the money as an interest-free loan and offered to let X keep a 
share, all as a form of charity  though he had no evidence of this, such as a loan agreement 
or any messages where the person said it was a loan. X said he used the money to pay off 
his other debts, though when asked for evidence of where the money went he didnt provide 
any. X said he forwarded the money on to another account of his in order to make it easier to 
repay his loans.
Lloyds closed Xs account and registered a marker against him at CIFAS.
Our adjudicator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. X asked 
for his case to be reviewed afresh, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
I sent X and Lloyds a provisional decision on 12 September 2022, to explain why I didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
In order to register this marker, Lloyds were not required to prove beyond all reasonable 
doubt that X had done something wrong. They did need to have reasonable grounds to 
believe that hed misused his account, which went beyond a suspicion or concern, and which 
had appropriate supporting evidence. Having carefully considered everything that both sides 
have said and provided, I currently think Lloyds did have sufficient grounds to register this 
marker. Ill explain why.
First, I am aware of the practice of giving interest-free loans as a form of charity, and I know 
that this is something that happens. But I dont think thats what happened here.
The funds involved were the proceeds of crime. And the money was forwarded to X directly 
from a victim of the crime. The person who X was in contact with was not a philanthropist, 
but a fraudster.
This is important, as it would not make sense for a fraudster to commit a complex crime, 
harm a victim, and risk significant prison time, just to give some or all of this money away as 
charity. It would not make sense for a fraudster to lend it as a loan either  not least a loan 
with no set repayment dates or amounts, and not least when transferred directly from the 
victim's account  as its highly unlikely that they would receive any repayments at all before 
the fraudulent transfers are detected and the money frozen. They would be taking huge and 
unnecessary risks, with no real benefit to themselves. It is simply not likely or plausible that 
X was lent the direct proceeds of fraud as a loan, nor told to keep a share as charity.
On the other hand, it is a common practice for fraudsters to send people proceeds of fraud, 
and to let them keep a share, in exchange for the recipient forwarding on the funds such that 
they cant be easily recovered when the fraud gets found out. That possibility is both likely 
and plausible, and fits neatly with what happened here.
X acted quite quickly to forward on the fraudulent money once he received it, and this meant 
that the money couldnt be easily recovered and sent back to the victim after. X claims he did 
this in order to make it easier to pay his loans from a central account. But Xs Lloyds 
account was just as capable of making payments to his loans as the account he forwarded 
the money to. By transferring the money away first, X wouldve only added an extra 
unnecessary transfer to the process of paying his loans, he wouldnt have made things any 
easier. So I dont find that explanation to be likely or plausible. But again, Xs actions do fit 
well with the possibility that he knowingly and willingly passed on the proceeds of fraud.
The money was sent to X from an account with a completely different name to the person 
hed been speaking to, with the payment reference being for expenses, not a loan. Yet he 
didnt query this with Lloyds or the person who sent him the money. X says he didnt 
question this as he doesnt work in finance. But it wouldve been clear that this money didnt 
come from the person he was speaking to, and that it did not relate to any loan.
Its also important to note that as yet, X has declined to evidence where he sent the money 
to. He says he used it to pay off his bank loans, but we asked X for statements for the 
account he forwarded the money to  which he says was another account of his  and for 
the loans he says he paid off. We also chased X for this information. And this evidence 
would be very straightforward to provide. But X did not provide it. He didnt provide any other 
evidence of this being a loan, such as an agreement or prior discussion. He also declined to 
provide evidence of his conversations with the friend who introduced him to the fraudster.
X did provide some messages he had with the fraudster. But there is no mention of any loan 
until after the fraud was discovered  at which point X sent a series of messages claiming 
this was a loan. He only wrote these messages after the fact, and the fraudster did not 
confirm or agree that this was a loan. I do not find that this supports Xs testimony.
I also need to mention that Xs testimony has been inconsistent and contradictory in places. 
For example, at different times hes said different things about when he met the fraudster, 
how well they knew each other, and what happened to their messages. This also makes it 
difficult for me to support any of his versions of events.
Lastly, Ive not seen any evidence that makes it seem unlikely or implausible that X could 
have knowingly and willingly passed on the proceeds of fraud.In summary, X received fraudulent funds, which he has not been able to evidence that he 
was entitled to. He passed on these funds, such that they could not easily be recovered. He 
benefitted from the fraud, and the fraudster was willing to let him keep a large share of the 
proceeds. His explanations are unlikely, implausible, and are not supported by reasonable 
evidence  even when such evidence would be easy to get. And Xs testimony has been 
contradictory in places. On the other hand, the evidence and the wider circumstances of the 
case do support the possibility that X knowingly and willingly misused his account. So I think 
its fair that Lloyds registered the appropriate marker with CIFAS, and that they closed Xs 
account.
This is a difficult message for me to give, and I know its a difficult message for X to receive. 
But given the evidence I have, and the balance of probabilities, Im currently unable to 
reasonably reach any other conclusion. 
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
26 September 2022. Lloyds didnt add anything further. X sent in further submissions, 
which Ill talk about below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so, I have read through everything X sent us, and Ive taken it all into account. With 
that said, I will focus on what I have found to be the key points. If X would prefer his case to 
be looked at on a strict point-by-point basis, he is able to reject my decision and pursue 
Lloyds through the courts instead.
X feels we treated him unfairly by issuing a provisional decision saying he hadnt provided 
certain information, as he says he was too sick to get back to us. But he only told us about 
this illness after the provisional decision, so we couldnt have known that beforehand. And 
the provisional decision gave X extra time to send us information, which hes now done. 
There is no need to reverse the provisional decision as hes asked for  the very point of 
the provisional decision was to give both sides extra time to make submissions before the 
final decision. I will now consider those submissions in this final decision.
Most importantly, X has now provided statements showing what he did with the fraudulent 
money. However, rather than supporting that X was an unwitting participant in the fraud, 
these statements actually show that he knowingly and willingly benefitted from the fraud.
According to both sides, Lloyds blocked Xs account the very next day after he received the 
funds  on 4 June 2021. X spoke to Lloyds about this and they told him the money hed 
received was the proceeds of fraud. These events are reflected both in Lloyds records, and 
in Xs own testimony.
On 8 June 2021, Lloyds fraud investigation concluded. They found that X had received and 
passed on fraudulent funds. Their notes show that they spoke to X about this some time on 
or before 8 June 2021, and enquired about what had happened to the victims money, with a 
view to seeing if they could recover it. And X told Lloyds hed spent it all on bills  there was 
nothing left to recover.But on 8 June 2021, the victims money was still sitting in Xs personal account  the same 
account hed acted quickly to forward the money to on the day of the fraud. The balance was 
just under £2,400 at that point, and the fraudulent funds X had received amounted to just 
over £2,100. So X could have easily returned the money to the victim  or returned it to his 
Lloyds account and let Lloyds sort it out for him. And by that point, he knew the money hed 
received had been taken fraudulently from an innocent victim. But instead of returning it, X 
told Lloyds hed already spent it all on bills, which was not true. 
X did eventually spend the money. But he only started paying towards his debts  his stated 
reason for receiving this loan  on 15 June 2021, at least a whole week after hed been told 
the money came from fraud. And he spent it relatively slowly, over the course of about two 
months, despite knowing that whole time that the money he was spending had been taken 
fraudulently from the victim of a crime.
To summarise:
X received the confirmed proceeds of fraud
X forwarded the funds on quickly, in such a way that Lloyds could not recover them
X told Lloyds that the money had all been spent when he actually still had it
X chose not to return the victims money even when he knew it was the proceeds of 
fraud and when it was still available in his personal account
X then knowingly and willingly spent the proceeds of fraud for his own benefit, again 
even when he knew they were the proceeds of fraud
As such, I am satisfied that the CIFAS marker should remain.
X made a number of points surrounding his inability to evidence that this was a loan. For 
example, he said its unfair for us to expect a written loan agreement for a charitable loan. 
But we didnt only ask for a loan agreement  we asked if X had any evidence this was a 
loan, including emails or texts where the fraudster called it a loan. And he has none.
X pointed out that the fraudster didnt deny this was a loan, but thats not substantive. The 
fraudster didnt agree with X that it was a loan, or confirm at any point that it was a loan. The 
only mention of a loan came from X, and that was only after the fraud was discovered. There 
is no evidence which actually positively substantiates that this was a loan. Whereas the 
surrounding evidence, circumstances, and balance of probabilities supports that this was not 
a loan. For example, per the above, Xs statements show that he knowingly and willingly 
profited from the fraud even when he knew the funds were fraudulent and not a loan. And Ill 
repeat what I said in my provisional decision about why it is neither likely nor plausible that a 
fraudster would give away or loan out the proceeds of crime directly from a victim:
It would not make sense for a fraudster to commit a complex crime, harm a victim, and risk 
significant prison time, just to give some or all of this money away as charity. It would not 
make sense for a fraudster to lend it as a loan either  not least a loan with no set repayment 
dates or amounts, and not least when transferred directly from the victim's account  as its 
highly unlikely that they would receive any repayments at all before the fraudulent transfers 
are detected and the money frozen. They would be taking huge and unnecessary risks, with 
no real benefit to themselves. It is simply not likely or plausible that X was lent the direct 
proceeds of fraud as a loan, nor told to keep a share as charity.To put it simply: Xs version of events is highly unlikely and implausible. I cannot reasonably 
conclude that this money was paid to him as a loan.
X argued that if there were contradictions in his testimony, it must be because wed 
misinterpreted what hed said. But thats not the case. For example, at different points X said 
that this loan was given to him either by a stranger who hed been introduced to after he got 
in financial trouble, or by a close friend of a friend who hed been talking to long before he 
got in financial trouble. These are clearly different versions of events.
X felt that because hed now provided all the evidence he could, we should find in his favour. 
But thats not how this works. Providing evidence, in and of itself, does not mean that one 
automatically wins the case. The question is what the evidence shows when its all taken 
together  and here, the evidence does not support Xs testimony, but does support that he 
knowingly and willingly benefitted from fraud.
Similarly, X felt there were no reasonable grounds for the marker, and that wed treated him 
as guilty until proven innocent. But thats not the case either. We assessed the complaint 
impartially, based on all the evidence at hand, based on the individual circumstances of the 
case, and based on the balance of probabilities.
In doing so, I have found that: X received fraudulent funds; hes been unable to evidence he 
was entitled to them; he transferred them on quickly, such that Lloyds could not recover 
them; he told Lloyds the money had been spent when he actually still had it; he chose not to 
return the funds even once he knew they were the proceeds of crime; he instead spent the 
fraudulent funds for his own benefit while knowing they were fraudulent; his explanations are 
unlikely, implausible, and are not supported by any reasonable evidence; his testimony has 
been unreliable; and it is both likely and plausible that X knowingly and willingly misused his 
account, which fits well with the evidence at hand.
As such, I find that it was fair for Lloyds to register the appropriate marker with CIFAS, and 
to close Xs account. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
This final decision marks the end of our services involvement in the case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman