DRN-2773700
The complaint
T, a limited company, complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) declined a 
claim on its commercial legal expenses insurance policy.
Where I refer to RSA, this includes its agents and claims handlers.
What happened
T rented a commercial property to a tenant. In March 2020, the tenant asked for a period of 
free or reduced rent due to the impact on it of the pandemic but T didnt agree.
In May 2020, Ts solicitors sent a letter to the tenant as it had missed two months rent 
payments. There was correspondence after this where the tenant said it wouldnt be making 
a payment until the government provided further guidance on the situation in June 2020.
Ts solicitors then sent a letter before action to the tenant, saying it had seven days to make 
payments for the rent arrears before legal action was taken. 
The tenant didnt pay and T started legal action. At that point the rent arrears had increased 
to over £15,000. Bailiffs were instructed and attended the property to try and recover any 
assets but without success.
As well as starting legal action T made a claim on the policy on 3 June 2020. RSA contacted 
T on 2 July asking for further information, including information about the prospects of 
success of the claim. Ts solicitors provided further information on 8 July. They said they 
believed the tenant was going to vacate the premises and get rid of any assets. On 12 July 
the solicitors advised that the property had been vacated and they needed confirmation as to 
whether cover would be available.
RSA didnt agree to provide cover and T complained, saying delays in dealing with the claim 
meant it had missed opportunities to have the tenants assets frozen. 
In its final response to the complaint RSA said:
there had been a short delay between the claim being received on 3 June 2020 and 
its request for information on 2 July, when it became aware more information was 
needed;
things then escalated quickly, with the tenant leaving the premises and what the 
bailiffs found, which caused concern over the prospects of recovery and whether the 
claim would be proportionate to pursue;
it was happy to consider providing cover but only if T could show the claim was 
proportionate and there were prospects of recovery against the tenant.
T then brought the complaint to this service. Our investigator thought RSAs response was 
reasonable, since the policy terms require T to show it was likely to be able to recover any 
award against the tenant, and that the claim is proportionate to the sum owed, and T hadnt 
been able to demonstrate this. 
T disagrees and has requested an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
T says the main point in issue is the need to show prospects of recovery against the tenant. 
T says the prospects of success are 100% - since the tenant has no defence to the claim for 
unpaid rent  but RSA insists it shows money will be recovered from the tenant and thats 
unreasonable, since this can never be known until it comes to the point of seeking recovery.
I appreciate the difficulties T faces, but I dont think RSAs decision is unreasonable. 
The policy terms say cover will be given where a claim has reasonable prospects of being 
successful. The terms also say RSA may limit the fees it will pay where:
1. We consider it is unlikely a sensible settlement of your claim will be obtained; or
2. The potential settlement amount of your claim is disproportionate compared with the time 
and expenses incurred in pursuing or defending your claim; or
3. There are insufficient prospects of obtaining recovery of any sums claimed.
Terms like these are common in legal expenses policies and I dont think its unusual or 
unreasonable for RSA to include these. It wouldnt be fair to expect an insurer to cover large 
amounts of legal costs if theres little chance of winning the case or recovering anything from 
the other party. Or where, even if the case may succeed, the costs of pursuing it are greater 
than the amount being claimed.
T wasnt able to show RSA there was a reasonable prospect of a successful claim given the 
steps taken by the tenant and what the bailiffs found following their visit. T has said that as 
well as the rent arrears, there are dilapidations to the premises, which increases the value of 
the claim and means the costs would be proportionate. But I cant see that T has provided 
detailed evidence of the value of the dilapidations, such as quotes for any repair work, which 
would allow RSA to consider the proportionality of the claim. As it stands, the legal fees 
incurred outweigh the amount claimed. And in any event, there is the issue of recovering 
money from the tenant.
Ts representatives have said its impossible to show for certain what assets the tenant may 
have. But as Ive said, this is a common requirement. T doesnt need to show it will definitely 
be able to make a successful recovery, simply that its likely. Solicitors will typically assess 
this when advising insurers on the chances of success. Given the tenants circumstances, 
RSA has raised concerns about its ability to make any payment and I wouldnt expect an 
insurer to provide cover with no evidence of whether any funds are likely to be recovered.
T also says delays by RSA meant some of the actions that could have been taken to secure 
assets, such as freezing the tenants assets, didnt happen. RSA has acknowledged there 
was a short delay initially. But Ts solicitors were taking steps before they involved RSA. So I 
dont think confirmation of cover was an issue before action was to be taken; Ts solicitors 
were able to take steps on its behalf without this. In addition, the tenant had sold assets 
before the claim was made. And it left the property just a few days after RSA was notified 
this might happen. Things escalated very quickly after the claim was made and in these 
circumstances I dont think it would be fair to hold RSA responsible for any delay here.
I agree the claim could have been assessed a little quicker but I dont think that had any real 
effect on the outcome. Ultimately, there were issues with both proportionality and the chances of recovery and in the circumstances of this claim I think RSAs decision was both 
reasonable and in line with the policy terms.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2021.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman