DRN-2439543
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited (Royal 
London) gave them incorrect information about the terminal bonus on their mortgage 
endowment  and their options to terminate it early. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M held a mortgage endowment policy with Royal London. The policy target, and 
sum assured for the life cover it offered, was £56,395. But when the policy matured in 
March 2020, it paid out £37,996.
Mr and Mrs M complained to Royal London. They said its call centre had provided them with 
incorrect information about their policy on a few occasions which influenced their decision to 
allow the policy to run for the full term. For example, they said theyd been told there was 
potential for a 61% bonus. And they were unhappy that Royal London didnt have a 
recording of this call.
Royal London paid £50 compensation for a call in which it had wrongly said that the policy 
couldnt attract a bonus. But it said it couldnt locate a call in which they were told to leave 
the policy to mature to get a bonus. It also explained that the policy was invested 50% in the 
with profits fund, and 50% in the managed life fund. And the maturity value had included a 
61% terminal bonus for the with-profits fund. But ultimately, the maturity value had been 
dependent on the returns achieved and wasnt guaranteed. It also said it had written to 
Mr and Mrs M over the years warning that the policy may have a shortfall at maturity.
Unhappy with Royal Londons response, Mr and Mrs M referred the matter to our service. 
They said Royal London hadnt answered a key aspect of their complaint  the inaccurate 
information theyd received about the end of term bonus and their options to terminate early. 
On review, our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She pointed out that Mr and Mrs M 
had been sent correspondence (such as in March 2019) which made the high risk of a 
shortfall clear. At Mr and Mrs Ms request, another investigator also reviewed the case  but 
reached the same outcome. She explained how the funds worked and noted that  by their 
own account  the terminal bonus wasnt guaranteed. She also didnt think the shortfall had 
been caused by Royal Londons negligence. Given the letters theyd been sent warning of 
the shortfall and setting out the action they may wish to take, including seeking financial 
advice, she didnt think Royal London needed to take further action to resolve the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs M have asked for an ombudsman to decide their complaint. They say they were 
aware of the shortfall risk, but the investigators have disregarded the incorrect information 
Royal London gave. And they think its withholding key evidence (i.e. the call recordings). 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
I appreciate why Mr and Mrs M are unhappy that Royal London cant locate the call. But Ive 
no reason to suspect its being withheld rather than being untraceable. In any event  when 
information is unclear, incomplete, or contradictory, my role is to decide whats more likely to 
have happened based on what is available. And any award I make is limited to addressing 
loss suffered due to Royal Londons errors. I cant make a punitive award.  
Ive no reason to doubt Mr and Mrs Ms assertion that they were told the policy could achieve 
a 61% terminal bonus. But as our investigator noted, they recall being told this was a 
potential. And its correct that the with-profits portion of the investment could, and did, earn 
bonuses. I also consider it relevant that they were calling Royal London for information 
(rather than advice) about their policy. Mr and Mrs M could have taken financial advice about 
their options, but it wasnt Royal Londons role to provide such advice when they called.
Im also conscious that theyd previously received warnings about the likelihood of a 
shortfall. Whilst Mr and Mrs M acknowledge they were aware of this, they say they thought 
the terminal bonus could make up this shortfall. Notwithstanding that any terminal bonus 
wasnt guaranteed, Im conscious that the projections in these letters were of the likely value 
at maturity. So I dont think they reasonably suggested that further, significant bonuses were 
likely to be paid on top of the projected maturity value. The most recent warning letter weve 
seen, from March 2019, set out projections not too dissimilar from the value Mr and Mrs M 
received. Yet they didnt take further action. So overall Im not persuaded that, but for 
miscommunication during a call, its likely they would have taken different action that would 
have put them in a better financial position.
In reaching this conclusion its important to note that I cant look at this complaint with the 
benefit of hindsight, knowing how the policy performed. For reasons Mr and Mrs M are 
aware, the pandemic had a negative impact on investment performance around the time 
their policy matured. Although they say theyre surprised it could be significantly affected by 
market fluctuations so close to the end of the term, the funds remained invested until the 
date of maturity. Im satisfied the drop in value wasnt due to Royal Londons negligence. 
I do appreciate how disappointing it was for Mr and Mrs M that the policy fell so far short of 
the target. Its unfortunate that the policy matured at a time when the financial markets were 
impacted adversely by the pandemic. On balance, Im not persuaded that Royal London 
gave them inaccurate information which affected the action they took. So I wouldnt 
reasonably expect it to take further action to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 March 2021.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman