DRN-3459720
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that Professional Intermediary Introducers Limited gave them 
unsuitable advice about two life assurance products.
What happened
In 2016, Mr and Mrs Ts financial circumstances seem to have changed significantly. Mr T 
sold a share he had in a business, giving him and Mrs T a lot of cash. They appear to have 
spoken to Professional Intermediary about how best to manage that.
As part of those discussions, some thought was given to what would happen when Mr and 
Mrs T passed their estates on to their children. In a financial report from September 2016, 
Professional Intermediary calculated Mr and Mrs Ts estates would owe £674,855 in 
inheritance tax (IHT). 
It looks like Professional Intermediary advised Mr and Mrs T to have a life assurance policy 
in place to cover the IHT. In August 2016, a whole-of-life policy (WOL) began. This had a 
sum assured  the amount it would pay on a successful claim  of £1,000,000. That would 
be paid on the second policy holders death  so when both Mr and Mrs T had died. And it 
was set up to pay to a trust benefiting Mr and Mrs Ts children.
The amount Mr and Mrs T had to pay for this policy each month  the premium  was set up 
to be the same, no matter how long the policy ran for. But shortly after the policy began, Mr 
and Mrs T told Professional Intermediary they wanted to pay less for the life assurance.
That led to Professional Intermediary recommending a term assurance product instead, 
which began in May 2017. This new policy had a lower monthly premium, reflecting that it 
would only cover Mr and Mrs T for a limited amount of time  its term. While still a joint 
policy, it was now set up to pay its £1,000,000 to the trust on the first death  so when either 
Mr T or Mrs T died, not when theyd both died.
The policy was convertible, which meant Mr and Mrs T could apply for it to be replaced with 
a new WOL policy at any point before the term ended. It appears Mr and Mrs T wouldnt 
have their medical status or activities assessed when that happened, but the premium for 
the new policy would reflect their ages at the time of conversion.
After speaking to a new financial adviser, Mr and Mrs T complained that both of the products 
Professional Intermediary sold them were unsuitable. They felt having the term assurance 
policy pay out on the first death wasnt right. And they noted that a WOL policy theyd taken 
out through their new adviser had a far lower premium for the same level of cover.
Professional Intermediary responded, explaining that the new WOL policy was reviewable. 
They said this meant the premium was likely to increase over the years, to levels higher than 
seen in the policies Professional Intermediary had recommended. 
Mr and Mrs T brought their complaint to us. I looked at it back in April. I saw that the cost of 
the policies when compared to a reviewable WOL policy was much higher because of the 
size of the sum assured, and the choice to have guaranteed premiums. I couldnt see why 
the sum assured was so much more than the IHT, or why a reviewable policy option wasnt 
mentioned in any of the recommendations from the time.
I found it likely that if Professional Intermediary had told Mr and Mrs T about the reviewable 
WOL option, theyd have chosen that. And if theyd thought about what sum assured was 
needed, theyd have chosen one that matched their IHT liability  £674,855. It seemed likely 
that would have been cheaper than what they actually had. So I said Professional 
Intermediary should reimburse Mr and Mrs T for the difference, plus simple interest at 8% 
until its paid.
I also noted how Mr T had said the issue had made him feel Professional Intermediary had 
been trying to take advantage of his new wealth. To acknowledge that, I said Professional 
Intermediary should pay £200 in compensation to Mr and Mrs T. 
Mr and Mrs T have responded saying they would accept my provisional decision. 
Professional Intermediary have disagreed with it though. They say it looks like Im advising 
clients to take out reviewable WOL policies. Theyve also explained how the premium for the 
reviewable policy will increase if it runs for more than 10 years. They comment that there 
were many discussions about reviewable insurance with Mr and Mrs T, which led to the 
choice of a guaranteed premium. They dont think the cost of the policies was an issue. And 
they gave some more reasons for why the convertible term assurance plan was suitable. 
As everyone has had the chance to consider and comment on my provisional decision, I feel 
the complaint is now ready for my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided my provisional decision leads to the right outcome for this 
case. So Im going to confirm my final decision along the same lines. But Ill add some 
explanations to show how Ive considered the points raised by Professional Intermediary. 
There doesnt seem to be a disagreement with my view that the first death/ second death 
point isnt a major issue here. The money from the policy was to go to a trust. Being received 
after the first death wouldnt affect the value of Mr and Mrs Ts estates. And it would mean 
the money arrived with the intended beneficiaries  just a little earlier. 
The more critical points are still the factors that led to the premiums for both policies being 
high. The sum assured was set for £1,000,000, and all the policies Professional Intermediary 
recommended had a guaranteed premium, not a reviewable one.
Professional Intermediary have commented that there were many discussions about 
reviewable premiums with Mr and Mrs T. But if thats the case, theres no mention of them in 
the recommendation letters Ive seen. Even if theyd been discussed and then ruled out, Id 
expect that to have been noted in the various advice letters Professional Intermediary wrote 
at the time. 
Professional Intermediary have also commented about Mr Ts medical conditions being a 
factor in choosing the guaranteed premium option. But again, I cant see thats mentioned in 
the recommendations. 
What I can see is that Mr and Mrs Ts complaint in August 2020 suggests the first they knew that cover could be obtained much cheaper was when their new adviser told them about the 
reviewable WOL policy they now have. And Ive seen Professional Intermediarys response 
to that complaint explained what a reviewable WOL policy is, without ever mentioning that 
theyd been discussed with Mr and Mrs T previously. 
Indeed, the complaint response specifically left reviewable policies out when it explained that 
Mr and Mrs Ts adviser had discussed guaranteed, renewable and convertible policy 
options with them. 
I find it more likely than not Professional Intermediary didnt suitably discuss the reasons for 
and against having a reviewable WOL policy, rather than one with guaranteed premiums. 
Professional Intermediary have commented that they dont accept cost was an issue in this 
case. But I simply disagree with that position. 
Professional Intermediarys response to the complaint seems to acknowledge it was an 
issue. It says that one month after the WOL policy began, Mr and Mrs T contacted their 
adviser to say that [they] felt that the premiums were too high for the level of cover that 
[was] required. 
The fact Mr and Mrs T went back to Professional Intermediary within one month of the WOL 
policy beginning and said the cost was too high, tells me the cost was an issue here. 
Professional Intermediarys May 2017 recommendation letter for the convertible policy said:
Having carried out research we found that it was not possible to reduce the premium 
and maintain the level of cover with a Whole of Life policy.
They then listed options that were discussed, namely Mr and Mrs T keeping what they had, 
switching to a level term assurance policy, or switching to the convertible policy they 
eventually went with.
That stops short of being the full list of options available to Mr and Mrs T. It seems a WOL 
policy could have been taken out  it just wouldnt have had a guaranteed premium. The 
option to have that sort of reviewable policy should have been discussed with Mr and Mrs T, 
rather than saying they couldnt achieve what they wanted with a WOL policy. 
Professional Intermediary have commented that I seem to be recommending reviewable 
policies, despite the fact we see complaints about the way their cost can rise in later years. I 
want to be clear, Im not giving any advice to Mr and Mrs T. Im saying Professional 
Intermediary should have done more to make Mr and Mrs T aware that reviewable WOL 
policies existed when it sold them the guaranteed premium WOL policy, and the convertible 
term assurance policy. 
Had they done that, I find it more likely than not Mr and Mrs T would have chosen to have a 
reviewable WOL policy. I come to that conclusion because they werent happy with the cost 
of the guaranteed premium WOL policy from the start. And because a WOL policy covered 
the fact IHT would be incurred at an unknown date in the future, while a term assurance 
policy ran the risk of running out before that point. And because conversion of the 
convertible term assurance policy would have prompted the same concerns about cost as 
made Mr and Mrs T uncomfortable with the guaranteed premium WOL policy. And because 
Mr and Mrs T chose to have a reviewable WOL policy once they were told about it by their 
new adviser.
The other factor in the cost of the policies here was the choice of the sum assured. The recommendation letters Ive seen say the objective for the policies was to cover the IHT 
liability when Mr and Mrs T passed their estates to their children. Thats confirmed by the 
fact the policies were put into trust to benefit the children, rather than Mr or Mrs T. And by 
the fact the initial policy was concerned about the second death, when the combined estates 
wouldnt be able to benefit from a spousal exclusion of IHT. 
With that in mind, a suitable recommendation would have been to set the sum assured for 
the policy to match the expected IHT liability. The documents Ive seen say this was 
£674,855, not the £1,000,000 the policies actually covered. 
Again, if this had been properly explained to Mr and Mrs T by Professional Intermediary, I 
find it likely theyd have made the sum assured match the expected IHT cost. That would 
have reduced the cost of the policy, which seems consistent with their concerns at the time.
Putting things right
I find its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs T would have chosen to have a reviewable 
WOL policy, beginning in August 2016 with a sum assured of £674,855, if it had been 
explained to them suitably by Professional Intermediary. The cost of that would likely have 
been significantly less than what Mr and Mrs T actually paid. So the difference is a cost 
theyve only incurred because of Professional Intermediarys unreasonable service.
To put that right, Professional Intermediary should work out what the difference in cost was, 
and reimburse that to Mr and Mrs T. They should add simple interest at 8%, to reflect that Mr 
and Mrs T havent been able to use that money in some other way.
Ive thought about a separate compensation payment for the upset thats been caused for Mr 
and Mrs T. Ive decided a modest payment will acknowledge how Professional 
Intermediarys failings here have left Mr and Mrs T feeling.
When speaking to our investigator, Mr T talked about how he felt hed been taken advantage 
of by Professional Intermediary. Ive decided a payment of £200 will acknowledge the 
emotional impact on Mr and Mrs T here. It balances that sort of upset with the fact Mr and 
Mrs Ts plans and finances dont appear to have been caused a lasting or dramatic problem 
by this matter.
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint about Professional Intermediary Introducers 
Limited. To put this matter right, Professional Intermediary must:
work out and then reimburse the difference in premiums between the policies sold to 
Mr and Mrs T and a reviewable WOL policy as described above; 
add simple interest at 8% to that reimbursement, up to the date it is paid to Mr and 
Mrs T; and
pay Mr and Mrs T £200 compensation for the trouble and upset theyve been caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 June 2022.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman