DRN-4281577
The complaint
Mr C complains that My Finance Club Limited (MFC) gave him loans which he couldnt 
afford to repay. 
What happened
Mr C was advanced a total of eight loans from MFC and Ive outlined a summary of his 
borrowing below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment date contracted 
term (days)
1 £350.00 10/03/2021 14/03/2021 38
2 £300.00 30/05/2021 14/06/2021 22
3 £200.00 24/06/2021 01/07/2021 28
gap in lending
4 £300.00 02/06/2022 12/06/2022 14
5 £200.00 16/06/2022 30/06/2022 14
6 £180.00 11/07/2022 20/07/2022 28
7 £200.00 21/07/2022 03/08/2022 28
8 £100.00 04/08/2022 21/08/2022 17
MFC says all of Mr Cs loans were repaid earlier than contracted for. 
Mr C made a complaint to MFC but he didnt receive a response, instead he referred the 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
In the adjudicators latest assessment, he partly upheld the complaint about loan 8 only. He 
concluded further checks needed to have been carried out by MFC, and had better checks 
been conducted it wouldve likely discovered he was spending a significant sum each month 
gambling. 
MFC agreed with the adjudicators assessment to uphold loan 8 only, and it calculated using 
the formula given to it by the adjudicator that Mr C was owed £13.61.
Mr C didnt agree with the outcome, saying:
The refund isnt enough considering he paid in total nearly £500 of interest to MFC. 
At the time the loans were approved, Mr C was on benefits and his finances were in 
a mess.
Mr C says that MFC ought to have further checks after the first few loans  so for the 
final 5 loans  and he said a fair outcome would be to have those loans refunded. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MFC had to assess the lending to check if Mr C could afford to pay back the amounts hed 
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to 
the circumstances. MFCs checks could have taken into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Cs income 
and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest MFC should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr C. These factors include:
Mr C having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr C having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr C coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr C. 
MFC was required to establish whether Mr C could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr C was able to repay his 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Cs complaint.
There is a break in borrowing of nearly a year after Mr C repaid loan 3 and before he took 
loan 4. This break is significant enough for MFC to have in effect treated Mr C as a new 
customer when he returned for loan 4. The effect of this, means that while it was his fourth 
loan, it was the first loan in a new lending chain. So, when thinking about this complaint Ive 
considered the two chains of lending. Loans 1  3 and then loans 4  8. 
Loans 1  3 
Before loan 1, Mr C declared he worked full time and he earned £1,800 per month (at loan 1) 
and £1,900 per month before loans 2 and 3 were advanced. MFC also says Mr Cs income was verified through a third-party report  which suggested the income he had declared was 
likely to be accurate. 
In terms of monthly expenditure, Mr C provided details about his expenditure across a 
number of different headings such as, utilities, other, food and other credit  to name a few. 
MFC says Mr Cs outgoings came to £759 for loan 1, £1,022 for loan 2 and £1,096 for loan 
3. Therefore, based on the information it had to hand these loans looked affordable as Mr C 
had sufficient disposable income. 
No housing costs had been declared, but Mr C had told MFC that he lived at home with 
parents and as this was early in the lending chain MFC didnt need to verify this. So, the 
small housing costs wouldnt have been of a concern for it. 
Before these loans were advanced MFC also carried out a credit search and it provided the 
results it received from the credit reference agency. It is worth saying here that although 
MFC carried out a credit search there wasnt a regulatory requirement to do one, let alone 
one to a specific standard. But what MFC couldnt do is carry out a credit search and then 
not react to the to the information it received.
The credit check results wouldnt have been a concern for MFC. It knew Mr C had current 
accounts and credit cards, but these were all within their limits and there wasnt any sign of 
adverse payment information. And while at loans 2 and 3, it knew there was an outstanding 
payday loan, this wouldnt have made those loans unaffordable. And neither would it have 
prompted MFC to have declined the loan or to have carried out further checks. 
Overall, given these were the first loans in the first lending chain it was reasonable for MFC 
to have relied on the information that Mr C provided about his income and expenditure. The 
checks MFC carried out where proportionate and showed Mr C could afford the repayments 
and there also wasnt anything else to suggest that the loan would either be unaffordable for 
him or unsustainable. 
Im therefore not upholding Mr Cs complaint about the approval of loans 1  3. 
Loans 4  7
As Ive said above, these loans were granted in a new and separate lending chain and MFC 
carried out the same sort of checks as it had done for loans 1  3. 
This time, it still knew Mr C worked full time and declared his income to be between £1,980 
and £2,005 per month for these loans. Again, MFC says it received information from its 
searches which indicated the amount Mr C declared was likely to be accurate. 
I appreciate, that Mr C says he was on benefits at the time, but this wasnt reflected in the 
information he provided to MFC and given these were the first loans in the second chain of 
lending MFC was entitled to rely on the income figures provided by Mr C. 
Mr C was also asked about his expenditure for these loans, and he declared his monthly 
outgoings ranged from £1,250 at loan 4 up to £1,444 when loan 6. So, Mr C had sufficient 
disposable income for each loan after the MFCs loans were factored in. 
MFC also carried out credit checks  which I would consider to be proportionate. Ive 
reviewed the results, and these were similar to the results MFC received for the first three 
loans. The credit cards were within their respective limits and there wasnt any adverse 
payment information. There wasnt anything, that wouldve prompted MFC to have either declined these loans or to have carried out further checks solely based on the credit check 
results. 
There also wasnt anything to suggest that MFC needed to verify the information Mr C had 
provided it, so I dont think it needed to consider Mr Cs bank statements. The loans 
appeared to have been repaid without any difficulty and the credit searches hadnt shown 
MFC anything of concern. So, while Mr C has provided copy bank statements, it wouldve 
been disproportionate for MFC to have considered them. 
The checks MFC carried out for these loans were proportionate given this was a new loan 
chain, and generally the loans decreased in value. Each loan was repaid early and so it was 
entirely reasonable for MFC to have relied on the information Mr C gave it as well as the 
credit check results. 
I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint about these loans.  
Loan 8
The adjudicator upheld this loan and directed MFC to pay redress as outlined in his 
assessment. MFC has accepted this loan ought not to have been advanced and so this loan 
is no longer in dispute, and I therefore dont need to make a formal finding about it. But, I 
have, for completeness outlined below what MFC needs to do to put things right for Mr C. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress MFC should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it not provided loan 8, as Im satisfied it ought to have. Clearly there are 
a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr C may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr C in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr C would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce MFCs liability in this case for what Im satisfied 
it has done wrong and should put right.
As MFC has agreed, it shouldnt have provided Mr C with loan 8. 
A. MFC should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr C towards interest, 
fees and charges on loan 8.
B. MFC should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Mr C which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr C originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.C. MFC should pay Mr C the total of A plus B.
D. MFC should remove any adverse information it has recorded on Mr Cs credit file in 
relation to loan 8.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MFC to deduct tax from this interest. MFC should give 
Mr C a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding Mr Cs complaint in part. 
My Finance Club Limited should put things for Mr C as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman