DRN-4235690
The complaint
Mr S complains that he had to pay his excess under a motor insurance policy with One 
Insurance Limited (One).
What happened
Mr S had a motor insurance policy with One covering his car.
He was involved in a collision with a third party. The third party may have stolen the other 
car, or they may have been insured to drive it.
Mr S made a claim from One and his car was repaired. As part of the claims process, Mr S 
paid his excess.
Mr S complained that he had to pay his excess. He says if the third party was insured then 
theyd be at fault for the collision, so he shouldnt have to pay his excess. Or, if the car had 
been stolen by the third party, then it would be uninsured and subject to the Uninsured 
Driver Promise in his policy wording.
One said it thought it had applied its policy terms correctly.
Mr S remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ss complaint and thought it wouldnt be upheld. Mr S 
clarified that he only wanted this service to review the part about his excess. He points out 
that both the driver being uninsured or insured and at-fault would lead to the same result. So 
he didnt agree he should have to pay his excess.
Because Mr S didnt agree with the view, his complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not going to uphold Mr Ss complaint and Ill explain why.
In Mr Ss case, there are two situations I need to consider. The first is when a third party is 
driving and is insured:
Under the terms of his insurance policy with One, the main section dealing with excesses 
says:
Excesses that apply
If your policy or schedule shows that you have an excess, you must pay the first part 
of any claim as follows:
 A policy excess applies to your policy, of which the details are mentioned on your 
schedule.
 If you have agreed one, a voluntary excess applies in addition to the policy excess 
of which the details can also be found on your schedule.
 You are responsible for all excess payments including where a named driver under 
the policy was driving the vehicle. If this amount is paid in error by us you must 
refund the amount immediately on request.
These terms state that Mr Ss excess is always payable. Terms like these are commonly 
used in the industry and I think its use here is fair.
What this means in a situation like that described by Mr S when hes suffered damage after 
being hit by an insured third-party driver is that he is required to pay his excess to his 
insurer. The insurer pays for the repairs to his car and then seeks to recover the money from 
the third party. 
When it successfully completes its recovery of money then it can refund its policyholder if its 
terms and conditions allow. But because Mr S agreed to pay the excess as part of the claim, 
he isnt entitled to have that money back until One completes its recovery. Hes effectively 
the final party to receive payment.
If the third party is found not at 100% fault, or the money isnt recovered, then its my 
understanding that Mr S would not receive his excess back.
But I think the policy wording is clear that he will need to pay his excess.
The second situation is slightly different. It relates to a part of the wording dealing with the 
situation when the third party isnt insured (Ive edited this for ease):
Uninsured Driver Promise
If you have comprehensive cover and you make a claim where the driver of the other 
car involved in the accident is found to be uninsured, well refund any excess paid 
and your no claim discount will be restored.
This is as long as:
 We can establish that you were not at fault in any way.
When you first claim you may have to pay your excess and your NCD may be 
affected but once we have established that you were not at fault in any way and the 
driver of the other car was uninsured your excess will be refunded and your NCD will 
be restored.
In this situation, Ones policy wording makes it clear that the third party must again be 100% 
at fault for the incident. But because recovering its money may be more problematic for One, 
it makes the promise that it will refund Mr Ss excess and restore his No Claims Discount.
It clearly says the excess must be paid, because it refers to making a refund.
So, in either of the situations concerning Mr S, he will need to pay his excess under the 
terms of his policy. Whether he then receives a refund of it depends on the factors I mention 
above.Its important I say that this service provides informal dispute resolution. Were not the 
regulator and dont have the powers to force companies to change their policy terms  that 
ability sits with the regulator which is the Financial Conduct Authority. Should Mr S wish to 
take this further he is free to contact that body. 
But I think the terms and conditions of his policy are clear, fair and applied widely across the 
industry. I think its fair I say Mr S had time to examine them and cancel his policy if he 
wasnt happy with the cover provided.
I think One has acted fairly and in line with its terms and conditions, so Im not upholding Mr 
Ss complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman