DRN-3726342
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Tesco Personal Finance PLC rejected his claim against it under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to his purchase of some solar panels.
Background
Mr W bought solar panels for his home in September 2018. The purchase was funded by a 
personal loan from Tesco Personal Finance, and so he supposed that that business was 
therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the supplier of the panels under section 75. 
Mr W says the panels were mis-sold.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that section 75 of the Act 
applied to Mr Ws purchase, and so Tesco Personal Finance was not liable for any mis-sale 
by the supplier. Mr W did not agree, and so the case was referred for an ombudsmans 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I do not uphold this complaint. That is 
because section 75 of the Act does not apply here. I will explain why.
Where goods or services are purchased on credit, section 75 can (where it applies) make 
the provider of credit jointly and equally liable with the supplier of the goods or services for a 
misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier. But section 75 only applies where 
the credit is paid directly to the supplier, and under pre-existing arrangements between the 
creditor and the supplier.
That was not the case here. Mr Ws loan was not paid directly to the supplier, but to his own 
bank account. He then used that money to pay the supplier in a subsequent transaction. 
Tesco Personal Finance was not involved in that payment.
It follows that section 75 does not make Tesco Personal Finance liable for anything the 
supplier did. I dont think it would be fair and reasonable of me to still hold Tesco Personal 
Finance responsible for any mis-sale by the supplier in circumstances where section 75 
does not make it liable  even though the supplier is no longer trading.
My final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman