DRN-1246486
 
The complaint
Ms K complains that Santander UK Plc failed to credit her accounts with the full amount of a 
cash deposit she made in branch.
What happened
Ms K says she took £12,500 in cash into her local Santander branch to pay into her 
account. 
She says the cashier advised she could only pay £10,000 into her basic account, so £2,500 
would have to be put into her current account. Ms K was given receipts to show two deposits 
- one of £10,000 to her basic account and one of £2,500 to her current account.
The branch manager later contacted Ms K to say she'd in fact only handed over £10,000 at 
the counter and told her the further £2,500 would not be credited to her accounts.
Ms K complained to Santander. They maintained their position, so she brought her complaint 
to us. Our investigator looked into it and didn't think Santander had done anything wrong.
Ms K disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. She wants Santander to 
credit her accounts with the additional £2,500.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms K says she handed over £12,500 to the cashier. She says this was repayment of a loan 
she'd made to a friend out of her own student loan. She says he was reluctant to pay her by 
a method other than cash because he's unemployed.
She's provided an image of a phone screenshot which appears to confirm her friend was 
intending to give her £12,500 in cash on the day in question. And she has the receipts from 
Santander to show £12,500 being deposited.
Santander say their process requires double-counting of cash deposits above a certain 
amount. They did this immediately - before the cash had been placed with other money in 
branch. And they realised their error at that point. They say the £10,000 also tallied with the 
cashier's notes taken at the time, which show the amounts of each denomination of note 
deposited.
They say the branch manager contacted Ms K by phone almost immediately to explain the 
situation. And the manager says Ms K agreed she'd only brought in £10,000, but she wanted 
Santander to honour the mistaken amounts in the receipts. That call wasn't recorded 
because it was made from the branch.The branch manager also says he viewed CCTV footage soon after the event. He says this 
showed Ms K presenting a number of bundles of notes, then taking one bundle back and re-
presenting it. This appeared to be a bundle of £50 notes and the assumption was this was 
the £2,500 in question. 
The CCTV footage no longer exists because it's Santander's process to hold it only for a 
certain amount of time.
Santander have also given us copies of their branch records for the day in question. These 
show that the amount of money in branch at the end of the day tallies with the receipts and 
out-goings if Ms K deposited £10,000. If she deposited £12,500, the end-of-day total is out 
by £2,500. 
There is no absolutely decisive evidence either way in this case. Santander don't have a 
recording of the phone call or the CCTV footage. 
Ms K has produced an image of a text message. As I understand it, it is possible to create 
and/or edit screenshots of text messages after the supposed date of sending. I'm not 
accusing Ms K of doing that. But even taken at face value, the texts don't demonstrate that 
she presented the full £12,500 in branch that her friend said he was going to give her.
In the absence of decisive evidence from either party, I have to decide what is most likely to 
have happened. 
Santander's daily branch balance adds up, assuming they received £10,000 from Ms K 
rather than £12,500. The cashier's notes show different denominations of notes adding up to 
£10,000. Both the branch manager and the cashier say the cash, when double-counted, 
amounted to £10,000. The branch manager has also given a clear, coherent and consistent 
account of the phone call and the CCTV footage. So, there is fairly compelling evidence to 
suggest Ms K handed over only £10,000 in branch.
If I am to believe that Ms K in fact deposited £12,500, I would also have to believe - given 
the branch balance at the end of the day - that £2,500 was either lost entirely or taken from 
the branch by someone. And to be frank, that seems to me to be extremely unlikely.
So I'm satisfied on balance that it's most likely Ms K deposited £10,000 rather than £12,500 
on the day in question. And I can't conclude that Santander have acted unreasonably or 
unfairly in any way towards Ms K.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I don't uphold Ms K's complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2019.
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman