DRN-3040171
The complaint
Miss B complains Studio Retail Limited has lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so Ive only provided a 
summary here:
Miss B took out an account with Studio in October 2018 with an initial credit limit of 
£500.
There were four credit limit increases up to the final credit limit of £1,350 in January 
2021.
Miss B complained to Studio in February 2021 saying it hadnt checked her credit file 
when agreeing the initial credit limits and shouldnt have agreed the increases.
Studio said it used various sources of data to assess the initial credit limit and then 
undertook proportionate checks for each subsequent increase.
It didnt think it had lent to Miss B irresponsibly.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint and concluded Studio hadnt lent 
irresponsibly.
Miss B asked an ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, Im not upholding the complaint.
Lenders dont have a set list of checks they need to complete when agreeing an 
application for credit. They do, however, have a responsibility to carry out appropriate 
and proportionate checks to ensure a consumer can afford the borrowing.
The extent of checks required is dependent on a number of factors including, but not 
limited to, the type of credit, the amount being borrowed and the amount and 
frequency of payments.
For each of the decisions to lend to Miss B, Studio has provided details of the checks 
it undertook using a range of externally available information such as reference to 
credit file data. 
It also used internally available information such as the way Miss Bs account was 
conducted.
Im satisfied these checks were appropriate and proportionate.
Ive then gone on to consider the details of Miss Bs borrowing with Studio and note 
her account is well run, with repayments generally made on time and with low usage 
of the available credit.
Miss Bs bank statements also show an account that is well run with no obvious signs 
of financial pressure.
Ive not seen anything in the checks Studio undertook which I think should have 
caused it concerns about Miss Bs ability to afford the borrowing.
Miss B has now told Studio not to provide any further credit increases and it has 
agreed. Ive kept in mind she had the opportunity to do this each time Studio offered 
an increase in her limit but chose not to.
As her borrowing was just 15% of her available credit in August 2021, Miss B may 
wish to ask Studio to decrease the limit back to a lower level if shes concerned about 
the availability of further borrowing.
Overall, Im satisfied Studio carried out appropriate and proportionate checks and Ive not 
seen anything to persuade me it lent to Miss B irresponsibly. I wont be asking it to do 
anymore.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman