DRN-2040437
The complaint
Mr M complains Bupa Insurance Limited incorrectly collected the same policy premium 
payment twice.
What happened
Mr M holds a private medical insurance policy with Bupa, and his premiums are payable 
quarterly.
Mr M said Bupa collected his June 2019 premium from his credit card, as well as cashing his 
cheque. He claimed back the overpayment via his credit card provider. And he said Bupa 
should have a process in place to prevent taking a payment twice.
Bupa said itd informed Mr M of the process he needed to follow if he wanted to pay his 
premium by cheque. And it said in June, Mr M sent a cheque payment, but this cleared after 
the payment due date, by which time itd already charged his credit card. 
Mr M complained to Bupa. Bupa explained its process for collecting premium payments. And 
said as Mr M had made a cheque payment after the premium due date, and hadnt 
contacted Bupa to let it know hed done this, itd acted correctly in charging his credit card. It 
also let Mr M know he had the option to pay by direct debit or bank transfer, and provided 
details of how he could do this. 
Unhappy with the response from Bupa, Mr M brought his complaint to this service. An 
investigator here looked into what had happened and said he didnt think Bupa had acted 
unfairly.
Bupa made no further comments on the investigators view.
Mr M disagreed with the view, and asked for a decision from an ombudsman. So the case 
has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy state that subscriptions (also known as premiums) 
are to be paid in advance, and that a valid credit card must be kept on file. Mr Ms 
membership certificate shows his payment method as credit card and frequency as 
quarterly together with summary details of the credit card information held for him by Bupa. 
Mr M renewed his policy in March 2019. And Ive seen email correspondence between him 
and Bupa in April about its process for collecting premium payments. It explained the 
process as follows, and advised of the premium due date for his next three quarterly 
payments. 
As there is a deductible on your policy we require a credit card on file, therefore we 
would normally only accept credit card as the payment method for the policy. We can 
accept alternative methods such as cheque or bank transfer however, the amount 
due would need to be paid prior to the date on your statement. This is to avoid our 
system from collecting this amount by card. 
If you are unable to pay before the due date you can request a payment hold on your 
account so we do not attempt to collect the premium by credit card. This hold can be 
held for a maximum of 30 days. 
Based on this, Im satisfied Bupa made Mr M aware his premiums would be taken quarterly 
from the credit card it held for him. And that it clearly explained its process for paying by 
other methods. 
Mr Ms next premium payment was due on 1 June 2019. He said he posted a cheque to 
Bupa on 25 May. Bupa took the premium payment from Mr Ms credit card on 3 June, and 
his cheque cleared on 7 June. 
I dont know when Bupa received Mr Ms cheque through the post, but it was dated 1 June, 
so it couldnt be cashed before the payment due date. And Bupa had previously advised Mr 
M his premium amount would need to be paid before the due date, if he wanted to avoid a 
payment being collected by credit card. And Ive not seen any evidence that Mr M contacted 
Bupa and asked for a hold to be placed to prevent a credit card payment. 
Whilst I appreciate the inconvenience Mr M was caused in being charged twice, I dont think 
it would be reasonable for me to hold Bupa accountable for this. Its not my role to direct the 
process a business uses to collect premium payments. And based on the evidence Ive 
seen, I think Bupa explained its payment process clearly. And the double payment arose as 
an unfortunate consequence of that process not being followed by Mr M. 
Mr M reclaimed the June 2019 credit card payment directly from his provider, so the matter 
of the overpayment was resolved. And Bupa advised Mr M of other options, such as paying 
by direct debit or bank transfer, to avoid the same problem arising again. So I wont be 
asking Bupa to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. And I 
make no award against Bupa Insurance Limited.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman