DRN-1843570
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T say Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs T took out a secured loan with Halifax in 1988. Halifax also sold them PPI, the 
cost of which was paid by monthly premium. The PPI covered Mr and Mrs Ts monthly 
repayments if Mr T couldnt work due to disability and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr and Mrs T disagreed, so the 
case was passed to me to review afresh.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ts case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs T say they didnt need PPI but were made to feel they had to have it if they 
wanted the loan. Unfortunately, I cant know for sure what was discussed at the time. And 
Halifax no longer holds a copy of, say, a loan application form that might have been 
completed. I understand Mr and Mrs Ts frustration with the lack of information, but I dont 
find it surprising given the time thats since passed since the sale took place. 
I recognise its possible Mr and Mrs Ts recollections of the sale are accurate. But, Im 
mindful that its at least equally possible they were told at the time the PPI was separate and 
optional and have since forgotten. Thats especially so given the copy loan agreement they 
signed, which shows a printed X to indicate they wanted PPI.
Taking everything into account, I dont believe I have enough evidence with which to uphold 
the complaint on these grounds. 
I believe Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs T. So, among other things, it had to 
take steps to make sure it was right for them. I dont know if it did that, but I believe it was 
right for them in any case. For example, Mr T was eligible for the PPI. And it doesnt appear 
that he was significantly affected by any of the main things the PPI excluded or limited cover 
for. 
Mr T says he was entitled to enhanced sick pay for a time, which Mr and Mrs T say meant 
they didnt need PPI. But the PPI would have paid out on top of that and for up to 24 months 
per claim if Mr T was off work. It covered unemployment too. So, I think Mr and Mrs T still 
had a need for the PPI, not least because the loan was a major financial commitment and the potential consequences of not keeping up with the monthly payments were significant.
The monthly premium was less than £5, and Ive no reason to think that was unaffordable for 
Mr and Mrs T. Whats more, the PPI was flexible in that they could have cancelled it at any 
time, and at no extra cost, if they decided they no longer wanted it.
Ive thought about the life cover Mr and Mrs T held but that would have paid a lump sum on 
death. The PPI, on the other hand, was primarily designed to pay a regular benefit in the 
event of disability or unemployment. Im satisfied the policies paid out for different things. 
Ive also thought about the loss of earnings insurance Mr and Mrs T say they already held 
in 1988. However, I havent seen much evidence of what it covered or how long it ran for. In 
addition, theres a suggestion it was an insurance that protected their existing mortgage, so it 
may well be that it wouldnt have helped them regarding the secured loan.
Halifax also had to give Mr and Mrs T good enough information about the PPI. This was so 
they could make an informed decision about buying it. As I say, I believe its just as likely as 
not that they wanted to take out the cover. And I cant, for the same reasons I think the PPI 
was right for them, see what other information about the PPI would have put them off taking 
it out  it provided useful benefits at a cost that I believe was affordable for them. 
Taking everything into account, I dont think Mr and Mrs T have lost out because of how 
Halifax sold them the PPI.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 July 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman