DRN-1967523
 
The complaint
Mr F says Evergreen Finance London Limited, trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk, irresponsibly 
lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about one loan Evergreen Finance provided to Mr F in June 2015. A 
summary of the loan details, as evidenced by Evergreen Finance, is as follows:  
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidAmount InstalmentsRepayment 
amount
1 06/06/2015 26/06/2015 £400.00 2 £241.09
Our adjudicator thought about Mr Fs complaint and felt that Evergreen Finance lent to Mr F 
fairly, and so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr F disagreed stating that he was in financial 
difficulty at the time Evergreen Finance agreed to give him the loan and he had several other 
short-term loans outstanding at the time. Mr F says had Evergreen Finance completed a 
proper affordability assessment on him it wouldve realised that he could not afford to pay 
back this loan. 
As Mr F disputed the initial assessment the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Evergreen Finance needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend 
irresponsibly. In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to 
make sure Mr F could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take 
into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment 
amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages 
of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Evergreen Finance should fairly 
and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the 
consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Evergreen Finance was required to
establish whether Mr F could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Fs complaint. 
why I think Evergreen Finances checks were proportionate for Mr F loan 
Mr Fs loan was for £400.00 and as per the loan agreement his repayments for this loan was 
were £241.09. Ive seen a record of the information Mr F provided when this loan application 
was completed. It was recorded that Mr F had a monthly income of £1,123.00 and monthly 
expenses of around £725.00. So, after deducting his regular monthly outgoings it looked like 
he had enough disposal income to make his repayments under this loan agreement.
Ive considered what Mr F has said about having debts with other providers and not being 
able to afford his loan with Evergreen Finance. And had Evergreen Finance completed a full 
review of Mr Fs financial circumstances, I think ought to have uncovered any financial 
difficulty Mr F might have been experiencing at the time. But, at this point in the lending 
relationship I think it was reasonable for Evergreen Finance to have relied on the evidence it 
had and what Mr F told it about his income and expenditure, and I think it was reasonable of 
Evergreen Finance not to investigate Mr Fs circumstances any further when he was 
applying for this loan. And I dont think it had yet reached the stage where it needed to carry 
out further checks, such as verifying this information or enquiring into his wider financial 
circumstances.
Ive seen evidence of a credit check Evergreen Finance carried out at the time and Ive not 
seen anything in this or other information that shows Evergreen Finance was made aware of 
any financial problems Mr F mightve been having. The credit check does show that Mr F 
had taken out short term loans in the past, but I didnt see any evidence which wouldve led 
Evergreen Finance to believe that Mr F would not be able to repay this loan with it. Or 
anything that wouldve prompted it to investigate Mr Fs circumstances further. So, I think it 
was reasonable for Evergreen Finance to rely on the information it obtained.
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the affordability assessment Evergreen Finance 
carried out for Mr Fs loan was proportionate. And I think its decision to lend Mr F in these 
circumstances was reasonable. My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont think Mr Fs complaint about his loan should be 
upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2020.
 
Sienna Mahboobani
Ombudsman