DRN-3902184
The complaint
Mr H complained about Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds valuation of his car after 
he claimed on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Hs car was damaged in an accident and Advantage (trading as Hastings Direct) decided 
that it was uneconomical to repair. They first offered him an amount for his cars market 
value, increasing it to £3,300 . Mr H thought that his car was worth more and said he couldnt 
afford to buy a similar car with that and would be left out of pocket. He wanted Advantage to 
pay him about £1,600 more or themselves buy him a similar car. He didnt think it was fair for 
Advantage to offer an amount in line with the motor trade guides. 
The investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. He thought that 
Advantages offer was fair and that theyd reached it in a reasonable way having followed 
our guidance. Mr H didnt agree and so Ive been asked to decide. 
Mr H is unhappy with another aspect of Advantages service, but as the investigator has 
explained, Advantage have to be given the chance to respond to a complaint from him about 
that, and so I dont comment on that here. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator explained to Mr H what our approach was, regarding complaints about car 
valuations. We dont decide what the market value of a car is; we merely consider whether 
or not the insurer has reached a fair and reasonable amount having regard to the valuations 
in the trade guides. The prices in those guides are linked to likely monthly nationwide sales 
figures and although valuing a car is not an exact science, we believe they give a reasonable 
and independent guide and take account of a number of factors including mileage, condition, 
and any extra features. Overall, we find them more persuasive than adverts. 
Mr H s car insurance policy says on page 14 that market value is:
 The cost of replacing your Car in the United Kingdom at the time the loss or damage 
occurred with one of the same make, model, age and condition. This may not
necessarily be the value you declared when the insurance was taken out. Your Insurer
may use publications such as Glass's Guide to assess the Market Value and will make
any necessary allowances for the mileage and condition of your Car and the
circumstances in which you bought it.
So Mr H s policy does give Advantage the discretion to use the trade guides to assess 
market value. I think that clause is clear and not unreasonable, and Mr H has agreed to it by 
taking out the policy.
Advantage have shown us that in assessing his cars market value, they used the valuations 
from two trade guides, £3,330 and £3,093.They offered him the higher of those two 
valuations, minus his policy excess. 
The investigator checked that Advantage had valued Mr H s car in accordance with our 
guidance and that they had taken into account its model, features and the actual mileage at 
the time of the cars loss. 
The investigator also did his own valuations as a check, and these varied between £3,093 
and £3,806. He explained that Advantages market value offer was therefore in accordance 
with our published guidance as it was within a reasonable range of the trade guide 
valuations, and Im satisfied thats so. 
Its clear that Mr H isnt happy with the trade guides valuation process. He thinks the guides 
give trade values rather than retail values, and so their values are artificial. However as I 
explained above, the guides Advantage used are independent industry trade guides showing 
retail prices and we consider it reasonable for insurers to use them. 
I see that in their assessment Advantage did use the retail prices from the guides. I also see 
that Advantage did consider the adverts Mr H showed them, but they were not like for like 
due to mileage. And in any event, we still think that advertised prices allow for subjective 
profit and room for negotiation, and dont determine what a car actually sold for. Whereas 
the guides valuations are based on extensive nationwide research of what likely selling 
prices would have been. We think that the guides have also factored in any increase in 
second-hand cars in the last few years.
Mr H also thinks that Advantage should compensate him for the time he says theyve taken. 
However I can see that they offered him the revised market value within a not unreasonable 
time after the incident when his car was damaged. So I dont think that Advantage delayed 
there, and they arent responsible if Mr H chose not to accept their offer then. 
I do think its unfortunate that Mr Hs car was damaged through no fault of his own, but as 
Advantage followed our established process with regard to assessing market value I think 
thats reasonable and the amount they arrived at was fair.  
Overall, I havent seen any persuasive evidence to override the trade guide valuation 
assessment that Advantage did. This means that Advantage didnt do anything wrong and I 
dont require them to do anything more. 
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 February 2023.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
