DRN-3518930
The complaint
Mrs P complains that esure Insurance Limited mishandled a claim on her motor insurance 
policy.
Where I refer to esure, I include repairers and others insofar as I hold esure responsible for 
their acts or omissions. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a small convertible car, first registered in 
about 2009.
For the year from late June 2018, Mrs P had her car insured on a comprehensive policy with 
esure.
Unfortunately, in mid-June 2019, the car suffered damage to the front, which esure repaired.
Mrs P complained to esure that the repair was a different colour to the rest of the car. By a 
final response dated early July 2019, esure turned down the complaint. Unusually, the final 
response included the following:
Although there are time limits for referring your complaint to the Ombudsman, we 
will consent to the Ombudsman considering your complaint even if you refer the 
complaint outside the time limits.
In August 2019, esure got an engineers inspection and report.
Mrs P brought her complaint to us in April 2022.
Our investigator at first recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that -
contrary to the engineers report - the front bumper did have a different colour compared to 
the rest of the car. He recommended that esure should rectify the colour of the front bumper 
to match the rest of the car.
Our investigator changed his view, saying that he had misinterpreted the engineers report. 
He didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that the engineers 
report stated the bumper colour was the same as the original paintwork and the pictures of 
the car taken before the repairs did support this. 
Mrs P disagreed with the investigators opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. She says, in summary, that:
She never would have purchased a car that was different shades of colour.
Getting the right angle and lighting is imperative when it comes to establishing colour 
contrast. After the car was repaired, she finally achieved a good photo.
The dealer who sold her the car said it wouldnt sell a car that was 2 toned.
She has sent us colour comparisons before and after. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs P believes that the photos taken before the repairs show the colour of the whole car was 
the same.
However, after the repair and the complaint, esures engineers report included the following:
The colour on the front bumper is the same as the original paintwork on the vehicle. 
The bonnet was of a different shade prior to the incident. I have shown Ms [P] the 
images that were taken by the garage of the car in its damaged state and one can 
clearly see the bonnet and front bumper colours were of different shade.
I place weight on the opinion of the engineer who carried out a direct visual inspection of the 
car. So I find that the bumper repair matched the original colour of the car. And the bonnet 
was a different shade before the accident and repair.
I place less weight on my own viewing of the photographs. However, I consider that the 
photographs also show that the bumper repair matched the original shade of the car.
So I dont hold esure responsible for repairing the car with an incorrect shade. I dont find it 
fair and reasonable to direct esure to rectify the repair or to do any more in response to this 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct esure Insurance limited to do any more in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman