DRN-3583709
The complaint
Mr M complains through his representative that Lendable Ltd lent him money irresponsibly 
on a high cost loan that he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
Lendable provided Mr M with a loan on 17 February 2020 for £3,300, repayable over 60 
months at the rate of around £110 a month. He paid the first instalment in full but then got in 
touch with Lendable to ask if he could make reduced payments Lendable agreed to this, and 
subsequently Mr M made reduced payments through a debt management company. Interest 
on the account has been frozen indefinitely. Mr M complained through his representative of 
irresponsible lending.
Lendable said it had carried out the necessary checks, including verifying Mr Ms income 
and carrying out a credit check. It assessed that the loan was affordable.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service our adjudicator said that Lendable 
shouldve taken steps to build a more detailed picture of Mr Ms financial situation. This 
couldve included performing a credit search or asking him for more information at the time 
of lending  for example bank statements that showed his income and expenditure. However 
Mr M has only supplied bank statements for November and December 2019, and our 
adjudicator thought it appropriate for him to also supply these for January and February 
2020. Without these she couldnt uphold the complaint as she didnt have sufficient 
information about Mr Ms financial circumstances immediately before the loan was 
advanced.
Mr M didnt agree, pointing out that he had had severe problems with gambling as couulid be 
shown by the bank statements he had supplied. As of the date of this decision, no further 
bank statements have been supplied.
Thew matter has been passed me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Lendable complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr M 
would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr M would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required Lendable to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Ms ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Lendable had to think about whether repaying 
the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that it had to ensure that making the 
repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr M undue difficulty or significant adverse 
consequences. That means he should have been able to meet repayments out of normal 
income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without failing to make any other 
payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and without the repayments 
having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Lendable to simply think about the likelihood of it getting 
its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr M. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
a higher repayment from a particular level of income). 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which a 
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal 
that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
According to the credit report obtained by Lendable at the time of the loan application Mr M 
had seven loans and two credit cards with outstanding balances. I calculate, allowing for 5% 
payment of the balances on the credit cards, that this amounts to total payments of around 
£345 a month. With the new loan instalment added, this would have meant that he would 
have been paying around 26% of his assessed income of £1,711 a month on credit 
commitments. A ratio of over 25% may be of some concern, especially as Mr Ms loans all 
seemed to be have been taken out in the previous 18 months. However three of those loans 
were from a telecommunications supplier.
I havent seen any calculation of Mr Ms disposable income. I would have thought, applying 
ONS (Office for National Statistics) data which allows for 35% of income to be spent on living 
costs, that Mr M had a sufficient disposable income after accounting for the new loan 
instalment. 
So I havent seen sufficient evidence to say that Lendable should have checked Mr Ms 
financial status any further, for example his bank account wasnt overdrawn.However if I were to find that Lendable should have carried out further checks, I would need 
to be persuaded that those checks would have revealed that Mr M couldnt afford the loan. 
Bearing in mind that he only paid one full instalment of the loan before setting up a 
repayment plan, it may well be that he couldnt afford the loan. But I doubt that that wouldve 
shown up in further checks. Mr M has supplied two bank statements  for November and 
December 2019. The November statement does show substantial gambling transactions, 
though the December statement doesnt show any. As I havent seen the January 2020 
statement I dont know what that would have shown. 
But its reasonable to suppose that Lendable might, if it had carried out further checks, have 
seen the December 2019 and January 2020 statements. I dont think there were any 
transactions in the statements I have seen that would have raised any concern. I can 
understand why Mr M might not have wanted to tell Lendable anything about his gambling 
but from the evidence I have seen and what Lendable might have obtained, I dont think it 
would have come to light.
So Im unable to say, from the evidence I have seen, that Lendable didnt make a fair lending 
decision. 
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman