The complaint
Mrs M complains that Nationwide Building Society wont refund an in-branch withdrawal 
made from her account for £200. Mrs M says she did not make or authorise the withdrawal.
What happened
Mrs M told us that on paying for her shopping at a supermarket on 11 December 2019 she 
entered her pin incorrectly too many times. Because of this, she couldn't use her card and so 
paid for her shopping with cash. 
Due to the branch being closed when she got there Mrs M returned the following day on 
12 December 2019. She explained to the cashier what had happened, and a new pin 
reminder was requested. Mrs M said the pin arrived after a few days. 
Mrs M says a couple of days after her branch visit, she received her account statement and 
saw £200 had been withdrawn. She visited the branch to discuss this on 19 December 2019 
as she says she didnt make this withdrawal. Mrs M has explained to our service that she 
only adds money to this account and, has only made one cash withdrawal from this account 
previously from an ATM. She stresses she would not withdraw money from this account as 
she would take money from another account that she holds with Nationwide. 
Nationwide investigated the matter and said it cannot agree its made an error with the £200 
withdrawal from Mrs Ms account. Nationwides provided statements from branch members - 
the cashier who served Mrs M on 12 December 2019 and, from 19 December 2019 when 
she queried the withdrawal - along with staff members who Mrs M spoke with on a further 
visit to the branch on 21 December 2019. Its also given us a copy of the withdrawal slip and 
records that show the cashiers till balanced at the end of the day. Nationwide conclude 
Mrs M is mistaken in her belief that a staff member was involved in any funds being taken 
from her account. 
Mrs M says she was shown two withdrawal slips on different occasions. The first slip she 
said looked like itd been photocopied and, on the second slip the ink appeared to be wet. 
Mrs M agrees the signature on the withdrawal slip is hers but says she doesnt know how it 
got on there  she thinks its been forged. Unhappy with Nationwides response, Mrs M 
referred her complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked at all of the available evidence, including what Mrs M has told us, 
the statements from the branch staff, print outs to show the counter till balanced and the 
withdrawal slip. She concluded that it was more likely than not Mrs M had made the 
withdrawal from her account and that shed not seen strong enough evidence to show it was 
more likely than not that a staff member had taken the money. So, she didnt recommend 
Nationwide do anything further.
DRN-1657804Mrs M disagreed with the investigators assessment and has asked for an 
ombudsmans review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear Mrs M has very strong feelings about this matter and Id firstly like to assure her that 
Ive carefully considered everything she has said and provided in reaching my decision. But 
in cases such as this, where there are conflicting versions of events, I have to reach my 
decision on the balance of probabilities. That is what I think is more likely to have 
happened in the circumstances.
And based on what Ive seen, I think its more likely Mrs M asked to withdraw £200 on 
12 December 2019. I know Mrs M will be disappointed with this decision, so Ill now explain 
why.
Mrs M has essentially complained that £200 of her money was stolen by a member of staff.
This is a very serious allegation and I hope Mrs M understands that it wouldnt be 
reasonable for me to uphold her complaint based solely on what shes told us. Its not the 
role of this service, or Nationwide, to investigate if a crime has taken place. Thats a job for 
the police and the criminal justice service. The issue for me to consider is whether, on 
balance, Mrs M withdrew £200 in branch on 12 December 2019. 
Nationwide has been unable to provide a copy of the CCTV footage from the day. But it has 
given this service witness statements from the members of staff involved, including the 
cashier who served Mrs M on the day, along with further statements from members of staff 
who Mrs M spoke with on a later visit to the branch on 21 December 2019. 
Having reviewed the statement of the cashier who serviced Mrs M on the day of the 
withdrawal, it supports what Mrs M has said about forgetting her PIN but goes on to say she 
needed to take money out. It says Mrs M was reassured she could take money out over the 
counter and a new pin reminder would be issued. 
The same cashier has also provided a statement in relation to Mrs Ms visit to branch on 
19 December 2019 when she raised her dispute about the withdrawal. As the withdrawal 
was made in- branch the cashier recalls asking a colleague to help find the withdrawal slip. 
The cashier confirms the withdrawal slip was shown to Mrs M and that the signature was 
matched to the one on the back of her card. The cashier also added Mrs M confirmed it was 
her signature but that she didnt recall making the transaction.   
Further statements provided are from Mrs Ms visit to the branch on 21 December 2019. 
Having reviewed these, two staff members confirm they watched the CCTV footage showing 
Mrs M in branch on 12 December 2019, and at the counter. It was not possible for Mrs M to 
view the footage at this time due to security reasons. But the staff members confirm pictures 
were taken on a phone which were shown to Mrs M. They add Mrs M confirmed from the 
photos that it was her at the counter. Both staff members say at no time during or after the 
transaction did the cashier leave the counter. Nationwide has also given us information from 
12 December 2019, that shows there wasnt a cash error in the branch on that day its 
provided records that show the cashiers till balanced - meaning everything tallied up at the 
end of the day. When considering what Ive seen and been told, I have given thought as to whether I think 
its likely the cashier pocketed the £200. I know Mrs M feels strongly that the cashier took 
her money, and while I cant say definitively what happened here, Im not persuaded this is 
more likely than not. I say this because the statement from the cashier at the time confirms 
Mrs M made a withdrawal over the counter and the further statements show the cashier 
didnt leave the counter at any time during or after the transaction. I think that had the staff 
members seen anything suspicious at the time of viewing the footage they would have also 
noted this. And Ive not been given any other information that suggests this would not have 
been the case.     
I also dont think it would be fair for me to overlook the withdrawal slip from 12 December 
2019 which shows Mrs M signed for the £200 withdrawal. I acknowledge Mrs M agrees the 
signature is hers but has said she thinks it was forged. But this service has not been 
provided with any information to support Mrs Ms assertion that she did not sign the slip. 
I understand the frustration Mrs M must feel and I dont doubt her integrity or that she 
has made this complaint in good faith. But I dont think it would be reasonable for me to 
uphold a complaint about a member of staff stealing £200 of Mrs Ms money without there 
being sufficiently persuasive supporting evidence that they did so. And in this case, I dont 
think there is this evidence.
So taking everything Ive seen and been told into account, for the reasons given above, 
Im not persuaded that, on balance, Nationwide has made an error with the £200 withdrawn 
from Mrs Ms account. It follows that I dont think it would be fair to require it to do anything 
more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2020.
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman