DRN-1974885
 
The complaint
Mrs K says she was mis-sold a store card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in 
1999.
AXA France IARDs (AXA) taken responsibility for the sale for the purposes of this complaint.
What happened
Mrs K took out a PPI policy which primarily helped to protect her store card payments in the 
event of disability or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld on the grounds that Mrs K wasnt 
properly informed of the PPIs exclusions and restrictions regarding claims for pre-existing 
medical conditions (PEMCs). If she had been, the adjudicator felt she wouldnt have taken it 
because the terms meant shed have been unable to claim for her pre-existing asthma. 
AXA didnt agree with the adjudicator, so the case was passed to me to review afresh. I 
issued my provisional decision on the complaint in May 2020, explaining why I didnt think 
the PPI had been mis-sold.
I gave the parties four weeks to let me know if they had any further points or information they 
wanted me to consider before I revisited the case. Neither of the parties responded.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ks case. 
Having done so, I dont uphold Mrs Ks complaint. Ill explain why.
AXA needed to make it clear to Mrs K that she had a choice about taking out PPI and get 
her agreement before adding it. Ive seen a copy of Mrs Ks signed credit card application 
form and note that, under the section headed Account Cover, she signed separately to 
indicate she wanted PPI.  
Overall, I think AXA made it clear to Mrs K that she had a choice about taking out PPI and 
that she chose to take it. 
AXA says it didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs K. I think its unlikely advice was given from 
experience of how it sold these policies generally. 
That said, AXA still ought to have provided Mrs K with clear, fair and not misleading 
information about the PPI so that she could decide for herself if it was suitable. I cant say for 
sure whether AXA did that. And I dont have a copy of the specific policy terms from the time. 
But, from what I know of Mrs Ks circumstances and experience of what the main features of 
the policy are likely to have been, I dont think better information about the PPI would have 
put her off taking it. 
I say that because, firstly, it seems Mrs K would have been eligible for the cover. And, unlike 
our adjudicator, I dont believe shed have decided against the PPI because of its exclusions 
and restrictions. I accept that Mrs K had suffered with asthma, but she was diagnosed with 
the condition many years before she bought the PPI and it had caused her relatively little 
time off work. Ive no reason to think the condition wasnt stable and controlled. 
I cant fairly say Mrs K would have considered the condition a likely cause of time off work for 
her given the lack of symptoms shed experienced up to that point. Further, the PPI would 
have had a waiting period, meaning any disability needed to lead to time off work for 30 
consecutive days or more before any benefit was payable. It doesnt look to me as if Mrs K 
had any reason to think her condition was likely to lead to such a prolonged period off work. 
In addition, she could potentially have claimed if shed been off sick with any condition that 
wasnt related to her PEMC.
Mrs K says shed have got full sick pay from her employer for up to four months and half pay 
for up to a further six months. The PPI would have paid out on top of her employers pay, 
leaving her free to use those other means to cover her other living costs if she was off work. 
The PPI benefits would also potentially have paid out until the card balance was paid off and 
covered unemployment too. 
I note Mrs K says she could have relied on help from family and friends. But, unlike the PPI 
benefits, there was no guarantee that help would be available when she needed it. 
Overall, I think Mrs K would have considered the PPI provided her with useful extra security. 
Theres also nothing to suggest Mrs K couldnt afford the PPI. And the PPI was flexible in 
that Mrs K could have cancelled it at any time, and at no extra cost, if she decided it was no 
longer suitable for her.
Taking everything into account, I dont think Mrs Ks lost out because of how AXA sold her 
the PPI.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 July 2020.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman