DRN-1762071
 
The complaint
Mr M complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua has charged him the wrong interest rate 
on his credit card account.
What happened
Mr M took out a credit card with Aqua in September 2019. It was advertising a rate of 35.9% 
APR (Annual Percentage Rate), and also said that as a loyalty bonus, it would reduce the 
APR by 5% per year for the first three years, for anyone who never missed a payment. 
Mr M had never missed a payment, so by September 2019 he expected his APR to be down 
to 20.9%. But he discovered that he was being charged 49.9%, with no annual reductions. 
He said hed told Aqua about this, and it reduced his current rate to 29.9%, but he said he 
should be paying less than this now, and had been overcharged since September 2016. 
Mr M said hed asked Aqua to send him his welcome letter, and signed agreement, so he 
could see what hed originally agreed to. But it wouldnt. It just sent him his statements, 
which only proved hed been overcharged since the start. 
Aqua said that Mr M hadnt been given a card with a 35.9% interest rate. Hed taken out a 
card with a 49.9% interest rate. He did get a promotional offer to reduce his rate by 5% each 
year, if he didnt miss any payments. His rate had been reduced in 2017 and 2018, but not 
2019. Aqua thought hed missed a payment, but when he complained, Aqua decided this 
was probably its fault. It had a problem with the online payment system, so it reduced Mr Ms 
rate by more than the 5% he was expecting. And it refunded his late payment charge, and 
paid £10 as a gesture of goodwill. 
Aqua said it had now sent Mr M his first statement and his welcome pack. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said businesses can 
advertise rates without having to give them to all applicants. And Mr M had been offered a 
higher rate of 49.9%. Thats what he was being charged. So our investigator didnt think 
Aqua had to do anything. 
Mr M wanted to see the agreement. Our investigator sent it to him, and Mr M said he hadnt 
signed it. And the statement interest rate could say anything, that didnt mean hed agreed to 
it. Mr M said hed kept asking for his welcome pack, and hadnt been sent it. He didnt think it 
existed. He thought wed taken Aquas side on this. 
Our investigator said that the credit agreement was a legally binding agreement between 
both parties. When its completed online, there wouldnt be an actual handwritten signature, 
but an electronic one was fine. There was no evidence to suggest these documents were 
forged. Shed asked Aqua for the welcome pack, but she said it was still the credit 
agreement which was legally binding. 
Mr M still thought the welcome pack was very important, and he said he wanted to know how 
we would decide the case without it, because he might take this issue to court. Our 
investigator repeated that shed asked for the pack, and as Mr M hadnt agreed with her, she 
would now pass this case to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
Mr M said he never got the pack so he wasnt aware of the 49.9% interest rate. Aqua said 
that the welcome pack was issued with the card. 
Mr M wrote again to say that hed agreed to a 35.9% interest rate when completing his 
application on the Aqua website.  He said he wouldnt have accepted 49.9%. Mr M also said 
that Aqua had increased his credit limit a number of times without asking him and with no 
notice. He didnt think that was responsible lending. Mr M said Aqua was refusing to send 
him a welcome pack. That would show his APR was 35.9%. He said these were all 
regulatory fails. 
Our investigator said we could only look at the APR charged as part of this complaint. Mr M 
could raise the other issues with Aqua if he wanted to. The case then came to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
Aqua has shown us a credit agreement with Mr M, which shows an interest rate of 
49.9%APR. It has also sent us statements to show its been charging Mr M interest based on 
that starting rate, ever since he took out the card. 
Mr M is adamant that Aqua has made a mistake. He said the credit agreement weve seen 
wasnt signed. However, he has also told us that he applied online. I wouldnt expect to see 
a wet signature on an online application. 
Mr M argues that the credit agreement is forged. Thats a very serious accusation to make, 
and I havent seen anything to make me think that. 
Mr M also says that Aqua hasnt sent him a welcome pack, and he thinks thats crucial. But 
Aqua says it issues the welcome pack with the new card. And Mr M definitely got that, 
because he used it. Aqua also says its resent this pack to him since. I can see internal notes 
which say this was sent. If Mr M didnt get that, I dont think thats Aquas fault. 
Mr M also says that the interest rate shown on his statements doesnt mean that he agreed 
to that rate. But I also think its worth noting that Mr M didnt object to this rate either, until 
some three years after he took out the card. 
I think the fact that Mr M has been charged at a rate consistent with an initial agreement of 
49.9% since he took out this card provides very strong support for what Aqua has told us 
about the rate it agreed with Mr M.
I dont think that there is sufficient evidence in this case for me to decide that Aqua agreed a 
rate of 35.9% APR with Mr M. Ive explained that what I have seen makes me think its likely 
Aqua only ever offered Mr M a card with 49.9% APR. 
I know Mr M will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld. My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2020.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman