DRN-4084855
The complaint
Mr L says Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) was responsible for a delay in switching 
his pension to Canada Life and that this caused the transfer value to fall by around £4,000.
What happened
Timeline of events
My starting point is to establish a timeline of events for the transaction Mr L complains about. 
This has been constructed using information provided by him and Aviva. As there is broad 
agreement about what happened, I think it provides a reasonable foundation from which to 
draw my findings and conclusions:
1 June 2022  Mr L called Aviva asking for information on transferring his pension.
13 June 2022  Aviva posted Mr L transfer discharge forms.
20 June 2022  Mr L called Aviva to discuss the transfer of his pension. During the call its 
adviser said the transaction could be done through the Origo electronic system. This was 
incorrect because his policy was in draw-down. It notified him by email the same day about 
its mistake and said it had arranged for transfer discharge forms to be sent to him.
27 June 2022  Aviva received a transfer request from Canada Life via Origo.
08 July 2022  Aviva message Canada Life asking it to update the ceding policy reference 
number which had been keyed incorrectly.
14 July 2022  Canada Life corrected the policy reference number and sought confirmation 
that matters could now proceed.
15 July 2022  Canada Life called Aviva for an update.
20 July 2022  There were exchanges between teams at Aviva as they tried to get to the 
bottom of what was happening with the transfer of Mr Ls policy. Because the request had 
been made via Origo this complicated communications and next steps. Given the problems 
being experienced Mr L wanted the fund value frozen until the switch had been completed.
21 July 2022  Mr L called Aviva to complain about the delays hed experienced, highlighting 
the impact on his fund value. The switch was completed the same day. Aviva says it paid 
over about £217,800 (using the fund value from 14 July 2022, when Canada Life had 
corrected the policy information detail) plus around £100 interest.
The basis of Mr Ls complaint to Aviva
Mr L had concerns about what had happened and he raised a complaint with Aviva on 
31July 2022 in the following terms:
The request for transfer was made on Monday 27th June 2022. We know this to be the 
case because Aviva responded to the new provider advising that one digit was incorrect in 
the submission. The policy value on this day was £221,926.
I made several subsequent calls to Aviva about this, my number was taken and a call back" 
by 9.15am tomorrow" was promised. No further communication was received, other than the 
message that I should make the new provider aware that the funds cannot be transferred by 
Origo and without completion of forms. The £217,920 was subsequently transferred by Origo 
and no forms have ever been received.
I have lost £ 4000 through procrastination, incompetence, misinformation and delay.
Avivas response to Mr L
Aviva apologised for its handling of Mr Ls pension transfer and offered him £200 in 
recognition of the things it had got wrong. In its final response letter to him of 22 September 
2022 it said:
I apologise we didn't provide adequate service during your transfer out. You called us on 20 
June 2022 to request information about transferring your policy. We told you incorrectly we 
can facilitate the transfer via the Origo system. We don't offer transfers via the Origo system 
for policies in drawdown.
We received a full transfer request via Origo on 27 June 2022. The receiving provider didn't 
quote the correct policy reference number in the original request. The receiving provider 
updated the Origo system on 14 July 2022 with the correct reference number. We can't 
guarantee the value of the policy when transferring. We need to use the value date of the 
policy when all our requirements are met, which was 14 July 2022 in this case. Although we 
don't transfer policies in drawdown via Origo, we transferred your policy on 22 July 2022. We 
added late payment interest on the transfer of £92.97 to mitigate financial loss because of 
the payment delay.
I apologise for the service we provided during your transfer, and for not giving you call back 
as promised.
I'm sorry your policy's value has gone down recently. I completely understand why you're 
unhappy about this. I realise it must seem like a very sudden and steep drop. This is part of 
how investments like yours work, and Im afraid the drop in value is correct and fair, so we 
cant change what's happened. Your policy's value can change at any time, without notice. 
Your policy was invested in the Aviva Managed fund. The fund performance is directly linked 
to the market performance, which results in the value changing daily....
The Investigators findings and conclusions
Mr L didnt accept Avivas response and brought his complaint to this Service. An 
Investigator considered his case but didnt uphold it. She thought there was never any 
guarantee associated with the transfer value of his pension plan. She thought Aviva had 
done enough to put right the things it had got wrong. Mr L disagreed. He thought Aviva 
hadnt provided proper compensation for what had happened.
As both parties couldnt agree with the Investigators findings and conclusions, Mr Ls 
complaint was passed to me to review afresh. I issued my provisional decision last month. 
Ive considered the final submissions received but these havent caused me to depart from 
my initial findings and conclusions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about the events complained about and gaps in what 
we know, my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of 
probabilities, whats most likely to have happened.Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr Ls complaint. Ill explain why.
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by Aviva for Mr L. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for businesses, 
which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA 
Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms. As such, I need to 
have regard to them in deciding Mr Ls complaint.
My next step would usually be to review the terms and conditions of Mr Ls pension plan with 
Aviva, specifically with regard to how it would handle client instructions for transfers and 
timeframes (service levels). Aviva hasnt provided such.
I think its useful to understand what service levels firms should be aiming for when switches 
take place between providers. In this regard the sector best practice issued by the Transfers 
and Re-registration Industry Group (TRIG); whose membership included several trade 
bodies is instructive. In 2018 it published an Industry-wide framework for improving transfers 
and re-registrations. It noted:
When moving investments, assets and entitlements between institutions, people have a 
legitimate right to expect the industry to execute their instructions in a timely and efficient 
manner. Furthermore, customers service expectations are increasing due to the relative 
simplicity of switching in other markets. Slow transfers can cause detriment to customers; 
and the actions of one party can reduce the efficiency of all parties in the chain.
In this publication TRIG established what it considered to be reasonable timeframes for firms 
to adhere to for transactions like those being performed for Mr L. At paragraphs 30-32 the 
best practice guide said:
The TRIG believes that organisations should adopt a maximum standard of two full 
business days for completing each of their own steps in all transfer and re-registration 
processes within the scope of this Framework, with the exception of pension cash 
transfers
This approach would enable each counterparty in a process to be equally accountable for 
ensuring that an efficient transfer and reregistration process is in place. Similarly, 
organisations will not be accountable for the underperformance of counterparties that are 
outside of their control.
This window would comprise two full business days, with a business day defined as a day 
when the London Stock Exchange is open. Each firm would process its step by 2359 of the second business day following the day of receipt. This means that, in practice, some firms 
might have more than 48 hours to process their step, e.g. if they received an instruction at 
0900 on day one, and did not complete their step until 2300 on day 3.
It is also important to note that TRIG understood the need for some flexibility. At paragraph 
34 of its publication it said:
There will be some circumstances where it is not possible to complete a step in this 
timescale. No exemptions from the standard apply as tasks should still be undertaken as 
quickly as possible but for specified reasons, counterparties could be allowed to stop the 
clock on a particular step. Where this stop the clock legitimately occurs, this should not be 
cited as a reason for causing unnecessary delays or maintaining inefficient practices. 
Circumstances where this practice might be appropriate will be very limited and we expect 
their use to be measured and monitored.
While TRIG noted the importance of using electronic means, it also acknowledged that 
certain elements of certain transactions would continue to require manual processes. Where 
postal services were involved it indicated that the timeframe for each step would require at 
least one extra day.
In responding to a request from this Service for further information about its approach to the 
transfer of Mr Ls pension, Aviva said:
the [transfer] was not done via Origo. We were able to take the information for the 
transfer from the received Origo request, but were unable to complete the transfer via Origo. 
This was received 27 June, and finally updated by the receiving scheme with the correct 
ceding reference 14 July. Therefore we used the correct price date of 14 July 2022 which 
was when the final requirement was met.
The physical transfer happened 21 July as the amount had to go through 2 levels of checks 
due to its size. We paid interest at 1%+base rate which is our standard. No loss assessment 
was done because no delays were apparent. We received the transfer request via Origo 
(which would have been quicker than by post which would have required documents being 
sent between us, the customer and new provider and back again and then on to us) and 
because we couldnt facilitate via Origo didnt cause any delays.
It took the customer 5 business days to get the receiving scheme to send an Origo request 
which was not complete. It then took the receiving scheme a further 5 business days to 
correct this  at which point the fund was in effect frozen as this was the price point used. 
Between this we took 9 business days to request the correct information. So a total of 19 
business days in total.
We dont deem 5 business days as a delay in making the payment (14 to 21 July) as we 
used the correct price date and paid interest.
Avivas position then is that if Mr L had been required to follow its normal paper based 
process for drawdown arrangements, where his transfer documents wouldve passed 
between it, Mr L and then on to Canada Life, and back through the same chain, this 
wouldve taken longer than what actually happened in his circumstances.
If I assume 3 working days for each leg of that process, which is tight, and assuming the 
forms had been sent to Mr L on 20 June, then I arrive at 13 July 2022. Aviva transferred Mr 
Ls funds at its value on 14 July 2022.
Mr L says he never received nor completed any transfer documentation. So his position is 
the transfer must have happened via Origo. As such he points to the significant delay 
between when Aviva received the switch instruction from Canada Life via that system on 27 June 2022 and his funds were passed across on 21 July 2022. He says during that period 
the value of his funds fell by £4,000.
I understand Mr Ls argument, but I have to consider that:
- Although he was mis-informed on 20 June 2022 the Origo system could be used for 
his transfer, he was informed later the same day this wouldnt be possible because 
his pension was in drawdown.
- Aviva says the switch didnt happen using the Origo system, but that because of the 
problems it had created it found a way internally to effect the transfer by using 
information provided through the system. It could be said to have found a work-
around that avoided further delay to Mr L.
- Aviva wasnt responsible for all stages of the end-to-end process, its important to 
consider the role of other parties in the transfer.
- Im mindful that although Mr Ls Aviva funds suffered a loss over the period, 
assuming his investment strategy was broadly similar to his new arrangement with 
Canada Life, then its possible hed have experienced the same market movements.
- Aviva did accept responsibility for failings in its handling. It accepted it had all the 
necessary details to have effected the switch of his pension on 14 July 2022, so the 
transfer value was taken at that point. To this it added interest at 1% above the Bank 
of England base rate for the period of delay in getting his funds to the new provider. 
And it offered him £200 for the trouble and upset it had caused him.
Having considered these matters in the round, I do think Aviva needs to go a little further in 
rectifying Mr Ls position. I say this because it acknowledges it took 9 days from receipt of 
Canada Lifes switch instruction in Origo on 27 June 2022 until 8 July 2022 for it to note the 
incorrect policy details and to request correction.
So, I think its reasonable to assume Aviva shouldve picked up on Canada Lifes Origo 
instruction more quickly, say by 30 June 2022, or 6 working days earlier. It couldve then put 
in train the actions which followed. As such Ive concluded that a reasonable notional date 
for when Mr Ls Aviva pension shouldve transferred to Canada Life is 6 July 2022.
Putting things right
Im upholding Mr Ls complaint, so he needs to be returned to the position hed have been in 
now, or as close to that as reasonably possible, had it not been for Avivas failings.
Redress isnt always a scientific matter. I understand Mr L would like to be paid the £4,000 
he says hes lost as a result of Avivas actions. But I remain of the view the framework Ive 
set out below is fair and reasonable.
Financial loss calculation required
I require Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to assess what Mr Ls notional position would be 
now had it provided a more effective service. In doing so it should assume his pension 
transfer completed on 6 July 2022. This is value A.
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited should then assess Mr Ls position as it stands, for the 
relevant funds within the scope of this dispute, so making adjustments for any additional 
contributions or withdrawal of monies that hes made, so as to arrive at a like for like 
comparison. This is value B.If value A is greater than value B, Mr L has suffered a financial loss. Aviva Life & Pensions 
UK Limited will be required to make good this sum, less any redress it has already paid. It 
will need to do so within 28 days of being notified that Mr L has accepted my final decision 
After this it will need to add 8% simple annual interest on the outstanding sum.
If value B is greater than value A, Mr L hasnt suffered a financial loss and Aviva Life & 
Pensions UK Limited will just need to give effect to my provisions for distress and 
inconvenience (as set out below).
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited should provide Mr L with a breakdown of the redress 
calculations in a clear and simple format.
Distress and inconvenience
When Im considering a complaint like Mr Ls I think about whether its fair to award 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. This isnt intended to fine or punish a 
business  which is the job of the regulator. But when somethings gone wrong, recognition 
of the emotional and practical impact can make a real difference.
Were all inconvenienced at times in our day-to-day lives  and in our dealings with other 
people, businesses and organisations. When thinking about compensation, I need to decide 
that the impact of a firms actions was greater than just a minor inconvenience or upset. Its 
clear to me that this was the case here.
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited accepted it got things wrong for Mr L and that its failings 
had caused him trouble and upset, such as the worry about the impact on his pension fund. 
It offered him £200 for this. I think that award is fair and it should honour that payment if it 
hasnt done so already.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined, Im upholding Mr Ls complaint. I now require Aviva Life & 
Pensions UK to put things right in the way Ive directed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 May 2023. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman