DRN-2889731
The complaint
Mr P complains about the service he received from HSBC UK Bank Plc. Hes unhappy with 
the service he received when he asked HSBC to process a chargeback for an item that he 
purchased and then returned.
What happened
Mr P purchased an air cooler through an online retailer using his HSBC Mastercard. The 
cooler cost £154.99 and Mr P ordered it on 13 June 2020. The cooler was delivered but Mr P 
says it wasnt as described and he didnt think it was suitable for his needs, so he returned 
the cooler for a full refund. Mr P experienced problems getting a refund from the retailer, so 
he contacted HSBC to see whether he could seek reimbursement under the chargeback 
scheme. He told us:
he raised a chargeback claim with HSBC in June 2020 because the retailer hadnt 
refunded him;
the bank didnt respond to his claim and it didnt give him his money back;
HSBC apologised for the delays he was experiencing, and it paid him some 
compensation;
hes still waiting for a resolution from the bank, and hes been unable to speak with 
anyone at HSBC because each time he telephones, the call doesnt connect;
he wants his money back and he says HSBC should pay him more compensation for 
the further delays hes experienced and the poor service hes been given.
 
HSBC rejected this complaint. Although it acknowledged the poor service Mr P had been 
given, it said the £50 it had paid towards the cost of Mr Ps telephone calls together with the 
£150 it had given him in compensation was fair in the circumstances and it wouldnt pay any 
additional compensation. And it confirmed that it had refunded Mr P the disputed transaction 
in full on 5 October 2020.
HSBC told us that the pandemic has caused many problems and that at the time Mr P made 
his claim  June 2020  there were unprecedented times and delays for materials, goods 
and services. It said that the number of claims and disputes had increased exceptionally, 
and this wasnt something that was in its control.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said he didnt think it should be upheld. He 
explained hed considered whether HSBC couldve done more to resolve things sooner. He 
acknowledged the poor service Mr P had received and the delays with the investigation into 
his chargeback claim, but he thought the £200 paid by HSBC was suitable compensation in 
all the circumstances of this complaint and he didnt think the bank needed to do anything 
more.
Mr P disagrees so the complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything very carefully, Ive reached the same conclusion as our 
investigator and I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
In this particular complaint, Im only looking at the delays and the associated level of service 
that Mr P received from HSBC. This is because although Mr P disputed a payment totalling 
£154.99 that was charged to his account on 13 June 2020, both parties have now confirmed 
that the full amount was credited back to Mr Ps account on 5 October 2020.
It might be helpful if I explain that in some cases, a bank may be able to request a refund 
from the supplier through the chargeback scheme. This is a way in which payment 
settlement disputes are resolved between card holders and suppliers/merchants. They are 
dealt with under the relevant card scheme rules and in this case thats Mastercards.
In certain circumstances the process provides a way for HSBC to ask for a payment Mr P 
made to be refunded. Those circumstances include where goods or services arent supplied 
by the company Mr P paid or they werent as described by the supplier.
Theres no obligation for a card issuer to raise a chargeback when a consumer asks for one.
But I would consider it good practice for a chargeback to be attempted where the right exists
and there is reasonable chance of success.
In this case, it appears that the goods supplied and paid for werent as described by the 
supplier. And in normal circumstances, it would seem reasonable to expect HSBC to raise a 
chargeback for him, as Im satisfied that this scenario is one that is covered within 
Mastercards chargeback rules.
Its not unusual for a chargeback to take some time to process. It can take time for a bank to 
gather the correct and necessary information needed to raise the claim, and the chargeback 
rules also require banks to give suppliers time  usually around a month - to respond to any 
chargeback raised, in case they want to dispute it. Taking this into account, Im satisfied that 
the chargeback appears to have followed the usual processes, even if the time taken and 
the service provided werent at the level they shouldve been.
I dont doubt for a moment that this whole experience was frustrating for Mr P. Hed paid for 
an item that wasnt as described and then been unable to obtain a refund from the retailer. 
But I cant hold HSBC responsible for any of this because the initial problems were caused 
by the retailer, and then compounded by the pandemic. 
I also need to take into account that these werent normal circumstances. It was an 
unprecedented and unusual time for the banks, when Mr P first contacted HSBC, dealing 
with significant numbers of enquires from consumers looking to get money back as the 
global pandemic unfolded. Many of these claims will have brought up issues which were 
relatively novel, and the banks were having to digest new information, rules and guidance at 
a very unusual time. And many firms faced operational challenges during this period.
I appreciate the difficulties that Mr P faced in trying to speak to someone at HSBC and Ive 
noted that HSBC has paid Mr P £50 in recognition of this. And its also paid Mr P a further 
£150 because of the delays and poor service Mr P experienced. And although I wouldve 
expected the bank to identify vulnerable customers who may need more immediate support 
and help, from the information I have, I dont think Mr P fell into this category. So, for the 
reasons Ive given, I think the compensation HSBC has already paid is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of this complaint and I dont think it needs to do anything more.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman