DRN-4394233
The complaint
Ms M complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) blocked her international transfer on 
multiple occasions and hasnt provided her with a clear reason why or assurances that it 
wont happen again. 
What happened
Ms M has explained that she relocated to Ireland from overseas and had retained several 
BoS accounts. In December 2022, she tried to make an international payment to purchase a 
car, but the transaction was declined, and she was told her account had been suspended. 
She called the number given which she says was incorrect and was then transferred to the 
fraud team. She answered the required questions and was told that her access had been 
returned and she could proceed with the payment. However, her second payment attempt 
was also blocked, and she was required to go through the same process of answering 
questions. Unfortunately, Ms Ms third transaction attempt was also blocked. 
Ms M raised a complaint but was returned to the fraud team. She went through numerous 
checks and was told everything was fine but when she tried the payment it was declined. 
Ms M contacted the complaints team saying she wanted the issue resolved. 
BoS issued a final response letter dated 29 December 2022. It upheld Ms Ms complaint and 
offered her a total of £170 to cover the cost of the calls she had made and the distress and 
inconvenience she had been caused. It noted that Ms Ms transaction had been stopped on 
three occasions and said that when a transaction is confirmed as genuine this should 
minimise the risk of it being stopped again but it cannot guarantee that a further security 
check wont take place. 
Ms M said that BoS hadnt addressed her main concern which was that it wasnt able to 
guarantee that she would be able to make her payment. She said her concern is that BoSs 
fraud checks are excessive. Due to the issues she decided to transfer money from her BoS 
account to another account in her name and was able to successfully make the payment 
from there. 
Our investigator thought the apology and compensation provided by BoS in this case was 
reasonable, so they didnt require it to do anything further.
Ms M didnt agree with our investigators view. She said she had never been provided with 
an explanation for the problem and despite several attempts by different staff the issue 
wasnt resolved. She said if BoS dont know why she was repeatedly stopped from making 
the payment it will happen again. She said that while BoS offered her money she didnt 
accept this, and that while it apologised it didnt give an explanation or assurances that this 
wouldnt happen on future transactions. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Ms M is frustrated by the response to her complaint as she hasnt been 
given a specific reason why her payment was blocked on several occasions and BoS hasnt 
been able to guarantee that this wont happen on future transactions. But in considering this 
complaint I have to assess whether BoS did anything wrong and to the extent it didnt 
provide the service it should have what it needs to do to put this right.
Ms M wanted to make an international transaction to pay for a car. The transaction was for a 
large amount and to a new payee. It triggered BoSs fraud alert system and the payment 
was stopped for additional checks. I understand this was inconvenient, but banks are 
required to have fraud detection systems in place, and these are for the benefit of their 
customers. Ms M received a notification that her account had been suspended and she 
should call a number. I note the comment Ms M has made about the number being incorrect, 
but she was then put through to the fraud team. I appreciate she was on the call for 15 
minutes and had to answer several questions but as the transaction had been flagged for 
further checks I do not find that BoS did anything wrong by carrying out the required process 
to ensure the transaction was genuine. Therefore, I do not find that I can say BoS did 
anything wrong when it initially stopped the transaction for further checks.
However, after successfully completing the checks Ms M was told she could continue with 
the transaction, but this was blocked on two further occasions. I understand that Ms M wants 
to know the reasons why the transaction was blocked on these occasions but as the security 
and fraud systems are commercially sensitive, I do not require specific details to be 
provided. I also cannot tell BoS how to operate its security systems or tell it to make 
changes. That said, I think that BoS should take note of the situation with Ms Ms experience 
as in this case its systems prevented her from making a payment on multiple occasions and 
as it couldnt guarantee this wouldnt keep on happening Ms M had to move her money to 
another account to make the payment.
Given the above, I dont find that Ms M was provided with the service she should have been. 
I accept that the first call was reasonable given the initial transaction triggered the fraud 
alert, but she then had to make further calls after she had passed the security questions and 
had been told she could continue with her transaction. Ms M incurred costs because of the 
additional calls and was caused distress and inconvenience by having to make further failed 
transaction attempts before finally making the payment from another account. BoS initially 
offered Ms M £45 to cover the cost of her second call and £50 for the inconvenience she 
was caused. It then offered a further £45 for the call costs and a further £30 for the 
inconvenience. I understand that Ms Ms main concern is not the money, but the action 
taken to prevent this issue arising again, but in this case, I find the compensation offered by 
BoS is reasonable.
In regard to the risk of a future transaction being blocked, BoS cannot guarantee this wont 
happen again and this isnt something I would expect it to be able to do. I understand why 
this is a concern to Ms M and I appreciate that she feels her complaint wasnt resolved as 
she took action to complete the transaction through a different account. But as BoS has 
offered compensation to cover Ms Ms costs and the inconvenience she was caused I find 
this a reasonable resolution. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Bank of Scotland plc isnt required to do anything further in 
resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or reject my decision before 15 November 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman