DRN-2752258
The complaint
Mrs T has complained about her car insurer U K Insurance Limited (UKI) because, in her 
view, it delayed resolving a non-fault claim and didnt sufficiently reimburse increased 
premiums, including not paying interest on the returned sums.
What happened
On 29 March 2018 a named driver on Mrs Ts policy, whilst driving Mrs Ts car, was involved 
in an accident on a roundabout. This was reported to UKI on 30 March 2018, the third-party 
driver allegedly having hit Mrs Ts car in the rear. The third-party insurer (TPI) contacted UKI 
stating that, based on its engineers assessment, the driver of Mrs Ts car had been at fault 
for changing lanes too late. Ultimately the TPI issued court proceedings and on 
24 January 2020 the court found in favour of Mrs T. UKI was notified within days but it was 
April 2020 before UKI amended its records. 
Mrs Ts policy had renewed twice since the accident occurred and before UKIs files were 
amended. The initial price for the 2018 renewal was just £20 more than the year before. But 
when UKI reviewed the ongoing claim that price increased to £762.72. At renewal in 2019 
the premium charged was £797.44. In April 2020 UKI recalculated the premium to reflect the 
now determined, non-fault claim. It said it owed Mrs T a total of £477.12 (£302.40 for 2018 
and £174.72 for 2019).
UKI also told Mrs T it accepted it had caused some delays in amending her records. So it 
said it would pay £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience. Later it told Mrs T that, 
if interest had been added to the refunded premiums, this would only have been due from 
the court date until the date the premiums were amended in April 2020. UKI said that would 
come to just over £10, so the £100 compensation could reasonably be said to fairly cover 
interest as well as inconvenience.
 
Mrs T remained unhappy. She said the refunded premiums werent enough, for example the 
correct price for 2018 was known  and the amount UKI had refunded was short of that. 
Further, if the refund for 2019 was correct, that would mean her premium had otherwise 
increased by around 60% (from under £400 in 2018 to more than £600 in 2019), which she 
felt was unlikely. She said UKI had a duty to pay interest from the date it had taken her 
increased payments, not only from the court date. She felt it had handled the claim badly 
and, if it hadnt, it would have resolved much earlier; either with the TPI accepting liability or 
via the courts.
 
When Mrs T brought her complaint to us our investigator didnt uphold it. He felt it wasnt 
clear what would have happened if UKI had handled the claim differently. He was satisfied 
UKI had reasonably re-calculated the premiums. Given the £100 compensation offered by 
UKI, he wasnt minded to make it pay anything more for either upset or interest. Mrs T 
remained unhappy and her complaint was passed to me for consideration.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
claim handling (including interest and compensation)
From what Ive seen I think its fair to say that UKI didnt handle Mrs Ts claim very well. For 
example, when an engineer completed an assessment of Mrs Ts car in early April 2018, its 
claims handling staff didn't review this. To me it seems that UKI, at best, reacted when 
issues arose that prompted a specific response from it. Otherwise it just left the claim in 
abeyance until the TPI issued court proceedings, at which time UKI acted, via its legal team, 
to defend the claim.
I think UKI failed Mrs T in the way it acted in response to her claim. But the difficulty for 
Mrs T is that I have to think about what would have happened if UK I had handled things 
properly. It isnt unusual for insurers to settle claims on a split liability basis  even when 
their policyholders think this is the wrong or unfair decision. Im mindful that many incidents 
that involve accidents on roundabouts end up being settled on a split liability basis, often 
because what happened comes down to the view of one driver against the other. Im also 
mindful that where there is evidence from two engineers with opposing views on what likely 
happened, that can cause liability to be settled on a split basis too. And here I note the TPIs 
engineer felt the damage showed Mrs Ts named driver was at fault. Generally speaking 
insurers will not want to take the risk of going to court where its less than clear that their 
driver is not at fault.
So here, I think that if UKI had properly assessed the claim, its very possible it wouldve 
thought the best outcome wouldve been one of split liability. Whether the TPI would ever 
have agreed to that though, is doubtful. I say that because although the TPI had the benefit 
of seeing UKIs evidence, such as its engineers report, it still maintained that its driver was 
not at fault and was prepared to take the risk (which ultimately did not pay off for it) of taking 
UKI/Mrs T to court. So I dont think that, if UKI had acted to effectively defend Mrs T in the 
earlier stages of the claim, that would likely have swayed the TPI to fully or evenly partially 
concede the fault issue. Nor do I think it wouldve moved the claims progress on significantly 
towards court. I think there would simply have been more challenges, arguments and 
evidence exchanged in the meantime, until the TPI was satisfied that UKI was not going to 
relent. At which point it seems it would likely always have issued court proceedings. 
I know Mrs T had to pay increased premiums whilst the fault issue was being decided. But 
those increased premiums were reasonably due at the time they were charged. UKI only 
owed the increased amounts to Mrs T once the fault issue was decided at court. Im 
satisfied that UKI would only reasonably be liable to pay interest on the amount it owed 
Mrs T from the date or point it became owed. If I felt that, but for UKIs failures, the claim 
should have resolved earlier, then I might make UKI pay interest from that earlier date. 
Thats because, but for the failure Id found, Mr T should have had the benefit of the 
refunded premiums earlier. But thats not the case here. As Ive said above UKI did fail 
Mrs T, but this did not, in my view, significantly change the course of the claim.
Because UKIs failures didnt significantly change the course of the claim, I cant reasonably 
find it liable for the distress and inconvenience Mrs T suffered due to its prolonged and 
unresolved status. But UKI should have acted sooner following the conclusion of the court 
proceedings to amend Mrs Ts record, including completing the refund of premiums. I accept 
that it was frustrating and inconvenient for Mrs T to again, at this time, have to chase UKI. It 
should have dealt with the matter proactively, and, if it had, this last, but not insignificant 
upset for Mrs T, would have been avoided. 
UKI has paid £100 compensation which it has most recently said to Mrs T covered upset as 
well as interest. I appreciate that this has caused Mrs T some further frustration as it presents as somewhat of a change from an earlier comment made by UKI where it said it 
didnt owe any interest. However, bearing in mind; the fair and reasonable approach taken 
by this service, that the issue at hand is a four month delay for return of a few hundred 
pounds, that Mrs T hasnt suggested this caused her any particular difficulties financially in 
the interim and that the amount of interest in question is only just over £10, I think £100 
compensation for upset as well as interest is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
re-calculated premiums 
I know Mrs T has concerns about the recalculated premiums and the resultant refunds UKI 
made to her. I also know Mrs T is somewhat frustrated about not being able to see or not 
being given by UKI, the detail behind the recalculated premium. Whilst I can understand 
Mrs Ts concerns, pricing of premiums is a very complex task, involving extremely sensitive 
business information. It isnt unusual for an insurer to refuse to share such detail with a 
policyholder and this service will usually support an insurer in this respect. But we do expect 
the insurer to evidence things to us. I can assure Mrs T that UK has done that here and Im 
satisfied that it has recalculated her premium in line with its general pricing strategy. 
I appreciate that my above assurance will leave Mrs T with some questions. Particularly 
regarding the initial renewal price from 2018 not being used as the recalculated price once 
the claim was concluded, and why there was such an increase between the recalculated 
prices for 2018 and 2019. However, its worth noting that the original renewal premium 
quoted in 2018 was likely incorrect; its price suggests it didn't factor in the claim at all. And it 
should have done, which would have increased the premium price. But, as UKIs premium 
calculations is commercially sensitive information I cant offer any specific answer to Mrs T's 
questions about the scale of her premium increases. All I can say is, as above, Im satisfied 
that UKI acted reasonably when it recalculated the premiums and refunded her the 
overpaid amounts.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against U K Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2021.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman