DRN-3281556
The complaint
Mr H and Mr G, as trustees of the P Trust have complained about the performance of its 
investment portfolio and the way it was managed by Rathbone Investment Management 
Limited (Rathbone).
I will refer to Mr G and Mr H as the trustees and P Trust as the trust throughout my 
decision.
What happened
In 2014 Rathbone was appointed to manage the investments within the trust on a 
discretionary basis. The assets of the trust originally derived from another trust that were 
transferred in February 2014.
The investment policy statement for the trust agreed by all parties at the time set out:
That the objective of the investment was to preserve and enhance the real value of 
its investment portfolio.
The trusts specific purpose was to fund rental costs of approximately £10,000 per 
annum and/or to release funds to purchase a property.
The risk profile was to be medium.
The time horizon was indeterminate because at any point it was possible the funds 
would be needed for a property purchase. If however this didnt happen the portfolio 
would need to be invested to meet the investment objectives.
£2,500 was to be paid to the trust bank account as income quarterly.
It was also confirmed in the investment policy statement the trustees had requested the 
portfolio be benchmarked against a specific index  the FTSE WMA Balanced Index
In 2014 the value of the trust was £368,574 and in 2018 when the trustees liquidated the 
investment the realised value was £377,472, with over £50,000 being paid out in income.
The trustees have complained that the poor performance of the portfolio is due to 
Rathbones failure to manage the portfolio effectively and its poor stock picking. The trustees 
have also said the quarterly reports from Rathbone were poor and reported against the 
wrong data. 
When Rathbone looked into the complaint it was satisfied with the service it had provided the 
trust as well as the way in which the portfolio was managed. As the trustees were not happy 
with this response they referred the complaint to this Service where it was assessed by one 
of our investigators. She was of the view the complaint couldnt be upheld. She felt the 
complaint was predominantly about the performance of the portfolio and therefore wasnt 
something this service could investigate. She looked at the suitability of the investment for 
the trust based on the stated needs and objectives and she was satisfied the advice from 
Rathbone was suitable and remained so until liquidation.
The trustees disagreed with the assessment. So the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am not upholding the complaint.
This complaint is really about the poor performance of the portfolio and the cause of this 
being the investment decisions made by Rathbone as the discretionary manager. I am not 
an investment manager and it is not appropriate for me to second guess the decisions an 
investment manager has made and suggest alternative investments the portfolio could have 
been invested in on the basis this would have produced better returns for the portfolio.  
 
It is for the investment manager to decide what the portfolio should be invested in, in 
accordance with the agreed mandate. It is only if the portfolio was invested differently to the 
agreed mandate - in terms of risk or in making investments that have been specifically 
excluded by the mandate for example - that I could find that the business had done 
something wrong. I note the total return of the portfolio over the four and half years it was 
managed by the business was 23.73%, so an average return of 5.27% each year. 
 
I know the trustees have said about the benchmark however, the benchmark is a measure of 
performance and not something the business guaranteed the portfolio would match. And 
while the trustees have queried this and asked if that means that it doesnt matter how bad 
the performance is as against the benchmark even if this was a 100% difference, I can 
assure them that if the difference was that great it could be a possibility that the portfolio had 
not been invested in accordance with the agreed level of risk within the mandate, and this is 
obviously something this Service could consider and make findings on. There isnt a gulf 
between the benchmark and the portfolio performance in this case, however for 
completeness I have considered the suitability and am of the view the investment advice 
was suitable for the trust and in line with its objectives.
As already mentioned, the investment objective was balanced between capital growth and 
income with a risk profile of medium. The objectives of the Charity were to:  preserve 
and enhance the real value of its investment portfolio whilst generating a reasonable level of 
income to allow the charity the ability to finance its short term and long term activities.
The portfolio was to be invested for a period of two years or less with a note to review after 
twelve months. And the risk profile was identified as medium with an investment objective 
of balanced between capital growth and income.
So given the trust needed to receive income from the investment it seems reasonable to me 
for the portfolio to take a medium amount of risk to achieve growth on top of that regular 
income requirement.
Ive also looked at the assets within the portfolio from the start in 2014 which appears to 
have consisted largely of UK and overseas equities and fixed interest bonds. Specifically, 
over 50% was held in UK equities, 18.9% in oversees equities and 23.6% in fixed interest, 
allocated largely to UK bonds. The remainder was held in cash and property funds. In my 
view this represents an investment with medium exposure to risk and so seems to be in line 
with the trusts investment objective. Furthermore, from the annual statements I am satisfied 
that the mix of assets remained at the medium risk level and the portfolio continued to be 
managed in line with the Charitys objectives and level of risk. Rathbone has explained its approach around the portfolios level of protection- the fixed 
interest element would have allowed for income to be payable more easily with the equity 
elements more focused on meeting the trusts growth aims. I am satisfied the portfolio 
appears to be flexible and so it worked towards the potential need for access to the money 
and so it doesnt seem wrong that Rathbone balanced the requirement for income, the 
potential around loan repayments and the aim of purchasing a property.
Overall, Ive not seen anything to suggest the portfolio was unsuitable. The portfolio aimed to 
reach a balance between its requirement for regular income which was immediate and the 
investments needing a good chance of growth, so the capital wasnt eroded. The asset split 
met this with a good mix of investments paying income, balanced well against the funds 
designed to reinvest any dividends that are held for longer-term growth.
I have also looked at the actions of Rathbone in its dealings with the trust and in relation to 
the management of the portfolio.
I am satisfied Rathbone sent quarterly reports to the trust updating it on the value of the 
portfolio regularly compared performance against the benchmark as well and providing long 
term projections. This is sufficient.
I can also see that regular meetings were held where the portfolio was discussed with the 
trustees so I am satisfied they were kept up to date with the performance and any changes 
Rathbone had decided to make to the portfolio. Furthermore, in a meeting note dated May 
2015 it was noted that one of the trustees understood that a fall in value was a risk at this 
stage in the market. So it seems that the trustees were kept informed and understood what 
was happening with portfolio and why.
The portfolio was held during a tricky time for the markets  they were volatile, and the 
portfolio had a significant amount held in fixed interest and alternative investments as well as 
being mostly UK centric. As the Brexit issue was in full swing in this period this effected the 
markets and caused the downturn in the performance of the portfolio. I appreciate that it 
could be argued that Rathbone should have therefore changed the holdings to more 
overseas ones, but no one knew at that point in time how badly and for how long the 
markets would be disrupted. And also, its very unlikely that increasing the amount of 
overseas investments within the trust would have kept the risk level of the portfolio at 
medium  it would have gone higher which would have made it unsuitable.
And its also important to note that the trustees had given instructions at the outset that there 
was an intention for the trust to buy a property so liquidation or at least encashment of funds 
for this purchase would be required at any given moment.
So there were an number of restrictions Rathbone was working under in order to meet the 
objectives of the trust. This naturally would have limited where investments in the trust could 
be made as the need to not lose the money was paramount.
So taking all of this into consideration, I am satisfied with the actions Rathbone took in the 
period of four years it managed the trust portfolio. All a fund manager can do is manage an 
investment based on the information it has at the time and based on its research and 
informed predictions. A fund manager cant tell what is going to happen in the future and 
therefore at times investment advice doesnt lead to increases in value  this doesnt mean 
that unsuitable advice was given. It is simply the nature of investing.
Therefore, I am satisfied the advice given in 2014 and thereafter was largely suitable for and 
in line with the needs and objectives of the trust. While I appreciate the trustees are unhappy with the performance of the portfolio I havent seen anything to suggest Rathbone mis 
managed the investment and I think the performance of the portfolio was down to 
fluctuations in the market during a volatile time, which is a normal part of investing.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mr G as 
trustees of the P Trust to accept or reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman