DRN-3231468
The complaint
Miss I is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC hasnt agreed to refund the money shes lost 
to a scam. 
Whats happened?
Miss I says that she was introduced to an investment broker (the broker) in Spring/Summer 
2016 by a related person that had done some work on her property. That person was aware 
that she was due to receive an inheritance and the connection was suggested to obtain 
investment advice.  
Miss I transferred several amounts to the broker, as set out below, for different trades:
amount date
£20,000 21 November 2016
£2,000 29 November 2016
£5,000 30 April 2017
£4,000 9 August 2017
£50,000 1 November 2017
£2,500 19 December 2018
Miss I has since found out that although the broker was providing her with some small 
returns, her money was never invested. She believes that the returns were part of the 
scam  a way to avoid raising her suspicions and keep her investing more money.
Barclays declined to reimburse Miss I because it felt that this may be a dispute between a 
buyer and a seller. It said, in summary, that:
there is no evidence that a scam has taken place.
there has been an exchange of goods and services because of the returns Miss I 
received.
Miss I knew the broker well, went on holiday with him regularly, and had already 
bought a property through him.
What did our investigator say?
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She was satisfied that Miss I authorised the 
payments, and that Barclays couldnt reasonably have prevented the scam.
Miss Is representative asked for an ombudsmans decision, so the complaint was passed to 
me to decide.
My initial thoughts
I wrote to Barclays and Miss Is representative on 13 September 2021, to explain my initial 
thoughts on this case. Ive set out what I said to them below.
During the course of our investigations, we have established that Miss Is money does not 
appear to have been invested  the broker ran simulator accounts which allowed him to 
trade with fake money, but no real money was ever paid into the accounts. I understand that 
the broker has now been charged for fraud.
So, I dont think theres any question that Miss I has been scammed, and this is not a 
buyer/seller dispute. Having carefully considered all of the evidence weve received; I think 
that Barclays should reimburse Miss I in the circumstances. 
It's common ground that Miss I authorised the relevant transactions. In broad terms, the 
starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments and withdrawals that 
a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment Services Regulations and 
the terms and conditions of the customers account. But as a matter of good industry 
practice, when these events transpired, I consider that Barclays shouldve been taking 
proactive steps to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or out of 
character transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam.
Ive looked at the statements Barclays has provided, and I think the first payment of £20,000 
that Miss I made (the payment) was large and unusual in consideration of her prior account 
activity. Shed made relatively small payments from the account in the months leading up to 
the scam  the highest being £1,806. The day before she made the payment, she received a 
large sum of money into her account (her inheritance I presume). Overall, I think its 
reasonable to expect Barclays to have asked some questions about the payment. But Miss I 
says it didnt, nor did it attempt to educate her about fraud and scams. And Barclays hasnt 
provided any evidence which persuades me otherwise, or satisfies me that if it did, its 
questions went far enough.
Arguably, if Barclays had asked Miss I some basic questions, she wouldve said she was 
making the payment to a broker who she had been in contact with for a number of months 
and she was looking to invest some of her inheritance in line with his advice. She may also 
have said that she had already invested in a holiday home with the same broker  and shed 
visited the country in which the home was located to this end a number of months prior. 
Please note that this is the holiday Barclays has referred to in its reasons for declining a 
refund in this case  Miss I says it was a trip to look at the property and was not a holiday 
between friends, they flew separately and met up at the property briefly. Shes also said that 
the property investment was a scam and the money she paid to the broker was not used to 
purchase the property.So, on the face of it, it might have looked like there was an established relationship or some 
degree of trust between Miss I and the broker. But banks are aware of the prevalence of this 
type of scam and the tactics that fraudsters use to convince their victims to part with their 
money. So, although I wouldnt expect Barclays to interrogate its customers about unusual 
payments, I would expect to see that it had used probing questions to get into the detail and 
test the purpose of the payment. If it had done so or educated Miss I on the right type of 
scam, then it seems likely that she or Barclays would have realised something was amiss 
before it was too late.
I appreciate that Barclays needs to strike a balance in the extent to which it intervenes in 
payments, against the risk of unduly inconveniencing or delaying legitimate payment 
requests. But from what Ive seen, aside from the payment being unusual and out of 
character, there were several red flags that Barclays couldve explored. The payment was 
supposedly for an investment opportunity, but it had been sent with the reference sailing 
boat, at the request of the broker. It doesnt appear that the broker was regulated. And 
Miss Is son has told us that:
the broker was an estate agent claiming he could trade stocks with no proof of any 
investment experience.
Miss I was not provided with any contracts or paperwork for the supposed 
investments.
the payment was transferred to the brokers personal account, not a business 
account.
Miss I has said she wouldve been truthful if shed been asked questions, as she had nothing 
to hide. And from what Ive seen, she was quite taken in by the fraudster and genuinely 
believed he was helping her to invest her money, so I dont doubt that. Overall, I think that if 
Barclays had challenged Miss I about the payment, in an appropriate and sensitive way, in 
order to satisfy itself that she wasnt falling victim to a scam, then its likely the scam 
wouldve been exposed, and Miss I wouldnt have made the payment or any subsequent 
payments to the broker.
I have considered whether Miss I should bear some responsibility by way of contributory 
negligence. It doesnt appear that she took any precautions here, but I dont think thats 
unreasonable in the circumstances. I understand that Miss I was vulnerable at the time, 
having recently lost her mother. And it is clear to me that up to and including the time of 
authorising the payments, she was totally in the dark and simply did not appreciate what she 
was doing or the consequences of her actions. It doesnt appear that Barclays educated her 
on the type of fraud she was falling victim to. Overall, I am satisfied that there was no 
contributory negligence on this occasion. Miss I was a vulnerable layperson  an unwitting 
and blameless victim of a cruel and sophisticated fraudster.
Looking at everything, I think it would be fair and reasonable for Barclays to refund all the 
money Miss I lost to this scam along with 8% simple interest per annum from the dates the 
payments were made to the date of settlement. I also think it would be appropriate for 
Barclays to pay £300 for the trouble and upset Miss I has experienced in this matter. I am 
mindful that her loss was ultimately caused by the callous acts of a fraudster, but I think 
Barclays could have prevented the payments being made and consequently, reduced the 
impact on Miss I.
Responses to my initial thoughts
Neither Miss I nor her representative responded to my correspondence of 13 September 
2021.In summary, Barclays said: 
it still thinks this is a buyer/seller dispute.
the broker returned a total of £9,150 to Miss I, and these arent the actions of a 
scammer.
the evidence demonstrates a relationship between Miss I and the broker.
text messages between Miss I and the broker mention a boat fund, so my comment 
about the payment being sent with the reference sailing boat rather than investment 
opportunity is not relevant.
it appreciates that the broker was not an experienced investor, but why didnt Miss I 
check this and why did she continue to send him large sums of money when she 
hadnt received any investment paperwork.
the broker banks with Barclays and it has no concerns about the beneficiary account, 
nor has it received any other scam reports against the account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I explained on 13 September 2021, I dont think theres any question that Miss I has been 
scammed. I do appreciate that Miss I received some returns. She believes they were 
provided as a ploy to avoid raising her suspicions and keep her investing more money, and I 
dont think this is implausible. But whatever the reason for the returns, Im not persuaded 
that this complaint arises from a dispute between a buyer and a seller. And I still think that 
Barclays should reimburse Miss I in the circumstances.
As Ive previously set out, its common ground that Miss I authorised the payments to the 
broker, and Barclays was expected to process them in line with her instructions. But 
Barclays shouldve been looking out for unusual or out of character transactions. And I think 
the payment was large and unusual in consideration of Miss Is prior account activity. So, its 
reasonable to expect Barclays to have asked some questions about the payment.
Barclays has pointed to an ongoing relationship between the broker and Miss I, and I accept 
that if it had asked Miss I some basic questions about the payment, she may well have given 
answers that suggested she had an established relationship with the broker, or there was 
some degree of trust between them. But, as I have said before, banks are aware of the 
prevalence of investment scams and the tactics that fraudsters use to convince their victims 
to part with their money. So, although I wouldnt expect to see that Barclays had interrogated 
Miss I, I would expect to see that it had asked her probing questions to get into the details 
and test the purpose of the payment. If it had done so and/or educated Miss I on investment 
scams, then it still seems likely that she or Barclays wouldve realised something was amiss 
and the scam would have unravelled.
Setting aside the payments reference of sailing boat, I still think there were several red 
flags that Barclays, with its industry knowledge of this type of scam, can reasonably be 
expected to have picked up on if it had spoken to Miss I about the payment in appropriate 
detail. For example, it doesnt appear that the broker was regulated, and Miss Is 
representative has told us that:
the broker was an estate agent claiming he could trade stocks with no proof of any 
investment experience.
Miss I was not provided with any contracts or paperwork for the supposed 
investments.
the payment was transferred to the brokers personal account, not a business account.
From what Ive seen, I think Miss I was quite taken in by the fraudster. In the circumstances, 
I can understand why she didnt check whether the broker was regulated or challenge him 
when she didnt receive any investment paperwork. However, with its knowledge of 
investment scams, I think that these red flags wouldve become obvious to Barclays, and 
consequently Miss I, if it had questioned her about the payment in an appropriate manner 
and/or sought to educate her on investment scams. 
Overall, I still think that if Barclays had questioned Miss I about the payment, in an 
appropriate and sensitive way, in order to satisfy itself that she wasnt falling victim to a 
scam, then its likely the scam wouldve been exposed, and Miss I wouldnt have made the 
payment or any subsequent payments to the broker. So, I still think it would be fair and 
reasonable for Barclays to refund all the money Miss I has lost to this scam along with 8% 
simple interest per annum from the dates the payments were made to the date of settlement. 
I also still think its fair for Barclays to pay Miss I £300 for the trouble and upset she has 
experienced in this matter, for the reasons I set out on 13 September 2021. 
Barclays has said that it has no concerns about the beneficiary account, and there havent 
been any other scam reports against it. But I dont think this should make a difference to the 
outcome of this case in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct 
Barclays Bank UK PLC to: 
refund all the money that Miss I has lost to this scam along with 8% simple interest 
per annum from the dates the payments were made to the date of settlement*. 
Barclays can deduct any returns Miss I received from the broker from the settlement 
amount. 
Pay Miss I £300 for her trouble and upset.
*If Barclays considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
the interest, it should tell Miss I how much its taken off. It should also give her a certificate 
showing this, if she asks for one, so that she can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2022.
 
Kyley Hanson
Ombudsman