DRN-2830445
The complaint
Mr H complains that National Westminster Bank Plc blocked an online payment, mishandled 
its security questions, and required him to make an unnecessary visit to a branch.
What happened
In August 2020 Mr H made an online payment from his personal NatWest account to his son 
(whose account was also at NatWest). The payment was for £6,500. It appeared to go 
through successfully, but five minutes later NatWests fraud department phoned Mr H and 
asked him some security questions. The call handler was not satisfied with Mr Hs answers, 
and required him to visit a branch of NatWest, which he did the next day. Mr H complains 
that this was unnecessary because he had answered the questions correctly. He says that 
as a result of wasting a day visiting the branch, his company (of which he is the director) was 
unable to carry out any work that day (since the other staff members were on furlough). He 
also complained about the payment being blocked in the first place.
NatWest upheld Mr Hs complaint in part. It agreed that its employee had been unclear or 
inaccurate when asking the security questions, and that the branch visit had taken too long, 
and that some phone calls had been disconnected. For these issues, it paid him £100 
compensation and reimbursed his parking and phone call expenses. But it maintained that 
its call handlers are still entitled to require a customer to attend a branch if they are unsure 
(for whatever reason) about the identity of the person they are speaking to. It said that there 
is a £1,000 limit on payments made online via the mobile phone banking app, and so the 
payment could never have been made that way. It was unable to explain why the payment 
had appeared to have gone through on the app, but confirmed that the payment had never 
debited Mr Hs account.
Being dissatisfied with that response, Mr H brought this complaint to our service. As well as 
the matters described above, he also complained that one of the security questions had 
been about a transaction on his companys business account, rather than the personal 
account the payment he was seeking to make a payment from.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. She thought that the bank had been entitled 
to block the payment and to require Mr H to attend a branch. She thought £100 was fair 
compensation for the poor service he had received. So she did not recommend that NatWest 
do anything else.
Mr H did not accept that opinion. He said the £100 was not enough to reflect the poor 
service hed received, and that the investigator should listen to all of the call recordings. The 
investigator asked for the recordings, but other than one call which had already been 
provided, NatWest was unable to find any other calls. Mr H asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
Before I do that, I must first clarify the extent of my jurisdiction over this case, and who is the 
eligible complainant.
Jurisdiction
When Mr H first brought this complaint to our service, he understood the position to be that 
he was doing so on behalf of his company, since it was his company which had incurred a 
financial loss as a result of him spending a day at the branch instead of at work. This 
complaint has been treated as the companys complaint until now, but I think it should be 
Mr Hs complaint in his own right. That is because this complaint arises from a payment 
which Mr H attempted to make from his own personal account, not from the companys 
business account.
Our jurisdiction is set out in rules made by the Financial Conduct Authority in the FCA 
Handbook. These say that not anyone can bring a complaint about anything. To be eligible 
to complain, a person must bring a complaint which arises from matters relevant to their 
relationship with the respondent.1 In this case, which is about an attempt to make an online 
payment from a NatWest account (and then the events which ensued as a result of that), the 
eligible complainant would be the account holder. Since it was Mr Hs personal account, he 
is the only customer who is eligible to complain about it. His company is also a NatWest 
customer, having a business account with NatWest, but this complaint is not about that 
account, and does not arise from matters relevant to that account. The company therefore 
cannot complain, even if it incurred a financial loss as a result of Mr Hs absence while he 
visited NatWest about his own account.
Mr H is certainly eligible to bring this complaint as a consumer, and so I have treated this as 
his complaint. But this means that I cannot award him or his company compensation for any 
consequential loss the company may have incurred as a result of its director having to visit a 
branch. I only have power to compensate Mr H for the inconvenience he himself has 
experienced.
(I do not think that the position is altered by the fact that one of the security questions Mr H 
was asked in connection with his own account was a question about a transaction on the 
companys account.)
My findings
Since there was a £1,000 limit on online payments, I think NatWest was entitled to block a 
larger payment until further security procedures had been followed, to ensure that the 
payment had definitely been authorised by the account holder, Mr H. This is because banks 
have a duty to protect their customers money. Although NatWests banking app did not 
inform Mr H that the payment had not in fact been made, he was told the true position only 
five minutes later, and so I dont think that he was misinformed for long enough to merit 
compensation for that issue.
I think each bank is entitled to decide for itself what security questions it chooses to ask, and 
I am not going to interfere with that.
1 See paragraph DISP 2.7.6R of the rules, in the chapter entitled Dispute Resolution: Complaints. 
Available online at https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/2/7.htmlI have only been able to listen to one of the call recordings, but it is not in dispute that Mr H 
received poor customer service on the calls. Nor is it in dispute that the branch visit was the 
result of that, or that it lasted longer than it should have. However, I think that £100 is in line 
with the level of compensation I would have awarded for these matters, if the bank had not 
already paid him anything, because it is typical of what our service would usually award.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman