DRN-4317388
The complaint
Ms W complains that Lloyds Bank PLC defaulted her commercial mortgage and appointed 
Law of Property Act receivers to manage the property on her behalf, including collecting rent.
What happened
Ms W has a loan with Lloyds secured over one building divided into several separate units, 
including Ms Ws home, commercial premises, and other units let to residential tenants. 
Although sub-divided, it appears the property is registered under one title entry at the Land 
Registry. Ms W is a sole trader, qualifying as a micro-enterprise under our rules.
The loan was taken out in December 2014. Ms W borrowed around £152,000 over 15 years 
at an interest rate of 4.21% above base rate. In December 2015 she borrowed around a 
further £59,000, again over a term of 15 years, at 4.25% above Bank of England base rate, 
from. Both loans were taken out on a capital repayment basis.
There have been a series of problems with the loans over the years. Lloyds has issued 
defaults on at least two occasions following periods of arrears, and Ms W has made a series 
of complaints about how Lloyds has treated her.
Another ombudsman issued a final decision on Ms Ws earlier complaint, in October 2020. 
He said complaints about how Lloyds had treated Ms W before May 2020 couldnt be 
considered, because Ms W hadnt referred those complaints to us in time. And he said 
Lloydss decision to refuse to allow Ms W to switch from a commercial mortgage to a buy to 
let mortgage was reasonable. That was because the property includes commercial elements 
as well as residential elements, so isnt suitable for a buy to let mortgage, and if the property 
title were to be split the commercial element on its own doesnt generate enough income to 
support a commercial mortgage that could be split off from the residential element. The 
ombudsman said Lloyds had given fair consideration to her application but had acted 
reasonably in declining it. 
In this complaint, I wont be revisiting anything that was considered by the previous 
ombudsman  or that he said we couldnt look at. Instead Ill focus on what has happened 
more recently, leading up to Lloyds decision to default the loans and appoint receivers in 
2023.
During the coronavirus pandemic, Lloyds agreed to convert the loans to interest only to 
assist Ms W. The interest only arrangement came to an end in January 2021. Ms W then 
missed the payments due in February 2021. Lloyds agreed a further period of interest only 
until September 2021.
Ms W again missed payments in October and November 2021, when the loans converted 
back to repayment terms. Lloyds then agreed a further three months on interest only terms, 
until February 2022.
During 2022, Ms W mostly made the payments expected, though not always on time. 
However, the loans remained three months in arrears because of the missed payments in 
February October and November 2021.
Lloyds asked Ms W to bring the loan up to date. It said it was willing to consider further 
arrangements. Ms W made various proposals, but Lloyds didnt agree to them. She asked 
for the loans to be converted to interest only, she asked about splitting the property title and 
re-financing, and she asked about taking further borrowing to develop the property and sell 
off parts of it. She also asked about taking a smaller amount of further borrowing to 
consolidate other debts and give her funds to make payments to these loans. 
Lloyds didnt agree to those proposals. It said it had already given Ms W over 18 months of 
interest only concessions  which was substantially more than it would usually give  and 
extending that wouldnt help bring the debt back under control. It didnt think splitting the 
property title was a viable option, and it wasnt prepared to consider lending Ms W further 
money while these loans were not up to date.
When no agreement could be reached, Lloyds issued final demands and defaulted the 
loans. This means that it brought both loan agreements to an end, and it no longer expected 
Ms W to make monthly payments  instead it now wanted the entire loan balances repaid. It 
also stopped charging interest to prevent the capital balances growing further in the 
meantime.
Over the next few months, Ms W made further complaints about Lloyds. She also made 
additional payments, which she said meant the loan was no longer in arrears.
In May 2023 Lloyds appointed receivers to manage the property and collect the rent. It said it 
was entitled to do so under the loan terms and conditions, because the entire balances were 
outstanding, and Ms W hadnt made proposals to repay.
Ms W complained. She said it wasnt fair that Lloyds appointed receivers. It hadnt followed 
proper procedures, and in any case the loans were no longer in arrears. The receivers were 
requiring her tenants to pay all rent to them, which left her with no income and no ability to 
service her other debts. She wanted the property returned to her and the loans reinstated.
Lloyds said that it had acted properly and fairly. It said that while Ms W had made additional 
payments since the loans had defaulted, that was too late  now that the entire sum was 
due, it was no longer a question of making up missed monthly payments. The extra she had 
paid was used to reduce the outstanding balance, but it would still require Ms W to repay the 
rest. 
Our investigator didnt think Lloyds had acted unfairly, so Ms W asked for an ombudsman to 
review her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of the difficulties Ms W has experienced. Among other things, shes 
explained that she experienced a family bereavement in February this year, and I hope shell 
accept my condolences on her loss.
However, Im afraid I dont think I can fairly uphold her complaint. When Lloyds issued the 
default notices and called in the loans (in January 2023, before her bereavement), Ms W 
was in around three months arrears. Shed been experiencing difficulties with the loans for 
some years  since well before the coronavirus pandemic  and I think it was reasonable for Lloyds to conclude that it had reached the point where there was no more forbearance it 
could offer that didnt risk making things worse.
I appreciate Ms W doesnt agree that the loan was in arrears at this point. But she had 
missed payments in 2021 and 2022, at the end of interest only concessions. And while shed 
kept up with the payments since, payments hadnt always been made on time and the 
missing payments hadnt been made.
Theres been some confusion about the arrears. Thats because Lloyds has at times 
suggested Ms Ws arrears stemmed from missed payments in late 2022. And, as shes 
pointed out, she did in fact make those payments.
That confusion arose because on occasions where Ms W did make her monthly payment but 
made it after the due date, Lloyds treated the payment as missed and added it to the arrears 
at the due date, and then used the payment when it was made to offset the oldest missed 
payment.
For example, as at March 2022 Ms W was three months in arrears. She then missed the 
March 2022 due date, meaning Lloyds then treated the account as being four months in 
arrears. When Ms W made the March 2022 payment a short while after the due date, 
instead of treating it as the March 2022 payment Lloyds treated it as being a contribution to 
the arrears. The net effect was that Ms Ws loans were in the same position  three months 
in arrears  but instead of saying shed missed the February October and November 2021 
payments, Lloyds now said shed cleared the February 2021 arrears and missed the October 
2021, November 2021, and March 2022 payments.
Overall, this didnt make any difference to the position of Ms Ws accounts. She was 
consistently three payments in arrears. But this did lead Lloyds to tell Ms W she had missed 
payments in 2022 when she didnt believe she had  and led her to question whether she 
was in arrears at all.
Ms W also doesnt agree that she missed those payments. Her loan payments were taken 
from a business bank account used solely for servicing the loan  the loan servicing account. 
She says she paid sufficient to cover those payments into the servicing account. However, 
she only paid in enough to cover the interest only payments, but the interest only 
arrangement had come to an end at those times. Although it was later renewed from 
December 2021 to February 2022, at the time of those payments Ms W was required to pay 
the full amount including capital. So when Lloyds tried to take the loan repayments from the 
servicing account, because Ms W had only paid in the interest element, there wasnt enough 
in the account to cover the payments and the payments bounced.
Ms W doesnt think this was fair. She says Lloyds should have continued to treat her as 
being on interest only terms. But Im afraid I dont agree. The interest only arrangement only 
ran up to September. After that it reverted to capital repayment. Lloyds did try to discuss 
next steps with Ms W but wasnt able to. Once it had done so it agreed a further short 
arrangement until February 2022. 
I dont think Lloyds was required to extend the interest only arrangement. Ms W says 
coronavirus was still a wider issue at this time. But that doesnt mean Lloyds wasnt entitled 
to repayment. As it points out, Ms Ws income for servicing this loan was from renting out the 
property, and that continued during the pandemic period. It had already offered a very 
substantial interest only arrangement, and it wasnt unreasonable to want to review Ms Ws 
situation before agreeing to an extension, and to think about how the loan was going to get 
back on track in the long term. Throughout 2022, Lloyds was in discussion with Ms W about her accounts and what could 
be done to bring them back on track. It explained she would need to make up the arrears 
and tried to agree plans for doing so. But Ms W wasnt able to do that, or didnt agree that 
she was in arrears. And her plans for getting things back on track either involved further 
borrowing  which Lloyds wasnt willing to agree  or a further period of interest only.
I think it was reasonable that Lloyds wouldnt agree further borrowing. I dont think increasing 
Ms Ws debts, and the amounts shed have to pay each month, would have helped her 
resolve her problems  especially as at one point she asked for further borrowing to give her 
funds to make the payments on this loan. She also asked for further borrowing to develop 
the property and sell off part of it to repay  but in the circumstances it was reasonable for 
Lloyds to be sceptical about offering substantial extra borrowing to finance a speculative 
plan when Ms W was already struggling to raise enough income from the property to service 
her existing debts.
I also think it was reasonable that Lloyds wouldnt agree to a further period on interest only 
terms. It had already offered around 18 months, a substantial period. By the end of 2022 
there would only be seven years left on the term of one of the loans, and eight years on the 
other. Extending the period on interest only would mean that Ms W would have an ever 
shorter period to repay the remaining capital balance. This would mean higher payments 
once she did resume repaying the capital. So it was reasonable for Lloyds to be concerned 
about whether Ms W would be able to afford to do so once the loan converted back to 
repayment terms. Converting to interest only wasnt a long term solution if Ms Ws income 
from the property simply wasnt enough to service the loans and also support her.
Ms W has referred to the regulators consumer duty, but that doesnt apply here  both 
because these are commercial loans not regulated consumer products, and because in any 
case the consumer duty only applies to things that happened on or after 31 July 2023. And 
in the same way, the governments mortgage charter for residential mortgages doesnt apply 
either.
These are unregulated loans, so there arent specific rules Lloyds had to follow. But I think 
Lloyds did offer Ms W fair and reasonable support. It offered her 18 months on interest only 
terms to give her some breathing space to explore getting things back on track or 
re-financing, and even after that engaged with her for a further year to try and resolve things. 
I can see Ms W did explore re-financing, but was unwilling to go ahead with applications 
because of the fees involved. Lloyds isnt responsible for advice and application fees 
charged by other brokers and lenders  such fees are typical in these types of lending, in my 
experience.
Under the loan terms and conditions, Lloyds was entitled to call in the loans if Ms W was in 
breach  which included missing payments. It was also entitled to appoint receivers, and 
didnt need a court order to do so.
Lloyds noted that Ms W had struggled with these loans for a number of years, and that the 
income from the property wasnt enough to allow her to comfortably service them. It had 
offered Ms W support over several years without her being able to get things back on track. I 
think it reasonably concluded that there werent any further options it could offer, and that it 
needed to bring the loans to an end. And when, five months after it issued the defaults, Ms 
W hadnt made proposals to repay the balances, it reasonably appointed receivers to take 
over the properties and repay the loans. 
Ms W points out that she had made the monthly payments between the default and the 
appointment of receivers. And shed also paid extra to cover the earlier missed payments. 
But as the loans had by then been brought to an end, the monthly payments were no longer due. Lloyds required her to repay the entire balances, and used the payments she did make 
to reduce the debt. It also stopped charging interest to ensure all payments she did make 
were used in that way. Lloyds had cancelled two previous defaults, most recently in 2019, 
when Ms W brought the loans up to date, but it wasnt prepared to do so again this time. I 
think thats fair in all the circumstances.
I cant consider the fairness of the actions the receivers have taken. Although appointed by 
Lloyds, they act as Ms Ws agents in managing the property on her behalf. So any concerns 
she has about the actions of the receivers will need to be raised with them directly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman