DRN-1589012
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Barclays Bank UK Plc unfairly blocked their joint account for 
several months. They say this has caused them financial difficulties and want Barclays to 
allow them access to their account.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M have a joint current account with Barclays. 
In July 2019, Barclays reviewed Mr and Mrs Ms account. Whilst it completed its review it 
blocked the account. This meant Mr and Mrs M couldnt access any money in the account. 
Mr M says he discovered the account was blocked when he tried to pay for a family meal at 
a restaurant and his bank card was declined. He says as a result of the blocks he and his 
wife have had to borrow money from friends and relatives in order to pay bills and meet the 
costs of their everyday living expenses. 
Mr M complained to Barclays. In response, it said its not obliged to enter any discussion 
with Mr M to explain its decision to block the account. And says it acted in accordance with 
its legal and regulatory obligations. Unhappy with this response, and the length of time 
Barclays had blocked their account, Mr M and Mrs M brought their complaint to this service.
Our investigator explained Barclays werent required to provide their reasons for the block of 
the account. He was satisfied Barclays had acted fairly and in line with the terms and 
conditions of the accounts. And that Barclays had followed its legal and regulatory 
obligations when it applied the blocked and reviewed the account. So, he didnt uphold the 
complaint.
Mr M disagreed. Hes still upset that Barclays have not removed the block from the account. 
And didnt tell him how long the review and block would take to complete. Hes explained 
that Barclays actions have caused him and his family inconvenience. He wants Barclays to 
remove the block and allow him access to his funds. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr and Mrs M are upset. Im sorry this experience has been stressful 
for them. But for me to uphold this complaint, I have to think Barclays has done something 
wrong. And in this case, I dont think it has. Ill explain why.
All banks in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their 
legal and regulatory obligations. Banks are also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of 
an existing business relationship. That sometimes means banks need to review and sometimes block customers accounts. Barclays have said that Mr and Mrs Ms account was 
reviewed and blocked to meet these legal requirements.
Having looked at all the available information and circumstances of this particular complaint, 
Im satisfied that the bank was complying with its legal and regulatory obligations when it 
reviewed and blocked the account. So, I cant say it has done anything wrong. The terms 
and conditions of Mr Ms account also permit Barclays to review an account.
The crux of Mr and Mrs Ms complaint is the length of time their account has been blocked. 
And Barclays wont allow them access to the funds in their account. As Ive already 
explained businesses have a legal obligation to comply with various laws and regulations. 
I do accept that Barclays so far has taken a relatively lengthy period of time to review Mr and 
Mrs Ms account. But I do not consider that it would be right for me to conclude it should not 
have taken in excess of any particular or specific timeframe. Because the bank was entitled 
to do what it did in order to comply with its legal and regulatory obligations.   
In summary, I recognise how strongly Mr and Mrs M feel about whats happened, and I dont 
doubt it has been a frustrating and upsetting time for them. But overall, based on the 
evidence Ive seen, I cant say Barclays have acted unreasonably and treated them unfairly 
when it blocked their account. So, I wont be asking Barclays to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2020.
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman