DRN-1354932
 
The complaint
Mrs W complains about the amount she's been asked to pay after cancelling her motor 
insurance policies arranged by Saga Services Limited
What happened
Mrs W held a motor insurance policy arranged by Saga. The policy was to run for a year and 
Mrs W opted to pay for the policy in monthly instalments.
Two months after taking out the policy Mrs W bought a new car. She called Saga the day 
she went to pick it up to add it on to the policy and remove her old car from it. Saga said if 
Mrs W wanted to do this, she'd need to pay a further £400. Mrs W wasn't happy with this. 
She said she expected to pay an admin fee to change her car, but that the £400 quoted 
would make her policy more than double what she agreed to pay when she took it out in 
October.
Saga said it didnt set the price of the policy, the insurer did. It offered to see if was cheaper 
for Mrs W to cancel her policy and set up a new one. It ran the quote and returned a cheaper 
policy with a different insurer - one costing £571.07 for the year. Her existing policy was 
cancelled, and she took out the new policy as she needed to drive her car home that day.
The following day Mrs W called to cancel the new policy she took out because she'd said 
she'd found a cheaper one online. Saga cancelled the policy.
Mrs W complained to Saga. She wasn't happy she was being asked to pay an outstanding 
balance on the two policies she'd taken out with it. She said she shouldn't have to pay 
anything because she cancelled the policies because they were too expensive. She also 
said she was told she could cancel the direct debit on her first policy, so she considered 
payment on it to be up to date.
Saga said it wasn't responsible for the price of the policies as the premiums were set by the 
insurers. It said it offered Mrs W the cheapest policies it could. It said it told Mrs W she could 
cancel the direct debit. But it said any outstanding balance would still need to be paid. It 
agreed to waive the balance of £28 due on the second policy Mrs W took out. But it said the 
balance of £34.26 on her previous, original policy was still due.
Unhappy, Mrs W brought her complaint to us. She thought Saga's practices weren't fair, and 
that she shouldn't be charged anything more on either policy. She also wanted Saga to 
compensate her for the inconvenience.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and she didn't recommend it be upheld. She 
thought the outstanding balance on the first policy was due and all the charges applied were 
in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. She thought Saga had acted reasonably 
by waiving the outstanding balance on the second policy.
Mrs W didn't agree and asked for an ombudsman's decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I'm not upholding Mrs W's complaint. I'll explain why.
This complaint will focus on the actions of Saga. I'm aware Mrs W has complaints with other 
businesses about the price of her policies, but they won't form part of this decision.
Saga doesnt set the premiums for the policies it sells. But it does add on costs to those 
premiums to cover the cost of setting the policies up. It wasnt Sagas decision to charge 
more premium when Mrs W wanted to change her car, it was the insurers. I can't hold Saga 
responsible for the actions of other businesses, and so I can't hold Saga responsible for the 
premiums set by the insurers on the two policies involved. A small part of the increase was 
due to the charges Saga applied to the policies. But Mrs W only paid these charges once, on 
the policy she originally took out.
Im satisfied Saga was acting reasonably when looking to see cancelling if Mrs Ws existing 
policy and setting up a new one for her was better value for money. I've seen the quotes for 
the original policy, the quote for when Mrs W wanted to change the car on it, and the quote 
for the second policy she took out with a different insurer. Im satisfied cancelling the policy 
and taking a new one out with a different insurer represented the best value for money for 
Mrs W based on what Saga could offer her.
I understand Mrs W is unhappy with the cost of her second policy too. But as mentioned 
Saga doesnt set the premium. And ultimately Mrs W was never charged for this policy at all 
- Saga waived the balance completely meaning she had a days free insurance. I cant say 
its caused her detriment or that Saga treated her unfairly. Mrs W was able to find a cheaper 
policy elsewhere, but this doesnt mean Saga treated her unfairly by not being able to offer 
one as cheap.
Ive seen the breakdown of the balance Mrs W owes Saga. This balance relates to the first 
policy Mrs W bought  she didnt change the car on the policy and wasnt charged for the 
second policy. Im satisfied the balance is due. I understand Mrs W says she was told she 
could cancel direct debit when she cancelled the policy. Which indeed she could. But this 
doesnt mean nothing more is due on the policy.
At the time the Mrs W cancelled her policy, more costs were due than shed paid for. These 
costs relate to charges clearly outlined in the policy and agreed to by Mrs W when she took it 
out, including the premium, the set-up fee and additional options Mrs W wanted to take out 
such as a hire car and legal expenses cover. Saga can also charge a cancellation fee but 
hasnt here. Which I cant say is unfair. This means at the time the policy was cancelled, 
Mrs W owed Saga £171.31, but had paid it £137.05. Im satisfied the remaining balance of 
£35.26 is due to Saga.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 August 2020.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman