DRN-2431582
The complaint
  Mr F complains about the way Aviva Insurance Limited has handled claims he made on his
home emergency insurance policy.
What happened
 In August 2019, Aviva replaced Mr Fs boiler under its policy cover for boilers which were
beyond economic repair. Around a month later, Mr F began to experience problems with the
new boiler. Aviva sent out an engineer who diagnosed that a pump had failed, because of a
build-up of a sludge. As Mr F had turned down a full system powerflush when he agreed to
get the new boiler fitted, Aviva said the repair costs werent covered. Mr F wasnt happy
about Avivas decision and he complained.
As Mr F continued to experience issues with the boiler, in November 2019, he asked an
independent engineer to inspect it. The engineer identified that there were issues with the
way the boiler had been installed, which needed to be put right. So Mr F got back in touch
with Aviva so it could rectify the issues.
Avivas engineers came out to carry out the fixes needed on 10 December 2019. However,
while the works were ongoing, Mr Fs boiler shut down and he had no heating or hot water.
Mr F thought it was a result of Avivas engineers re-pressurising his boiler system. Aviva
identified there was a leak in the hot water cylinder which was causing the issues. It
originally told Mr F hed need to pay for it to be replaced.
Mr F complained to Aviva again. He said he and his wife were elderly, with health problems
and theyd been left without heating and hot water. Aviva ultimately agreed to cover the
cylinder at its cost, although it couldnt be certain itd caused the leak. It replaced the cylinder
on 19 December 2019, although it also missed an appointment the day before. Mr F
continued to experience further boiler issues in January 2020, which the manufacturer was
called out to investigate. He said the manufacturer cleared a blocked pipe, which hadnt
been done during the installation.
Aviva acknowledged itd made some mistakes in the handling of Mr Fs claim. It paid Mr F
£600 for the replacement of his boiler, £78 for the cost of his engineers report and £270
compensation. Mr F wasnt happy with Avivas offer and asked us to look into both of his
complaints.
Our investigator didnt think either complaint should be upheld. He thought the evidence
showed Mr F had been offered a powerflush during his boiler quote, but hed turned it down.
And it seemed the pump had failed due to sludge. So he didnt think Aviva was liable for the
cost of the new pump. And having considered the second complaint, the investigator felt the
overall compensation Aviva had paid Mr F was fair and reasonable, taking into account the
cost of replacing the cylinder and the £270 compensation.
Mr F disagreed. He accepted the pump wasnt covered. And he felt itd been reasonable for
Aviva to pay for the cost of the new cylinder and his engineers report. But he didnt think
£270 compensation was enough to recognise the trouble and upset Avivas handling of the
complaint had caused him.
I issued my provisional decision on 9 November 2020. In my provisional decision, I 
explained the reasons why I planned to direct Aviva to pay Mr F total compensation of £450. 
I said:
First, while Ive summarised the background to the complaint, Id like to reassure both 
parties that Ive thought carefully about everything theyve said and provided. As Mr F now 
accepts his first claim for the failed pump isnt covered by the policy terms, Im not going to 
consider this part of his complaint any further. So Ive turned to consider the impact Avivas 
faulty installation of Mr Fs boiler had on him.
Its clear that there have been mistakes in the way Aviva installed Mr Fs boiler and how it
dealt with his subsequent claim. The boiler was installed in August 2019 and Mr F said he
experienced ongoing issues after that, needing to bleed the radiators regularly, hearing
noises and hearing a gurgling sound. Mr F called out his own engineer to look at the likely
cause of the issues. The engineer discovered a number of issues with the way the boiler had
been installed and drew a direct link between some of the noise issues Mr F had identified
and the way the cold feed and expansion pipe had been fitted.
I appreciate Mr F didnt let Aviva know about the ongoing noise issues hed been
experiencing and the fact that he needed to regularly bleed the radiators to deal with an
assumed airlock. But given the issues the engineer identified, I do think its most likely Mr F
was experiencing these issues on a regular basis after the boiler was installed. And that he
was put to some inconvenience in needing to try and avoid airlocks in the system.
Once Mr F sent Aviva the engineers report, it agreed that its engineers would rectify the
issues Mr Fs engineer had identified. I think this was an appropriate response from Aviva
and what Id have expected it to do in the circumstances.
It isnt clear why Mr Fs cylinder developed a leak which led to his boiler failing and providing
no heating or hot water during one of the coldest parts of the year. Its possible it was down
to the age of the cylinder, but the breakdown did happen while Avivas engineers were
carrying out repair works to the boiler. And Aviva accepted it was possible its engineers had
caused the issues. So its difficult for me to decide whether the leak was directly down to
Aviva or not.
Mr F and his wife were left without heating or hot water for a period of around nine days, in
winter, while the work was ongoing. Given their age and health conditions, I dont doubt this
caused Mr F substantial distress and inconvenience. Ive looked closely at Avivas notes and
it seems that a replacement cylinder wasnt ordered until 16 December 2019  several days
after the boiler broke down. It appears the delay was down to Aviva establishing whether it
had been responsible for the damage.
Looking at the policy terms though, leaking hot water cylinders are covered by the policy
terms. So on the face of things, even if Avivas engineers hadnt caused the leak, Aviva was
still liable for the costs of replacing it. This means I think it ought to have dealt with ordering
Mr F a new cylinder at least five days before it did. And that Mr F and his wife were left 
without heating and hot water unnecessarily. Its also clear that Avivas engineers missed an
appointment to fix the cylinder, causing another days delay.
In the round, I dont think the cost of replacing the cylinder should fairly be treated as part of
the compensation, because I think it was covered by the policy. And Im currently persuaded
that given Mr F is vulnerable, Aviva shouldve acted several days quicker than it did to
ensure Mr Fs boiler was working and able to provide heating and hot water during one ofthe coldest months of the year. Ive also taken into account the fact that due to the faulty
initial installation, Mr F likely had to take remedial action to keep the boiler ticking over. So it
seems to me that Mr F has suffered significant trouble and upset as a result of Avivas
actions. I therefore currently think fair total compensation to recognise Avivas mistakes
would be £450. Deducting the £270 Avivas already offered, I plan to direct it to pay Mr F an
additional £180.
I appreciate Mr F has noted other issues he experienced with Aviva during the initial
installation process. Aviva hasnt had a chance to consider any complaint about these
particular issues though, so I cant take them into account here. Mr F also feels that the
manufacturer of the boiler pointed to a blocked condensate pipe causing the issues in
January 2020, which it felt Aviva ought to have fixed. But Mr F hasnt provided Aviva or me
with any evidence from the manufacturer which suggests this was the cause of the issue.
I asked both parties to send me anything else they wanted me to look at.
Mr F provided me with a copy of the manufacturers report, which referred to the condensate 
pipe being unblocked. He said this showed that he and Mrs F had suffered a further six days 
without heating as a result of this issue not being dealt with during the installation. He felt I 
should take this delay into account when reconsidering what compensation would be fair and 
reasonable.
We sent the report onto Aviva for its comments. Aviva said the fault hadnt been present 
when it last attended and it wasnt an installation fault. It was just something thatd 
happened. So it didnt think any further compensation was due.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I think its fair and reasonable for Aviva to pay Mr F total compensation of 
£450 and Ill explain why.
Im grateful to Mr F for sending in the boiler manufacturers report. Id like to reassure him 
that Ive considered it carefully. I agree that it does say blocked condense unblocked. So its 
clear the manufacturer did unblock the condensate pipe as part of their visit and that it may 
have been this that caused the boiler to break down. Ive noted though that the report also 
refers to a heavily rippled heat cell being replaced. So its possible that this was the cause 
of the boiler failure.
Having looked again at the report from Mr Fs independent engineer which had set out the 
original installation issues, I can see hed referred to problems with the condensate pipe. 
However, the engineer didnt suggest the pipe was blocked at this point. He referred to the 
pipe not falling away and rising instead and the fact the connection wasnt suitable. So it 
doesnt seem that the pipe had been identified as being blocked in mid-November 2019, or 
that it was something that Avivas engineers needed to put right following this report. On this 
basis, I think its more likely than not that the blocked pipe wasnt an installation fault and 
likely wasnt present when Avivas engineers attended.
On this basis, I dont think I have enough evidence to safely find that the blocked pipe was 
down to faulty installation, or that Avivas engineers ought to have picked it up sooner. So 
while I sympathise with the additional time Mr F was without heating, I dont have enough to reasonably conclude this was down to a failure on Avivas part. 
Overall, I still think Avivas handling of Mr Fs claims caused him significant distress and 
inconvenience. And I dont think its earlier offer of compensation was enough to recognise 
the impact it had on him. In all the circumstances, Im still satisfied that total compensation of 
£450, less any amounts Avivas already paid is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold Mr Fs complaint.
I direct Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Mr F total compensation of £450.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman