DRN-4418480
The complaint
Miss W is complaining about Moneybarn No.1 Limited (Moneybarn).  She says they 
shouldnt have lent to her as the loan was unaffordable. Miss Ws complaint was brought to 
our service by a representative but for ease Ive written as if weve dealt directly with her. 
What happened
In September 2020, Miss W took out a conditional loan agreement with Moneybarn to 
finance the purchase of a car. She paid a deposit of £706 and borrowed £7,289 - the cash 
price of the vehicle was £7,995. The agreement required her to make 39 monthly 
repayments of £299.09. Her direct debit payments often bounced but she made up the 
payments by card and her account was up to date at the time of her complaint. 
In December 2022, Miss W complained to Moneybarn, saying they shouldnt have lent to her 
because the loans were unaffordable and contributed to her debt spiral.
In their response, Moneybarn said that before lending to Miss W theyd conducted a full 
credit search and also verified Miss Ws monthly income by reviewing the documentation 
shed provided. Moneybarn added that they used data from the Office for National Statistics 
(ONS) to estimate Miss Ws level of non-discretionary expenditure. They said Miss Ws 
credit file showed her borrowing levels were moderate and her most recent default had been 
entered 54 months prior to her application. So they werent concerned about Miss Ws credit 
history and assessed her net disposable income at around £685 per month. Overall they 
were satisfied theyd done enough checks and the agreement was affordable for Miss W. 
Miss W remained unhappy so she brought her complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it, saying that although he thought 
Moneybarn hadnt completed proportionate checks, theyd have likely decided the 
agreement was affordable for Miss W if they had.
Miss W disagreed, saying Moneybarn had provided factually incorrect information about her 
employment status, didnt do any proper checks, and therefore acted irresponsibly in lending 
to her. She asked for a decision and the complaints come to me. Miss W also commented 
that shed ended up with a different car and with different monthly repayments to what shed 
wanted  but Miss W would have to take that up with Moneybarn or the car dealer separately 
as a new complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Miss Ws complaint for broadly the same reasons as our 
investigator. Ill explain why below.
In response to our investigators view, Miss Ws representative agreed that her bank 
statements show the loan was affordable  but their issue is with the false information on 
Moneybarns final response letter, and the fact that the checks dont appear to have actually 
taken place. When Im considering a complaint, I have to think about what position the 
customer would be in if a business hadnt done anything wrong. So, even if I found 
Moneybarn had done no checks at all to see whether the loan was affordable for Miss W, I 
wouldnt be able to uphold her complaint if I think the checks they should have done would 
have shown the loan was affordable. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out in a part of its handbook known as CONC 
what lenders must do when deciding whether or not to lend to a consumer. In summary, a 
firm must consider a customers ability to make repayments under the agreement without 
having to borrow further to meet repayments or default on other obligations, and without the 
repayments having a significant adverse impact on the customers financial situation. 
CONC says a firm must carry out checks which are proportionate to the individual 
circumstances of each case. 
Did Moneybarn carry out proportionate checks?
Moneybarn said they conducted a full credit search and checked Miss Ws income. They 
also said theyd used ONS data to estimate Miss Ws expenditure. Moneybarn noted Miss W 
was employed. Its not clear where that information came from  theyd obtained proof of 
income at the time of the loan which showed the level of benefits Miss W was receiving and 
no evidence of employment. 
Moneybarn havent sent us a copy of the credit report they used file so I looked at the credit 
report Miss W sent. This showed she was using several high-cost credit providers at the time 
of the lending  and some of these had been taken out recently. So Miss W was 
unemployed and reliant on benefits and was using high-cost credit. Both of these are 
indicators that her spending was unlikely to be in line with ONS data  and on that basis Im 
not satisfied Moneybarn did proportionate checks, I think they needed to take additional 
steps to understand Miss Ws expenditure. 
If Moneybarn had done proportionate checks in September 2020, what would they have 
found?
Proportionate checks would have involved Moneybarn finding out more about Miss Ws 
income and expenditure to determine whether shed be able to make the repayments in a 
sustainable way.
Ive looked at statements for Miss Ws main bank account for the three months leading up to 
her application to Moneybarn. In the absence of any other information, bank statements 
provide a good indication of Miss Ws income and expenditure at the time the lending 
decision was made.
Having done so, I can see Miss Ws income averaged nearly £4,000 per month. She was 
making payments totalling around £375 per month for rent, council tax, water and energy. 
Her TV, internet and phone services cost her around £210 per month. She was spending 
around £150 per month on car insurance and £38 per month on pet insurance, as well as 
£28 per month on road tax. Her other regular payments were all finance payments  some of 
these for rent-to-own goods and some repaying debts. The total of these was around £1,000 
per month. So her regular committed expenditure totalled around £1,800 per month. Once 
the repayments for this new loan agreement were added on, Miss Ws total regular 
expenditure would be expected to be around £2,100 per month. With income of around 
£4,000 per month, this left around £1,900 for food and other essentials  so I cant say the 
loan was unaffordable for Miss W.In summary, even though I dont think Moneybarn carried out proportionate checks, and I 
havent seen evidence to support some of the contents of their final response letter, I cant 
say that they shouldnt have lent to Miss W. It follows that Im not upholding Miss Ws 
complaint.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding Miss Ws complaint about Moneybarn No. 1 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman