DRN-4199940
The complaint
Mr G complains that when his laptop needed a new battery and was sent to Domestic & 
General Insurance Plc for a replacement to be fitted, they didnt replace the battery and he 
believes they compromised the security of his device.
He incurred costs having his laptop fixed and wants D&G to cover these.
What happened
Mr G had insurance for his laptop with D&G. In October 2022 the battery on his laptop was 
losing charge within an hour, so he contacted D&G to arrange for the battery to be replaced. 
Hes told us that his laptop was collected on 22 October 2022 and returned on 26 October 
2022. But he believes the battery wasnt replaced, as the supposedly new battery still lost its 
charge within an hour.
When the laptop was returned Mr G says his email account had been compromised, as 
emails kept disappearing, and he believes this was due to something done to the laptop by 
D&G.
Mr G arranged for an engineer to replace his laptops battery and carry out a deep clean to 
remove viruses and malware. The engineer confirmed to him that the battery in the laptop 
was the original one, fitted when the device was manufactured, and he found it was covered 
in a layer of dust. So he was sure it hadnt been replaced by D&G.
Mr G raised a complaint with D&G which wasnt upheld. They told him that their engineers 
report confirmed that the old battery in his laptop was replaced with a new one and the 
engineer didnt interfere with the laptops software. They also said that the problem with his 
emails wasnt related to the repair. And as the laptop hadnt been assessed since Mr G 
reported it wasnt in good working order, they couldnt uphold his complaint. Mr G was asked 
to contact D&G so they could schedule a further repair.
After receiving their final response letter Mr G contacted D&G to dispute what theyd said 
about the repair, and to say he wasnt prepared to return his laptop to their engineers for 
assessment due to the condition it was returned to him in. And on 24 November 2022 D&G 
have told us they received a letter from Mr G asking them to cancel his insurance, which 
they did.
Mr G then complained to our service. 
D&G have told us that they asked Mr G to contact them so they could arrange a further 
repair of his laptop. But they didnt hear from him. And that if a part had become faulty after 
installation, they have a 30-day part guarantee. Theyd spoken to their repair agents whod 
confirmed that they hadnt touched the software on Mr Gs laptop, and as hed not provided 
any evidence to them, this wasnt something they could comment on further. 
Mr G provided evidence to our investigator that the battery in his laptop, which D&G said 
theyd replaced, was date stamped 11/2017. Our investigator asked D&G for their comments 
on this. In response D&G said that as Mr G purchased his laptop in 2017, parts for it would 
also have been manufactured in 2017. So they said the date stamp on the battery didnt 
mean in hadnt been replaced.
Our investigator also sent D&G a copy of the invoice for the work Mr Gs engineer carried 
out. They said this didnt provide a breakdown of the cost of the replacement battery. And 
that Mr Gs plan only covered electrical and mechanical breakdown. So the deep scan, 
service and maintenance carried out by his engineer wouldnt be covered.
Our investigator considered the case and said that as Mr G had provided a photo showing 
the battery after the repair, covered in dust, he was satisfied that it hadnt been replaced by 
D&G. D&G had asked Mr G to return the laptop so they could investigate and resolve the 
issue. But Mr G wouldnt do this as he thought his email had been hacked during the repair 
process, so he had security concerns.
While he said he understood Mr Gs concerns and why he didnt want to return his laptop, 
our investigator felt D&G should have had the opportunity to assess the repair and take 
remedial steps if required. And he wasnt convinced that D&G were responsible for the 
issues with Mr Gs emails, so he didnt think it was fair to ask them to pay for the 
independent repairs.
But as he felt D&G had provided poor service, by not replacing the laptops battery during 
the repair, he partially upheld the complaint and recommended D&G pay Mr G £100 
compensation.
Mr G didnt accept our investigators opinion. Hes provided a brief report from his engineer 
summarising the work he did on the laptop. This confirms that when examining the laptop he 
found a faulty, slightly swollen old battery. There was dust on the battery and it was tightly 
plugged on its socket. There was no evidence that it had been recently replaced. There was 
a power surge on the motherboard which required components to be repaired.
The engineer carried out a deep scan of the laptops software and found viruses and 
malware. And the operating system was unstable and crashing.
Mr G doesnt accept that it was reasonable to say he should have returned his laptop to 
D&G for them to assess the repair and take further action if required. Hes provided copies of 
poor online reviews of D&Gs repairers and says he had no confidence in their ability to 
competently complete the repair.  
And Mr G believes that D&Gs repairers could have disabled his laptops antivirus and 
malware protection leaving it vulnerable to the viruses and malware his engineer found. D&G 
had asked for Mr Gs password so that they could check it was working after it was repaired. 
As they were only replacing a battery he doesnt think they needed this and says they 
havent explained why it was required.
D&G were sent a copy of the engineers report. Having considered this they confirmed they 
were prepared to accept our investigators opinion and pay Mr G £100 compensation for 
poor service, but they werent prepared to cover his engineers costs.
The case has now come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Gs policy with D&G covered him for accidental damage and mechanical or electrical 
breakdowns. For repairs to laptops or similar products the policy requires that all blocks are 
removed from the device before its sent for repair. So Im satisfied that this is the reason 
D&G asked for Mr Gs password, to enable them to access his laptop and ensure it was 
working correctly after the repair.
A lot of the additional information and comments Mr G has provided for me to consider 
relates to the battery in his laptop. Im not going to go through every document or comment 
hes provided. Im just going to say that based on what hes told us, and the comments from 
his engineer, Im satisfied that D&G didnt replace the battery in his laptop when it was sent 
to them for repair in October 2022.
So when Mr G advised them that the fault with the battery was still present, was it 
reasonable for D&G to ask him to return the laptop to be assessed? Mr G says it wasnt 
because theyll lied to him about the work having been done, hed seen very poor online 
reviews about the quality of the repairs they carried out, and he believes theyd hacked his 
emails, or removed his antivirus and malware protection to enable someone else to do this.
I can understand why Mr G is unhappy that D&G told him theyd replaced his laptops battery 
when they hadnt. While hes concerned about the online reviews about the quality of repairs 
carried out by D&Gs repairers, I can only consider the evidence that relates to this case. 
And I have to bear in mind that as hes unhappy with the service he received, hes sent us 
details of the negative reviews hes found.
D&G have told us and Mr G that they didnt touch the software on his laptop. And although 
his engineer has said that he carried out a deep scan and found viruses and malware, he 
hasnt offered any opinion on how the viruses and malware found their way onto the laptop. 
So regardless of Mr Gs opinion theres no evidence that D&G did anything to the software 
on his laptop. 
So on balance I think it was reasonable for D&G to ask Mr G to return the laptop to them to 
enable them to assess the repair. I cant say what would have happened had he done so, 
but I would hope this matter could have been resolved at that stage.
Mr G chose not to return his laptop, so I dont think it would be reasonable to ask D&G to 
cover the cost of replacing the faulty battery. His policy doesnt cover his computer software 
and even if it did theres no evidence that D&G did anything to impact his software.
But by not replacing Mr Gs battery when this was the repair that was required, and by telling 
him it had been replaced D&G provided him with poor service. And taking everything into 
account I think the appropriate level of compensation for this is £100.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I partially uphold Mr Gs complaint about Domestic & General 
Insurance Plc.
And to put things right I require them to pay him £100 compensation for the poor level of 
service he received when they were dealing with his claim.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman