DRN-2885990
The complaint
Miss D has complained that TSB Bank plc wont refund her for disputed transactions she 
didnt make or authorise.
What happened
Miss D had a current account with TSB.  Between November 2019 and May 2020, a series 
of transactions were made to three gambling websites, Ill call C, S and P.
 
On 28 May 2020, Miss D told TSB that she hadnt made any of the payments to the 
gambling sites. She said she hadnt alerted the bank sooner because she didnt have access 
to online banking. And hadnt received her bank statements, so she wasnt aware of the 
payments being made from her account. She said she only discovered the payments when 
she used her bank card and discovered she had no money left in her account. 
Miss D explained that she didnt have accounts with C, S or P and only had access to the 
internet at her home address. So, she cant understand how the payments were made. She 
also said that shed had a number of replacement cards issued by the bank and hadnt 
received all of them. So, she believes someone had managed to get hold of her account 
information to use on the gambling websites from one of the missing cards. 
TSB looked into Miss Ds fraud claim and decided not to refund the disputed transactions. In 
summary the bank said:
It had contacted the gambling websites, C, S and P and the details matched Miss D
Miss D had asked to receive postal statements and they had been sent to Miss Ds 
address each month
The IP address used to make the disputed transactions matched undisputed 
transactions Miss D had made from her account
The bank had sent Miss D a replacement bank card in October 2018 and Miss D 
hadnt told the bank she hadnt received the card. And based on her account activity 
shed been using the bank card regularly for undisputed transactions
Miss D wasnt happy with the banks response. She said shes never had any accounts with 
the gambling websites. And the bank sent out four replacement cards on her account, so 
shes not sure which one was used to make the transactions. 
 
One of our investigators looked into Miss Ds complaint. She asked Miss D some more 
questions about what had happened. Miss D explained that she didnt have a mobile phone 
at the time the disputed transactions were made, and she believes someone else opened an 
account with the gambling websites using her details. She said she was expecting a large 
payment into her account and discovered the transactions when she checked her account 
balance for the payment. 
The investigator didnt uphold Miss Ds complaint. She said it was unlikely that a fraudster 
would set up gambling accounts in Miss Ds name. She also said Miss D had received a 
credit into her account in May 2020 from C, which she hadnt disputed and had made 
undisputed transactions from the same IP address used to make the disputed ones. So, she 
said Miss D had most likely authorised the disputed transactions. 
Miss D disagreed with what the investigator said. She said she didnt carry out the 
transactions and TSB should have been checking her account and stopped the transactions 
from being made. She explained that because of the transactions she was left without 
enough money to pay for food and bills. And her mental health had suffered. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator wrote a detailed view that sets out the full facts, the disputed transactions, 
the relevant regulations and the evidence. Both Miss D and TSB have read the investigators 
view. So, I wont repeat every detail here, only those which form the basis of my decision. 
However, I can assure Miss D that Ive read the file, including her comments and evidence. 
Generally speaking, if the evidence suggests its more likely than not that Miss D authorised 
the payments, TSB is entitled to hold her liable for the disputed transactions. The relevant 
regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs 2017). 
Having reviewed TSBs technical evidence, Im satisfied that Miss Ds card details were used 
to make the disputed transactions and that they were authenticated. But, the regulations 
relevant to this case say that this is not on its own enough to enable TSB to hold Miss D 
liable for them. So, I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests that its more 
likely than not that Miss D consented to the transactions being made. 
Having looked at all the evidence, I dont think its unreasonable for TSB to have concluded 
that Miss D authorised the transactions. I say this because:
the disputed transactions were made to gambling websites with C, S and P. TSB has 
provided evidence that they contacted the providers and the accounts set up with C 
are registered in Miss Ds name  with nearly all the personal details matching Miss 
Ds. The providers also confirmed that the details provided were checked when the 
first deposit was made and passed its verification processes.
the disputed transactions took place over a period of seven months and were usually 
for small amounts, which is unusual for fraudulent activity. I dont think a fraudster 
would have continued using Miss Ds account details over such a long period 
because theyd be a high risk of her discovering the transactions and cancelling her 
card. Its more typical for the card to be used as quickly and for as much as possible. 
But this didnt happen. 
the disputed transactions reduced Miss Ds account balance and I can see that she 
checked her balance at ATMs often during this period. So, I think she wouldve 
noticed the transactions much sooner than shes said she did as her account balance 
was reducing. The bank has also confirmed that Miss Ds statements were sent to 
her home address each month. So, I think its likely Miss D wouldve noticed the 
transactions and if she hadnt authorised them, she wouldve raised this with the bank at the time. But she didnt alert TSB until May 2020.
the technical evidence provided by TSB shows the IP address used to make the 
disputed transactions was also used to make undisputed transactions Miss D made 
during the period. 
its unusual for a fraudster to carry out gambling transactions after gaining access to 
someones card as any winnings would have been paid into Miss Ds account. So, 
theres no opportunity for financial gain. Ive also seen evidence of a credit from the 
same gambling website being paid into Miss Ds account in May 2020. It doesnt 
seem likely to me that anyone would defraud Miss D like this if ultimately any money 
went back to her and the thief didnt make any profit. And had no way of accessing 
the funds. 
Miss D says TSB sent out a number of identical replacement cards to her and its 
impossible to know which card was used to make the disputed transactions. I can 
see that TSB sent a new card to Miss D in January 2018. Miss D has provided the 
investigator with photographs of two bank cards. From looking at the photos I can 
see that both cards are as Miss D says, identical. But based on Miss Ds own 
evidence she is (and has been) in possession of both cards throughout the period of 
the disputed transactions. She hasnt said shes given either of the cards to anyone 
else to use. Neither has she said that anyone else had access to them or her banking 
credentials. So, I dont think its likely anyone else used Miss Ds cards (either of 
them) to make the disputed transactions. I also dont think its likely that a fraudster 
would wait nearly two years to make the disputed transactions using her replacement 
bank card.  
So, when I weigh everything up, on balance, Im persuaded that the most likely explanation 
here is that Miss D made the disputed transactions herself.  So, in the circumstances it 
wouldnt be fair for me to ask TSB to refund Miss D the disputed transactions. 
Finally, Miss D has said that the bank should have spotted the transactions and stopped 
them from going through. So, the banks at fault. But Im firstly not satisfied that the 
transactions were necessarily that unusual for Miss D  shed carried out previous 
undisputed gambling activity on her account. And I cant decide she didnt authorise them 
just because TSB didnt block the payments. I have to look at the evidence, which in my view 
connects Miss D to the disputed transactions. And Ive set this out above. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman