DRN-2893382
The complaint
Miss E is unhappy that Santander UK Plc wont refund a withdrawal she made from her 
account, after falling victim to a scam.
What happened
In October 2019 Miss E received a call from someone claiming to be a police officer. He 
gave her his police details including badge number and crime reference number. He told 
Miss E that someone at her local Santander branch had been accessing her accounts, and 
the police were looking to arrest them. Miss E was told they needed some bank notes for the 
investigation and she was asked to go into her local branch and withdraw £3,000 from her 
account. The scammer told Miss E that she would need to take her passport for identification 
in order to make the withdrawal. And if asked why she was withdrawing the funds, to tell the 
branch staff she was buying a car. He asked Miss E to stay on the phone with him and put 
her phone in her bag, so he could hear the discussion while she was in the branch making 
the withdrawal.
Miss E was told to put the funds into a white envelope marked for Scotland Yard. They also 
asked Miss E to read out the serial number of one of the notes. Miss E followed the 
instructions and a courier came to Miss Es home to pick up the bank notes.
 
The scammer also asked Miss E if she had any jewellery and when she confirmed she did, 
they warned that her home might get broken into if the branch staff found out she was 
involved in the investigation. She was told to give them her jewellery and bank cards for safe 
keeping, and they collected them from her home. They said they would call Miss E when the 
arrest had been made.
When Miss E didnt get the follow up call, she contacted a friend who had worked for the 
police. At this point Miss E became aware that shed been the victim of a scam.
Miss E contacted Santander and let them know what had happened and asked them to 
refund her.
Santander investigated Miss Es claim and declined to refund her. They said branch staff 
had questioned Miss E on what the funds were for and had provided advice on scams. And 
that Miss E hadnt done due diligence before following the instructions of the scammer.
As Santander wouldnt refund Miss E, she brought a complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into Miss Es complaint but didnt recommend that Santander refund 
her. The investigator was satisfied that Santander had spoken to Miss E in detail about the 
cash withdrawal and based on what Miss E told them, there was nothing to suggest to 
Santander Miss E mayve been the victim of a scam.
Miss E disagreed with the investigators opinion, so the case was passed to me to review.
I wrote to Santander on 2 June 2021 to explain I was thinking of reaching a different 
outcome to the investigator and asking for their response before reaching a final decision. I 
also discussed this with Miss E who didnt have anything further to add.  
In summary I said:
 
When Miss E went into the branch to withdraw the funds, I wouldve expected Santander to 
ask Miss E suitable questions in order to identify whether she mayve been the victim of a 
scam.
Santander provided a script they say wouldve been read out to Miss E at the time of her 
withdrawal. The first question asked Miss E whether shed been told her account was at risk, 
whether she was asked to transfer her money to a safe account or whether shed been told 
she was due a refund or had to send back an overpayment. - which didn't apply to Miss Es 
situation.
The second part of the script highlighted that if Miss E was told what to say or do  its likely 
shes the victim of a scam. 
But it is particularly difficult in this case to know exactly what happened in branch, as 
Santander dont have any record of what was discussed with Miss E, what questions were 
asked or Miss Es answers to them.
Santander have already accepted that there was an expectation on them to ask Miss E 
suitable questions and to try and identify if she mayve been the victim of a scam. So, I need 
to decide whether the steps Santander took and the questions they asked went far enough, 
or whether further questioning wouldve uncovered that Miss E was the victim of a scam  
and therefore Santander missed an opportunity to prevent Miss E from completing this 
withdrawal.
I wouldnt expect Santander to have interrogated Miss E, but the type of questions I mightve 
expected them to ask might include how she found the car, whether she had seen the car in 
person and possibly some details about the car i.e. mileage or age etc.
Miss E has told us she was coached by the scammer, including being told to take her 
passport in and to say the withdrawal was for the purpose of buying a car; including a 
specific make and model of car. But she wasn't given a full cover story or any further 
information about the car she was supposedly buying. And Miss E doesn't drive and doesn't 
have a drivers licence, so I think it's likely she would've struggled to answer further 
questions about the specific car  more so than someone who owned a car.  
I think at this point it's more likely than not that Miss E's behaviour would have changed and 
the scam would've been uncovered, even though the scammer was on the phone listening.
 
And while Santander may've read out the script theyve provided, as Miss E thought she was 
talking to the police and was part of an active investigation, I'm not persuaded that this 
negates the fact that more questions should've been asked about the payment she was 
making and what the payment was for.
 
On that basis I recommended that Santander should:
refund Miss E the £3,000 withdrawal
pay interest at 8% simple on the refund, from the date of the transaction until the date 
of the refund
Miss E agreed with my recommendation. Santander disagreed with what Id said. In summary, they felt it wasnt fair for me to expect 
them to second guess what Miss E had told them about the purpose of the withdrawal. And 
that too high a bar was being applied with regards to the level of investigation or questioning 
I had suggested they should do before processing a payment instruction that Miss E had 
authorised. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, and the evidence is incomplete or 
contradictory, Ive reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on 
what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence.
Taking into account the law, regulator rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider Santander should 
fairly and reasonably: 
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams. 
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer. 
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
For branch transactions, those steps may include following the Banking Protocol 
where appropriate.
 
Santander raised a number of points with regards to Quincecare and the Phillip judgment 
that they wanted addressed. I havent addressed each individual point, although I want to 
assure Santander that I have read and carefully considered them.
Santander considers too high a standard has been applied to what is expected of it in terms 
of identifying payments that might indicate a consumer is at risk of financial harm; and it has 
referred to the Quincecare duty in support of its argument.
 
I am mindful that the courts have interpreted Quincecare narrowly and the circumstances of 
this complaint are different to that case. I am also aware of the Philipp judgment where the 
judge took a different view about the Quincecare duty.
 
Im not suggesting the Quincecare duty applies to this case. And notwithstanding what the 
judge said in the context of deciding a narrow point of law, we have a duty to resolve 
complaints based on what we think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case, taking into account not just the law, but also regulator rules and guidance, relevant 
codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Also, I realise that there is balance needed between Santander identifying payments that 
could potentially be fraudulent  and then responding to any concerns - and ensuring 
minimal disruption to legitimate payments. And I wouldnt have expected Santander to 
interrogate Miss E. But having considered all the points that Santander have raised, Im not satisfied that 
Santander did enough checks before processing the withdrawal.
 
As Ive explained above, Miss E was only told the make of car she was supposedly buying 
and had no other cover story to provide. And, as she didnt drive, is unlikely to have been 
able to readily come up with convincing answers on the spot to answer any additional basic 
questions about details of the car. Or at the very least wouldve become unsure and hesitant, 
and her behaviour change wouldve suggested that something wasnt right.
Im not satisfied that Santander took sufficient steps or did enough checks prior to 
processing Miss Es withdrawal. Im persuaded that had Santander asked Miss E some more 
basic questions, it is likely to have uncovered the fact that she was a victim of fraud and the 
withdrawal couldve been prevented. Therefore, Santander should refund Miss E.
 
Putting things right
To put things right Santander UK Plc should:
refund Miss E the £3,000 withdrawal;
pay interest at 8% simple on the refund, from the date of the transaction until the date 
of the refund (less any tax properly deductible).
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Santander UK Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 September 2021.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman