DRN-3113584
The complaint
Mrs A complains about Yorkshire Building Society because, when it completed her ISA 
transfer, it did not transfer all of the funds and close the account. She believes that she lost 
interest as a result of this and wants this to be compensated. 
What happened
Mrs A previously held an ISA with a third-party company, S. 
On 3 March 2021, Mrs A opened a Yorkshire Building Society account. On the same date, 
Mrs A completed an ISA transfer form. 
The form asked whether Mrs A had paid into her account in the current financial year. Mrs A 
answered no. This answer invited her to then complete a section relating to a full transfer or 
a partial transfer. 
Mrs A completed the section for a full transfer of her ISA, and to close her account 
elsewhere. She then struck through the section asking about a partial transfer.
She then checked the box to serve the full notice period or wait until maturity date 
(whichever is relevant) before going ahead with the transfer. She completed the maturity 
date as 17 March 2021. 
Yorkshire Building Society processed the transfer request on 5 March 2021 and submitted 
this to S. The transfer request detailed the transfer amount, that it was full, that no 
subscriptions had been made in the current year. The request also detailed a maturity date 
of 17 March. 
After completing the transfer form, Mrs A made a deposit for the current year, of £20,000, 
into her account with S. 
The transfer then took place, before 17 March 2021, as Mrs As ISA did not require 
maturation. S transferred the specified sum to Yorkshire Building Society. This left Mrs As 
recent deposit of £20,000 in her account with S. 
Mrs A then complained to Yorkshire Building Society. She was concerned that the S account 
had not been fully transferred and the account closed. 
Yorkshire Building Society responded to Mrs As complaint in April 2021. It stated that no 
error had been made and that the remaining funds could not be transferred without a further 
ISA transfer form being completed. It therefore did not uphold Mrs As complaint. 
Mrs A completed a second transfer request form, and Yorkshire Building Society then 
requested the remaining funds in April 2021.
Mrs A remained unhappy so contacted us. She felt that the instruction in the form was clear 
that she wanted the full funds to be transferred after 17 March and the account closed. 
Our investigator looked into this matter and did not uphold Mrs As complaint. She felt that 
Yorkshire Building Society had acted properly on the information it had. She therefore did 
not uphold the complaint.
Mrs A did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mrs As frustration here and can see why she feels that one of the 
organisations involved must have made a mistake in following her instructions. Looking at 
the information she provided to Yorkshire Building Society I can also see why she would not 
have expected the transfer to take place before 17 March, and so would have thought any 
further deposits made before that time would be included within the transfer she had 
requested. 
That said, I have reviewed the information that Yorkshire Building Society relayed on to S, 
and this matched the information on the transfer request form, so I cannot say that Yorkshire 
Building Society did anything wrong. It used the information it had available to it and 
completed the request properly. 
Yorkshire Building Society was not then in control of the two things which then changed, 
after the request was sent. These were that Mrs A made a deposit into her ISA, during the 
current tax year, and that the ISA with S did not need to mature, so the request could be 
processed in a shorter timeframe by S. 
I appreciate that the forms used did not adequately capture the scenario which took place, 
but the information provided was used by Yorkshire Building Society appropriately. As my 
colleague explained, we are not able to regulate processes or firms used between 
organisations as this is outside our remit. 
As a result, I do not think Yorkshire Building Society did anything wrong and I do not uphold 
Mrs As complaint. I appreciate that this will be disappointing for Mrs A, but I hope that it 
clearly explains my reasons. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold Mrs As complaint and do not ask Yorkshire 
Building Society to do anything further.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2021.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman