DRN-3417914
The complaint
Mr C complains about the way National Savings and Investments respond when he asks 
them for details about his various deposits with them. 
What happened
The details of this case have been discussed at length in Mr Cs complaints to NS&I. So Im 
not going to repeat them at length here. Either party can refer back to those details if they 
need to familiarise themselves with the complaint. I confirm Ive read Mr Cs letters to NS&I 
and to us, before making my decision. 
In summary, Mr C isnt happy about the way NS&I have chosen to run their business. In 
response, NS&I feel theyve taken reasonable steps to give Mr C ways to engage with their 
service, and theyre not willing to provide him with a unique service agreement.
Our investigator considered the service provided and concluded that NS&I were treating 
Mr C reasonably. He wasnt happy with that view, so the complaint has come to me for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I cant see theres an awful lot for me to add to whats already been 
explained to Mr C. Although its not the outcome he was hoping for, Im not going to uphold 
Mr Cs complaint. 
I can see NS&I have explained the limits of their service to Mr C. And I can see hes not 
happy with that service. 
Taking some of the points Mr Cs raised, hes unhappy that sometimes when hes called 
NS&I theyve not given him the information he wanted about his accounts. NS&I told our 
investigation theres a process where Mr C could get the information hes after, if he set up a 
password. Mr C seems to be aware of that, but has reasons why he doesnt want to do it. 
I consider it reasonable for NS&I to have security processes for their accounts. These should 
be secure, and shouldnt create an undue burden for their customers. Creating a password 
that is only known to Mr C and NS&I seems fairly straight-forward, and secure. So Im 
satisfied its a reasonable condition for NS&I to have in place. 
It is of course Mr Cs choice whether he engages with that or not. But where hes chosen not 
to set up a password, it follows that the service he receives will reflect that. I find nothing 
unreasonable in NS&I sticking to their security processes in this case. 
Similarly, Mr Cs said he feels he shouldnt have to pay for a stamp when he writes to NS&I. 
But I accept that NS&I have made a commercial decision not to offer a freepost service. 
Theres no rules that apply here saying they should offer a freepost service. So I accept its 
within NS&Is power to make that sort of decision, whichever way they want to.
Again, Mr C can choose whether hes happy with that, and what to do if hes not. It could be 
he sets up the telephone password. Or it could be he buys the stamps. Or it could be he 
finds a different service provider, that has terms hes happier to follow. 
As much as Mr C may want me to, Im not going to tell NS&I how to run their business, or tell 
them they should run it the way Mr C wants them to. What Im considering is whether theyve 
treated Mr C fairly and reasonably, in all the circumstances of the case. 
In general terms, NS&I have explained their terms and conditions to Mr C. Hes understood 
those terms enough to form his own opinion about them. I find thats enough to provide a fair 
and reasonable service to Mr C. With the information hes had from NS&I, Mr C should be 
able to make an informed choice about whether to stay with a service hes clearly not happy 
about, or to go elsewhere. 
I can see Mr Cs asked about when my decision would become binding on him. That would 
only be if he accepted it. If he rejects it, no binding decision will have resulted from the time 
and effort that all concerned have put into this complaint. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2022.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman