DRN-4136851
The complaint
Ms M complains that TSB Bank plc have treated her unfairly by transferring the collection 
activity on her credit card account to a third-party.
What happened
Ms M has raised a number of concerns about how TSB have treated her, which have been 
considered in a different complaint. I wont be commenting on anything considered in that 
separate complaint as part of this decision.
This decision will purely be focussing on whether or not it was fair of TSB to transfer the 
collection activity on her account to a third-party.
Ms M has had a credit card account with TSB since 2015. In early 2022, Ms M got behind 
with her repayments by initially paying less than the minimum amount due, and so TSB sent 
Ms M letters asking her to bring the account back up to date. 
In April 2022, Ms M stopped making repayments to the account. TSB continued to contact 
Ms M for repayment. Ms M completed an income and expenditure form and sent it back to 
TSB in October 2022. Upon reviewing the form, TSB said it found that Ms Ms outgoings 
were more than her income, and so it couldnt set up a repayment plan for her. 
After this, no repayments were made to the account, and so TSB sent a default notice to Ms 
M  which requested that she repay the outstanding balance on the account otherwise the 
account would default. TSB say it didnt hear from Ms M following the default notice letter 
and so her account was defaulted in January 2023, and collection activity was passed to a 
third-party. Following this, Ms M complained.
TSB responded to Ms Ms complaint in April 2023. It didnt think it had done anything wrong 
in transferring the account to its recovery team and passing collections activity to a third-
party. Ms M remained unhappy with TSBs response and so the Investigator looked at what 
both parties had said.
The Investigator didnt uphold Ms Ms complaint. They said that Ms M hadnt made a 
payment on the account since April 2022. And that following the receipt of the income and 
expenditure form, when it became clear that Ms M would struggle to repay the debt, TSB 
were fair to default the account and outsource collection activities to a third-party.
Ms M didnt agree with the Investigators view. She said she had contacted TSB many times, 
but due to issues with her passing security, she wasnt able to resolve matters. She also 
referred to the poor service shed received in relation to the income and expenditure form.
Because an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide 
on the matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered all the information available to me, I wont be upholding Ms Ms 
complaint. I appreciate that this decision will come as a disappointment to her, however I will 
explain my reasons fer this below.
As Ive previously explained, this decision wont be about the service Ms M has received 
from TSB, because this has already been looked at as part of a separate complaint. I will 
only be considering if it was fair of TSB to transfer the collection of her debt to a third-party 
debt collection firm. 
I dont think its in dispute here that Ms M hasnt made a payment to the account since April 
2022  and that there is an outstanding debt due on the account. 
I can see that over the course of 2022, TSB has sent Ms M several letters asking her to 
bring the account up to date. So, I think Ms M was aware, or ought to have been aware that 
repayment was due. 
TSB say that when it received the income and expenditure form from Ms M, it decided not to 
set up a repayment plan, because Ms Ms outgoings were more than her income. I dont 
think this was unreasonable of TSB. It wouldnt have been fair to ask Ms M to set up a 
repayment plan, when it was clear she couldnt afford to make any repayments to the 
account. 
Following on from this, in November 2022, TSB sent Ms M a notice of default which 
explained that Ms M would need to pay at least £149.93 to her credit card account no later 
than 7 December 2022. The letter explained, amongst other things, that if Ms M didnt do 
this, it would default her account, and move her account to TSBs Recoveries Department, 
who will use Debt Collection Agencies to work on its behalf. I can also see it sent her a final 
demand for payment in December 2022. Ms M didnt make a repayment following this and 
so her account defaulted in January 2023.
It isnt unusual that a firm would transfer collection activity to a third-party once an account 
has defaulted. I dont generally find this to be unfair or unreasonable. And based on all of the 
evidence Ive seen in relation to Ms Ms complaint, I dont find it to be unfair in this case 
either. I say this because Ms M hadnt been making payments to the account for a long time, 
so I dont find that TSB did anything wrong in defaulting the account. It follows that it also 
wasnt unreasonable of it to outsource the collection activity to a different firm.
I am aware that Ms M has been through a difficult time, and I am sorry that things have been 
so hard for her. I can also see that TSB hasnt always been very helpful towards Ms M  as 
covered under the other complaint she had with this service. But neither of these things lead 
me to conclude that TSB has done anything wrong in outsourcing the collection of the debt 
on her defaulted account.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ms complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2023.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman