DRN-4433368
The complaint
Mr M complains about the way One Insurance Limited handled a claim made under his 
roadside assistance policy.
 
Any reference to One Insurance includes the actions of its agents. 
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ive summarised 
events. 
Mr M has a roadside assistance policy which is underwritten by One Insurance. 
Mr M called One Insurance when his car broke down approximately 300 miles from 
his home. One Insurance said owing to the long distance, it couldnt recover his 
vehicle to his home but said it could consider recovering it to a closer destination  
40 miles away - but that Mr M would need to find a garage there. 
Mr M said he ended up making his own arrangements to get back home  which he 
did by using his passengers breakdown assistance policy. He said the journey took 
him 22 hours rather than five.  
Mr M says its unfair One Insurance chose not to recover his vehicle even though he 
was willing to pay the additional mileage charge. He said the incident severely 
affected his mental health, and he wants One Insurance to recognise this emotional 
distress.  
In response One Insurance said it couldnt recover Mr Ms vehicle because the 
distance was too great. And so, even though he was willing to pay the additional 
mileage charge, it remained that it didnt have a recovery driver whod be able to 
complete a 600-mile round trip. But it said it could have been more helpful and so, 
offered £150 compensation. 
Mr M remained unhappy and so, brought a complaint to this Service. An Investigator 
considered it and thought the compensation offered was fair. Because Mr M 
disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome the Investigator reached  Ill explain why. 
The starting point is the policy document which says: If repairs cannot be 
successfully carried out at the scene of the breakdown, then we will pay the cost of 
recovering the vehicle, driver and up to four passengers to the nearest open and 
suitable garage able to affect a repair, your home address or a destination of your 
choice within 10 miles. 
It goes on to say: We will always decide on the best possible way of offering 
assistance, after taking in to account individual circumstances. Meaning its for One 
Insurance to decide the most appropriate course of action. 
I understand Mr M is unhappy that One Insurance didnt attempt to repair his car at 
the roadside and said it couldnt recover his vehicle to his home address owing to the 
distance. With regards to the first concern, Ive listened to the call he had with the 
agent and note the agent said he didnt think the car could be fixed at the roadside. 
But Im not persuaded it was reasonable for the agent to reach this conclusion as 
they arent an engineer, and the cause of the breakdown was inconclusive at this 
point.
However, because Mr M has told us another, experienced, breakdown company 
recovered his car, its reasonable to assume this company attempted a roadside 
repair - which was unsuccessful  before doing so. This, coupled with the fact, Mr M 
has said his car was scrapped because it was beyond economic repair satisfies me 
that even if One Insurance had attempted a repair at the roadside it was unlikely to 
have been successful, and Mr M would have found himself in the same situation  
namely being offered recovery to a local garage. And so, I dont consider the agents 
actions to have prejudiced the situation. 
One Insurance did say it could consider recovering Mr Ms vehicle to a destination 40 
miles away  where he could find a garage - but he chose to use his passengers 
breakdown cover instead. So, its not that One Insurance refused to assist, rather 
that it said it couldnt recover to Mr Ms home because of the long distance. 
Whilst the policy says an excess mileage charge applies for recovery distances 
beyond 10 miles, it also says cover is for recovery to the nearest open and suitable 
garage. Ultimately, its for the insurer to decide how to best deal with the claim, and I 
consider that it was reasonable for One Insurance to recover Mr Ms car to a garage 
40 miles away, instead of to his home 300 miles way. I say this because breakdown 
cover is intended to get the vehicle mobile at the earliest opportunity  and Im 
satisfied recovery to a garage where a repair could be attempted was a reasonable 
course of action. 
So, even though Mr M might have been willing to pay the extra mileage, as its up to 
One Insurance to decide how to best deal with the claim, his willingness to pay 
doesnt mean One Insurance was obligated to carry out a recovery to his home when 
it could have recovered his vehicle to a garage which was nearer  therefore, fulfilling 
its obligation under the policy to provide recovery assistance.  
Redress
Mr M has asked for the policy premium to be refunded. Because Im satisfied One 
Insurance has treated Mr M fairly, I wont be directing it to do this. But in any event, 
this policy was a free add-on to Mr Ms motor policy, and so, there isnt a premium to 
refund.
Mr M wants the call out/excess fee refunded because One Insurance didnt provide 
recovery assistance. Although One Insurance ultimately didnt recover Mr Ms car, 
this was because he chose to use an alternative breakdown recovery service and 
wasnt because it had refused to offer any assistance. In any event, the policy makes 
it clear that this fee is payable on notification of the breakdown and must be paid 
prior to recovery being instructed. So, Im satisfied Mr M was always required to pay 
it.Mr M considers the policy wording to be misleading because it says an additional 
mileage will be payable for recoveries where the distance is greater than 10 miles  
but was told 300 miles was too far, even though he was willing to pay. And he wants 
£900 compensation to recognise this. Ive explained above why Im satisfied One 
Insurance has acted in accordance with the terms of the policy, so I wont reiterate 
that here. But, for completeness, I will add that I dont consider it reasonable to use 
the cost of additional mileage as a basis for determining compensation. 
Mr M has said he wants to be reimbursed for food and drink expenses he incurred 
during his onward journey home. One Insurance said it could recover Mr Ms vehicle 
to a garage, but he chose to use his passengers breakdown policy instead. I dont 
consider it reasonable to direct One Insurance to cover expenses Mr M incurred at 
his own volition when One Insurance had offered assistance. 
Mr M says his car has been declared beyond economic repair and he wants One 
Insurance to pay the value of his car. Ive not been provided with any evidence to 
show One Insurances action had any bearing on the condition of Mr Ms car and it 
subsequently being scrapped. So, I wont be making an award in respect of this.
Mr M says One Insurance treated him unfairly owing to his sex. He said it wouldnt 
have left a female policyholder stranded. But hes not provided any evidence to 
support this allegation. Nor have I seen anything to suggest One Insurances 
decision to not recover his car to his home address was based on Mr Ms sex. 
Rather, this was because of the distance involved. So, Im not persuaded Mr Ms sex 
had any bearing on the outcome of the claim. 
Compensation 
One Insurance offered Mr M £150 compensation, but hes not accepted this. 
Understandably, breaking down was a stressful event for him and I appreciate Mr M 
was worried about his safety and how the situation was going to be resolved. 
In deciding whats reasonable compensation, I must keep in mind that One Insurance 
isnt responsible for his car breaking down or it later being deemed beyond economic 
repair. But what I can consider is any distress or inconvenience which goes beyond 
what can reasonably be expected in a recovery situation such as this, and which is 
attributable to One Insurance. 
I dont doubt Mr M was frustrated at the lack of support he received from One 
Insurance. Having listened to the call, I agree its agent could have helped Mr M 
locate a garage. But rather than doing this, the agent put the onus on Mr M to find an 
available garage  which added to a stressful situation. 
Overall, whilst I agree the agent could have been more helpful during the phone call, 
I dont consider compensation to be warranted in respect of One Insurances decision 
to not recover Mr Ms vehicle to his home address - because as Ive said above, Im 
satisfied it acted in line with the terms of the policy. And with this in mind, Im satisfied 
£150 compensation is fair in the circumstances.  
Mr M has said third parties had been affected by One Insurances decision to not 
recover his vehicle to his home address. But as our Investigator explained, when 
determining compensation this Service can only consider the impact on him as hes 
One Insurances customer. My final decision
One Insurance has already made an offer to pay £150 compensation to settle the complaint 
and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So, my decision is that One Insurance 
should pay £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman