DRN-2951274
The complaint
Mrs H complained about an instalment loan she took out with Western Circle Ltd (trading 
as Cashfloat) and said this was unaffordable for her. 
What happened
Cashfloat provided a loan to Mrs H as follows: 
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidMonthly 
instalmentsAmountHighest 
monthly 
repayment
123/09/2019 20/12/2019 3 £400.00 £207.28
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mrs H and Cashfloat told us about this loan. 
Overall, taking into account the loan amount, what was apparent about Mrs Hs 
circumstances at the time and her history with the lender, our adjudicator didn't think it 
wouldve been proportionate for Cashfloat to ask Mrs H for the amount of information 
needed to show the lending was unsustainable and that it was reasonable for Cashfloat to 
have relied on the information she provided in her loan application. So our adjudicator didnt 
uphold Mrs Hs complaint.  
Mrs H disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at her complaint. Mrs H isnt happy 
with the outcome of her complaint or the way that our adjudicator has carried out the 
investigation. As the case hasnt been resolved informally, it comes to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive used this 
approach to help me decide this complaint.
I must look at all the available information and decide what I think is most likely. This means 
making some reasonable assumptions where theres only limited information. And I must be 
impartial. Id like to reassure Mrs H that Ive looked at the complaint afresh  and Ive 
independently reached the same conclusions as our adjudicator.
Cashfloat provided Mrs H with a high-interest loan intended for short-term use so it needed 
to make sure that it didnt provide the loan irresponsibly. 
In practice, this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs 
H could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
Mrs Hs income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Hs complaint. 
Before lending to Mrs H, Cashfloat asked her for information about her financial situation, 
such as her monthly income and her outgoings. It also asked about any other credit 
commitments and carried out credit checks. 
Cashfloat says it agreed to Mrs Hs application only after carrying out all proper checks and 
the information it recorded for Mrs H showed that shed be able to comfortably make the loan 
repayments so it was reasonable to lend. 
This was Mrs Hs first (and only) loan with Cashfloat. The amount she asked to borrow was 
relatively modest compared to the monthly take home pay she had declared  she said her 
net monthly salary was around £2,550 and Cashfloat took steps to verify this.
It appeared that Mrs H had been in quite well paid and secure work for some time. Looking 
at the information she provided on her loan application, her declared costs for food, utility 
bills, rent, travelling expenses, loan repayments and her existing credit commitments came 
to £2,200.
Although Cashfloat no longer has the actual report it obtained when it carried out credit 
checks it told us its results summary shows it acquired information that it considered 
satisfactory at the time. 
It told us it had recorded no evidence of any serious financial difficulty showing up on Mrs 
Hs credit history such as bankruptcy, County Court Judgements or anything to show that 
she had entered any arrangement with creditors. 
Overall, the background checks Cashfloat carried out didnt give rise to any concerns about 
the information Mrs H had provided on her application. 
Looking at the monthly loan repayment amounts and the loan term, and taking into account 
the information it seems Mrs H told Cashfloat about her monthly income and what she was 
paying out, this loan looked comfortably affordable for Mrs H. 
And I havent seen anything in the information that Cashfloat told us it gathered about Mrs H 
that makes me think it shouldve realised that Mrs H was going to find it difficult to afford to 
pay this loan in a sustainable way.  
Im sorry that Mrs H had a problem with debt and that making the loan repayments shed 
signed up to was difficult for her. I accept that in reality it now seems likely that Mrs Hs 
actual circumstances werent fully reflected either in the information she provided or the 
other information Cashfloat obtained. I can see from a credit report that she has sent us that 
there are signs that she was already over-stretched financially. 
But its reasonable to expect that Cashfloat couldve only decided Mrs Hs lending 
application based on the information it had available at the time. I havent seen enough to 
make me think that there was anything obvious, in the information it had, to suggest Mrs H 
wouldnt be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way or that there were any entries on the 
credit report Cashfloat acquired which should have caused it concern. Its also worth 
remembering that when a lender carries out a credit search, the information it sees doesnt usually provide the same level of detail that a consumers credit search will and it isnt 
necessarily up to date. 
Based on all the information that I've seen and been told, I cant fairly say that Cashfloats 
lending decision was unfair based on the information it told us it relied on or that it was 
unreasonable for Cashfloat to lend without making any more detailed enquiries into Mrs Hs 
circumstances.
In coming to my decision Ive thought carefully about everything that Mrs H has said, 
including the comments made in response to our adjudicators view. But in the particular 
circumstances of this loan application, I dont think a proportionate check wouldve required 
Cashfloat to make any more in-depth enquiries such as asking ask Mrs H to prove what she 
was declaring or that it needed to check other information sources to verify what she had 
told them (or omitted to say) about her financial circumstances. So I cant fairly uphold her 
complaint. 
Ive also taken into account what Mrs H said about the way other complaints have been dealt 
with. But each complaint is looked at on its own merits  no two complaints are likely to be 
identical in every way and the outcome on each will depend on its own facts. Ive looked at 
the circumstances that apply in this particular case and what happened on other cases 
doesnt change my conclusion here.  
I appreciate that what Ive said will come as a disappointment, but I hope that setting out the 
reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision. And if Mrs H would like 
help to manage her finances theres more information about how to get free debt advice on 
our website  or we can provide contact details if she gives us a call. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman