DRN-2977228
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy with the standard of service that hes received from Santander UK Plc.
What happened
Mr G resides overseas. While logged in to Santanders online banking platform, Mr G was 
prompted to login again. Mr G inputted the correct login details, but these werent 
recognised, and after several attempts to confirm his login details, Mr G was locked out of 
his account.
Mr G contacted Santander about this and was told that new login information needed to be 
sent to him in the post. However, because Mr Gs address on Santanders systems was a 
UK address - and wasnt the overseas address where he resided - Mr G would first need to 
provide proof of his overseas address so that it could be updated, and so that the login 
information could be posted to him. Mr G wasnt happy about this and, or that the login 
information took a long time to arrive once hed updated his address, so he raised a 
complaint.
Santander looked at Mr Gs complaint. But they didnt feel that theyd done anything in wrong 
in how theyd managed the situation, so they didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. But Santander 
did recognise that Mr Gs overseas residence made contacting Santander by telephone 
expensive, especially when hold times were long, so they made a goodwill payment of £50 
to Mr G because of this.
Mr G wasnt satisfied with Santanders response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked into this complaint, but they also didnt feel that Santander 
had acted unfairly toward Mr G in how they managed the situation, so they also didnt uphold 
the complaint.
Mr G remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how it must have been frustrating for Mr G to have been locked out of his 
Santander account, especially given that hes certain that he inputted the correct login 
details when prompted.
Given that Mr G was prompted to login to his Santander account while he was already 
logged in, its clear that something happened at that time that shouldnt have happened. 
Santander have confirmed that they have no record of any errors or issues with their online 
banking platform at the time that Mr G was locked out of his account, so it seems likely to me 
that the issue was one of security or stability of connection, such that there was a disconnect 
which caused Mr G to be prompted to log in at a time that he was already logged in. 
Its also notable from the correspondence Ive read during my review that Mr G refers to the 
previously poor internet service he received at his overseas address, before going on to 
express his hopes that the recent installation of fibre optic cables in his local area might 
remedy the situation. 
As such, while I dont doubt that Mr G did enter the correct login details when prompted, I 
also dont doubt that Santander have no record of any issue or occurrence that could have 
caused Mr G to become locked out of his account. So, while Im satisfied that some form of 
error did occur, Im also satisfied that Santander cant fairy be considered as being 
responsible for this error, and that it was reasonable for Santander to have followed their 
standard processes when trying to restore Mr Gs account access as they did.
Mr G is also unhappy that Santander didnt have a record of his overseas address. 
Santander have confirmed that they did have a record of Mr Gs overseas address, but that it 
was updated to a UK address in 2015 and remained as such up to the time that Mr G 
contacted them following his being locked out of his online account.
Mr G has stated that his online address should never have been permanently changed from 
his oversees address and that it was changed temporarily to facilitate an action with 
Santander that required a UK address. But it would have been incumbent on Mr G to have 
changed his address with Santander back to his overseas address once the action that 
required the UK address was completed. 
Additionally, the addresses registered on Mr Gs account would have been visible to Mr G 
via his online account from the point that the address was changed to a UK address in 2015, 
and it would have been Mr Gs responsibility to monitor and amend his registered or 
correspondence address if they wasnt to his liking.
Mr G has also complained that the forms that Santander sent to him to enable him to change 
his address werent correct. But Santander sent Mr G a form to change his address from a 
UK address to an overseas address, which does appear appropriate given that Santander 
held a UK address for Mr G at that time.
All of which means that its difficult for me to conclude that Santander acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Mr G here. And while I appreciate that the overall process may have 
taken longer than Mr G would have liked, I feel that a portion of this extended timeframe is 
attributable to Mr G residing overseas  in that sent correspondence takes longer to be 
delivered  and I dont feel that Santander should have followed a process different to the 
one that they did.
Its also notable that Santander acknowledged that Mr G may have encountered some 
expense when trying to telephone them from overseas, especially during periods when 
holding times were high. Santander made a goodwill payment of £50 to Mr G in relation to 
this, which goes beyond what this service would expect.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr G was wanting here, but it follows that I wont 
be upholding this complaint or instructing Santander to take any further action at this time. I 
hope that Mr G will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision 
that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman