DRN-3253081
The complaint
Ms N complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax didnt treat her fairly when she 
couldnt repay her overdraft. 
What happened
Ms N says that she couldnt meet the repayments on her overdraft because she was 
recovering from a medical condition and that she informed Halifax of this around December 
2016. She says she offered to make payments by instalments but was told that her account 
had been closed and a default reported. She says the negative information on her credit file 
has prevented her getting work and that Halifax should have accepted her settlement offer 
rather than damaging her credit file. She also says that although Halifax had said it had sent 
her letters about her account, these were to a previous address even though she had 
updated this.
Halifax says that Ms N contacted it in July 2020 as she was unhappy her account had been 
closed and a default registered on her credit file. It looked into the complaint and says Ms N 
had contacted it in March 2017 and at that time a decision was made to remove her 
overdraft and close her account as she needed long term assistance and wasnt able to 
commit to a repayment plan to bring the account up to date. It says Ms N was told a default 
would be applied to her credit file. It says that multiple letters were sent in 2017 to Ms Ns 
address explaining the process before the account was closed in August 2017. It says that it 
had no evidence of Ms N informing it of her medical condition in 2017. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He didnt think that Halifax had done anything 
wrong based on the information available to it at the time by closing and defaulting Ms Ns 
account.
Ms N didnt accept our investigators view. She said she had never refused to make the 
repayments but had asked to pay by instalments from her disability allowance. She says she 
provided the requested information about her medical condition, disability application, and 
other circumstances to her Halifax branch and was told these would be sent on to ensure the 
account wasnt closed. However, this didnt happen, and her account was closed and 
defaulted. She says she shouldnt be penalised for the branch not sending her information 
on.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear of Ms Ns experience over the past few years with her health and her 
personal situation. I can understand how upsetting it must be for her to feel she is being held 
back because of the information recorded by Halifax on her credit file. 
While I sympathise with Ms Ns situation, for me to uphold this complaint I would need to be 
satisfied that Halifax had done something wrong or acted unfairly in the actions it took. I 
dont think it did. Let me explain why. 
Ms N has said that she contacted Halifax around December 2016 to explain she was 
recovering from a medical condition and unable to make the repayments on her overdraft. 
She has also said that she visited a branch in February 2017 and explained her situation. 
Unfortunately, I do not have any further evidence to support this. I have however seen 
copies of the contact notes from March 2017 which provide a detailed account of the 
conversations Ms N had with Halifax at that time. In these notes she explains her personal 
situation, including her financial and living arrangements. Ms N says shes lost her job and 
has had to leave her home. I think its clear from this that Ms N was telling Halifax she was in 
financial difficulty. I will comment on this further below. 
In March 2017, the discussion was mainly about the charges on Ms Ns account. This issue 
along with the overdraft was addressed in a letter from Halifax at the time. In it, Halifax 
explained that as Ms N wasnt able to commit to a repayment plan to bring the account up to 
date, the overdraft was going to be removed and the account closed. The letter refers to a 
discussion with Ms N about this. And the customer notes dated the same day indicate that 
the removal of the overdraft and a default were relayed to her. So, Im satisfied Ms N ought 
to reasonably have been aware the bank would close her account and a further 
consequence was a default. 
While I appreciate that Ms N feels the default is unfair, the notes suggest she wasnt in a 
position to agree to a regular arrangement to pay and her financial difficulties werent short 
term either. The last credit into the account (apart from a refund of charges in March 2017) 
was in December 2016. So, I dont think Halifax acted unfairly in taking steps to close the 
account and default it. In doing so, this stopped any further charges from being applied and 
the outstanding balance getting any worse.  
The notes show that in March 2017, Ms N told Halifax that letters shouldnt be sent to her old 
address as she had moved out. Halifax put a 30 day hold on the account and asked Ms N to 
get back in touch by 22 April with an updated address. I havent seen anything to suggest 
that she did this. I appreciate Ms Ns situation was difficult and other things were likely to 
have been a priority at that time, but I cant reasonably conclude Halifax made a mistake in 
regard to this issue.  
I accept that Halifax is required to send certain letters and that the only address it had for 
Ms N was the one on file. However, given Ms N had explained her situation I think Halifax 
could have done more to update her of the steps being taken on her account. That said, the 
letter sent in March 2017 made it clear the account would be closed and that this could take 
a few months. It said that the fees would be suspended and that letters would be sent during 
this period. Therefore, I find that Ms N was made aware that her account would be closed 
and had she not been receiving letters she could have contacted Halifax about this. 
Ms N contacted Halifax after the account was closed in August 2017 saying she thought she 
had an agreement in place on the account until September 2017. I have not been able to 
find evidence of this and she hasnt provided anything to show that she had made offers to 
clear the account by that time. 
In conclusion, I am very sorry to hear of everything Ms N has been through. However, based 
on the evidence I do not find that Halifax has done anything wrong. As Ms N couldnt commit 
to a repayment plan it took action to default her account. This stopped any charges being 
applied and so assisted to the extent that her outstanding balance didnt grow. While I 
appreciate the impact on her credit file, I can see from the customer notes Halifax told her this would happen. And Ms Ns circumstances dont suggest she was in a position to stop 
the default. So, I do not find I can uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman