DRN-2129318
The complaint
Mr A has complained that Nationwide Building Society wont refund him for transactions he 
didnt make or authorise. Hes also unhappy that Nationwide wouldnt reinstate his overdraft 
limit.
What happened
Mr A had two accounts with Nationwide  a FlexPlus account and a current account, which 
had an overdraft limit of £1,000.
Mr A says that several transactions totalling just under £1,000 were carried out on his 
FlexPlus account without his consent between 26 and 30 November 2019. 
I wont be listing all the disputed transactions as both parties are of aware of which 
transactions are in dispute.
Mr A says in late October 2019, he lost his bank card for his FlexPlus account. He told 
Nationwide. But he didnt order a replacement card until 19 November 2019 because he was 
still able to use his current account. Mr A also asked the bank to send him a PIN reminder. 
Nationwide told Mr A hed receive everything by 26 November 2019.
Mr A says he thought he would have to activate the new bank card manually once it arrived. 
So, he wasnt keeping an eye out for it as he didnt think anyone else would be able to use it. 
Hes also said he didnt tell anyone else he was expecting a new card and PIN. 
Mr A has explained he lives in a building which has been converted into four flats. Each flat 
has a separate letter box, which are located on the wall outside next to the front door. Each 
letter box is locked with a key, but any letters which are delivered are quite easy to pick out 
without using the key, via an opening at the top of the boxes. Mr A has also said that on 
occasion his mail has been delivered incorrectly to his neighbouring address. And when this 
happens his neighbours leave the mail theyve received on a sofa in the communal area of 
his address. So, Mr A says his new bank card was either picked out of the letterbox by 
someone or taken after it had been left on the sofa, who then used it and carried out the 
disputed transactions. 
Mr A says he does recall a letter from the council going missing. He also says he reported 
the fraud to the police who managed to collect CCTV footage from one of the locations 
where one of the transactions took place. But the police were unable to make out anything 
useful on the footage.
 
Mr A says that he didnt notice the disputed transactions. He says he did make a number of 
transfers between his accounts during the time the disputed transactions had been made 
because he received a notification from the bank his funds were running low and his bills 
wouldnt be covered.
Mr A says he logged onto his mobile banking to reduce his overdraft by £100 to £900. He 
said he didnt intend to do this and was just testing it out. But his overdraft was reduced to 
£250. So, Mr As account went over his agreed overdraft limit. Nationwide asked Mr A to 
repay the difference. But Mr A says couldnt afford to do this. Mr A says its not fair for 
Nationwide to offer him a repayment plan because he hadnt meant to reduce his overdraft 
limit. And says the bank should reinstate his overdraft to £1,000. 
Nationwide said Mr A had applied to reduce his overdraft limit through the mobile banking 
app. It said he had attempted to reduce his overdraft by £100 to £900, but at the time he was 
only eligible for a £250 overdraft. And once Mr A had submitted the request, he wasnt able 
to increase it back to £900. Nationwide offered Mr A an arrangement to pay £130 each 
month to reduce his overdraft. But Mr A declined as he was worried about his credit record.
Following this Nationwide says that due to a system error an incorrect arrangement to pay 
was recorded on Mr As account. Despite Mr A not agreeing to one. Nationwide apologised 
for confusing Mr A and amended Mr As credit file. It also offered him £75 compensation to 
acknowledge the errors., which Mr A accepted. 
Nationwide investigated and decided not to refund the disputed transactions. It concluded 
that Mr A had made or allowed someone else to make them. They said:
Mr As genuine card and PIN were used to make each transaction
Mr As new bank card and PIN were sent in plain envelopes, days apart
several money transfers took place to fund the disputed spending  Mr A had moved 
money from his Help to Buy ISA and his current account
each transfer had been carried out via Mr As online banking which he logged into 
using touch ID on his mobile phone
Mr A had logged on numerous times throughout the period of the disputed spend had 
been made and viewed his statement. So, he would have been aware of the activity 
and balance of his FlexPlus account. But he didnt alert the bank until 30 November 
2019
Mr A hasnt offered a plausible explanation as to how someone else was able to gain 
possession of his new bank card and PIN
the funds were withdrawn over a number of days which is unusual for a fraudster
there were no failed PIN attempts when the transactions took place
Mr A made a number of attempts to apply for an increase to his overdraft during the 
period of the transactions. The last attempt was made shorty before Mr A telephoned 
the bank to report the disputed transactions
No bills were due out of Mr As account until 2 December 2019, so no notification 
would have been sent at the time Mr A said  it was too early to cause any alerts to 
be sent
Mr A disagreed with Nationwides decision. So, he brought his complaint to this service 
where one of our investigators looked into the matter. Having looked at the sequence of 
events, and Mr As online activity, she said it was more likely than not Mr A had made them 
or authorised a third party to carry out the disputed transactions. So also said Nationwide 
hadnt done anything wrong when it reduced Mr As overdraft and asked him to repay what 
he owed. And had treated him fairly when it offered him a repayment plan. 
Mr A disagreed. In summary he said:
theres no hard evidence that hes responsible for the disputed transactions
Nationwide havent proved it wasnt fraud and havent carried out a full and proper 
investigation
the bank could have prevented the fraud by sending out the new bank card and PIN 
with a longer duration in between
he didnt notice the transactions when he logged onto his online banking and 
it was difficult for him to obtain CCTV evidenceAs Mr A didnt agree, the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator and for roughly similar 
reasons. 
I appreciate Mr A was disappointed by the investigators opinion and I can see that he has 
provided a detailed response to what she said about his complaint. Id like to reassure Mr A 
that Ive considered the whole file and whats hes said. But Ill concentrate my comments on 
what I think is relevant. So, I wont be addressing every point in detail which Mr A has raised 
in his submissions. My findings will focus on what I consider to be the central issues. If I 
dont mention any specific point, its not because failed to take it on board and think about it, 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is the outcome.
Mr A has mentioned in his submissions that Nationwide has not proven that the activity on 
Mr As account was not fraud. And didnt conduct a proper investigation. I should make it 
clear to Mr A that the Financial Ombudsman Service is an informal dispute resolution service 
acting as an alternative to the courts. We dont consider fraud complaints in the same way 
as a criminal court might. It is not my role to prove exactly what happened. Where there is a 
dispute about what happened  as there is here, and the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory, we reach our conclusions on the basis of what we consider is 
most likely to have happened having considered the available evidence and wider 
circumstances. 
Did Mr A authorise the disputed transactions?
Nationwide is required to refund the amount of unauthorised transactions if Mr A didnt make 
or authorise them. The relevant regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (the PSRs 2017). Mr A says he didnt make the payments. So, my primary 
concern is to come to a view about whether I think Mr A authorised the payments. And 
having carefully considered the evidence I think he did. And I explain why.
Im satisfied first of all that whoever made the disputed transactions was able to do so 
because they had both Mr As card and knew his PIN. Mr A has suggested that his card 
could have been intercepted by someone tampering with his post. Hes also said that post 
does from time to time go missing. But most post is correctly delivered, and so I think it more 
likely than not that Mr As new card and PIN reminder did arrive safely at his home address. 
I accept that Mr A does as he says, live at an address which is split into four flats, and he 
lives with his partner. But Ive not seen any evidence that anyone else would have known he 
was expecting a replacement bank card, and it wouldnt have been obvious that one had 
been sent. The bank has explained that Mr As new bank card and PIN were sent 
separately, in plain white envelopes. So, Im not persuaded that an unknown third party, 
managed to intercept both Mr As card and PIN. 
Its also significant in my view that on 26 November 2019, Mr A logged into his mobile 
banking at 11:07am and transferred £800 into his FlexPlus account. Prior to this the balance 
of the account was just £0.89. The first withdrawal Mr A disputes took place at 2.48pm later 
the same day. I can see that Mr A logged back into his account at 3.38pm and transferred 
£999 from his FlexPlus account. The mobile banking records show Mr A checked his full statement at 3.39pm. The investigator checked with the bank and confirmed that these 
transactions wouldve been visible to Mr A and appeared on his statement. So, I think it is 
more likely than not that Mr A would have seen the £500 ATM withdrawal and noticed that 
his balance had decreased significantly. And if he hadnt authorised the transaction, he 
would have alerted the bank. But he didnt do so. 
Mr A has said he transferred money between his accounts to cover some upcoming bills. 
And hed done so in reaction to an alert hed received from the bank. But Ive not seen any 
evidence that the bank sent Mr A such an alert. And from looking at Mr As statements it 
doesnt look like any bills were due at the beginning of the month. So, I dont find Mr As 
explanation for moving his money plausible. I also think the timing of the transfers in relation 
to the disputed transactions is significant. 
Mr A didnt report the disputed transactions until 30 November 2019, some four days later 
and only after the last disputed transaction, yet I can see from Mr As account activity that he 
logged onto to his online banking before and after the disputed transactions. So, I find it 
unusual that he didnt report the issue to Nationwide sooner than he did. I also find it unlikely 
that a fraudster would wait and carry out transactions over a four -day period and run the risk 
that Mr A might have realised he hadnt received his card or PIN. And alert the bank. But that 
person appears to have been confident theyd be able to access the account over a number 
of days.   
Mr A has said that the police obtained some CCTV footage relating to one of the disputed 
transactions. And that this image showed a hooded male carrying out the transaction. Ive 
not seen this footage. So, I accept that may well be the case. But that doesnt in itself show 
that Mr A didnt have an awareness of the disputed transaction. Its quite possible that a third 
party carried out the transaction with his consent and knowledge. 
When I weigh everything up, in my view the most likely explanation here is that Mr A either 
made the transfer himself or allowed someone else to make it, using his card and PIN. So, in 
the circumstances it wouldnt be fair for me to ask Nationwide refund the disputed 
transactions. 
Finally, Im aware of Mr As concerns about the extent and scope of Nationwides fraud 
investigation, but it is not my role to tell it how investigate fraud cases. On the evidence Ive 
seen, I dont think the conclusion it reached was unreasonable.
decreasing Mr As overdraft limit
Mr A had an overdraft limit of £1,000. He says he logged into his mobile banking intending to 
reduce his overdraft limit by £100. Hes explained to the investigator that he just wanted to 
see what would happen and was testing it out. But when he did this, his overdraft was 
reduced to £250. Nationwide said Mr A had applied to reduce his overdraft. And once he had 
submitted his request and accepted the limit it wasnt able to increase this as Mr A wasnt 
eligible to have a larger overdraft. 
I know Mr A would like Nationwide to reinstate his overdraft on the same terms, but because 
I dont think Nationwide made a mistake here, I dont think it would be fair for me to ask the 
bank to do this. I say this because it was Mr A who changed his overdraft. So, Nationwide 
had to make a new decision about whether it would make the facility open to him again at 
that point  in effect making a new lending decision. Nationwide did this and said Mr A 
wasnt eligible for a £1,000 overdraft. And based on that and how Mr A was operating his 
account it decided it didnt want to lend to Mr A. So, it didnt reinstate the £1,000 overdraft 
facility. This is a commercial decision made by the bank. And we cant interfere in the commercial decisions the bank makes on how its business operates. So, having considered 
the circumstances, I dont think Nationwide treated Mr A unfairly by not lending to him.
I would however remind Nationwide that its obligation to treat a case of financial difficulty in a 
positive and sympathetic manner is an ongoing one; but Mr A also needs to be aware that 
that obligation wont necessarily prevent Nationwide from seeking repayment in the future. I 
understand the bank has offered Mr A an arrangement and repayment plan, which Mr A 
might want to pursue.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2020.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman