DRN-3085012
The complaint
Mrs A complains about the way that British Gas Services Limited dealt with her home 
emergency claim for repairs to her boiler in respect of her let property. 
What happened
On or about 5 January 2021 Mrs A was notified by her tenants of a problem with the boiler at 
her property. There was no heating or hot water. She notified the letting agents who made 
attempts to get in touch with British Gas. It was unable to attend until 13 January, and then 
failed to make that appointment. Another appointment was organised for 18 January which 
again the engineer failed to attend. An emergency appointment was made for the same day 
but again the engineer did not attend. Mrs A spoke to Brutish Gas who advised her that in 
accordance with its winter contingency plan she could instruct a plumber and it would 
reimburse the costs of the repair. She raised the cost of a replacement boiler and was told 
that in unusual cases this would be paid.
Mrs A duly went ahead and instructed a plumber who advised that the boiler needed to be 
replaced. She went ahead and paid for a replacement boiler, which was installed on 21 
January. She submitted the invoice to British Gas but it explained that it would only pay for a 
replacement boiler when the boiler was up to 7 years old or up to 10 years old if it had been 
regularly serviced by it. Mrs As boiler was at least 20 years old. Mrs A complained, pointing 
out that she had been told by the adviser that all her costs would be reimbursed. British Gas 
agreed that the terms hadnt been clearly explained to her but pointed out that the terms of 
the cover were clear. It agreed to pay Mrs A £100 for the inconvenience caused. 
On referral to this service our investigator said that because of the number of missed 
appointments, the fact that Mrs As tenants were left for three weeks without water and that 
Mrs A was misled into believing that British Gas would cover her costs of a new boiler, it 
should pay compensation of £250 (including the £100 already paid). He didnt think that 
British Gas should pay for the new boiler.
British Gas agreed to the proposed payment. Mrs A did not and proposed that British Gas 
pay the labour costs of fitting the new boiler, of £825. Our investigator said that British Gas 
had made a reasonable offer of settlement.
The matter has been referred to me for further consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mrs A felt she was misled by British Gas. When she spoke to them 
she was told it was unusual for a replacement boiler to be paid for but the adviser didnt 
explain that the terms of the policy only allowed for this when the boiler was less than ten 
years old. However the terms of the policy apply to all customers which only allow for 
replacement in the circumstances described. I appreciate that Mrs A believes she had a 
verbal contract with British Gas that it would pay for all repairs including replacement of the 
boiler. I dont think that is the case  as Ive said the situation wasnt made clear to her but I 
dont think there was any agreement by British Gas to go outside the terms of the policy.
If Mrs A had realised British Gas wouldnt pay for a new boiler she would still have had to go 
ahead and have the new boiler installed. I think it reasonable to accept the plumber she had 
employed gave her the right advice.
I think in this case Mrs A has suffered distress and inconvenience. Whilst I appreciate the 
property was without hot water or heating for three weeks, she didnt suffer that, rather her 
tenants did. I understand that they didnt renew their tenancy which may have been because 
of the situation. But I can only award compensation to the policyholder, Mrs A. She believes 
the engineers didnt attend because they were on strike, but it looks like the strike came later 
than the missed appointments. Along with the tenants being upset with her, it also wasnt 
explained clearly about the terms of the winter contingency scheme. So she did suffer a loss 
of expectation.
I dont think it reasonable to ask British Gas to pay for the new boiler, even just the labour 
costs. But I do think that it should reasonably pay further compensation of £150 on top of the 
£100 it has already paid. I shall direct it to pay this accordingly. 
Putting things right
British Gas should pay total compensation of £250, including the £100 already paid. So it 
should pay Mrs A a further £150.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require British Gas Services Limited to provide the remedy set 
out under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman