DRN-3392347
The complaint
Mr I held an account with Santander Uk Plc for which he had a debit card.  He complains 
that his debit card was blocked without notice as his account went into overdraft, which he 
was told couldnt happen.   
 
What happened
Mr I had a basic Top up account with Santander. 
In November 2020 the account went into overdraft and Mr Is debit card was blocked. 
Mr I was unhappy about this as he says that the account shouldnt be able to go overdrawn, 
and so his card shouldnt have been blocked. He wanted his card reinstated and so he 
raised a complaint with Santander. 
Santander sent their final response in March 2021. They said that they didnt uphold the 
complaint because Mr Is Top up account went into overdraft in November 2020, following an 
online purchase, and as the account remained in overdraft for a period of time Mr I was in  
breach of the terms and conditions of the account. As a result, his debit card service was 
therefore withdrawn.   
Mr I was unhappy with this response and brought his complaint to us. 
One of our investigators looked into it and he thought that Santander had fairly applied their 
terms and conditions.  
   
Mr I disagreed with our investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision, so it has 
come to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have not upheld the complaint and I will explain my reasons below. 
Should the account have gone overdrawn?
Santander have explained that Mr Is Top Up account is a basic account and doesnt allow 
for any overdraft. However, the account went into overdraft as a result of a purchase from an 
online merchant. They said that not all online merchants seek authorisation from Santander 
prior to collecting payment, and in that situation, Santander are then unable to refuse 
payment. That is what happened here. 
As a result of Santander fulfilling the payment to the merchant, the account went into 
overdraft. This possibility is explained in Key Facts for basic bank accounts document:
4. Overdraft
Our overdraft services are not available on this account, and you will not incur any 
overdraft charges. If you try to make a payment when you do not have enough 
money in your account, we will normally refuse the payment due to lack of funds. 
However, there maybe circumstances where you make a payment that we are 
unable to refuse which will take your account into an Unarranged Overdraft. No fee 
or interest will be charged for this.
So, I cant say that Santander have done anything wrong in allowing the account to go 
overdrawn, as the key facts make it clear that this may not be something in their control.
 
Unfortunately, being in overdraft put Mr I in breach of the terms and conditions of the 
account and Santander were then entitled to withdraw services from Mr I including the use of 
his debit card, which remained the property of Santander. 
Did Santander act fairly?
Ive then thought about whether Santander acted fairly and gave Mr I sufficient notice when 
making the decision to block his card. 
I can see from the information provided by Santander that they wrote to Mr I on 13 
November 2020 explaining this and asking him to clear the unauthorised overdraft. 
They wrote again on 28 November 2021 and 15 December 2021. In the letter dated 15 
December they advised that as a result of Mr I not bringing the account back into credit, they 
had blocked his card. Further letters were sent on 24 December 2021, 12 January 2021, 20 
January 2021 and 4 February 2021. 
Mr I cleared his overdraft in March 2021 and complained that he hadnt received the letters. 
I have no reason to believe that these letters werent sent, although I consider it is likely that, 
as Mr I has suggested, there were postal delays at the time due to the ongoing pandemic. 
However, I consider that even if these letters were delayed, Santander had sent Mr I 
sufficient notice of the card being blocked before they implemented it.  
I can see that Mr I has asked that his card is reinstated and wants me to direct this.  Im not 
able to do this as I cant direct a financial business to provide a service to a consumer. This 
is a business decision, and Santander are entitled to decide who they provide services to. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Is complaint about 
Santander Uk Plc.   
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman