DRN-3417615
The complaint
Mr E complains that Vanquis Bank Limited (Vanquis) irresponsibly gave him a credit card 
account that he couldnt afford.
What happened
On 28 June 2016, Mr E applied for and was given a credit card account with Vanquis. Mr E 
was given an initial credit limit of £500. This credit limit was never increased. 
In 2021, Mr E complained to Vanquis to say that the account shouldnt have been opened 
for him because it wasnt affordable and that Vanquis ought to have made a better effort to 
understand his financial circumstances before increasing his credit.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr E didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
Vanquis will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Mr Es complaint is that Vanquis made credit available that was unaffordable. Vanquis has 
explained that it carried out a credit check using a credit agency to determine the amount of 
credit it was able to offer. Its possible that Vanquis failed to make adequate checks before 
providing Mr E with credit. But even if thats true, I dont think better enquiries would have 
caused Vanquis to think the credit was unaffordable. 
I say this because Mr E told Vanquis that he earned a good salary. Mr Es bank 
statements show that Mr Es account enjoyed an income that was both regular and not 
modest. And the bank statements provided by Mr E show that income and suggest that 
whatever other monthly commitments Mr E may have had for other credit, the total income 
each month was roughly the same as his monthly expenditure. In saying that Ive noted 
the account was in credit at the start of the year (2016) and in credit just before the lending 
decision was made. Mr E has told us his finances were in a poorer shape than Vanquis 
credit check showed. But I have seen insufficient evidence that better information would 
have put Vanquis off of providing reasonably modest credit on a credit card. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, and in the absence of any 
extra evidence from Mr E to the contrary, I have seen insufficient evidence to think that a 
more thorough affordability check would have led Vanquis to think that the credit it 
provided Mr E was unreasonable. Further, Im not persuaded that what Vanquis could see 
of his management of other credit ought to have prompted it to have acted differently than 
it did. 
I know that Mr E will be disappointed with my decision. And I was sorry to hear of the details 
of his personal issues from the time of the lending decision. But I want Mr E to know that I 
have considered all the submissions made in this case. Having done so, I have not found 
sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman