DRN-1916131
The complaint
Mrs V complains UK Credit Limited lent to her irresponsibly. She says UK Credit Limited 
didnt complete reasonable and proportionate checks, before approving her as a guarantor 
for a loan taken by someone else (the borrower). She says she has lost out financially as a 
result by paying additional interest and charges.
What happened
The borrower applied for a loan with UK Credit in May 2018. Mrs V was approved as the 
guarantor for the loan. The loan can be summarised below:
Date Amount Term Monthly 
repaymentAPR Total 
Amount 
Payable
May 2018 £10,000 60 months £348.84 39.9% £20,930.40
Mrs V complains UK Credit didnt complete reasonable and proportionate checks at the time 
she was approved as a guarantor. She says had UK Credit completed proper checks it 
wouldve realised the loan was unaffordable to her in the event she had to make 
repayments.
UK Credit looked into Mrs Vs complaint, and felt it had approved her as guarantor 
responsibly. It says it got her informed consent to agree to be a guarantor. It says it 
completed proportionate checks. UK Credit completed an income check, which it verified via 
a payslip. They also completed a credit check and an expenses check. UK Credit says these 
checked showed Mrs V was running her accounts well with no adverse information on her 
credit report, and that she had disposable income each month which covered the loan 
amount.
It says based on this information UK Credits decision to approve Mrs V as a guarantor was 
a reasonable one.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and recommended that it be upheld. He felt that 
UK Credit shouldve completed further checks at the time of the application. This was 
because he felt based on the size and length of the loan that UK Credit shouldve got a 
thorough understanding of Mrs Vs financial circumstances. 
He argued that had UK Credit done this it wouldve seen Mrs Vs income varied; and that 
she only had a remaining disposable income of approximately £370 to cover the loan of 
£348. He felt this wasnt sustainable and therefore Mrs V shouldnt have been approved.
As no agreement could be reached, the matter has been passed to me to issue a final 
decision on.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mrs Vs complaint. In relation to 
the rules, regulations, guidance and good industry practice, which applied at the time, there 
are four overarching questions which form our approach. These are:
1. Did UK Credit obtain Mrs Vs properly informed consent before binding her to the 
guarantee and indemnity agreement? 
2. Did UK Credit complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Mrs V to satisfy 
itself that she was in a position repay the loan in the event the borrower did not? 
If so, did it make a fair decision? If not, would those checks have shown that Mrs V would have been able to do 
so?
3. Did UK Credit complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that the 
borrower would be able to repay this loan in a sustainable way? 
If so, did it make a fair lending decision? 
If not, would those checks have shown that the borrower would have been able to 
do so? 
4. Did UK Credit act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way? 
For reasons that will become apparent further on I have not addressed all the questions Ive 
set out. Instead, Ive started by considering whether UK Credit completed reasonable and 
proportionate checks on Mrs V to satisfy itself that she was in apposition to make the 
payments to this loan in the event she had to.
Did UK Credit complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Mrs V to satisfy itself that 
she was in a position repay the loan in the event the borrower did not? 
UK Credit needed to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to be able to understand 
if Mrs V would be able to make the loan payments in the event she had to. Essentially this 
meant that it needed to conduct similar affordability checks on Mrs V to those reasonably 
expected for the borrower. 
The relevant rules dont set out which specific checks it has to complete for them to be 
reasonable and proportionate. But relevant checks could include things such as a 
customers income (over the full term of the loan), and their outgoing expenses. These 
checks should also be reasonable and proportionate to the amount of credit being provided 
including the total amount of credit, amount of repayments and total length of the term. 
UK Credit was required to ensure that Mrs V could sustainably meet the repayments without 
adversely affecting her financial position, should she be required to do so, given that she 
was equally liable with the borrower for this debt.
UK Credit says it completed a credit search, as well as an income and expenditure 
assessment on Mrs V. It says based on these checks, Mrs V had enough disposable income 
to meet the payments should she become liable to make them, and her credit file showed no 
adverse information it. It therefore says the loan repayments wouldve been affordable, and 
its decision to approve her as a guarantor was reasonable.
Ive considered what UK Credit has said about the affordability of the loan based on the 
checks it completed, but ultimately, I disagree these checks were proportionate in this 
instance. 
I say this because the size and length of the loan which Mrs V was guarantor was £10,000 
with 60 monthly repayments of effectively £350. That is a large amount of money to 
guarantee, and as such in this instance, I would expect a lender to complete a thorough 
review of Mrs Vs financial circumstances to ensure she could make repayments in the event 
she needed to. 
I accept that UK Credit asked for a payslip to verify Mrs Vs income; however, I dont think 
this was proportionate enough. Im satisfied based on the size of the loan, UK Credit ought 
to have verified Mrs Vs income further, but also importantly verified her outgoings to ensure 
the repayments were affordable should she be required to make the payments. So, based on this Im not satisfied UK Credit completed reasonable and proportionate checks before 
approving Mrs V as a guarantor.
If UK Credit didnt complete reasonable and proportionate checks, would those checks have 
shown that Mrs V would have been able to make any potential repayments in a sustainable 
way?
As Ive set out above, I dont think UK Credit completed reasonable and proportionate 
checks, and it shouldve done more. It couldve done this by requesting Mrs Vs bank 
statements. 
Mrs V has provided our service with bank statements leading up to the time the borrower 
applied for the loan. Ive reviewed these statements, and they show that Mrs Vs income 
significantly during the time leading up to the application. I appreciate UK Credit asked for a 
payslip before approving Mrs V as a guarantor which showed her income at approximately 
£1,400. UK Credit says this wouldve left a disposable income of approximately £550 per 
month in the event she needed to make any repayments.
However, a further review of her statements shows this income level was not a stable 
amount. In particular I can see the months before this payslip, Mrs V earnt £1,025 and 
approximately £1,160 respectively. This is a significant variation on the payslip that Mrs V 
provided and has an impact on the amount of disposable income Mrs V would have in the 
event she needed to make the repayments. 
As UK Credit is aware, it needs to be satisfied the guarantor can make any potential 
repayments in a sustainable way. This means meeting payments without undue difficulty or 
without having to borrow further money. I think the information from Mrs Vs bank statements 
show she was unlikely to meet any potential repayments sustainably.
In particular on the months where she earnt just over £1,000, Mrs V wouldve had a deficit of 
money, meaning she wouldve either had to borrow further or enter into financial difficulties 
in order to meet the repayments. Im satisfied this means that Mrs V wouldve likely been 
unable to meet all the potential repayments sustainably. 
As Ive already found that Mrs V shouldnt have been accepted as a guarantor on for this 
loan as I think proportionate checks would more likely than not have shown that shed be 
unable to sustainably make the payments in the event she had to, I dont think that any 
findings that I may make in relation to the remaining questions, will materially affect Mrs Vs 
position. 
As such while I note the findings that our investigator made, I make no finding on whether 
UK Credit obtained Mrs Vs properly informed consent to the agreement or on whether it 
acted fairly and reasonably towards the borrower when deciding to provide this loan. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right I require UK Credit Limited to:
To release Mrs V from any obligations she has under the guaranty and indemnity 
agreement, and then terminate it;To refund any repayments Mrs V has made towards the loan with 8% simple interest 
from the date of payment to the date of settlement; 
To remove any information recorded on Mrs Vs credit file as a result of the loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires UK Credit Limited to take off tax from this interest. UK 
Credit Limited must give Mrs V a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks 
for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2020.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman