DRN-4395753
The complaint
Mr R has complained that Pinnacle Insurance Plc (trading as Cardiff Pinnacle) has cancelled 
his mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Pinnacle wrote to Mr R in June 2023 informing him that the policy would be cancelled on 31 
October 2023. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint because Pinnacle had made a business 
decision to withdraw this policy and had provided Mr R with sufficient notice of the 
cancellation, in line with the policy terms and conditions. 
Mr R disagrees with the investigators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Pinnacle has taken a decision to withdraw its mortgage PPI product altogether. So, it doesnt 
just affect Mr R, it affects all other existing policyholders.
Pinnacle is entitled to take a view on whether it wishes to continue to offer certain products 
and this service would not normally involve itself in the commercial decisions of a business 
in deciding to offer or withdraw particular products. Im only looking at whether Pinnacle has 
acted fairly and reasonably in the way that it has undertaken the cancellation.
Under the terms of the policy, it states that Pinnacle must give 90 days advance notice of 
the termination of the policy. Based on the available evidence, Im satisfied that it did this.
Mr R is over 60 and says hes been put in a position of being unable to find replacement 
cover or cover at a reasonable cost. He says he wasnt told at the time he purchased the 
policy, at the age of 45, that it could be cancelled at any time. Hed like another policy to be 
found for him or to be compensated for the cancellation.
Pinnacle wasnt the seller of the policy. Based on the available information, it was his 
mortgage lender that sold him the PPI. The cancellation clause is a common term in 
insurance policies and so I wouldnt necessarily expect the seller to draw it to his particular 
attention. Mr R would need to address any complaint about the policy being mis-sold to the 
seller. However, the deadline for making a mis-sale complaint has now passed.
As already mentioned, Pinnacle has withdrawn the policy and applied the cancellation 
across all of its remaining customers. And it has done so in accordance with the terms and 
conditions, so I dont think it needs to provide compensation. It provided enough notice for 
people to have time to source alternative cover, although I appreciate that this is harder for 
Mr R than it might be for others.
I do have sympathy for Mr Rs situation and understand why he is concerned about the 
policy being cancelled, because he has just under three years of his mortgage left to run. But 
Pinnacle hasnt singled him out. I appreciate the impact for Mr R could potentially be greater 
than for others. However, as it has applied the withdrawal across all of its customers, Im 
unable to conclude that it has treated him unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2023. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman