DRN-3733505
The complaint
Mr R has complained about a second charge loan he held with Amalgamated Finance 
Limited. He says he believed hed repaid the loan in June 2015 and he wasnt told there was 
still £350 outstanding. He says he only found out in 2021 when he was selling his property, 
and by then the debt had increased significantly.
What happened
Mr R took out this loan over ten years ago with a predecessor lender. He was struggling 
financially and so borrowed the money to get himself back on track.
In December 2014 the loan was passed to Amalgamated Finance and Mr R continued to 
make his payments, with him making his last payment in June 2015. Mr R said he believed 
his loan was fully repaid at this point.
Mr R has said he didnt hear anything from Amalgamated Finance to the contrary and it was 
only when he was selling his property in 2021 that he discovered the lender still had a 
charge on his property with the Land Registry.
He contacted Amalgamated Finance and was told hed missed the final payment of £350 
which was due in July 2015, and that with the addition of interest since then the debt now 
stood at around £2,600 plus a £1,000 exit fee.
In March 2021 Mr R paid the full sum so his house sale could proceed and then raised a 
complaint with Amalgamated Finance in June 2021.
As he didnt receive a response from Amalgamated Finance despite chasing it up, Mr R 
referred his complaint to our service in August 2021.
We contacted Amalgamated Finance in August 2021 to let it know we had the complaint and 
to ask for a copy of its business file. This was chased in September 2021, with our case 
handler then receiving two voicemail messages from the lender saying that the complaint 
was time barred due to the events in question taking place over six years ago.
I issued a decision about our jurisdiction in August 2022. In that I said we can consider this 
complaint right back to the event complained of in 2015:
We arent free to deal with every complaint we receive. Were bound by our rules, and 
those rules flow from legislation, specifically the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. 
The rules set out the types of complaints we can look at. Those rules are maintained by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and are published in the FCAs Handbook, under the 
heading DISP.
Section 2 of DISP sets out the jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service. It covers 
such things as who is bringing the complaint, what its about, which business its about and 
time limits on how long after a person becomes aware of a problem they can wait before 
complaining about it.
Our investigator said we could only consider matters from September 2018 as that was 
when she believed Amalgamated Finance came under our jurisdiction. Having looked into 
this in some detail, Ive found a record of Amalgamated Finance coming into our 
compulsory jurisdiction on 1 April 2014 (previously it came under a more specialist 
consumer credit jurisdiction).
To explain; on 1 April 2014 a regulation change meant that the FCA took over the 
regulation of all consumer credit activities. It became mandatory for firms wishing to 
continue operating what were the former consumer credit activities to be authorised by the 
FCA. That also resulted in complaints about those activities being included in our 
compulsory jurisdiction.
Bringing those businesses into our compulsory jurisdiction enabled our service to consider 
a wider range of complaints about regulated activities. This included being able to look at 
lending secured by a charge on [land] and activities ancillary to the lending from 1 April 
2014.
Irrespective of what the original loan agreement was (even if it was unregulated), if it was 
secured by a charge on land that means we can consider events if the lender was in our 
compulsory jurisdiction.
Amalgamated Finance took over the debt in December 2014 and was in our compulsory 
jurisdiction at that time. As this was lending secured by a charge on land that means I can 
consider a complaint relating to the events of July 2015, and what happened since then. 
For completeness, Ive also considered what Amalgamated Finance said about the time 
limits, even though it never provided the further information we requested. Our rules say 
that where a business doesnt consent to us looking at a complaint, we cant consider it if 
its been brought;
more than six years after the event complained of; or, if later
more than three years after the consumer ought reasonably to have become aware 
they had cause to complain.
If the complaints been brought within those time limits a written acknowledgement of it 
needs to have been received. The rules allow me to disregard the time limits if I think 
exceptional circumstances prevented a consumer complaining within them. If the time 
limits werent met, and there were no exceptional circumstances as to why the complaint 
wasnt brought in time, then we cant consider it.
Having looked at everything Im satisfied that we can consider this complaint. The event 
being complained about is that Amalgamated Finance didnt notify Mr R that he needed to 
make a payment in July 2015 to redeem this loan. So that is the point the six-year time limit 
starts from, which takes us until July 2021.
Mr R has provided us with copies of the emails he sent to Amalgamated Finance and I can 
see one dated 17 June 2021 which states it is a complaint. I can also see from Mr Rs 
emails before then, in March 2021, that he was clearly dissatisfied and there was reference 
to some phone calls. As Mr R raised the complaint within six years of the event complained 
of  that is, not being notified in July 2015 that he still had one payment to make  then Im 
satisfied this complaint was made in time.Even if it hadnt been raised within the six-year time limit, Amalgamated Finance hasnt 
provided any evidence to show Mr R would have been aware of a cause to complain 
before 2021 as the whole basis of this complaint is that Mr R wasnt aware the payment 
was outstanding. Based on everything Ive seen, Mr R wouldnt have known  and 
shouldnt ought reasonably to have known  about the July 2015 payment before 2021 and 
so the complaint was also raised within the three-year part of the rule. 
Being raised within either part of the rule would have been enough (as the rule is the later 
of the two), and here Im satisfied Mr R raised the complaint within both parts of the rule.
I then issued a provisional decision in September 2022 giving my thoughts on the outcome 
of the complaint, the findings of which said:
It isnt in dispute that Mr R still owed £350 in July 2015. It also isnt in dispute that 
Amalgamated Finance didnt notify Mr R of that either at that time, or in the subsequent 
years. Im satisfied that the first Mr R knew of the amount outstanding was in 2021 when he 
was selling his property and found Amalgamated Finances charge was still secured on it. 
Amalgamated Finance has a responsibility to pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and to treat them fairly, and part of that would be notifying customers of 
outstanding sums owed, especially where interest was being incurred on the sum. Due to 
Amalgamated Finance not making contact with Mr R the £350 became around £2,600 with 
the addition of interest over the years.
Ive no reason to believe Mr R wouldnt have paid the £350 in July 2015 if Amalgamated 
Finance had notified him that the payment was outstanding as he had no reason not to 
make the payment to bring the loan to an end.
Having considered everything Im satisfied Amalgamated Finance should have notified 
Mr R of the outstanding payment, and had it done so Mr R would have made the payment 
at the time.
For that reason Im currently minded to uphold this complaint, and order Amalgamated 
Finance Limited to refund to Mr R all the interest he incurred between July 2015 and when 
he made the payment in March 2021.
I closed by saying I was minded to order Amalgamated Finance Limited to:
Refund to Mr R all the interest he incurred between July 2015 and the date he made 
the payment in March 2021 - a sum I understand to be £2,338.09; and
add simple annual interest of 8%* on that sum from the date the payment was made 
in March 2021 to the date of settlement.
Mr R accepted my provisional findings. Amalgamated Finance made further submissions 
over a phone call and a few emails.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The director of Amalgamated Finance has said that somebody has forged his signature, 
which he says is a criminal matter and needs to be reported to the police.If the director of Amalgamated Finance feels a criminal offence has been committed then he 
is free to report that to the police himself, we wouldnt do that for him. It isnt clear what 
signature he feels has been forged, but if it relates to the signature on the DS1 form then an 
email trail has been provided to us by Mr R which indicates the form was supplied 
(completed and signed) to Mr R by Amalgamated Finance on 8 March 2021 upon receipt of 
£3,688.09 from Mr R. 
Having considered everything, Ive not been provided anything to indicate that Mr R didnt 
pay that sum to Amalgamated Finance on 5 March 2021, or that the DS1 form was forged by 
Mr R (or a party acting on his behalf). 
Amalgamated Finance has questioned whether it is responsible for this complaint, and 
whether we have the correct authority to deal with it.
Unfortunately neither party was able to provide us with the loan agreement for the debt were 
considering here. Mr R provided us with a copy of a different loan agreement from 
December 2008 which hed taken out with a lender Ill call C. It seems that loan was taken 
out to repay some debts so Mr Rs bankruptcy could be annulled, and the loan agreement 
states the repayment date to be three months after the loan was drawn down. 
Whilst we cant say for sure what happened after that, it seems most likely that a 
replacement loan was taken out with lender C over a 16-year term as the information held by 
the Land Registry indicates the charge in question was placed on Mr Rs property on 2 April 
2009. The Land Registry also has it recorded that the Proprietor of the charge changed on 
16 December 2014 to Amalgamated Finance.
Having considered everything Im satisfied Amalgamated Finance was the lender from 
16 December 2014, it was in our compulsory jurisdiction at this time, and that even if this 
debt wasnt a regulated credit agreement, it was still lending money secured by a charge on 
land. For that reason, it is responsible for this complaint and any redress that flows from 
that.
Even if I were to agree that Amalgamated Finance was simply acting as an agent for lender 
C, then wed still be able to consider this complaint against Amalgamated Finance and the 
outcome would remain the same. Ill explain why. 
The rules which set out the complaints our service can consider are found in the Dispute 
Resolution (DISP) section in the FCAs handbook. DISP 2.3 says that our service can 
consider a complaint if it relates to an act or omission by a firm carrying on a regulated 
activity. 
The Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001 sets out the 
list of regulated activities referred to in DISP. Among the regulated activities listed is debt 
administration and debt collection. 
Having considered Amalgamated Finances arguments that it was simply acting as an agent 
of lender C, and the activities that Amalgamated would have been carrying out in relation to 
this debt in that capacity, Im satisfied that the event Mr R has complained about is an 
activity that forms part of administering the loan or collecting payments, and therefore is a 
matter we can consider against Amalgamated Finance. It doesnt matter that lender C is 
unregulated, or that the loan may be unregulated  the regulated activities of debt 
administration and debt collection include all situations where a firm administers a loan on 
behalf of the lender, regulated or not.Amalgamated Finance has suggested that because Mr Rs wife jointly owns the property that 
we need her to be a party to this complaint. Its also suggested that we may not have the 
correct authority to deal with this complaint from Mr R either (as his son has been 
representing him). It is up to this service to satisfy ourselves that a complaint has been 
brought by an eligible complainant, and to decide whether we need another party to join, or 
proof that the third-party authority is valid.
Our rules only require a complaint to be made by an eligible complainant. It is a matter for 
the ombudsmans discretion whether they choose to proceed with just one eligible 
complainant where there might possibly be more. And I say possibly here because thats all 
it is. 
It isnt in dispute that Mr Rs wife jointly owns the property, but that doesnt  in itself  make 
her an eligible complainant under our rules. The eligible complainant is the one that was a 
customer in this transaction (that is, the one that held the loan), and the only loan agreement 
we have a copy of was in Mr Rs sole name, so weve no evidence to support that Mr Rs 
wife would be an eligible complainant in any event. And even if she is, Im satisfied I can 
fairly decide this complaint without her joining it, and therefore I am not invoking my 
discretionary power to choose to dismiss this complaint. 
Im also satisfied that Mr Rs son is acting on behalf of Mr R, with his knowledge and 
agreement, and Ive no reason to order that any further checks be completed, or a letter of 
authority from a solicitor be provided.
I now turn to the arguments Amalgamated Finance has made in respect of the underlying 
merits of this complaint. It has said, in summary:
Mr R would have been notified there was a sum outstanding.
If Mr R objected to the payment, why did he make it? Mr R made the payment on the 
basis it was in full and final settlement of the debt and Amalgamated Finance 
wouldnt have accepted payment with any reservations attached to it. Mr Rs solicitor 
could have held the money pending resolution of the dispute.
Mr R stopped paying without asking for a certificate of satisfaction, a redemption 
statement, or confirmation of the removal of the charge.
Amalgamated Finance has said that Mr R would have been notified there was a sum 
outstanding, but unfortunately it has provided no evidence to support that, which is why this 
complaint was upheld. As I said in my provisional decision, Ive no reason to believe Mr R 
wouldnt have paid the outstanding sum at the time if hed been notified there was a sum 
outstanding. Amalgamated Finance has had since March 2021 when Mr R first queried this 
to provide something to show he was notified of the outstanding debt, and it hasnt done so.
Mr R made the payment because Amalgamated Finance wouldnt release the charge unless 
he paid the full amount it said was due, and the charge needed to be released because he 
was selling the property. Mr Rs solicitor couldnt have held the money pending the resolution 
of this dispute as the charge wouldnt have been removed, so the property sale would have 
fallen through. Theres no evidence that Amalgamated Finance offered to release the charge 
in return for the funds being held by the solicitor at the time. 
It isnt in dispute that Mr R didnt make the final payment, but the reason why this complaint 
has been upheld is that theres no evidence to show that Mr R knew he hadnt paid in full, 
that Amalgamated Finance contacted Mr R about the remaining debt, and instead it simply 
added on interest until Mr R got in touch.Under the Financial Conduct Authoritys high level principles, Amalgamated Finance must 
pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly and pay due regard to 
the information needs of its clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is 
clear, fair and not misleading. These apply to all activities of a regulated firm, whether or not 
the product  the loan in this case  is itself regulated.
I dont think Amalgamated Finance treated Mr R fairly, or met his information needs, when it 
didnt notify him of the outstanding debt and instead simply continued to add interest onto 
that sum. Im satisfied that if Amalgamated Finance had communicated with him as it should 
have done in 2015 he would have repaid the remaining balance at that time, and subsequent 
interest would not have been added.
Putting things right
For all the reasons given, I uphold this complaint and order Amalgamated Finance Limited 
to:
Refund to Mr R all the interest he incurred between July 2015 and the date he made 
the payment in March 2021 - a sum I understand to be £2,338.09; and
add simple annual interest of 8%* on that sum from the date the payment was made 
in March 2021 to the date of settlement.
* Amalgamated Finance may deduct income tax from this element of my award, if it 
considers it should do so. But it should give Mr R the necessary paperwork for him to reclaim 
the tax from HMRC if hes entitled to do so, if he asks for it.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and order Amalgamated Finance Limited to pay redress as Ive set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman