DRN-3478504
The complaint
Mrs B has complained that Tesco Personal Finance Plc (Tesco Bank) has unfairly 
declined her claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
Mr and Mrs B had an existing membership with C and were invited to Tenerife for a free 
holiday on condition that they attend a welcome meeting. As a result of this meeting Mr 
and Mrs B purchased a one-year Prestige membership for a total cost of £8,000.99 in 
September 2011. Mrs B paid £2,459.99 on her Tesco Bank credit card and the balance 
was funded by a bank transfer, again from her account. As Mrs B part paid on her credit 
card (giving rise to a potential s.75 claim) the complaint is in her name and Ill refer 
throughout to Mrs B.
Mrs B says the welcome meeting which took place was a high pressure meeting where 
the sales representatives wanted almost instant decisions. Shes said her main incentive 
to purchase the membership was that she was told shed receive a guaranteed cashback 
payment of £5,750 after 36 months which never materialised. Mrs B also received a 
voucher entitling her to seven nights free accommodation for up to four people and two 
return flights of up to £50 per flight.
Mrs B has said she was told they would receive cheap holidays and be able to use the 
membership to travel anywhere in the world. However, when Mrs B booked flights to 
India she says she found the cost to be no different to what she couldve sourced 
independently and when she tried to book flights to the Maldives she was told this 
destination wasnt covered.
As Mrs B paid on her Tesco Bank credit card she asked Tesco Bank to refund the 
full purchase price, as she felt Tesco Bank was jointly liable for any breach of 
contract or misrepresentation under s.75 CCA.
Tesco Bank considered her claim but declined it. Initially, Tesco Bank didnt agree Mrs B 
had the correct debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) relationship in place to make a s.75 claim. 
This was because Mrs B paid another company, Ill call S, using her credit card and not C 
directly. Tesco Bank subsequently concluded that due to the relationship between C and 
S, the DCS relationship remained intact. (This will be explored further in this decision.) 
However, Tesco Bank still didnt uphold her claim. It argued that Mrs B had taken out a 
one-year membership and based on her testimony, had utilised this. Any further 
membership wouldve been a new contract requiring additional payment and so Tesco 
Bank could not be held liable as a result of her initial credit card payment. In addition, 
Tesco Bank said Mrs B was unable to demonstrate any reasons for failing the cashback 
promotion or how she initially registered for it. Unhappy with Tesco Banks response, 
Mrs B referred her complaint to our service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and upheld it. To summarise, they also 
thought the right DCS relationship was in place and they thought that the benefits of the 
membership and the cashback incentive had been misrepresented to Mrs B. They 
concluded that if it had been made clear to Mrs B that there were no guarantees of 
discounts on flights and accommodation through her one-year membership, its unlikely 
she would have spent just over £8,000 to purchase it. In addition, they concluded that the 
cashback had been presented to Mrs B in a way that suggested it was guaranteed.
Tesco Bank disagreed with the investigator. It argued that what represents good value to 
one person isnt necessarily good value to another as this is a very subjective test. And 
that there is no conclusive evidence to show Mrs B wouldnt have paid this for her 
membership, which she used when travelling to India. In addition, Tesco Bank reiterated 
that Mrs B was unable to demonstrate any reasons for failing the cashback promotion or 
how she initially registered for it. As an agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint 
has been passed to me for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision in April 2022 where I explained that I was minded to uphold 
the complaint. I have included an extract of my provisional decision below, anonymising the 
various businesses referenced which arent party to the complaint.
There are a number of parties who were involved either in the purchase of this 
membership or what was provided as part of the purchase. Therefore, I think it would 
be beneficial to set out which businesses Mrs B contracted with and on what basis  
and if this is something Tesco Bank should have considered given the relationships 
between the parties. If I think it should have, Ill then go on to consider if Mrs B has a 
course of action against any of these businesses for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation. And finally, if I think it does, Ill think about whether Tesco Bank 
has properly considered the claim.
C Membership
Ive reviewed a copy of Mrs Bs membership agreement. This details Mrs B 
purchased Prestige 1 Year Membership for a total cost of £8,0001. The copy I have 
is of a poor quality and I cant see any branding or details to indicate who sold the 
membership to Mrs B (to determine if this was C direct or a third party.) However, I 
have noted that Mrs B has signed this document to:
confirm that the details provided are accurate and correct, and that I have fully 
read, understand and agree to the terms and conditions attached hereto
Having reviewed the accompanying terms and conditions (which are also difficult to 
read in part, particularly on the left-hand side of the page) I can see under the 
section entitled Liability it says:
1. I understand that the company who contract with ourselves is an 
independent entity to C
It goes on to say:
contract is with A whose business address is
and further on:
I/we understand that A is an independent intermediate for C.
1 Ive noted this is slightly different to the total paid (£8,000.99). However, given the difference is marginal, this doesnt 
impact on my findings. I will consider the actual amount paid when awarding any redress where applicable.In addition to the above terms, Ive summarised below what I think are the other key 
terms of the membership agreement. As Ive detailed above, the copy I have is of a 
poor quality but below is what Ive been able to conclude from the document.
Under the heading C Terms and Conditions of Membership it explains that Prestige 
membership is administered by C. It says 28 days prior to the expiry of the one-year 
contract, C will contact Prestige members about entering a new contract. It also 
outlines that C will endeavour to ensure the membership benefits are available and 
will dispatch the membership documents. Under the heading Services it sets out 
the services offered by C and its liability to its members. I think its key to highlight 
here that A isnt mentioned in this section. Most notably it says that C can withdraw 
any of the services at any time.
Under the section entitled Liability (and in addition to the quoted terms above) it 
states C will use its best endeavours to provide the services with reasonable care and 
attention. It states that C is solely responsible for the membership and disputes 
relating to this are against C. A accepts no liability in relation to the members 
entitlements and C can vary the terms and conditions. There are also additional 
sections which summarise the benefits including the additional benefits the 
membership offers.
I think its clear from the above terms that Mrs B had a contract with C to supply her 
with C membership. All the terms and conditions relate to what C was providing and 
as Ive explained above A isnt mentioned within services section of the terms and 
conditions. C was responsible for the membership and resolving disputes, providing 
membership documents, availability of the membership benefits and so on. 
Furthermore, the contract seeks to exclude A from any liability relating to the 
membership entitlements.
However, the terms make it clear that Mrs B has also contracted with A (who it states 
is separate from C) on some basis otherwise theres no reason for A to be referred to 
in the documentation. Typically, the agreement would set out the role of A on it, but 
thats not been done on the copy Ive seen. However, my understanding is that C 
used various third parties to market and sell its memberships as C didnt typically 
market directly to customers. Im also aware that A operated as a marketeer for C, 
speaking with potential customers and selling memberships on behalf of C. So I think 
its most likely thats what happened here  A acted as agent for C to market and sell 
Cs membership to Mrs B.
Taking all this into consideration, I think that when Mrs B took out her membership 
she entered into two contracts at the same time. I think she contracted with A directly 
to procure her membership. And, I think its also clear that Mrs B contracted with C to 
supply the membership. But Mrs B didnt have any direct dealings with C so the only 
way it couldve entered a contract with C was through the use of an agent  A.
So to summarise, I think A marketed the membership, together with other associated 
benefits. But the actual membership and associated benefits were then supplied by 
C.
Ill now consider whether or not Mrs B has a valid s.75 claim in relation to either 
of these contracts.
Do these contracts meet the requirements for a s.75 CCA claim?
Section 75 makes the provider of credit (Tesco Bank in this case) equally liable where there is a case of misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier of 
the goods or services. For s.75 to apply there are several criteria that need to be met, 
one of which is a valid a debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) agreement between the 
parties (this is set out more fully in s.11(b) and s.12(b) CCA). However, to 
summarise, there needs to be arrangements in place so that the supplier of goods or 
services is paid using the credit card.
As explained above, the payment Mrs B made using her credit card wasnt made 
directly to A, it was paid to another party  S. Taking the example of the contract 
directly between Mrs B and A to procure the membership, I would need to see that 
there were sufficient arrangements in place between S and A to allow the DCS to 
remain intact. One way this could be achieved is if S and A were associates 
(outlined in s.184 and s.187 CCA). Section 184 CCA sets out the various definitions of 
associates and includes circumstances involving two body corporates. It says that a 
body corporate can be an associate of another body corporate if they are controlled 
by the same person/people.
Section 189 CCA defines controller as is essentially someone who wields control 
over a body corporate either by being able to instruct the directors on 
actions/decisions to take or who has over one third voting power at a general 
meeting.
I have seen a copy of a trust deed which dated 10 August 2010 which names a 
person Ill call R as the sole beneficial owner of A. Ive also had sight of Spanish 
company records from October 2010. This details that S commenced operations 
on 10 September 2010 and its sole shareholder was also R. I think this is sufficient 
to demonstrate that these two body corporates were associates at the time Mrs B 
took out the membership (and associated benefits) through the connection of R.
So all this means that when considering the contract with A to procure 
membership, I dont think the payment being made to S breaks the DCS. And so 
Tesco Bank would need to consider a potential claim arising from this contract.
However, with regards to the contract with C to provide the ongoing membership and 
associated benefits, I still dont think there is DCS despite A and S being associates. 
This is because Ive seen nothing to suggest that either party are associates of C. 
Furthermore in 2011 the Secretary of State for Business, Innovation and Skills 
petitioned the High Court for C to be wound up (the Petition). C was one of a 
number of linked companies who were subsequently wound up in October 2012, 
however, neither S or A were named in that petition. So because Ive not seen the 
types of arrangements I need to involving C, I dont think Tesco Bank needs to 
answer a claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation about the underlying 
membership which was supplied by C in relation to this contact.
Breach of contract and misrepresentation
As Ive explained above, Mrs B does meet the requirements for a like claim in 
relation to the contract she made with A directly to procure membership. However, 
from everything I can see A provided her with the membership which is what it was 
required to do. So Ive seen nothing to suggest A breached its contract with Mrs B.
Mrs B has said that she didnt get what was promised through the membership. As 
explained above, shes said she was promised cheap holidays and that she would be 
able to use the membership to travel anywhere in the world. However, shes said 
when she booked a trip to India it was no cheaper than what she couldve obtained without the membership. Shes also said she tried to book a trip to the Maldives, but 
found this destination wasnt included. Mrs B is therefore arguing that A 
misrepresented the membership to her. So Ive considered the representations and 
whether I think this is something which needs to be considered further by Tesco Bank.
I dont doubt that Mrs B has provided her honest recollections the sale. However, Mrs 
B hasnt presented any supporting evidence to show that these representations were 
untrue. For example, shes not provided anything to demonstrate she couldnt book a 
holiday to the Maldives or that the trip to India didnt attract the discounts she was told 
it would. And whilst Mrs B was able to find a particular holiday package was cheaper 
elsewhere, this doesnt mean that C didnt offer some form of discount on the full 
price. So, based on what Ive seen, I cant conclude that A misrepresented the 
membership to Mrs B.
The cashback incentive
Its clear that the membership terms Ive detailed above dont include everything 
which was agreed when Mrs B took out her membership. This is because theres 
nothing in these terms which relate to the cashback incentive. Ive therefore needed 
to carefully consider everything Mrs B has told us about it and all the other evidence 
available to determine what was agreed.
Mrs B has said her main incentive to purchase the membership was the that she 
was guaranteed a cashback payment of £5,750 after 36 months. Shes provided a 
document which shes signed and which is dated the same date as the 
membership agreement. It states that it is agreed that [Mr and Mrs B] have 
applied for new C Prestige membership. It then details the European Freestay 
Travel Vouchers before detailing the cashback incentive:
a E certificate of £5,750 has been awarded to you  redeemable in either 59 or 
36 months depending on the terms and conditions of todays Cashback offer.
It goes on to say that the cashback incentive:
is subject to terms and conditions imposed by E. E accepts full liability with 
regard to the settlement of your cashback claim.C are not liable with regards 
to your Cashback clam and any dispute regarding your Cashback Certificate will 
be between yourselves and E.
The following two pages detail a number of declarations relating to the cashback 
cheque payment and a manual registration form for the cashback incentive.
I think its clear from everything Ive seen that the cashback incentive was only 
available as a result of taking out the Prestige membership (marketed by A) and so 
was linked to that membership. I therefore think its most likely that A procured Mrs 
Bs enrolment to the cashback incentive alongside procuring the membership (and 
other associated benefits). Mrs Bs testimony is consistent with this. Shes said that 
the cashback was her main incentive for taking out the Prestige membership 
(suggesting it was presented to her as one package) and that this was sold to her by 
A. And this is supported by the membership agreement and documentation relating to 
the cashback being signed on the same day. In addition, as described above, the 
initial payment for the membership (and associated benefits) was made to S who was 
an associate of A and Ive not seen anything to suggest S was also an associate of C 
or E.So I think a similar process took place with the cashback as it did with the 
membership. Mrs B had a contract directly with A to procure her membership and 
procure her enrolment into the cashback incentive. However, A wasnt responsible 
for the administration of the cashback incentive or the eventual payment. The 
limited terms I have available show that E was responsible for paying the cashback 
sum and the cashback was subject to the terms and conditions imposed by E. 
Therefore, I think Mrs B also had a contract with E who ran cashback incentive. 
However, as I cant see that she had direct contact with E the only way she 
couldve contracted with it is through the use of an agent  A.
So to summarise, I think A procured Mrs Bs enrolment into the cashback incentive. 
But the actual cashback incentive was supplied by E.
Do these contracts meet the requirements for a s.75 CCA claim?
As Ive explained above, the payment for the membership (and associated benefits 
including the cashback incentive) was made to S. And whilst I think S and A were 
associates I havent seen anything to suggest either were associates of E. So in 
relation to the contract with E to supply the cashback incentive, I dont think theres 
DCS relationship in place. So I dont think Mrs B meets the requirements for a s.75 
CCA claim in relation to that contract. Turning to the contract Mrs B made directly with 
A to procure enrolment into the cashback incentive, I think there is DCS (through A 
and S being associates). So I think Tesco Bank does need to consider a claim in 
relation to this which Ive gone on to consider below.
Breach of contract and misrepresentation
The contract between Mrs B and A to procure enrolment into the cashback incentive 
was to do just that  facilitate her enrolment. I dont think it was As responsibly 
administer the incentive or pay any future payments. But I think it did need to give her 
information about how to enrol (or facilitate this with E) to fulfil its obligations under 
the contract. And from everything Ive seen, I think it did this. Mrs B has said she was 
able to register online for the cashback. Shes also provided a copy with documents 
about the cashback incentive (detailed above and dated the same date as the 
membership agreement) and a manual registration form. So I think its most likely A 
met its obligations and therefore it didnt breach the contract.
Ill now consider Mrs Bs arguments that A misrepresented the cashback to her. In 
order to agree theres been a qualifying misrepresentation I would need to conclude 
that A told Mrs B something that was untrue during the sale or sale negotiations (as 
per s.56 CCA). And that this statement induced Mrs B into entering the contract  in 
other words its unlikely Mrs B wouldve still entered the contract if this statement 
hadnt been made.
Mrs B has said she was told the cashback incentive was guaranteed and that this 
was her main incentive to purchase the membership. Mrs B has also provided a 
document which details various payment options available to fund the membership. 
The document is titled CLIENTS SUMMARY and lists the departure date of 2 
October. Under the first option which is hand written on the document, it details loan 
options for funding the membership. The relevant figures have also been added by 
hand. It then goes on to detail the second option which is titled ALTERNATIVE 
OPTION and was to self-fund the membership without taking out a loan. On the 
document it looks like the second option was selected which is consistent with how 
Mrs B chose to fund the membership.As explained, this document was designed to explore and breakdown the various 
ways of funding the membership. So I think its clear that this was a sales document 
Mrs B (the client) was taken through when she purchased the membership. And 
given that I think it was A who sold the membership to Mrs B, I think its most likely 
that A completed this document with Mrs B as part of the sale.
Looking at the second option (which was the one selected) it details the cost of the 
membership (£8,000) with notes next to it saying £2,400 paid and £5,600 to pay. This 
is broadly consistent with the initial payment Mrs B paid on her credit card at the time 
she took out the membership and the balance outstanding which she subsequently 
paid through a bank transfer. It then goes on to detail the cashback certificate of 
£5,750 with a 36 month term and then circled just below this is Total £2250. £2,250 
is the difference between the overall cost of £8,000 for the membership and the 
cashback incentive of £5,750. I accept there are other calculations on this document 
(predominately when addressing the loan calculations) that arent completely clear. 
However, with regards to the option Mrs B selected, I think it is clear from this 
document that Mrs B was told the membership would cost was £8,000 minus the full 
cashback amount of £5,750 (totalling £2,250). And as Ive explained above this figure 
was circled on the document to give it prominence. This is also consistent with what 
Mrs B has told us about how the cashback incentive was presented to her.
So taking all of this into consideration, as I think A sold Mrs B the membership and 
associated benefits including the cashback incentive, I think its most likely A told Mrs 
B the cashback amount was guaranteed after the 36 month period. Ill now consider 
whether or not this statement was untrue.
As Ive explained above, in 2011 the Secretary of State for Business, Innovation and 
Skills petitioned for C and several other companies to be wound up (the Petition). 
Ive seen a copy of the Petition that was presented to the Court. It names a number 
of companies that were linked with the principal activity of selling membership to C. 
The Petition alleged that the companies were linked by the involvement of the same 
individuals, but the overall structure of the group was difficult to decipher and that 
meant the controlling parties had remained hidden. The Petition was presented on 
the basis these companies were involved in misleading customers, this included 
presenting a complex and potentially insolvent cashback incentive to customers. C 
was subsequently wound up by the Court in October 2012.
The Petition describes the cashback incentive requirements to retrieve any funds as 
onerous and calculated to ensure that only 32% of all applicants successfully register 
and can therefore expect to receive a payout. It was also estimated that a successful 
applicant would likely only receive around 17% of the voucher value due to the lower 
than required levels of funds that E held (and therefore as described above, the 
petition doubted the solvency of this incentive scheme). And when Mrs B came tried 
to claim she received nothing.
I think the information contained in this Petition makes it very clear that Mrs B was 
never likely to recover the full cashback sum as she was told. In fact, given that it 
was designed that only 32% of applicants could ever successfully register and so 
qualify for a small portion of the cashback sum, it was far more likely that she 
wouldnt receive any (or very limited) funds. So I think in presenting the cashback 
incentive as a guaranteed sum, A did make a statement which was untrue. Mrs B has 
told us that this induced her into taking out the membership and on the facts, I dont 
doubt this was the case. The cashback incentive would have resulted in a substantial 
saving of over 70% of the total cost being paid back to her, so I dont think she would 
have proceeded with the purchase if shed known this wasnt guaranteed.I appreciate, as Tesco Bank has argued, Mrs B hasnt evidenced she registered 
correctly for the cashback and is unable to provide a reason for why she was 
unsuccessful. Mrs B has said she was able to register, but when she came to claim 
she wasnt able to. She has speculated that this might be because after she struggled 
to submit a claim online, she tried to post a claim which may have been too late by 
this stage. However, I think her testimony is consistent with the grounds raised in the 
Petition regarding the cashback incentive. The Petition detailed that it was set up to 
make registration difficult, so only a third of applicants could successfully register, and 
that it was unlikely to have funds available to meet the potential claims. So I dont 
think its surprising that Mrs B wasnt able to successfully claim and cant provide 
clear evidence as to why.
So to summarise, I think A did misrepresent the cashback incentive to Mrs B  I 
think its most likely she was told shed receive the full cashback amount back 
during the sale, which wasnt true. I see that cashback was described as an 
incentive awarded to you (not available for purchase), so I think this was part and 
parcel of the package of things sold by A. It follows, I think this induced her into 
purchasing everything, including the membership and associated benefits. As 
Mrs B part paid for the membership (and associated benefits including the 
cashback) on her Tesco Bank credit card, Tesco Bank is jointly liable under s.75 for 
the misrepresentation made by A and I think the required DCS relationship is in 
place. So I think Tesco Bank should have upheld Mrs Bs claim and as such I dont 
think it fairly considered the claim.
I have noted that Mrs B has raised allegations of being pressured into taking out the 
membership (and associated benefits including the cashback). But as Im already 
upholding this complaint for other reasons, I dont intend to explore this issue further or 
reach a finding on it.
I invited both parties to provide anything either they would like me to consider before I reach 
a final decision. Neither party has provided anything further. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, as neither party has provided anything further, I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional findings. So it follows that for the reasons set out in my provisional 
decision (and repeated above) I think Tesco Bank should have upheld this claim and so I 
dont think it fairly considered the claim. 
Putting things right
Given I dont think Mrs B wouldve purchased the membership had the 
misrepresentation not induced her to do so, I think Tesco Bank should put Mrs B back 
in the position she wouldve been had she not purchased the membership. So Tesco 
Bank should:
Work out what Mrs B would owe on her credit card today, or at the date the card 
was closed if applicable, if she hadnt paid anything to S on 28 September 2011. 
So it needs to remove the £2,459.99 paid, plus any interest charged on that 
sum. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the payment being 
made to S, as well as any interest added to those charges.Tesco Bank should then pay Mrs B the difference between her credit card 
balance and what it would have been as worked out above.
If, when Tesco Bank works out what Mrs B would have owed without paying S, 
she paid more than she needed to because of the payments to S, Tesco Bank 
should also pay compensatory interest on the extra she paid. The interest rate 
is 8% per year simple from when the extra payment was made to the date of 
settlement.*
Pay Mrs B £5,541 for the balancing payment which was paid to a party Ill call H, 
by bank transfer on 18 November 2011, along with compensatory interest at the 
rate of 8% per year simple to the date of settlement.* My understanding is H is 
an accountancy firm associated with the timeshares industry. This payment is 
consistent with the amount outstanding to be paid under the contract after 
considering the total cost and the amount already paid. It was also paid around 
the time the final payment was due and Mrs B has highlighted this as being the 
balancing payment. So Im satisfied it is the correct payment.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Tesco Bank to take off tax from any compensatory interest awarded 
and it should let Mrs B know how much tax has been deducted.
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Bs complaint and direct Tesco Personal Finance Plc to put things right in the 
way Ive described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
 
Claire Lisle
Ombudsman
