DRN-3980667
The complaint
Mr S complains that Santander UK Plc blocked and then closed his account without notice. 
Hed like to be compensated for this.
What happened
Mr S held an account with Santander. He attempted to withdraw some money in branch to 
pay a builder, only to be told his account was blocked. He tried to find out what was 
happening but couldnt get any information.
Unhappy with this Mr S raised a complaint, but Santander didnt think theyd done anything 
wrong. They said they had certain legal and regulatory obligations to meet, and the block 
wasnt due to any mistakes on their part. They said they couldnt provide a reason why. 
Shortly after this Santander wrote to him to say his account had been closed, and a cheque 
was sent for the balance.
Mr S referred the complaint to our service. He said because he hadnt been able to withdraw 
the funds, hed received a charge from the builder. He said without access to money hed 
had to take a loan from a friend, and the whole situation had affected his mental health. He 
also said hed been sworn at in branch. Our investigator felt the complaint should be upheld 
in part  they said Santander were within their rights to block the account and withhold 
funds. They said the review had progressed in good time, and that the funds had been 
released to him in good time. They couldnt find that branch staff had been rude to Mr S. But 
they said they didnt think Santander had shown that they gave the correct notice when 
deciding to close the account. They awarded Mr S £50 in compensation for the stress this 
caused.
Santander accepted, but Mr S disagreed. He submitted further evidence on the effect on his 
health from his doctor, as well as the charge he says he received from his builder. He 
wanted an explanation of why his accounts had been closed. This didnt change the 
investigators mind, so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a regulated financial business Santander have strict legal and regulatory obligations that 
they need to meet  and this means on occasion they may need to review accounts, and its 
not unreasonable that they restrict accounts while they do so. Theyre under no obligation to 
tell their customers the purpose of the review. So, while I know Mr S would like to know more 
 Santander have declined to discuss this any further with him, which isnt unreasonable.
Ive considered the reasoning Santander have given our service about the review, and Im 
satisfied with their reasons for doing so. The review was completed within a reasonable 
timeframe. I appreciate Mr S will have found this frustrating, but I cant say Santander have 
been unreasonable in doing this.
Banks are also entitled to close accounts, as they can choose who they provide accounts to. 
So, its not unreasonable in itself that Santander closed Mr S account. But to do so they 
should comply with the terms of the account. Santander closed Mr Ss account immediately 
when the review was complete. Under the terms of the account there were only a limited set 
of circumstances that they can do this for. Having reviewed these terms myself, Im not 
satisfied that Santander have demonstrated the circumstances met any of these terms. 
Overall, it seems to me that as Santander ought reasonably to have given Mr S the 60 days 
notice outlined in the terms.
Ive gone on to consider the impact of this on Mr S  and I thank him for the evidence hes 
submitted to us. I accept this has been a difficult time for him. Ive considered the invoices 
hes sent to us, such as from his builder. But Im not satisfied these directly relate to the 
account closure  as mentioned I find the block was reasonable, so any delays in 
withdrawing the funds wouldnt be something Id compensate for.
Mr S has also provided a handwritten loan agreement from a friend  although I note the 
date on this is over 11 months after his Santander account was closed. So, I dont feel this is 
related. Ive also considered what he said about being sworn at in branch, but theres little 
evidence for me to go on there.
Having said that I can see there were some regular payments out of his account  such as 
for car finance and a service plan  that Mr S would have to rearrange at short notice. 
Likewise, there appear to be regular deposits into the account that appear to be Mr S wages 
that he would have to rearrange. But the rest the majority of transactions on the account 
seem to be smaller cash withdrawals. And Santander returned the funds to him in a timely 
manner  and that they sent a cheque Mr S was able to cash suggests to me he was able to 
get alternative banking facilities set up. So, the impact of the lack of correct notice seems to 
be minimal  on that basis Im satisfied £50 is a fair reflection of that.
My final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK Plc must pay Mr S £50 compensation for the stress 
and inconvenience caused by not providing the required closure notice. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman