DRN-2573897
The complaint
Ms C says MBNA Limited mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Ms C bought the policy in 2001 some time after she took out a credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Cs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Cs complaint because:
I think MBNA made Ms C aware that the PPI was optional and that she chose to take 
it. Ms Cs policy was sold during a phone call with MBNA a little while after shed taken 
out her credit card. And from what we know about MBNAs phone sales processes at 
the time, its likely that MBNA wouldve made Ms C aware that she had a choice about 
whether or not to take out the policy.
MBNA didnt recommend the PPI to Ms C so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for 
her. Ms C had to decide that for herself
Its possible the information MBNA gave Ms C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But its unlikely Ms C would have been affected by any of the main 
things the policy didnt cover. And the policy was competitively priced and had a 
reasonable benefit. So I dont think better information wouldve stopped her buying it. 
Ive noted what Ms Cs representative has said about her eligibility for the policy, because 
she was employed on a zero hours contract. Ms C wasnt always working for at least 15 
hours a week, so her representative considers she didnt meet the policys eligibility criteria. 
Ms C hasnt been able to provide evidence of her contract, which is understandable given 
the amount of time thats passed. 
But as Ive already said, the PPI was sold during a phone call with MBNA. Part of the 
process involved MBNA asking customers questions to check that they were eligible for the 
cover. One of the questions was:
can I confirm  You are in full time employment (16 hours or more a week)? 
On balance, Im satisfied that MBNA was likely to have asked Ms C this question during the 
PPI application process. So I dont think I can safely say that Ms C wasnt eligible for the 
policy.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman