DRN-3791276
The complaint
Mrs S complains about her home emergency insurance policy with DAS Legal Expenses 
Insurance Company Limited (DAS). 
DAS are the underwriters (insurers) of this policy. For the purposes of this decision, any 
reference to DAS includes the actions of any appointed agents acting on their behalf.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Mrs S and DAS. In my decision, Ill 
focus mainly on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome that I have.
Mrs S had a home emergency insurance policy with DAS. She made a claim on her policy 
when she experienced an issue with a leak. An engineers visit was arranged - but a leak 
couldnt be located. The engineer speculated as to what might be causing the leak, screwed 
back in a bath plug that had been removed and advised that Mrs S should stop using the 
bathroom in question if the problem persisted. 
Mrs S says that shortly afterwards she noticed that water was draining from the bath - even 
with the bath plug in. Mrs S alleged that the engineer damaged the bath plug threading 
during their visit and she had to pay for a repair. 
Mrs S raised a complaint with DAS. As she remained unhappy with their response, she 
referred it to our Service for an independent review. Our investigator considered the 
complaint, but didnt recommend that it be upheld. As Mrs S didnt accept their findings, this 
complaint has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. Where theres an 
alternative version of events between both parties, Ive to reach my decision based on what I 
think is more likely than not  based on the available evidence. 
At the heart of this complaint is Mrs S allegation that it was the DAS engineer that damaged 
a bath plug during their visit. DAS dispute this and say the damage to the bath plug could 
have occurred at any point before or after the visit. I can consider the actions of the engineer 
as they were acting in capacity as an appointed agent of DAS and these events arose out of 
a claim made under a contract of insurance. 
What actually happened?
In an email to our Service dated 10 October 2022, Mrs S said:
It is correct and I have never disputed that I removed the plug beforehand. It is also 
correct that the engineer fitted it back for me
This is very important as it means that the damage to the bath plug couldve occurred before 
the engineer visited the property. It stands to reason that taking out a bath plug is at least as 
likely, if not more likely to cause the damage described here - given the force usually 
required to unscrew. 
For Mrs S argument to be successful, Id have to find on balance that; 1- the bath plug was 
correctly removed, undamaged before the engineers visit and 2- the engineer when 
screwing it back in caused the damage and either didnt realise theyd caused damage or 
simply ignored it. Alternatively, the damage could also have occurred after the engineer left 
the property. 
On balance, I havent seen sufficient supporting evidence to conclude that DAS are 
responsible for the damage alleged - and it follows that they dont need to do anything 
further here or reimburse Mrs S.
Other points raised 
Ive noted that Mrs S has referred to the following line in the final response letter from DAS:
I would like to apologise that you are unhappy with the damage to your property 
during your Home Emergency claim.
I find that this is not an acknowledgment that the engineer did cause the damage, nor can it 
reasonably be interpreted as an admission of liability. Instead, I find its DAS acknowledging 
Mrs S dissatisfaction and her having reason to complain. To elaborate on this, for Mrs S 
argument to succeed, the remainder of the final response letter (which doesnt uphold the 
complaint) and all communication over the phone would need to be ignored. 
My decision will disappoint Mrs S, but it brings to an end our Services involvement in trying 
to informally resolve this dispute between her and DAS. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman