DRN-1594884
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited, trading as Very, charged her 
interest on a buy now pay later purchase when they had suggested interest would be 
waived.    
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs B, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Im persuaded that Very were right to charge interest on the phone Mrs B purchased through 
them in September 2018. The monthly statements of account showed the amount of interest 
that would be charged if the balance wasnt paid by 4 October 2019 and the statements in 
August and September 2019 reminded Mrs B the payment was due soon. Ive also seen a 
copy of Verys system that shows a text message was sent on 2 October 2019 to remind 
Mrs B to make the payment. I think there was adequate information provided for Mrs B to 
make arrangements to pay Very before the interest accrued. 
I dont think they were unreasonable when rejecting Mrs Bs explanation of why she was late 
making the payment. There was plenty of notice that the payment was required, and it was 
Mrs Bs responsibility to pay it, or incur the interest.
Very accept that they promised to waive interest on the purchase that Mrs B made but that 
they made a mistake when making that promise. They offered Mrs B £15 to compensate her 
for that mistake.
I dont think it would be fair to tell Very to stand by a mistake they had made. But I do think 
they should compensate Mrs B for the distress and inconvenience caused and I dont think 
£15 was enough.
I think Mrs B would have been distressed to hear of Verys change of heart and I think a 
compensation payment of £100 is more reasonable and proportionate. But I dont think Very 
need to waive the interest thats become due on the balance of the account as that was 
always due if a payment wasnt received.
 
Putting things right
I think Very should increase their offer of compensation to £100. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint in part and tell Very to pay Mrs B 
£100 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience their actions caused. They may 
deduct £15 if this has already been paid to Mrs B. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman