DRN-1462244
 
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy. The policy was taken out in November 2004 
when Mrs A applied for the card in one of the banks branches.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mrs A disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
saying, in summary, that she wasnt aware that the PPI had been sold to her, it was added 
without her consent, and she didnt agree to it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs As complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs As complaint because:
Mrs A told us she wasnt aware she had PPI. And she feels strongly that it was added 
without her consent. Ive considered this carefully, but I have to take into account how long 
ago the sale was and how this might affect what Mrs A recalls. Halifax has provided a copy 
of Mrs As application form. In all likelihood, the member of staff would have filled in the 
application form electronically during the meeting with Mrs A and printed it off for signature. 
As part of this process, the member of staff would have needed Mrs As agreement to the 
PPI insurance so that the box could be crossed. Mrs A would then have had time to read 
through the form, before signing to agree that the details were correct. So, overall, I think 
Halifax made it clear the PPI was optional and Mrs A chose to take it.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mrs A so it had to make sure it was suitable for her. Shes 
told us she wouldnt have received any sick pay from her empoyer. The PPI would have met 
her monthly repayments for up to 12 months if she couldnt work due to sickness or an 
accident. So I think the PPI couldve been a useful benefit for her. It also covered her if shed 
become unemployed. Overall, it doesnt look as if the PPI was unsuitable for Mrs A based on 
what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. 
Ive taken into consideration that Mrs A says her husband and other family members could 
have met her card repayments if shed needed them to. But this wasnt a guaranteed source of income. And if Mrs A wasnt working its likely her husband may have had to cover other, 
priority payments. So this doesnt change my conclusion.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs A about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But Mrs A chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted this type 
of cover. She wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and the policy was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely Mrs A would have made 
a different decision if better information had been provided. On balance I think she would still 
have taken out the policy, despite what she says now.
This means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. So Halifax doesnt need to refund everything 
Mrs A paid for it. Halifax has already offered to give Mrs A back some of the cost of the 
PPI as a gesture of goodwill. I dont think it needs to do anything more. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons I've explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2020.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman