DRN-3262337
The complaint
Miss M complained her home insurance policy was unfairly voided by Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited (RSA) and she was unhappy her claim was refused.
What happened
Miss M purchased an insurance policy from RSA via a comparison website. Miss M made a 
claim to RSA when she noticed a leak coming from her ceiling.
As part of its validation, RSA completed several checks to ensure Miss Ms policy was 
correct, up to date and valid. One of these checks was to see if Miss M had made any 
previous claims. RSA said it checked the claims and underwriting exchange (CUE) database 
and noticed that Miss M had made two previous claims it wasnt aware of. RSA confirmed it 
wouldnt have offered the policy to Miss M had it been made aware of the previous claims.
RSA didnt think the non-disclosure of the claims was deliberate by Miss M, but it did think 
the misrepresentation was qualifying (i.e. it impacted its decision to offer her a policy). So, 
RSA decided to void Miss Ms policy and it chose not to consider her claim. RSA refunded 
Miss M the premiums shed already paid.
Miss M said when she applied for the policy, she did mention a fire claim she made in 2016 
but she hadnt mentioned a subsequent theft claim as she thought it had been treated as 
part of her fire claim. She also said the form on the comparison website wouldnt let her 
submit more than one previous claim.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. He thought RSA had been reasonable 
in saying Miss Ms misrepresentation was qualifying. He also thought RSA was fair in saying 
the misrepresentation was made carelessly rather than deliberately. He thought RSA had 
applied the relevant law correctly when voiding Miss Ms policy. Miss M disagreed, so the 
case has been referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer must show it wouldve offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out several considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
So, Ive considered Miss Ms circumstances in respect to CIDRA.
Was there a misrepresentation?
When Miss M applied for her policy through the comparison website, she stated she had 
made one claim in the previous five years. RSA has shown in its validation process that Miss 
M didnt make it aware of two claims.
Ive considered the questions asked on the comparison website and Ive observed there was 
functionality for Miss M to add multiple claims to her application. Miss M didnt provide the 
details of all her claims. Therefore, I think RSA has been fair in saying there was a 
misrepresentation by Miss M.
Did the consumer take reasonable care?
Miss M said she only referred to her fire claim on her application as this was her biggest 
claim. Miss M said she thought her fire claim and theft claim were treated as one claim, 
which is why she said she only recorded a single claim. However, shes also said the system 
didnt allow her to enter more than one claim.
Im not persuaded by Miss Ms testimony as her two claims were over 12 months apart, so I 
dont think it would be reasonable to assume these would be treated as one claim by an 
insurer. I also think the comparison site was transparent in how to add further claims. 
Therefore, I think RSA has been fair in saying Miss M didnt take reasonable care when 
providing her claims history.
Was the misrepresentation qualifying? 
RSA said it wouldnt have offered Miss M the insurance policy if it had known about her 
claims history. Insurers will only offer policies to consumers in certain circumstances as it is 
important to them to be able to manage the level of risk they take when providing insurance 
cover. RSA has shared its underwriting criteria, which are the rules it applies when offering 
policies. These rules confirm that RSA wouldnt have offered Miss M a policy if it knew about 
her full claims history. Therefore, RSA has been fair to say the misrepresentation was 
qualifying.
Was the misrepresentation deliberate or careless?
RSA hasnt concluded the misrepresentation was deliberate, so was comfortable that Miss M 
had only made the misrepresentation carelessly. I think this was a fair outcome.
If the misrepresentation was deliberate, RSA wouldve been entitled under CIDRA to keep 
the premiums Miss M had paid already on her policy. However, it refunded these, which was 
reasonable in the circumstances.
RSA decided to void the contract and it wouldnt consider Miss Ms claim for the leak. As 
these remedies are consistent with the remedies set out under CIDRA, I think RSA has 
treated Miss M fairly. Therefore, I dont uphold this complaint.
I appreciate that information now recorded about Miss M has made it harder for her to take 
out new policies, but as the information recorded by RSA is correct and fair, Im not going to 
ask them to do change anything.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman