DRN-3636235
The complaint
Mr T complains about the advice Inspirational Financial Management Ltd (IFM) gave to 
transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a 
personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a 
financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ts employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)1, or 
a new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could 
transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said that, if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Mr Ts employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In June 2017 the DB scheme administrators sent Mr T details about his current entitlement 
under the DB scheme including that the fund had a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) 
of around £110,100.
The following month, July 2017, Mr T approached a firm of financial advisers (Firm F) for 
advice. It didnt have the regulators (the Financial Conduct Authority - FCA) permissions to 
give pension transfer advice, so it referred Mr T to IFM to give that advice. IFM gathered 
information about his entitlement under his current DB scheme. It also asked him to 
complete a fact-find questionnaire, which he did on 1 August 2017. Amongst other things, 
IFM noted that:
Mr T was 30 years old.
He lived with his partner and they had a child aged 3. 
Mr T was employed earning around £37,000 a year. His partner wasnt employed.
They owned their own home, subject to an outstanding mortgage, which they were 
repaying at a cost of £350 a month. IFM hasn't recorded any further detail about the 
homes value or the outstanding mortgage.
Mr T had regular outgoings of £178 for unspecified loans/credit cards/HP.
Mr T would like to retire at 55 but expected realistically to retire at 65.
He was a member of a defined contribution (DC) scheme his employer had recently 
set up. He and his employer each contributed 6% of his salary towards that.
1 The PPF acts as a lifeboat for insolvent DB pension schemes. It pays compensation to members of 
eligible schemes for their lifetime. The compensation levels are, generally, around 90% of the level of 
the original schemes benefits for deferred pensions. But the PPFs rules and benefits may differ from 
the original scheme.
Mr T had a balanced attitude to risk.
On 2 August 2017, IFM produced an illustration from the named personal pension provider 
showing what Mr Ts pension could be worth at retirement by investing with it. On the same 
day he completed the forms to transfer his DB scheme funds to the named personal 
pension. 
IFM has recorded that it sent Mr T its suitability report setting out its analysis and the 
reasons for its recommendation to transfer on 10 August 2017. On 16 August 2017 IFM 
wrote to Mr T to confirm it had given him regulated advice.
In February 2022 Mr T complained, via the Financial Ombudsman Service, that IFMs advice 
to transfer out of his DB scheme was unsuitable for him. IFM didnt initially reply to the 
complaint within the FCAs prescribed timescales for doing so. Mr T asked us to look into the 
matter in May 2022. 
After we asked IFM for its file it replied to Mr Ts complaint. It didnt uphold it. Amongst other 
things it said it couldn't locate a copy of the transfer value analysis report (TVAS) it would 
have obtained at the time of its advice. It asked Mr T if he had kept a copy. In justification for 
its advice it said that at the time Mr T wanted control and flexibility of his pension. He also 
wanted to secure death benefits for his family. In addition he didnt want his pension fund to 
go into the PPF. IFM said in those circumstances his objectives could only be achieved by 
transferring out of the DB scheme.
One of our Investigators looked into Mr Ts complaint. He spoke with Mr T. Mr T told him 
that, while he had retained many documents from the time as he is someone who kept 
everything, he didnt have a copy of the TVAS. He also said he didnt recall IFM ever having 
sent him a copy of the suitability report previously. 
Our Investigator didnt think IFMs advice was suitable for Mr T. Amongst other things that 
was because the Investigator didnt think the transfer was financially viable and there was no 
other reason that justified a transfer. He recommended the complaint be upheld. He said 
IFM should establish if Mr T had suffered a loss and pay compensation, including £300 to 
address his distress and inconvenience. 
IFM didnt agree with our Investigators complaint assessment. Amongst other things it said 
that there were clearly errors in the version of the suitability report it had sent to us. It 
believed that this was an early version and not the same one it had sent to Mr T, which it no 
longer had a copy of. It added that Mr T had enough capacity for loss to justify a transfer. It 
also said that Mr Ts partner couldnt have benefited from the spouses pension because 
they weren't married. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, FCAs rules, guidance and standards 
and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of IFMs actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The FCA states in COBS 19.1.6G that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB 
scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, IFM should have only considered a transfer if it could 
clearly demonstrate that it was in Mr Ts best interests. And having looked at all the evidence 
available, Im not satisfied it was in his best interests.
IFMs documents and advice process
At the time IFM gave Mr T advice the FCA required it to carry out a TVAS report. But if IFM 
obtained such a report it no longer has a copy. 
The TVAS should have set out the growth rates required (the critical yields) for an alternative 
pension arrangement to match the benefits from the DB scheme. And given Mr T had 
expressed an interest in potentially retiring early I would have expected the TVAS to have 
shown the critical yield at Mr Ts normal retirement age and also his preferred retirement age 
of 55. Similarly, given that there was a clear possibility that the DB scheme would move into 
the PPF I would have expected the TVAS to show the relevant critical yields to match the 
benefits from the PPF. I would also have expected it to show Mr Ts entitlement from the DB 
scheme, and the PPF, revalued to his likely dates of retirement.
I find it extremely difficult to say, even on the balance of probabilities, whether IFM produced 
a TVAS which showed all those things. In fact it's not clear that IFM obtained a TVAS at all. 
I've noted that theres a document on file titled Adviser/ Admin Business Submission 
Checklist which is clearly a prompt for IFM to make sure it had completed certain tasks 
before making a pension transfer. IFMs adviser has added a handwritten note to that 
checklist saying NO TVAS, which would seem to be recognition that the TVAS was missing 
from the file. But its not clear how significant that note is or when it was added. For instance 
its not clear if he added it at the point he gave his advice, when he realised he should have 
had a TVAS but didn't. Alternatively he might have added it at a later date, for example, 
while he was drafting the suitability report and noted the TVAS was missing, or at some 
other point in time. However, what is clear is that IFM no longer has a document the FCA 
required it to have in order to give its advice. Mr T has confirmed that he doesn't have a copy 
and doesn't have any recollection of seeing it. Similarly, I agree with IFM that the suitability report its shown to us is almost certainly a draft 
version rather than the completed report it intended to send to Mr T. Thats because, while 
some elements of the report on file clearly refer to Mr Ts situation at the time, there are 
many other points that dont. For example the CETV showed that, at the point Mr T left the 
DB scheme in May 2016, he had a pension entitlement of around £4,950 a year. IFM noted 
that if he were to take early retirement, at age 55 his pension entitlement would reduce by 
30%. But the suitability report said that If Mr T were already 55 then he would have a yearly 
pension entitlement of around £24,610, rather than the £3,465 figure it should have been. 
The report has many other anomalies that dont relate to Mr T: for instance it says Mr T had 
ten years until he turned 65, when he was actually 35 years away from that age. Elsewhere 
it says that Mr Ts chosen retirement date for a new pension was age 75, when theres no 
evidence he said that. So those points clearly do not refer to Mr T.
It seems likely that IFM used a template report that had already been part completed with 
circumstances and figures relating to another individual. IFM then intended to overtype the 
template updating it to Mr Ts personal circumstances. But if it ever completed that action it 
didnt keep a copy. IFM said it must have completed the report, printed it and sent it to Mr T 
without then saving the finalised version to its file. But theres no evidence, beyond IFMs 
comments, thats what happened. Mr T told us he doesn't remember ever seeing the report 
at the time. He said the first time he saw it was when IFM responded to his complaint And 
given he said hes someone who keeps everything but doesn't have a copy of such an 
important document, I think its likely that IFM didnt ever send him the fully completed 
version. And given that hed already signed the forms for the transfer to go ahead, he didnt 
need to see the final suitability report in order for the transfer to happen. So he might not 
have realised he hadnt received it at the time.
However, even if IFM did send Mr T the corrected final version of the report (that he doesn't 
have and doesn't remember receiving), I think IFMs advice process was flawed. Its notable 
that Mr T completed a fact-find on 1 August 2017. The next day, 2 August, Mr T completed 
the forms to transfer out of his DB scheme. So, it would appear IFM spoke with him that day 
and recommended the transfer. That was clearly before it had given him any written analysis 
to support its recommendation. In fact the version of the suitability report I have seen is 
dated eight days later. It follows that, at the point Mr T accepted IFMs recommendation to 
transfer, the only relevant written information It appears he had sight of was the named 
personal pension illustration. 
Its likely IFM would argue that it explained its analysis and reasons for its recommendation 
to Mr T when it met with him. And, as it believed it was in his best interests to transfer it put 
those wheels in motion before providing its detailed analysis to him in writing. But given that 
we dont know what the final content of its suitability report was, I can't be certain that its 
analysis and recommendations were sound. And there are other errors within the suitability 
report that cant be attributed to the wrong version on file being a draft only. 
For example under a heading of Your Needs and Objectives and the Scope of My Advice.
IFM has included the following comment:
you are concerned about the possibility of the scheme entering the Pension Protection Fund 
(PPF) and that this outcome means benefits would not be available until 65.
Its clear from that comment that IFM was of the belief that the PPF didnt allow early 
retirement. So it told Mr T he would lose the option of taking early retirement if his pension 
went into the PPF. That is plainly wrong. In fact the benefits from the PPF for those taking 
early retirement and particularly for those wanting to take a tax free cash (TFC) lump sum, are more generous than the benefits from the BSPS (or the BSPS2). So it would appear that 
IFM misled Mr T on that point.
It follows that I dont think IFM communicated with Mr T in a way that was clear, fair and not 
misleading. Transferring out of a DB scheme is a one-off event. Once transferred there's no 
going back, the benefits of the DB scheme are usually lost forever. But in this instance IFM 
made a recommendation to transfer, and allowed Mr T to complete the forms to do so, 
before it had given him a detailed analysis of what he would be giving up by doing so and 
while providing misleading information about his possible entitlement to early retirement 
under the PPF. I don't think that was a fair and reasonable manner in which to approach a 
subject as serious as a transfer from a DB pension. 
Financial viability 
As I've said above the FCA required IFM to produce a TVAS showing how much Mr Ts 
pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the same benefits as his 
DB scheme (the critical yield). That was to allow IFM and Mr T to make an informed decision 
about whether or not transferring to an alternative pension could match the benefits the DB 
scheme would offer. Without those figures it's not now possible to make that comparison 
with any confidence. 
In response to our Investigators assessment of the complaint IFM estimated that the 
relevant critical yield for someone of Mr Ts age would be 5% to 6%. But as that is an 
estimate only its not something I can rely on. But even if it was it indicates that Mr T would 
be unlikely to exceed the benefits of the DB scheme by transferring.
Ill explain that the FCA provides growth projections, which, at the time of IFMs advice had 
remained unchanged since 2014: the upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle 
projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%. So for someone with a balanced 
attitude to risk like Mr T, the possibility of a growth rate of 5% was not impossible. Although, 
given he had almost 35 years to the schemes normal retirement age the probability of his 
personal pension continually growing at that rate, without periods of loss or of poor 
investment performance, seem unlikely. 
Further, IFM gave its advice during the period when the Financial Ombudsman was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Ill explain that a discount rate is a measure 
of what an investment is likely to grow at in the future. Whilst businesses weren't required to 
refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. The relevant discount rate was 4.7% for 34 full years to 
retirement at age 65. That is slightly below the FCAs projected growth rate and further 
below IFMs estimated critical yield.
But, even if an alternative pension could match the required critical yield, there would be little 
point in Mr T giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to 
achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. So I'm not persuaded that 
transferring was in Mr Ts best interests.
Flexibility 
While IFMs suitability report on file isn't the finished product, it seems a key reason it gave 
for recommending a transfer was to allow Mr T to access his pension funds flexibly including 
the ability to retire early.I've already said above that it would appear IFM told Mr T that if his pension were to move to 
the PPF then he wouldn't be able to take early retirement. Ill repeat that is wrong and in fact 
the provisions for early retirement from the PPF were known to be more generous than 
those from the BSPS. So I'm satisfied that IFM misinformed Mr T on that point.
Further, at the time, Mr T was over 24 years away from the earliest age, 55, at which he 
could take early retirement (more recent legislation has since increased that age to 57). And 
Mr T appears to have recognised that he might not wish to retire early once the time came, 
as he said when completing the fact-find questionnaire that realistically he would retire at 
age 65. So, its apparent that Mr T had no concrete plans to retire early, but IFM has 
seemingly given him the impression that this is something that wouldn't have been possible 
unless he transferred. Clearly thats not the case.
IFMs also said that by transferring Mr T gained the opportunity to access his funds flexibly in 
retirement. And that he couldnt achieve that objective by remaining in the DB scheme. But I 
cant see evidence that Mr T had a need to access his DB funds flexibly throughout his 
retirement. 
Theres no evidence on file that IFM established what Mr Ts income needs in retirement 
would be or how he would achieve those. However, given he had over 24 years to his 
earliest retirement date (at that time) and over 34 years to his schemes normal retirement 
date, a lot could happen in that time. So its likely that Mr T wouldn't have known what his 
income needs would be in retirement. But Mr Ts DB funds wouldn't be his only retirement 
provision. He had recently joined his employers DC pension scheme. He and his employer 
together were contributing 12% of his salary towards that pension. At that time that would 
have been around £4,440 a year. He could have anticipated continuing to contribute to that 
policy (or a similar one if he were to change jobs in the future) for the remainder of his 
working life. 
So I think its reasonable to assume that, by the time he reached 65, his personal pension 
should have amassed a sizeable pot. Indeed without allowing for Mr T increasing his 
contributions, his salary growing, or any return on the investment, by 55 he could have a pot 
in the DC pension of around £111,000. And that sum would increase to around £155,000 by 
the time he reached 65. So Mr T could have accessed those funds in a flexible manner if he 
felt the need to do so. That would have allowed him to leave his safeguarded DB funds 
untouched. So he didnt need to transfer out of the DB scheme in order to have some flexible 
access to funds in retirement.
It follows that Im satisfied Mr T could have met his flexible income needs in retirement while 
remaining in the DB scheme. So, I dont think it was in his best interests to transfer his 
pension just to have flexibility that he didnt need.
That said, its true to say that Mr T couldnt have had flexible access to his income from a DB 
scheme. While he could have chosen to take his benefits early, if hed wanted to take TFC 
then he would have had to take that at the same time as drawing a regular income from his 
pension. Whereas the personal pension would allow him to draw down funds as he saw fit. 
But while I can see why that might have been an attractive prospect to him as I've said 
above, if Mr T wanted flexible access to funds then he could have accessed his DC money 
in that manner. So he had no need to give up the guaranteed benefits from the DB scheme 
in order to have flexible access to funds or to take TFC 
Concerns about the PPF
I understand that Mr T was concerned about the prospect of his pension moving into the 
PPF. But, other than incorrectly telling Mr T that he couldnt take early retirement if his pension moved into the PPF, its not clear how IFM addressed that concern. There was 
some widespread trepidation about what moving pensions to the PPF meant for scheme 
members. Its also well known that this was a period of uncertainty for people like Mr T. But 
this only serves to emphasise the need at that time for a balanced assessment of the options 
available and ultimately the requirement for suitable advice.
There will be instances where a client seeks financial advice with preconceived notions or 
concerns about the financial health of an employer or pension scheme. Its likely that Mr Ts 
concerns of that nature were a motivating factor in seeking advice and considering 
transferring his pension. So he might well have been leaning towards transferring his 
pension when he sought advice. But IFM was tasked with rationally addressing those 
concerns and providing an appropriately balanced view of all the available options. 
A move to the PPF would mean, on a general basis, a reduction of around 10% in retirement 
income and less generous yearly indexed pension increases. But the 10% reduction didnt 
apply across the board, and, as I've indicated above, in some ways the PPF could actually 
be beneficial for scheme members. Thats because the benefits for those retiring early were 
more generous than from the BSPS (or the BSPS2). I understand that the prospect of 
pension benefits moving to the PPF was for some people rather daunting, its probably the 
case that it wasn't as significant as many BSPS scheme members believed it to 
be. And in order to recommend that Mr T should transfer out of his DB scheme, even if that 
were to move to the PPF, IFM needed to be able to clearly demonstrate that doing so was in 
his best interests. But Im not persuaded that was the case for Mr T. 
.
Overall, Im satisfied Mr T could have met his income needs in retirement through his DB 
scheme, even if that had moved to the PPF. In retirement his income would be supported by 
funds in his DC scheme and, eventually, his state pension. So, I dont think it was in Mr Ts 
best interests for him to transfer his DB funds just to avoid those moving to the PPF.
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr T. Thats because whatever 
was left within it at the date of his death would be passed on to his nominated beneficiary. 
And, if that happened before his retirement or soon after, then that would likely be a 
significant sum. 
But whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr T might have 
thought it was a good idea to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, 
the priority here was to advise Mr T about what was best for his retirement provisions. A 
pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement not to provide a legacy for 
loved ones in the event of a premature death.
Further Mr T was still only 30 years of age. He was in good health and there was no 
evidence that his life would be cut shorter than could be expected. So there was no 
compelling reason for him to have a pressing concern about leaving a legacy for his loved 
ones on his death. Also, at that time, I'm aware that his employer provided death in service 
cover. So, if he had died prematurely while still working for that employer then his beneficiary 
could have expected to receive a considerable lump sum. But it doesn't appear that IFM 
referred to this as theres no record of it in the fact-find information. 
Given the errors in the suitability report it's not clear exactly what information IFM gave to 
Mr T about death benefits. For example the suitability report I've seen said that if Mr T were 
to die immediately his spouse would be entitled to a yearly pension of £17,757 from the DB scheme or a lump sum of £867,115 if he transferred to a personal pension. But the accurate 
figures were a spouses pension of around £2,750 a year from his DB scheme and a lump 
sum of around £110,100 from a personal pension. So I dont know what information, if any, 
IFM gave to Mr T about death benefits.
Further, the spouses pension would continue to grow each year with the schemes 
indexation and was guaranteed. Unlike the death benefits from the personal pension it 
wasnt reliant on investment performance or how much was left in the pot at the date of 
Mr Ts death. And if Mr T lived a long life, drew heavily from the fund in the early years of his 
retirement, or the investments suffered losses or poor performance would mean that there 
wasnt a lot left to leave as a legacy to his loved ones.
IFM said that the spouses pension from the DB scheme was of no value to Mr T as, at that 
time, he was unmarried and the spouses pension was only payable to married partners. 
That is true of the DB scheme at that time. So I would have expected IFM to point this out to 
Mr T so that he could make an informed decision about what he wanted to do, although I've 
seen no evidence it did so. But in any event, Mr T was still only 30 and there was still time 
for his circumstances to change before his family was likely to benefit from death benefits. In 
any event, IFM should not have encouraged Mr T to prioritise the potential for higher death 
benefits through a personal pension over his security in retirement.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr T. And I dont think that 
insurance was properly explored as an alternative.
Control 
IFM said in its response to Mr Ts complaint that a transfer gave him the freedom to control 
his pension which outweighed any guarantees the DB scheme could have offered. But I 
think IFM overstated any wish Mr T had to control his pension. Mr T was not an experienced 
investor and I cant see that he had an interest in or the knowledge to be able to manage his 
pension funds on his own. Indeed I understand Mr T paid Firm F a proportion of his pension 
fund in order to do that for him. So, I dont think that this was a genuine objective for Mr T  it 
was simply a consequence of transferring away from his DB scheme.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility and potential for higher death benefits on offer through a 
personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr T. But IFM wasnt there 
to just transact what Mr T might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really 
understand what Mr T needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice IFM gave to Mr T was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr T was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this. Mr T shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of the 
DB scheme just to avoid the PPF or to have flexibility he didnt need.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr T would've gone ahead anyway, against IFMs 
advice. Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr T would have done so, if 
IFM had recommended he remain within the scheme. I say this because Mr T was an 
inexperienced investor with a balanced attitude to risk and at that point in time this pension 
accounted for the majority of his retirement provision. So, if IFM had explained that he could 
meet his objectives without risking his guaranteed pension, even if that were to move into 
the PPF I think that would have carried significant weight. And, if IFM had provided him with clear advice against transferring, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he 
would have accepted that advice.
So, I think IFM shouldve advised Mr T to remain in his DB scheme. 
At the time IFM gave its advice the BSPS2 was still some way from being established and it 
seemed likely that Mr Ts only option other than transferring would have been to allow his 
fund to move to the PPF. But, after it gave its advice there were further developments with 
the BSPS2. By October 2017, the DB scheme trustees sent its members time to choose 
packs. Those gave members three options:
To stay in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF.
To opt to move their benefits to the BSPS2.
To transfer out of the scheme and into a private arrangement.
By that time, had IFM given suitable advice, Mr T would have known that a transfer wasnt in 
his best interests. That would have left a choice between the PPF and BSPS2. For those 
planning on retiring at age 65 the BSPS2 had more generous benefits than the PPF. And by 
opting into the BSPS2, Mr T would have kept the option to transfer out of that scheme nearer 
to his retirement age if that was what he decided to do. So, had he not have already 
transferred out of the DB scheme, I think Mr T would have chosen to opt into the BSPS2. 
Also, I'm aware that this matter has been a source of distress and inconvenience for Mr T, 
as hes been concerned that his security in retirement might have been compromised as a 
result of IFMs unsuitable advice. So, I think it should pay him £300 to address that.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr T, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr T would have 
most likely remained in the DB scheme and then opted into the BSPS2 if IFM had given 
suitable advice. 
IFM must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the FCAs handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
IFM should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. If IFM 
does not yet have access to the calculator it should contact the supervision department of 
the FCA to seek access to it as soon as possible. A copy of the BSPS calculator output 
should be sent to Mr T and the Financial Ombudsman upon completion of the calculation 
together with supporting evidence of what IFM based the inputs into the calculator on.
For clarity, Mr T has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age of 65, as per the 
usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the FCAs expectations, this should be 
undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification 
of Mr Ts acceptance of the decision.If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, IFM should:
calculate and offer Mr T redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr T before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his personal pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr T receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr T accepts IFMs offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr T for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ts end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr T as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, IFM may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr Ts 
likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction 
of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Inspirational Financial 
Management Ltd to pay Mr T the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Inspirational Financial Management Ltd pays Mr T the balance.
If Mr T accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Inspirational Financial 
Management Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr T can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr T may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman