DRN-3234198
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F are unhappy Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) declined a claim 
they made under their home insurance policy after their wall collapsed.
Mr F has dealt with the claim and complaint, so Ill refer to him only.
What happened
The background to this complaint isnt in dispute, so Ill summarise the key points:
A garden wall collapsed at Mr Fs property during high winds. He got in touch with 
RSA to make a claim.
RSA appointed a surveyor, B, who inspected the wall. Based on Bs report, RSA 
declined the claim. In summary it said:
oThe maximum recorded windspeed was 44mph, which doesnt meet the 
criteria of storm.
oThe underlying cause of the collapse was mortar degradation.
oThis was exacerbated by pressure from the land retained behind the wall and 
nearby vegetation.
oIt considered the comments of a builder, E, provided by Mr F, but hadnt 
changed its view.
oLater, RSA said the wall hadnt been built to an approved design and this is 
what had caused it to collapse. 
Mr F didnt think this was fair. He noted his property is in an exposed location, whilst 
the weather station was inland. And he didnt think RSAs conclusions were 
supported by the video and photos of the wall collapse. He also questioned how RSA 
had concluded the wall wasnt built to an approved design.
Our investigator thought RSA had unfairly declined the claim. She was persuaded 
there were storm conditions at the relevant time and the main cause of the damage 
was the force of wind  not the points RSA had made. She asked RSA to pay the 
claim in line with the policy terms.
RSA disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Were there storm conditions?
The policy covers damage caused by storm. It doesnt define the word storm or set any 
specific weather conditions that must occur in order for a claim to be covered. So, theres no 
need for the windspeeds to meet a certain threshold.
However, I would expect to see evidence of weather that was severe, violent or of unusual 
intensity to be satisfied there were likely to have been storm conditions at the relevant time.
RSA found evidence of 44mph winds on the day the wall collapsed. As Mr F has pointed out, 
his property is very close to the coast and at a significantly raised level compared to the 
surrounding land. In short, its location is particularly exposed to wind.
The weather station is ten miles inland and appears much less exposed. So, Im not satisfied 
it would be fair to say the windspeeds recorded at the weather station are likely to be the 
same as those experienced at Mr Fs property. Whilst its not possible to pinpoint what they 
would have been, Im persuaded theyre likely to have been higher than recorded inland.
As RSA has noted, the Beaufort Scale suggests structural damage is possible for 
windspeeds of 47mph or greater. I think its likely windspeeds in this range were experienced 
at Mr Fs property. Im satisfied theyre of sufficient intensity to be described as storm 
conditions. And minor structural damage, such as the collapse of a garden wall, is consistent 
with this kind of weather.
Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
Ive looked at the evidence about the cause of the collapse, including Bs report, Es 
comments and photos of the damage. Usually in cases like this, the only evidence available 
is from after the collapse and a judgement must be made about how it happened. But here, 
an outside camera captured the moment of collapse and the condition of the wall prior to it. 
So Ive also considered what the video shows.
Taking all of this into account, Im not persuaded by Bs report. Its opinion about the cause of 
damage is very brief and without explanation for how it arrived at that view. Im struggling to 
reconcile its comments with whats seen in the photos and video.
B said the main cause of the collapse was mortar degradation. Whilst Mr F accepts it wasnt 
in perfect condition, thats not unusual for a wall built around 75 years ago. Neither the video 
nor the photo show clear signs the wall was suffering from a significant mortar problem. 
Much of the wall has fallen in large sections, suggesting the mortar remained in place and 
acted to keep the wall together. I cant see signs of crumbling or disintegrating mortar.
B also said the pressure from retained land and nearby vegetation had contributed to the 
problem. Where there is a build up of pressure behind a wall, and it collapses, the retained 
material that was pushing against it tends to spill out to an extent. But here the material 
appears not to have moved at all. It looks dry and compacted and remains firmly in place. 
There is some vegetation growing in the retained material, but none of it appears to have 
been pushing against the wall. There are no roots or branches beyond the boundary line or 
intertwined with the mortar.
E didnt think there were signs of a mortar problem or pressure from the land or vegetation.
During later correspondence, after RSA had responded to Mr Fs complaint, it also said the 
wall had collapsed because it hadnt been built to an approved design. Its unclear how it 
reached this opinion  neither B nor E mentioned the construction of the wall in its reports. 
And no evidence has been provided by RSA to explain its reasoning. It hasnt said how the 
wall was constructed, how it should have been constructed, or why this caused the collapse.Given the wall had stood for around 75 years, its very difficult to understand how its form of 
construction could be considered to be the main cause of the collapse  particularly when no 
supporting evidence has been provided and RSAs surveyor didnt comment on it.
The video shows a wall which appears to be in a generally sound condition. A gust of wind 
can be seen and heard and the wall collapses suddenly. I think this shows the wind was the 
primary cause of the collapse and, for the reasons above, Im not persuaded by the causes 
B and RSA have suggested.
Overall, Im satisfied RSA has unfairly declined the claim. To put things right, it should now 
accept the claim and settle it, subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to accept the claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman