DRN-2738623
The complaint
Mr As complaint is about a buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage he holds with Barclays Bank UK PLC. 
Mr A says that, because Barclays failed to tell him about an interest rate increase that took 
place on 3 September 2018, he has paid less to his mortgage account than he should have 
been paying. As a result, Mr A says his credit file has been impacted, affecting his ability to 
take out other BTL mortgages.
  
What happened
Mr A has a BTL mortgage with Barclays, one of several he has on his investment properties. 
The mortgage was subject to a variable rate of interest. I note that in the two years between 
3 September 2016 and 3 September 2018 the interest rate changed twice, going up from 
1.20% to 1.45% on 3 December 2017, and then to 1.70% on 3 September 2018. 
Throughout this period Mr A was making static payments of £158.29, but with the rate 
change that came into effect in September 2018, payments went up to £185.58. Mr A didnt 
increase his payments and so wasnt paying enough for his mortgage. This is known as 
underfunding.
It wasnt until April 2020 that Mr A noticed his credit score had dropped and discovered this 
was due to Barclays having registered defaulted payments in February and March 2020. 
Mr A says that, after careful review, he discovered the monthly payment had been increased 
without his knowledge.
In its final response letter Barclays explained that the letter informing Mr A of the change in 
interest rate in September 2018 was sent to the address of the secured property (which was 
rented to tenants), rather than to Mr As home address. Barclays said that this was because 
it had had mail returned from Mr As home address in February 2015 and at that time (2015) 
had contacted Mr A about this by leaving him a voicemail. No response had been received 
and so the correspondence address was removed from the system. 
However, the system still issued annual statements to Mr As correspondence address, and 
the statements from 2018 and 2019 showed the change in interest rate and monthly 
payments that were due. As a result, Barclays thought Mr A should have realised that he 
wasnt paying enough for this mortgage.
Barclays offered Mr A £100 compensation for any trouble and upset.
Mr A didnt accept this and brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service, 
where an investigator looked at it.
The investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. He thought that, although the 
annual statements confirmed the interest rate had increased in September 2018, the 
statement doesnt confirm anywhere that Mr As monthly payment is also changing and that 
he should make arrangements to ensure it is set up correctly. 
The investigator also didnt think it was reasonable to expect Mr A to know that hed had 
returned mail in 2015, notwithstanding that he accepted Barclays had left Mr A a voicemail 
about this. The investigator thought that it was Barclays fault that the mortgage account had 
been underfunded. He asked Barclays to re-work the account as if Mr A had made the 
correct payments from October 2018 onwards, and for Barclays to cover the difference in 
what Mr A had paid and what was actually due. He also asked Barclays to amend Mr As 
credit file, as if full payment had been made and to pay Mr A compensation of £200, to 
reflect that Barclays has never notified Mr A that hes been underpaying since 2018.
Neither Mr A nor Barclays accepted the investigators findings.
Mr A said that, as a result of Barclays actions, hed been unable to renew two other BTL 
mortgages, which have reverted to the lenders Standard Variable Rate. He wants Barclays 
to pay more compensation for these losses.
Barclays didnt agree with the investigators findings either. The bank said that, as this was a 
BTL mortgage, it was up to Mr A to manage it and that hed have been aware from his 
annual statements that his payments had gone up.
Provisional decision of 24 March 2021
After reviewing the complaint, I reached a provisional decision, in which I reached the 
following conclusions:
Im satisfied that, in February 2015 when post sent to Mr As home address was 
returned to Barclays, that the bank took steps to contact him and left a voicemail. In 
the absence of any response, Barclays changed the correspondence address to the 
secured property, which is why the interest rate change letter went to that address 
rather than Mr As home. But due to the way Barclays system is set up, this didnt 
pull through onto the annual statements, which continued to be sent to Mr As home 
address.
The implications of this are that the letter about the change in interest rate sent in 
September 2018 wasnt received by Mr A. But he did receive the annual statement 
sent out on 31 December 2018.
Ive looked at this statement. This sets out the opening balance, payments due, 
payments received, the closing balance, and  in a separate box  the interest rate 
applied, which shows that the rate increased on 3 September 2018. So Im satisfied 
that, even though Mr A didnt receive the letter informing him of the rate change in 
September 2018, he was given sufficient information by Barclays in the 2018 annual 
statement for him to be aware of the rate change and the effect on his monthly 
repayment.
I asked the investigator to ask Mr A if he read his mortgage statements. Mr A said he 
did not, because he cant understand them. But this is a commercial mortgage, and 
so if theres something about the mortgage Mr A doesnt understand, the onus is on 
him to take advice about it.
If Mr A found the mortgage statements too complicated for him to understand, its
reasonable for him to ask his accountant or financial adviser to explain them to him. 
Its not Barclays role to manage Mr As BTL mortgage account for him, or to provide 
him with advice on how to do so; Barclays role is to administer the account.In the circumstances, I find that Mr A should, by mid-January 2019 at the latest, have 
been aware that his monthly mortgage payment had changed, and taken steps to 
increase his payments. I can find no basis upon which I can fairly hold Barclays 
responsible for the mortgage being underfunded from January 2019 onwards, given 
that Im satisfied Mr A had been provided with sufficient information for him to have 
known the position on the account in the statement dated 31 December 2018.
So although I appreciate this has had a knock-on effect on Mr As other BTL 
mortgages, I dont think Barclays is responsible for this, or for the impact on Mr As 
credit file as a result of him paying too little towards the mortgage.
To put things right I thought Barclays should re-work the mortgage account as if Mr A had 
made full payment for October 2018 to December 2018 inclusive. I also thought that if any 
adverse information had been put on Mr As credit file for the period October-December 
2018, Barclays should remove it. I was also satisfied that Barclays offer of £100 
compensation was fair.
Responses to the provisional decision
Mr A said that he was proposing to give the £100 to charity but wanted us to get Barclays to 
clear his credit file.
Barclays said it didnt understand the rationale behind my provisional decision and wondered 
if I was saying it was their fault Mr A hadnt received the rate payment letter in September 
2018. Barclays also said that there was a delay in checking if any adverse information had 
been registered against Mr A for October-December 2018 so it wasnt able to confirm this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I confirm Ive reviewed the file again, and revisited my provisional decision. Ive also taken 
note of the further points Mr A and Barclays have made.
Dealing with the points Barclays has made first, I note the bank doesnt understand why I 
thought it would be fair and reasonable for Mr A to be compensated for the difference in 
payments for October 2018 to December 2018. I am sorry if my provisional decision didnt 
make this clear enough, but I will explain my reasons again.
I understand why Barclays had previously changed the address on the account from Mr As 
home address to the secured property  because post sent to his home had (for reasons 
that are unexplained) been returned to the bank. But, in error, Barclays didnt change the 
address for statements, and because Mr A had continued to receive these at his home (and 
as the account was operating as normal before the rate change), he had no reason to 
suspect there was any other correspondence that he wasnt receiving.
(In this regard, I will say that Mr A, as an experienced BTL investor, ought to have kept on 
top of when his various mortgage products were due to expire. It appears he didnt, and so 
wasnt expecting a letter about the rate on this mortgage changing.)
The letter about the rate change was sent to the secured property, which was tenanted. I 
accept what Mr A has said, which is that he didnt receive that letter. Given this, Im satisfied 
that it wasnt until Mr A received his annual mortgage statement for 2018 in January 2019 
that he ought reasonably to have known that the interest rate had changed.In the circumstances, I think it would be fair and reasonable for Barclays to adjust Mr As 
mortgage account as if hed made full payment for the period October 2018 to December 
2018 inclusive, because Im satisfied he didnt receive the letter about the rate change. I 
appreciate Barclays feels that its not the banks fault Mr A didnt receive the letter. But I 
have to decide what I think is fair in all the circumstances of the case, and my opinion is that 
this is a fair outcome for this aspect of the complaint.
As I noted in my provisional decision, Mr A doesnt read his annual mortgage statements. 
Thats a decision he, as a commercial customer of the bank, is entitled to make. But if he 
doesnt read the mortgage statements  or ask his accountant to explain them to him  Mr A 
cant then claim at a later date that he didnt know about information relevant to his mortgage 
account which is contained in those statements.
Mr A would like Barclays to clear his credit file for the entries which he says are now 
affecting his ability to refinance his BTL mortgages, which have arisen more recently where 
a payment deficit arose due to the underpayments on the account since September 2018. 
But Barclays is required to provide accurate information to the credit reference agencies. I 
think it would be fair for Barclays to remove any information that might have been registered 
against Mr A for the period October 2018 to December 2018 (the three months between the 
rate change letter having been sent to the secured property and which Mr A didnt receive) 
and the time when he ought to have known from his annual statement that the rate had 
changed.
Barclays hasnt been able to confirm if anything adverse was recorded against Mr A for this 
period, and I think its unlikely it was. But if it has, then Barclays should remove it, once its 
been able to check the position.
But I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to order Barclays to remove any other 
information on Mr As credit file where that is an accurate reflection of the conduct of the 
account. If Mr A believes Barclays has recorded incorrect data against him, he will need to 
take that up with the Information Commissioners Office.
Putting things right
I think to put matters right Barclays should rework the account as if Mr A had made full 
payment for October 2018 to December 2018 inclusive. After that point, Im satisfied Mr A 
would, or should, have known he wasnt paying enough, as this was clearly indicated in the 
2018 annual mortgage statement. 
Its unlikely any adverse information was registered by Barclays on Mr As credit file for the 
period October 2018 to December 2018, but if it was, the bank should remove this.
I also think Barclays offer of £100 compensation is fair, reasonable and proportionate to the 
error made by the bank. I dont intend to order the bank to pay any further compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold this compliant. In full and final settlement I direct 
Barclays Bank UK PLC to remove any adverse entries made on Mr As credit file for the months of October, November and December 2018 and to pay Mr A compensation of £100 
for trouble and upset.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman