DRN-3082908
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs M have complained that Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead) unfairly 
declined a claim for storm damage under their commercial property insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M and Mrs M contacted Fairmead to make a claim for storm damage to their roof and 
guttering. Fairmead asked Mr M and Mrs M to provide evidence such as a cause of damage 
report and quotes for the repairs. It also sent contractors to assess the damage. Fairmead 
declined the claim because it said the damage was due to the poor condition of the roof.
When Mr M and Mrs M complained to Fairmead, it maintained its decision to decline the 
claim due to the poor condition of the roof and gutters and lack of maintenance. Fairmead 
also said the increase in premium was correct and took into account the recent claim history.
So, Mr M and Mrs M complained to this service. While the complaint was with this service, 
Fairmead clarified that the claim hadnt affected the premium and wrote to Mr M and Mrs M 
to explain this. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said there werent storm conditions at the 
time of the claim, but even if there had been the damage was the result of the poor condition 
of the roof, which wasnt covered by the policy. She also said Fairmead had now clarified 
why the premium had changed and that the increase was in line with how it would treat other 
customers.
As Mr M and Mrs M didnt agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint and for largely the same reasons as the 
investigator. I will explain why.
When we look at a storm claim complaint, there are three main issues we consider:
1.    do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were only likely to uphold a complaint where the answer to all three questions is yes.
For the first question, Ive looked at the policy terms and conditions. These said:
Strong winds of over 55 miles per hour which will sometimes be accompanied by
rain, snow or hail.
Ive also looked at weather conditions around the time of the claim, as well as the weeks 
before it. Having done so, the maximum wind speed I saw was 47mph, which was around 
the time the claim was made. The maximum wind speed in the weeks before this was lower. 
So, I havent seen conditions that met the definition of a storm as described in the policy and 
I dont think Fairmead needed to deal with the claim under this part of the policy.
However, I have also looked at whether the damage might be covered by another part of the 
policy. A survey found the following:
Front roof one slate on verge couple the side of chimney and one to the right of chimney 
lower down the roof possible storm but in very poor condition. The gutter is very badly worn 
and is asbestos and has holes in all along it. The right hand front the asbestos gutter has fell 
off the gable in storm but the rise and fall brackets were very worn and this is down to lack of 
maintenance.
Rear roof right hand side poor condition no slates missing but there are some slipped again 
lack of maintenance left hand rear valleys and flat roof very poor condition valleys have been 
refurbished but very poor and these also have slate slipped also maintenance need reroofing 
rear left hip has a slate slipped out from previous poor repair the whole roof is in very poor 
condition and has many bad repairs and I believe some slates man made may be asbestos 
all chimneys need repointing and reflashing. (As original)
Ive also looked at the photos. Based on what the survey found, I think it was reasonable for 
Fairmead to decide that the damage was the result of the poor condition of the roof and 
gutters and lack of maintenance. The policy said:
It is your responsibility to maintain and look after the home. Your policy is intended to 
provide you with cover against events that are sudden and unforeseen, for example fire or 
flood. It will not cover you for damage that happens gradually over time, for example damp, 
rot or damage caused by wear and tear or general maintenance costs.
I also note that in the Accidental Damage part of the policy, which seems to be the only other 
part of the policy it could be covered under, that it said it didnt cover loss or damage 
caused by frost, wear and tear, infestation, corrosion, damp, mould, fungus, wet and/or dry 
rot, vermin, moths, atmospheric conditions or any gradually operating cause.
So, on that basis, I think it was reasonable that Fairmead declined the claim and I dont 
require it to do anything further in relation to this.
Mr M and Mrs M were also concerned that when the policy renewed their premium increased 
due to the claim, so I also looked at this. While the complaint was with this service, Fairmead 
reviewed why the premium had increased and realised that although it had told Mr M and 
Mrs M that the claim had been a factor in the price increase, this was actually incorrect. 
Fairmead told this service that it would write to Mr M and Mrs M to explain this and to 
apologise, which it has now done. 
Fairmead also provided information to this service to show that the claim value was zero and 
that no manual loading was applied to the renewal premium. Fairmead explained to this 
service and to Mr M and Mrs M that it was actually the postcode file that had changed and 
caused the premium to increase. Having looked at the new information provided by 
Fairmead, Im satisfied that the claim didnt affect the premium. I also havent seen anything 
to suggest that Fairmead treated Mr M and Mrs M differently to any other customer in how it applied the postcode file. Having considered what happened and what Fairmead has done 
to correct this, I think that was reasonable and I dont require it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 December 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman