DRN-2044764
The complaint
Miss D complains that TSB Bank plc was irresponsible when it gave her overdrafts on her 
accounts. She thinks it should have given her loans instead. She says she has had to pay 
too much in overdraft fees.
What happened
Miss D has three accounts with TSB. Account 1 was opened in 2009, Account 2 in 2012 and 
Account 3 in 2015. Due to fraudulent activity on Account 1 the overdraft on it was transferred 
to Account 3. The overdraft limit on Accounts 2 and 3 is £3,000 each. 
She feels she would have been better off if TSB had granted her loan applications and not 
given her overdrafts. She is not a native English speaker and feels the bank should have 
supported her better. She feels she wasnt properly informed about how the overdrafts would 
work. Finally, she feels the bank didnt carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to see 
if the overdrafts were suitable for her. If it had done it would have seen she had numerous 
loans. She has paid more than £5,000 in interest and charges on her overdrafts. She 
explains this has had a negative effect on her health. She has had to take anti-anxiety 
medication and has had suicidal thoughts.
Due to time limits which apply to complaints the investigator has looked at the accounts from 
April 2014. This is because she first complained in April 2020.
The investigator explained we cant look at whether the charges applied for the overdrafts 
were unfair. This is because there was a Supreme Court case in 2009 that said that there 
are no grounds for refunding charges based solely on their fairness. We can, however, look 
at whether the charges were applied correctly and if TSB treated her fairly once it was aware 
of her financial difficulties.
Looking at the charges TSB has applied; the investigator could see no evidence to suggest 
that they had been applied incorrectly. She also couldnt see any evidence that TSB knew or 
should have known Miss D was in financial difficulty until she complained.
She didnt agree that Miss D didnt know what she was signing up for. She said the terms 
and conditions of the accounts would have been available to Miss D when she opened the 
accounts and if she hadnt expected the overdraft to operate in the way it did, she would 
have expected Miss D to raise this with TSB earlier.
Miss D disagrees. She says she has paid off more money for the overdraft than for a normal 
loan. She thinks this is not a fair loan and looks like loan shark activity. She feels it is 
unreasonable for the bank to charge her more and more fees each month. Her full-time 
employment was terminated on 31 July 2020. She therefore thinks that the overdrafts arent 
sustainable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I begin my decision, I want to make clear that I have only looked at things which 
happened after April 2014 for the reasons set out by the investigator.
I am sorry to hear that Miss D has been caused extreme distress. 
I also sorry to hear she has recently lost her job. As the financial hardship caused by her job 
loss wasnt part of her original complaint  and TSB wasnt aware of this -Ive not looked at it 
here other than to comment about what I think should happen going forward
Whilst I am very sympathetic towards Miss D I dont agree that TSB has done anything 
wrong here. Ive explained why below.
An overdraft is meant to be used as a short-term facility and so the same checks dont apply 
to it as for a loan. 
Miss D thinks her overdrafts were unaffordable and she would have been better off having a 
loan. She may have been better off with a loan but that isnt the test I must apply. She has 
paid a lot in overdraft charges and interest and Ive seen many months of statements where 
she was continually overdrawn. This did make me question whether TSB should have been 
more proactive when dealing with her accounts and required her to put in place a plan to 
reduce the overdrafts. In its final response letter TSB pointed out Miss D had an income 
each month of more than £2,000 from her employer and she had told it she wasnt 
responsible for many of the usual household expenses as these were paid by her partner. I 
think in this context it wasnt clearly irresponsible of TSB to allow Miss D to continue to have 
the overdrafts on her accounts. From what Miss D has said TSB didnt have a full picture of 
her finances. TSB did write to her and ask her if she needed help, but Miss D didnt take up 
that offer. I think the picture TSB had was that Miss D could have prioritised reducing her 
overdraft and therefore reducing her charges but chose not to do so. Based on the 
information I had I dont think this was an unreasonable assumption.
Miss D also says she didnt understand how the overdraft worked and that TSB should have 
helped her as she isnt a native English speaker. I think it is reasonable to expect that if 
Miss D didnt understand how her overdraft worked, she should have talked to TSB about 
this and asked for its help before having an overdraft with it for over a decade. I also think 
that looking at the statements you wouldnt need to be able to read English well to be able to 
have a fairly good idea how the overdraft was working.
 
Going forward Miss D has told this service she has lost her job. I remind TSB that it has a 
duty to treat customers in financial difficulty positively and sympathetically. I hope that 
Miss D will now engage with TSB. There are also free and independent providers of advice 
available to her. The investigator can provide her with their details if she would like their 
help.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 October 2020.
 
Nicola Wood
Ombudsman