DRN-2993688
The complaint
Ms Ks complaint is about her pet insurance policy with HDI Global Specialty SE.
What happened
Ms K held a lifetime policy for her cat with HDI, which renewed in September 2020. Ms K 
says she cancelled the policy and obtained cheaper insurance with another provider.  
HDI says the policy renewed in September 2020 and it was then cancelled on 28 November 
2020, after Ms K cancelled the direct debt instruction with her bank on 19 November 2020. 
HDI said as such, there is an administration fee of £30 to be paid to cancel the policy. 
Ms K is unhappy about this. She says the reason she cancelled the policy was because the 
premiums had increased so much since she first took out the policy. Ms K says the 
increases have been extortionate, given her cat is relatively young, shed not had any clams 
and it is a well-cared for house cat. Ms K also says she was only informed of the renewal 
price on 8 September 2020, which was not long enough. She says she should have been 
given at least a month's notice.
HDI says that lifetime policies such as this one, generally cost more than a policy with a time 
limit or maximum monetary limit, per condition. And as a cat gets older, the likelihood of 
claims being made increases. So the price of insuring a pet will generally increase each 
year. In addition, prices are affected by the increasing cost and advancements of veterinary 
treatment, changes to insurance premium tax, and other changes in underwriting. HDI says 
the premium Ms K was charged was correct and the fee was correctly charged
Two of our investigators looked into the matter. They said that while better information 
should have been provided about potential increases in premium when Ms first took out the 
policy, the pricing of Ms Ks policy was not unfair and the administration fee is payable. 
Ms K does not accept the investigators assessments and so the matter has been passed to 
me. She has also asked for the information about how her premium was calculated to be 
shared with her, as it is about her insurance and may have had an impact on the decision
made. Ms K also says that if she had been made aware of the possibility of significant future 
increases she might have thought again about continuing with her insurance policy with HDI.
The reason she changed insurers in 2020 was because she was surprised by the increase 
and felt it was too much.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is generally up to insurers to decide what cover they wish to provide and the premium that 
they want to charge for that cover, based on the risks that it thinks a customer presents. 
Similarly, individual consumers have a choice about which policy and which insurer they 
wish to take insurance with, or not take insurance at all  unless its a requirement, legal or 
otherwise. 
Normally insurers calculate a base premium rate for a policy that applies to all consumers 
and then other factors they consider relevant to the risk being covered are applied, which 
might bring that base premium up or down. Different insurers apply different factors but they 
might include an individuals claims history, the breed of cat and the cost of vet fees, among 
other things. I cant set out in detail the way that HDI sets its premiums or the factors that it 
considers relevant and apply to its premiums, as these are commercially sensitive. I have, 
however, considered the information it has provided. I cannot see that anything has been 
unfairly priced and it has applied its underwriting criteria consistently. 
Ms K took the policy out in 2016 paying £5.34pm. The price of the policy increased each 
year to £6.55pm, £7.28pm, £8.81pm until Ms K was asked to pay £10.66pm for the year 
2020 to 2021. I dont think these are unreasonable increases over time, especially as the cat 
will have got older over that period. Ms K says it is too much considering the low risk her cat 
presents but I have no power to require HDI to charge her any differently. 
As one of the investigators said, we would expect HDI to have made clear the nature of a 
lifetime policy and that the premiums are likely to increase each year. It doesnt appear that 
this was set out clearly at the outset but I also dont think HDI needs to take any action in 
regards to this now. I say this because the increase in premiums was gradual and consistent 
each year and the increase in premiums was not that significant (although I note that in 
percentage terms the increases were perhaps more so). And they are in line with general 
increases that would occur in any pet policy, not just lifetime policies. So I am not persuaded 
this would have meant Ms K would not have taken the policy out in 2016 or continued it until 
2020. Each year, Ms K had the opportunity to decide if she wanted to keep the insurance or 
get alternative cover and she was not tied to this cover, as she has confirmed she had not 
made any claims under it.  
Ms K has said she might have reconsidered the insurance if she had known about the 
possibility of significant increases earlier. The implication is that she may have chosen to 
keep the policy. Even if that were the case, I am not persuaded that this can be attributed to 
anything HDI did wrong, as Ms K decided to cancel the policy because she wanted a 
cheaper one.  
The policy is an annual one renewing each year, so each years policy is a separate and 
distinct contract. Ms K has said she was not told of the new policy terms and price until three 
weeks before the renewal date and this was not long enough. HDI is required to provide 
renewal terms to any policyholder within good time. There is not however any defined 
timeframe in the rules. Ms K says three weeks was not long enough but I disagree. I think 
this would reasonably be considered to be within good time and gave her sufficient time to 
consider the renewal terms and investigate other possible insurances, if she did not want to 
renew with HDI.
 
Ms K also says she asked to cancel rather than renew in September 2020. If she had not 
renewed the policy with HDI, no administration fee would be payable. However, HDI says Ms 
K cancelled mid-term  i.e. part way through a policy year, in which case the policy provides 
that an administration charge will be payable.  The policy started on 28 September 2019 and 
renewed on 29 September 2020. Ms K made the September and October 2020 payments 
and cancelled her direct debit on 19 November 2020, which HDI took as an indication she 
wanted to cancel the policy. As she had paid for the cover up to 28 November 2020, it 
cancelled the policy with effect from that date. I have seen no evidence to support that Ms K 
tried to cancel the policy earlier or that she told HDI she was not renewing in September 2020. Therefore the policy was cancelled mid-term and HDI is entitled to charge an 
administration fee as set out in the policy terms. The fact the policy auto renewed doesnt 
make any difference, as Ms K was provided with the required information in good time for 
her to decide how she wanted to proceed. The fee charged is also not unreasonable and 
would seem to be commensurate with the cost involved in HDI cancelling the policy mid-
term, so I am not persuaded it should be required to waive the fee. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2021.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman