DRN-3921551
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that FCE Bank Plc trading as Ford Credit (FCE) confirmed his full sort 
code and bank account number in a letter.
What happened
Mr P was supplied with a car through a regulated credit agreement with FCE. FCE say they 
were advised by Mr Ps bank that his direct debit details had changed. So, in a letter dated 2 
September 2022, they wrote to Mr P to confirm this change. In this letter they confirmed the 
full bank sort code and account number from which Mr Ps payments would be taken.
Mr P wasnt happy with the contents of this letter. He thought that FCE shouldve provided a 
shortened version of the bank details, instead of confirming the full details, and not doing so 
was a breach of his privacy. FCE didnt think theyd done anything wrong, so Mr P brought 
his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said that FCE had confirmed Mr Ps details in a letter addressed to him, and 
that there was nothing to show that his details had been shared with anyone else. The 
investigator also thought it was reasonable for FCE to have confirmed these details to Mr P, 
so Mr P couldve flagged if he hadnt changed his bank details, or of FCE had recorded them 
incorrectly. So, she didnt think FCE needed to do anything more.
Mr P didnt agree with the investigator. And he said he thought FCE should change their 
process and not reveal full bank details. Because Mr P didnt agree, this matter has been 
passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mr P was supplied with goods under a regulated credit 
agreement, which means were able to look into complaints about it. 
Firstly, I want to recognise the impact this letter had on Mr P. I dont doubt that he was 
worried by the fact that his full bank details were quoted in a letter from FCE, and he was 
concerned that, if someone had intercepted this letter, then they couldve used these details 
to access the money in his account. But, for me to say that FCE should compensate Mr P for 
this, I first need to be satisfied theyve done something wrong or acted unfairly in some other 
way. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
FCE were advised by Mr Ps bank that his details had changed. While this is not in itself 
unusual, I wouldnt expect FCE to accept this change without confirming it with Mr P. Which 
is what they did in the 2 September 2022 letter. Because these were new details, I dont 
think its unreasonable that FCE quoted these in full to Mr P, rather than quoting just some of 
the details. This is because quoting just some of the information could leave Mr P believing 
everything is correct when some of the unquoted information was actually wrong. And this 
may have resulted in a payment not being collected, and Mr Ps credit file being affected.
So, I dont think FCE have done anything wrong by quoting the full detail in their letter.
This doesnt mean that I dont understand Mr Ps concerns about his personal data being 
misused. But I havent seen anything to show me that FCE put his data at risk by sending it 
to anyone other than Mr P, at the address they held on file for him. And Mr P hasnt said that 
his bank details, or any other personal data, has actually been misused as a result of FCEs 
letter. As such, I wont be asking FCE to do anything more.
Finally, Mr P has asked that we direct FCE to change their business process, so they only 
provide partial details to customers in future. However, it isnt the role of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service to decide what policies financial businesses should have in place. This 
is a decision FCE can make in line with its regulator  The Financial Conduct Authority. For 
this reason, I wont comment further on FCEs process in this regard.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint about FCE Bank Plc trading as 
Ford Credit.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman