DRN-2445983
The complaint
Mrs F complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC were slow to pay out money she had in a 
dormant savings account. She says this meant she missed out on an equity release 
opportunity.
What happened
Mrs F held a savings account with a business Ill refer to as D. In 2013 Ds savings 
accounts transferred to Barclays Bank UK PLC.
After Barclays post to Mrs F was returned undelivered in 2014, a gone away marker was 
added to the account. It was then made dormant in October 2019 with a balance of £6,711.
In December 2019 Mrs F enquired about the account. When she didnt get very far, she 
complained in February 2020 that shed been sent round the houses. In her letters she 
explained that she needed the money from the dormant account to pay towards her 
mortgage. Barclays responded to this complaint apologising for the poor service and 
awarding £100 compensation.
In March 2020 Barclays wrote to Mrs F saying theyd investigated her claim and dormant 
funds had been found. The letter explained that in order to pay the funds to her, theyd need 
a certified copy of a form of photographic identification, a certified copy of a document 
confirming Mrs Fs current address, and a form signed by all parties connected to the 
account. The letter explained:
The above documents must be certified copies by a member of Barclay's [sic] staff 
or independently certified by a Notary Public (qualified solicitor, any type of certified 
accountant) or an Embassy, Consular or High Commission Officials 
On 8 April 2020 Mrs F sent Barclays the signed form, a copy of a recent utility bill and a copy 
of her passport.
Barclays wrote to Mrs F again in June 2020 asking for certified documents. So, on 17 June 
she again sent them the signed form, a copy of a utility bill and a copy of her passport. She 
included a covering letter explaining how upset she was to be asked for these documents a 
second time. But the funds were still not paid to her.
In July 2020 Mrs F brought her complaint to our service as shed had enough of waiting.
Barclays wrote to Mrs F in August 2020 again asking for certified documents.
What Barclays told us
Barclays explained that they registered Mrs Fs claim for funds on 2 January 2020 and wrote 
to her on 21 March explaining what documents were required. However, Mrs F had only sent 
them photocopies, not certified copies. They said although the timescale for processing a 
claim for a dormant account is usually 12 weeks, they acknowledged the time taken to 
request documents from Mrs F initially was too long. So, they increased their offer of 
compensation to £200.
Our investigators view
Our investigator thought Barclays offer of compensation was fair. She agreed Barclays 
could have responded to Mrs F sooner than March 2020 but, overall, she said she didnt 
think Barclays had caused any delays to Mrs F receiving her money. She explained its 
standard practice in the banking industry to ask for certified copies of identity verification 
documentation, and the reason Mrs F had not yet received her funds was because shed 
sent Barclays only photocopies.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, although I know Mrs F is likely to be disappointed, I agree with the 
investigator; I dont think Barclays are responsible for the time it took for Mrs F to receive the 
funds from her dormant account. It follows that I dont think Barclays have any responsibility 
for Mrs F missing out on the equity release opportunity.
Mrs Fs claim for the funds was registered in January 2020 and although she received no 
instruction about what she should do next until 21 March, I cant say thats what caused the 
delay to her eventually receiving her funds. The delay here was due to Mrs F not providing 
Barclays with the certified copy documents theyd asked for in March, June and August 
2020, until early October.
Barclays have accepted that they took a long time to get back to Mrs F after they registered 
her claim in January 2020, and that she had to chase them. I can see that she had to resort 
to making a complaint in February 2020 when shed heard nothing despite her calls and 
branch visits. And thats what Barclays have offered £200 compensation for.
But even if Barclays had replied to Mrs F earlier than March 2020, that wouldnt have 
changed what documents she provided them with in response. I find that Mrs F was asked at 
least three times to provide certified documents. On each occasion I think Barclays letter 
made it clear what was meant by certified; they put that wording in bold type throughout the 
letter to underline its significance. Yet Mrs F only sent photocopies.
Photocopies werent enough to verify her identity and address, and thats the reason 
Barclays re-sent the request and her claim didnt progress. I accept that Barclays didnt 
reach out to Mrs F and explain precisely why what shed sent previously wasnt adequate  
that would clearly have been helpful. But I dont think they were under an obligation to do so 
when their letters were clear about what was needed.
Overall, although Im sorry its taken longer than Mrs F expected to have her funds from the 
dormant savings account returned, I cant say Barclays have made any errors here beyond 
not contacting her after her initial enquiry until March 2020. So, I think the offer Barclays 
have already made Mrs F is fair.
My final decisionBarclays Bank UK PLC have already made an offer to pay £200 to settle the complaint, and 
I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mrs F £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2021.
 
Beth Wilcox
Ombudsman