DRN-3480138
The complaint
Mr I complains about Lloyds Bank PLCs decision to close his account and withhold his 
money for a period of time.
What happened
In April 2020, Mr I received a payment of around £3,000 into his account. Lloyds blocked the 
account in April 2021 and made the decision to close it without notice. Lloyds say they 
returned the money left in the account to the original source; however, Mr I said the original 
source hadnt received it.
In July 2021, Mr I raised a complaint and referred it to our service. Lloyds asked Mr I for 
evidence showing he was entitled to the money received into the account. Mr I supplied this 
evidence and in early August 2021, Lloyds confirmed they were happy to release the money 
to Mr I. Mr I accessed the money in September 2021.
Our investigator who looked at things upheld the complaint. He thought Lloyds were entitled 
to block the account but thinks they should have been more proactive in the review and 
could have likely asked Mr I for evidence of his proof of entitlement sooner than they did. 
Our investigator also thought Lloyds should have given Mr I at least 60 days notice when 
closing the account so he asked Lloyds to pay simple interest on the amount withheld and 
£250 compensation.
Lloyds agreed but Mr I didnt. He explained that the situation caused issues with his credit 
file and he wanted substantially more compensation  around £25,000.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds review of Mr Is account 
Lloyds are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Theyre also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of new and 
existing relationships. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers accounts  
either in full or partially while they carry out their review. Having looked at whats happened, 
Im satisfied Lloyds was complying with their legal and regulatory obligations when they 
reviewed Mr Is account. So, I cant fairly say theyve done anything wrong. 
I think it would have been helpful if Lloyds had asked Mr I for detailed information about the 
money in his account and where it came from  which theyre entitled to do under their 
obligations. I cant see they did that until Mr I raised his complaint in July 2021. While we 
dont usually state a timeframe in which a review should be completed, we would expect for 
it to be completed without any undue delays. Having reviewed the full circumstances of 
whats happened, I do find the time Lloyds took to fully complete their review unreasonable 
and feel Mr I should be compensated for this.
Account closure 
At times, following a review, banks sometimes choose to end their relationship with 
customers. This can be due to a number of reasons and a bank isnt obliged to give a reason 
to the customer. Just the same as if Mr I decided to stop banking with Lloyds, he wouldnt 
have to explain why. However, Lloyds can only close accounts in certain circumstances and 
if its in the terms and conditions of the account. Lloyds have relied on the terms and 
conditions when closing Mr Is account. The terms explain that the bank can close the 
account immediately  or give notice of around 60 days. 
Ive considered the full circumstances of this complaint and I agree a notice period of 60 
days would have been more appropriate than an immediate closure. I say that because I 
havent seen any evidence to support the circumstances of an immediate closure outlined in 
the terms.
Mr Is credit rating 
Mr I is concerned that Lloyds; actions resulted in him receiving a poor credit rating. I can 
appreciate why Mr I feels this way, however, having reviewed the full evidence, including the 
screenshots Mr I has provided, Ive seen nothing to suggest that Lloyds played any part in 
any deterioration of Mr Is credit file so I cant fairly uphold the complaint on this point.
Access to money 
Mr I couldnt access his money from around April 2021  when Lloyds first blocked the 
account up until August 2021. I recognise how frustrating it must have been for Mr I to 
realise he couldnt use his account. And I appreciate this would have put him in a financially 
challenging position because he didnt have access to his funds. But a bank cant always 
guarantee that funds in an account will be readily available as they have broader regulatory 
obligations with which they have to comply. 
As explained above, I would have expected the review to have been completed sooner than 
it was. Mr I was able to provide sufficient evidence to show he was entitled to the money  
so if Lloyds had asked him for this information at the beginning of the review, I find Mr I 
would have received his money sooner. 
Overall 
Overall, I think Lloyds service fell short when reviewing and subsequently closing Mr Is 
account. While I find their decision to review the account due to a large payment being paid 
in reasonable, I dont find their decision to close the account immediately was fair. I also 
consider the delays in Mr I receiving his money was unreasonable and feel this should be 
recognised. 
Putting things right
Based on the evidence Ive received Lloyds should pay Mr I a total of £250 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience caused. And they should pay 8% simple interest on the 
money withheld from Mr I in addition to the compensation amount.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold this complaint. To put things right, Lloyds Bank PLC should do the following: 
 Pay interest at 8% simple per year on the amount they withheld from Mr I. They should 
calculate this from the date they blocked the account up to the date Mr I had access to the 
money. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to withhold income tax from the above-mentioned 
interest. Lloyds should give Mr I a certificate showing how much tax is taken off if Mr I asks 
for one. 
 Pay Mr I a total of £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2022.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman