DRN-4372441
The complaint
Miss H complains about London General Insurance Company Limiteds (LGICL) decision 
to decline her claim under her household warranty insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss H says she was in the process of moving home and, while moving items, her television 
dropped down some steps outside, due to wet conditions. LGICL sent an engineer to inspect 
the damage and they then ordered the parts required to carry out a repair. Another engineer 
attended to carry out the repair, but they found the television was wet and made a report 
saying the television had now been water damaged due to being left outside. LGICL then 
declined the claim, so Miss H complained.  
LGICL responded and explained the policy terms and conditions confirm LGICL wont cover 
a claim where a policyholder hasnt taken care of their television  and Miss H hadnt taken 
care by leaving her television outside. They explained the decision to decline the claim was 
therefore correct. 
Our investigator looked into things for Miss H. She thought LGICLs decision to decline the 
claim was unreasonable and recommended they settle the claim and pay £100 
compensation. Miss H agreed but LGICL disagreed so the matter has come to me for a 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation is a fair way to resolve matters. 
My role requires me to say how a complaint should be settled quickly and with minimal 
formality and so Ill focus on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint and the main 
areas of dispute. The circumstances leading to the claim dont appear to be in dispute. 
LGICL say, when the second engineer attended, Miss H told him the television had been left 
outside in wet weather and he found additional water damage to the television. Miss H 
confirms the television was never left outside and there were wet conditions on the day of 
the incident which led to the water damage. 
My starting point is Miss Hs policy terms and conditions. This says Miss Hs television is 
covered for accidental damage. It goes further and sets out what isnt covered, and this says 
damage caused deliberately and not taking care of your television. In the case of the latter, it 
says, We will always take into account the situation when the accidental damage occurred 
when assessing your claim. I think the terms and conditions are clear on what will and wont 
be covered, so Ive looked to see whether LGICLs decision is fair and reasonable. 
The notes from the claim form say Miss Hs television smashed while moving property, as it 
dropped down some concrete steps. LGICL have based their decision on a report provided 
by the second engineer who attended. This is set out in an email from LGICLs repair agent 
which says the first engineer inspected the television and identified which parts were 
required to carry out a repair  and the claim was then approved, and the parts were 
ordered. It says, Engineer has gone to site today to attempt repair, but customer has now 
advised the TV has been left outside and also has water damage present, but there was no 
water damage present when the 1st engineer inspectedat this point the TV is essentially 
unrepairable, as a full new TV would be required.    
LGICL say the water damage, which has now left the television unrepairable, was caused 
between the first and second engineer visits  and they say this was as a result of Miss H 
leaving her television outside. Miss Hs testimony on the cause of the original damage has 
remained consistent  she says it was caused by the television dropping onto concrete steps 
while moving the television from her house to a removal van. Miss H says she was uncertain 
about what the insurer might ask for, so she took some photos on the day of the incident. 
Miss H has provided the photos and I can see the location where the television was dropped 
 and this shows concrete steps which are wet and also the presence of puddles, together 
with the television. Miss H says she then took her television inside her house and took more 
photos. These photos show significant water marks to the front and back of the television, 
and one photo where there appears to be a small puddle of water underneath and beside 
the television. 
Miss H explains, in order to transport the television, she then placed it inside a mattress 
protector. She says, once she arrived at her new address, she kept the television in the 
mattress protector and placed it in the kitchen  and she has provided photos of this. Miss H 
explains the first engineer attended and stayed outside the back door of the kitchen. She 
says she moved the television towards him and opened the mattress protector. Miss H says 
she thought the engineer would take the television out of the mattress protector, but instead 
he looked into it and briefly glanced at the damage. She says he felt the television was 
repairable and an engineer would attend once the parts were received. Miss H says, when 
the second engineer attended, he helped her move the television from the same place in the 
kitchen. She says the engineer set up a bench outside to carry out the repair but, once he 
started removing the mattress protector, he noticed there was water damage and explained, 
even if a repair was possible, there would be no guarantee the repair would be lasting and 
effective due to the water damage. Miss H explains the engineer said the appropriate 
resolution here would be a replacement television and he would write a report to that effect. 
LGICL then informed Miss H her claim had been declined based on the second engineers 
report, so she called them to raise a complaint. Miss H says she also called the engineer the 
same day and left a voicemail. She says the engineer then called back and she mentioned 
about his report not being consistent with their discussion on the day of the visit. Miss H says 
the engineer apologised and explained he hadnt said Miss H had left the television outside 
in the rain. Miss H says the engineer agreed to speak with his manager about this. She says 
the engineer asked Miss H to send him details of her address. Miss H says she then sent 
her address by text and the engineer responded confirming he would speak with his 
manager.  
Miss H has provided screenshots showing two calls with the engineer on the same day she 
raised a complaint. One is an outgoing call which lasts just over a minute and a half, and the 
other is an incoming call which lasts over three minutes. Given the duration of the calls, Im 
persuaded the first call was a voicemail and the second call was a more detailed 
conversation. Miss H has also provided a screenshot showing her text message exchange 
with the engineer and this shows she sent details of her address to the engineer one minute 
after her call with the engineer wouldve ended. The engineer then responds and says, As a follow on from our conversation on the phone I have raised this issue with my manager who 
is going to look into it personally for you sorry for any trouble caused. I acknowledge the 
engineer doesnt confirm in the text message that there has been an error in LGICL claiming 
he said Miss Hs television was kept outside. But, given these calls and text message are 
consistent with Miss Hs testimony, and are also contemporaneous evidence of what Miss H 
says happened on the day, Im persuaded by Miss Hs account of events relating to the 
nature of the calls with the engineer. And, that being the case, I think its more likely than not 
Miss H didnt say to the engineer shed kept the television outside. 
  
LGICL say there was no evidence of water damage during the first engineer visit and they 
mustve taken the television out of the mattress protector in order to determine what parts 
were required. I do acknowledge this, but theres no report from the first engineer. I can see 
our investigator has asked for this, but LGICL say they dont receive an actual report and 
refer to the email sent by their repair agent. Without seeing a report commenting specifically 
on the condition of the television and the first engineers findings, I cant say for certain 
whether the engineer did remove the mattress protector or not. I acknowledge LGICLs point 
about how the engineer wouldnt have been able to determine what parts were required 
without carrying out a full and thorough inspection. But, Ive seen photos showing the 
television inside the mattress protector with the zip open, and it provides a reasonable view 
of the television inside and the damage. So, I cant say it wouldnt have been possible under 
any circumstances for the first engineer to have made an assessment with the television still 
inside the mattress protector. In addition to this, the photos which Miss H took immediately 
following the incident do show the presence of water on the television  so even if the first 
engineer made no comment about water damage, Im not persuaded this means there was 
never any water damage to the television at the point of the first visit. 
LGICL say, when the second engineer attended, the television was outside and their photos 
evidence this. I agree the engineers photos are taken outside but this also supports        
Miss Hs testimony about the engineer deciding to work on the repair outside. I havent seen 
any photos showing the television located outside on the engineers arrival. The photos 
taken by the engineer show the mattress protector open so its clear theyd already 
inspected it  and it doesnt disprove Miss Hs account that she helped the engineer take the 
television outside. In addition to this, the engineers photos show the television still wrapped 
in the mattress protector. Had the television been left outside, I would expect the mattress 
protector to also be very wet  but theres no comment about this from the engineer.   
I can see LGICL say they dont believe a television being dropped outside onto wet steps 
would cause the level of water damage reported, and its more likely this water damage is 
attributable to the television being left outside between the two visits. I acknowledge LGICLs 
point here but this doesnt persuade me the television was left outside. The photos taken by 
Miss H and the engineer show considerable damage to the television. This appears to be 
accepted by the second engineer as the repair agents email says the television is 
severely damaged and has fully come apart That being the case, I think its reasonable 
and safe to conclude any water will have had a number of access points to get inside the 
television when it first fell. And the photos provided by Miss H show a pattern of water marks 
consistent with it raining at the time the television fell  something which Miss H confirms 
was the case. 
In addition to this, I note the email from the repair agent refers to water damage, but it 
doesnt say the extent of the water damage or why, given the level of water damage, it could 
only have been caused by rain as a result of the television being kept outside.              
Ive weighed up all of the evidence and taken into account the testimony of both parties. 
While I cant say with absolute certainty whether Miss H did tell the second engineer her 
television was kept outside, Ive decided this complaint based on the balance of probabilities 
 that is, what I think is more likely the case than not. The evidence provided by LGICL doesnt persuade me that its more likely than not Miss Hs television became water 
damaged by being kept outside. So, for this reason, I think LGICL should settle Miss Hs 
claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.       
From the information Ive seen, its clear Miss H has been caused upset and frustration as a 
result of her claim being declined. Given that I think the decision to decline was 
unreasonable, I think LGICL should pay Miss H compensation for the impact of this  and I 
think £100 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
I wish to reassure LGICL Ive read and considered everything theyve sent in, but if I havent 
mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought 
about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This isnt 
intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of our service.
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that LGICL have unfairly declined Miss Hs claim. So, they should settle 
Miss Hs claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. LGICL should 
also pay Miss H £100 compensation for the upset and frustration caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. London General Insurance Company Limited 
must take the steps in accordance with what Ive said under Putting things right above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman