DRN-3192457
The complaint
Miss P complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc has not fairly compensated her for the problems 
she experienced in relation to fraud on her account.
What happened
In December 2020, Miss P reported transactions that she didnt recognise as fraudulent and 
HSBC refunded these. Miss P says she thought her card would be cancelled and a new one 
provided, so she didnt use it. However, HSBC didnt cancel her card.
Unfortunately, further disputed transactions took place using the same card information. 
HSBC was able to move the debits to an internal account rather than Miss Ps account as 
they were still being processed. HSBC then cancelled Miss Ps card and replaced it in 
January 2021.
Later in January 2021 HSBC moved these debits from its internal account to Miss Ps 
account in error. Miss P thought these were further payments and raised this with HSBC. 
Miss P was reimbursed in February 2021.
Miss P has described being on the phone for several hours each time shes needed to raise 
these matters with HSBC. When this was unsuccessful, she went into branch to sort things 
out. As a result, she says shes had to take unpaid time off work, arrange additional child 
minding, and incur parking costs. Shes described the whole experience as stressful causing 
sleepless nights.
When Miss P complained, HSBC accepted that it had made several mistakes. It offered Miss 
P £400 compensation to apologise for her experience. 
Miss P complained to our service as she didnt think HSBC had done enough to put matters 
right. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint  they agreed HSBC had made mistakes 
but thought £400 was a fair settlement amount.
As Miss P didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint for similar reasons to the investigator. 
It isnt in dispute that HSBC has made mistakes here  clearly it should have cancelled 
Miss Ps card when she raised the initial fraud in December 2020. Had it done so, that likely 
would have been the end of the matter. Instead, further transactions took place and other 
mistakes meant that it would have appeared to Miss P that a third set of fraudulent payments 
had been made later in January 2021 as well. She wasnt always given clear or correct 
information and had to spend a considerable amount of time attempting to sorting things out 
with HSBC.
I understand Miss P has received a full refund for all the disputed transactions and so have 
focused my findings on whether HSBC has made a fair settlement in terms of compensation. 
I note it isnt our role to penalise or fine businesses, and so Ive considered whether the 
mistakes by HSBC caused Miss P any direct financial loss and the overall impact on Miss P.
In the circumstances I dont think its appropriate to make an award for the financial loss 
Miss P has described. I.e. the loss of earnings, parking, or childminder costs referenced. 
This is because she wasnt required to go to branch to deal with the matter. Miss P has 
explained that she didnt feel she had a choice because she had tried sorting things out on 
the phone for hours only for the call to be cut off. This must have been very frustrating, and 
whilst far from ideal Miss P did have other options. For example, she could have tried to call 
again the next day.
I can appreciate the uncertainty of whether her account was secure would have been 
stressful for Miss P. Whilst Miss P hasnt described any instances where she was unable to 
meet day to day expenses, I dont doubt that the delay in replacing her card must have 
caused inconvenience. I have also considered the overall time Miss P has spent trying to 
sort this matter out. 
Having done so, I think the £400 compensation that HSBC has already paid to Miss P is fair 
in the circumstances and so Im not making a further award here. This is not a small amount, 
and I think this reflects the length of time this matter took to put right, the stress Miss P has 
described, and the considerable time Miss P spent on the matter.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 May 2022.
 
Stephanie Mitchell
Ombudsman