DRN-2936671
The complaint
Ms B complained that Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk 
acted irresponsibly when it gave her unaffordable loans.
What happened
Ms B took out two MoneyBoat loans as follows:
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalmentsLoan 
AmountHighest Monthly 
Repayment
1 08/08/2018 30/08/2018 6 £300.00 £85.00
Break in lending
2 18/03/2019 24/12/2019 6 £800 £214.78
When Ms B complained to MoneyBoat, it didnt agree that it had done anything wrong. 
MoneyBoat said that, as well as relying on information Ms B provided about her monthly 
income and expenditure, it also did some independent checks before it agreed to lend to her. 
And it believed that the information it had recorded for Ms B showed the loans shouldve 
been affordable for her. 
Ms B wasnt happy with that response and brought her complaint to us. One of our 
adjudicators reviewed what Ms B and MoneyBoat told us about these loans. 
Overall, our adjudicator thought that he hadnt seen enough to say it was unfair for 
MoneyBoat to provide loan 2 to Ms B - but loan 1 shouldnt have been lent. So he upheld 
this part of Ms Bs complaint and set out the steps he felt MoneyBoat should take to put 
things right.
MoneyBoat told us that it accepts our adjudicators recommendation. 
Ms B disagreed with our adjudicators view. Ms B mainly said that her outgoings were even 
higher when she took out loan 2 and she still had similar credit commitments to those set up 
when she took loan 1. She would like me to review her complaint and take into account her 
regular outgoings - including details of her spending on gambling. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
MoneyBoat provided Ms B with high-interest loans intended for short-term use so it needed 
to make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. 
MoneyBoat was required to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether 
any lending was sustainable for Ms B before providing it. Our website sets out what we 
typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, 
we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much 
information it gathers and what it does to verify that information  in the early stages of a 
lending relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers 
income was low or the amount lent was high. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult 
to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is 
required to make repayments for an extended period).
And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of it becoming 
unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect a lender to 
be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
So to reach my conclusion I have considered the following questions:
did MoneyBoat complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Ms Bs loan applications to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loan in 
a sustainable way?
if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
did MoneyBoat make a fair lending decision?
MoneyBoat has accepted our adjudicators recommendation in respect of loan 1. So I dont 
feel that I need to say anything more about this part of Ms Bs complaint except that I've 
reviewed this loan and I agree with our adjudicator. So I will include details setting out what 
MoneyBoat needs to do to put things right later on in my decision.
After paying loan 1 there was a gap of six clear months before Ms B took out loan 2. Like our 
adjudicator, I think that gap in lending was long enough for MoneyBoat reasonably to think 
that Ms B mightve put her finances in order during this period. This meant that when her 
borrowing started again, and Ms B applied for loan 2, she was effectively starting over. So it 
was fair for MoneyBoat to assess her lending request accordingly.
I dont think MoneyBoat was wrong to lend Ms B loan 2. The information MoneyBoat had 
gathered about Ms Bs finances suggested that she was well able to afford this borrowing. It 
looks like Ms B told MoneyBoat her take home pay was £2,300 and MoneyBoat 
independently checked what shed said about her pay. Ms B also gave a breakdown of her 
expenses  including telling MoneyBoat that she was paying £800 towards other credit.   
This appeared to leave her with £1,260 to spend   which shouldve been ample disposable 
income to cover the cost of the £214.78 repayments on this loan.MoneyBoat felt that its credit checks didnt highlight any issues of concern sufficient to 
warrant declining her loan application although offered her a significantly smaller loan than 
the amount of £1,100 she had applied for.
I've taken carefully into account what Ms B has said about her financial situation at the time. 
It appears she told MoneyBoat that she paid no rent or mortgage. So I think its fair to say 
that the amount she had told MoneyBoat she was spending on other credit, especially 
bearing in mind what shed said about her home circumstances and limited outgoings on 
household costs, was relatively high for someone in the particular circumstances she had 
described. To my mind, the extent of her use of credit was potentially concerning information 
for a responsible lender. 
But I can see that MoneyBoat obtained a detailed credit check and I think it was reasonably 
entitled to think it had built up a reliable picture of Ms Bs use of credit. I can see (from 
information that Ms B sent to me) that MoneyBoats credit checks didnt show all the debt 
that Ms B had taken out. But a lender might only see a small portion of a borrowers credit 
file, or some data might be missing or anonymised or not up to date. I also understand that 
not all payday and short term lenders report to the same credit reference agencies. So this 
may explain why MoneyBoats credit check appears not to show the full extent of Ms Bs 
debt. 
I think the checks that MoneyBoat did before agreeing this loan were proportionate. Bearing 
in mind that borrowers applying for loans of this type often have other credit on their record 
and sometimes an impaired credit history, taking into account the information that appeared 
on credit checks that MoneyBoat carried out, I dont think Ms Bs credit history showed 
anything sufficiently adverse that shouldve prompted MoneyBoat to ask Ms B more 
searching questions about her financial situation or check the information shed provided. 
In saying this, I've taken into account that the full amount of Ms Bs debt was shown as 
£15,777, a not inconsiderable amount for someone in Ms Bs situation. But, it was 
nonetheless a significant reduction in the amount of debt shown on her credit file when she 
had taken loan 1 just seven months or so earlier. At that stage she had credit commitments 
of £23,624 and she had used almost all her available credit when she applied for loan 1. 
It was also apparent to MoneyBoat from its checks that Ms B had cleared a number of credit 
balances in recent months  she now had just 12 active accounts showing (down from 17 
previously). Also, she had considerably more existing credit available on credit cards that 
were well below their limit as well as agreed overdraft facilities at the bank which she didnt 
appear to have needed to use at the time. She also had plenty of unused credit on a mail 
order account. So, I think MoneyBoat was entitled to think that it looked like Ms B had made 
significant progress towards getting on top of her finances in the months since she had 
repaid loan 1. MoneyBoat assumed that the fact she had paid loan 1 early and without any 
evidence of payment problems was a further sign that, broadly speaking, she was managing 
her credit responsibly  and I dont think that was unreasonable in the circumstances overall. 
MoneyBoat was reasonably entitled to rely on the information Ms B provided during the 
application process  it wouldnt be fair to expect MoneyBoat to have known about 
information that Ms B didnt disclose if it wasnt information that I would expect it to have 
found out from its own proportionate checks. 
So I cant fairly say that MoneyBoat should have taken into account her spending on 
gambling if this wasnt something she declared.  
MoneyBoats lending decision on loan 2 doesnt seem unreasonable to me based on the 
information it had available at the time. And, at this stage of the lending relationship, and given the loan amount and the length of the loan term, I dont think proportionate checks 
wouldve required MoneyBoat to ask Ms B to prove what she was declaring or check other 
information sources to verify what she had told them (or omitted to say) about her financial 
circumstances. So I dont think MoneyBoat did anything wrong when it made its lending 
decision based on the information it had at the time for loan 2.
This means Im planning to say that MoneyBoat should take the following steps to put things 
right in respect of loan 1  but I dont uphold Ms Bs complaint about loan 2.
Just to remind Ms B, if she would like help to deal with her money problems theres more 
information about how to get free debt advice on our website  or we can provide contact 
details if she gives us a call. 
I appreciate that what I've said in my provisional decision will be disappointing for Ms B. But 
I hope that setting things out as I've done helps explain how Ive reached this conclusion and 
reassures her that all her complaint points have been fully considered.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Neither party has sent me any further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Ive taken this into 
account in deciding this complaint. 
After taking carefully into account everything thats been said in response to my provisional 
decision, and as no further comments have been received in response to my provisional 
decision that change what I think about this case, I still think its fair to uphold this complaint 
for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress MoneyBoat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened if it hadnt provided lending to Ms B, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Ms B may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, she may have 
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). 
But even if she had done that, the information that would have been available to such a 
lender and how they would (or ought to) have treated an application which may or may not 
have been the same is now impossible to reconstruct accurately. From what Ive seen in this 
case, I dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new 
lender would have been able to lend to Ms B in a compliant way at this time. Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Ms B would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. This means it wouldnt be fair now to reduce MoneyBoats liability in this case for 
what Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right. 
So, MoneyBoat should: 
A) add together the total of the repayments made by Ms B towards interest, fees and 
charges on loan 1 including payments made to a third party where applicable, but not 
including anything already refunded
B) calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms B which were 
considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms B originally made the payments, to 
the date the complaint is settled
C) pay Ms B the total of A plus B
D) remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Bs credit file in relation to loan 1.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to deduct tax from this interest. MoneyBoat 
should give Ms B a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if she asks for one.
My final decision
I partly uphold this complaint and direct Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as 
MoneyBoat.co.uk to take the steps set out above to put things right for Ms B.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman