DRN-1658996
 
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc's (RSA) decision to reject her pet 
insurance claim is unfair.
What happened
Mrs B held pet insurance with RSA up until around 14 November 2018. At that point Mrs B 
was unhappy with the renewal cost and so bought insurance with another insurer. 
During 2019 Mrs B made a claim for treatment related to a lump found on her dog. She was 
advised by a vet in March 2019 about removal and this was done a week or so later. In total 
the treatment cost £571.97 and the invoice shows the various treatments and follow-ups 
spanning 11 March 2019 to 12 June 2019. RSA declined Mrs B's claim as it didn't insure the 
dog after the policy ended in November 2018. Mrs B was unhappy at this as she said she'd 
held continuous insurance and particularly had insurance when the lump first was noticed.
Our investigator didn't think RSA had acted unfairly in declining the claim. He explained that 
the treatment claimed for was at a time when RSA didn't provide cover as Mrs B bought 
cover elsewhere. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The basis of the contractual relationship between Mrs B and RSA can be found in the policy 
documentation relevant at the time she held cover. The policy period is defined as 12 
calendar months in a row from the start of the insured period and I'm satisfied cover under 
the policy ended in November 2018. There is no dispute between the parties that the policy 
ended in November 2018
Under the policy it is clear that Mrs B is only eligible to be refunded veterinary fees for 
treatment while she continues to pay the monthly premium and the policy is in force. At the 
time of treatment in 2019 Mrs B's policy with RSA wasn't in force, and she wasn't paying for 
insurance cover from RSA. And, so I'm satisfied that her claim to RSA was fairly declined.
I appreciate Mrs B held insurance for her dog for some years. But just because that's so 
doesn't mean one of the insurers should pay a claim. Here Mrs B moved away from 
RSA because she wasn't happy with the cost of insuring her dog for another year. However, 
her new insurer excluded cover for conditions or illnesses existing before the policy 
commenced, and hence she obtained a cheaper premium. 
In this case I'm not satisfied it would be fair or reasonable to require RSA to cover vet fees 
that were incurred after its policy ended, where Mrs B was not paying RSA for the cover it 
would have offered if she'd paid the premium.My final decision
I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2020.
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman