DRN-2966378
The complaint
Mrs C and Mr Y complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC has not treated them fairly, in respect 
of their mortgage current account, when they were experiencing financial difficulties.
What happened
Mrs C and Mr Y had a mortgage with Barclays. In 2009 they took out a further advance and 
opened a mortgage current account alongside this. The current account included a reserve 
facility. This was effectively an overdraft allowing them to borrow additional money. This 
borrowing was then secured against their property. And the amount they could borrow 
increased, as they paid back their mortgage.
Over the years Mrs C and Mr Y used the reserve for various transactions.
In 2019, the term of their mortgage was due to end. Mrs C and Mr Y had made payments 
towards their mortgage as scheduled and the balance had reduced to almost zero. But they 
still owed over £71,000 under the reserve facility  comprised of their spending over the 
years and interest applied to it.
Mrs C and Mr Y have said they met with Barclays to discuss how theyd repay it. They 
cashed in a pension and made a lump sum payment of £30,000 towards the outstanding 
debt. Barclays also discussed refinancing the remaining balance onto another mortgage with 
them. Mrs C and Mr Y have said they were pressured into using the pension to reduce the 
balance.
Theyve since complained to Barclays. Theyve said it didnt do enough to help them with the 
reserve and shouldve been aware from the spending on the mortgage current account and 
because no payments were being made towards it, that they were having difficulties. 
Theyve also complained that Barclays has continued to apply interest to the reserve while 
the complaint was ongoing and hasnt sought to help them, since the term of the mortgage 
expired.
When Mrs C and Mr Y first contacted our service, they asked us to consider some additional 
points to those set out above. Barclays did not consent to us considering those additional 
points as they felt they fell outside of our jurisdiction. So, we first had to establish the extent 
of our ability to consider the complaint. Another ombudsman made a decision on that. And it 
was only after that decision had been made that we began considering the merits of the 
issues that fell within our jurisdiction.
I issued a provisional decision in December 2021 explaining that I wasnt intending to uphold 
Mrs C and Mr Ys complaint. Below are extracts from those provisional findings, explaining 
why.
Where customers are experiencing financial difficulties, Id expect Barclays to fairly consider 
what it could do, or what adjustments it could make, in order to help and support them. But in 
order to do that, I think its fair that Barclays would need to be made aware of the difficulties 
being experienced.
Mrs C and Mr Y have said that Barclays shouldve been aware that they were experiencing 
difficulty, long before the end of their mortgage term, because they were not making 
payments towards the balance outstanding under their mortgage reserve. But the mortgage 
current account didnt require regular payments to be made to it. And Mrs C and Mr Y were 
making their contractual monthly mortgage repayments, suggesting they were coping with 
their required payments.
Mrs C and Mr Y have said they went into branch in 2010 and 2017 to discuss their financial 
position, and potentially taking additional loans. But they say Barclays suggested they 
continue with their existing arrangements. Im conscious though that Mrs C and Mr Y have 
said they didnt appreciate how much was owed under the reserve until their mortgage term 
was due to end. So, if that were the case, I think its unlikely they wouldve discussed this 
with Barclays sooner.
Barclays doesnt have a record of any meetings in 2010 and 2017. Thats not to say 
discussions didnt take place, as in my experience not all meetings in branch are noted. 
Given though Mrs C and Mr Y have said that these meetings were to discuss further 
borrowing, Im not sure on balance that in itself would necessarily have meant Barclays 
shouldve been aware that they were having difficulty with their existing borrowing. Barclays 
has notes indicating a discussion took place in 2014 about a further loan that was to be used 
to clear a credit card. But the notes dont mention financial difficulties.
I accept what Mrs C and Mr Y have said  that their financial situation mayve been difficult 
for some time. But based on what Ive seen, I dont think I can fairly say that Barclays 
shouldve realised this, particularly with the mortgage current account, before Mrs C and 
Mr Y informed it. And I cant see that happened before 2019. So, I dont think I can say that 
Barclays did anything wrong prior to that, in continuing to operate the accounts in line with 
the agreed terms.
Turning to what has happened since 2019, I can see that a lump sum payment of £30,000 
was made to the mortgage current account in April 2019  shortly before the mortgage term 
was due to end. Mrs C and Mr Y say they were pressured into making this payment, by 
Barclays, and cashed in a pension to do so.
Again, unfortunately, there arent any notes available of the meetings that preceded this 
payment being made. But I have seen information which indicates Barclays was also looking 
at whether it could offer a further mortgage, to consolidate the remaining balance. So, I dont 
doubt that meetings did take place.
The balance owed on the mortgage current account reserve, prior to that payment being 
made, appears to be genuinely owed by Mrs C and Mr Y. Ive seen account statements that 
show it was made up of their spending on the account and interest, that was applied in line 
with the terms of the account. So, as I think the amount was due, and the mortgage term 
was ending, I dont think it was unreasonable for Barclays to have expected this amount to 
be repaid. And I think its likely Barclays was keen to discuss proposals for doing so, which is 
what led to Mrs C and Mr Y agreeing to make the lump sum payment they did.
Mrs C and Mr Y have said they were verbally pressured to pay what they could. But while I 
dont doubt Barclays stressed that the balance needed to be repaid, as it did, I dont think I 
can fairly say, based on the information available to me, that Mrs C and Mr Y were told they 
had to take this action. And while they may, understandably have felt the need to do so, I 
dont think it was unfair of Barclays to highlight that the outstanding balance was owed.As Ive said, it appears that Barclays was discussing consolidating the remaining balance at 
that stage into a new mortgage, to allow it to be repaid over a longer term. And I think that 
was fair. The balance was owed and was repayable in full in 2019. But Barclays was looking 
at a way that the balance could be repaid over a longer period, by considering Mrs C and 
Mr Ys circumstances  which I think was a fair way to potentially address the difficulties they 
were experiencing. Mrs C and Mr Y raised a complaint at that time, rather than proceeding. 
Which they were entitled to do. But I think Barclays actions up to then were fair.
Mrs C and Mr Y are unhappy that Barclays has continued to apply interest to the outstanding 
balance, while their complaint was ongoing. Suspending interest on an account is something 
that Barclays could do, to assist someone while they were in financial difficulties. But it isnt 
obliged to do so. And I dont think itd be fair to say it was required to stop applying 
contractual interest, just because a complaint was raised, and without a full review of what 
was affordable. As Ive said, it appears a review was happening, when a mortgage was 
discussed. But Mrs C and Mr Y chose not to proceed with that. So, I think it was reasonable 
for Barclays, at that time, to continue to operate the account in line with its terms. And I dont 
think it was unfair of it to continue to apply interest.
Mrs C and Mr Y have said they are unhappy that Barclays has continued to contact them 
about the balance, while their complaint has been ongoing. Theyve said that this has 
caused them distress and that it has impacted Mr Ys health. Im sorry to hear of the 
problems Mr Y has had.
As I said though, Im satisfied the outstanding balance is owed. Id expect Barclays to look at 
how it could help Mrs C and Mr Y, given theyve said they are experiencing financial 
difficulties. But in order to do that, I think its fair that Barclays would need to know more 
about their circumstances. So, I dont think it was unfair for Barclays to have continued to 
contact Mrs C and Mr Y.
I can see they asked Barclays not to contact them by phone, in late 2019, when they first 
said theyd be bringing a complaint to our service. And Ive seen emails they subsequently 
sent to Barclays, stating this hadnt happened. And Ive also seen contact notes, indicating 
that calls werent stopped for several months. I do think Barclays couldve handled things 
better at that point and couldve suspended calls sooner that it did. But Im also conscious 
that there was an outstanding balance still owed, which was accumulating interest, and no 
suggestion had been put forward to Barclays about how this was to be repaid.
When calls were stopped, I can see Barclays sent several letters to Mrs C and Mr Y. The 
letters were asking for additional information about their circumstances, including the health 
conditions theyd mentioned. And the letters also highlighted charities and other bodies that 
might be able to assist. As Ive already said, Id expect Barclays to fairly consider what 
assistance it could offer. But it isnt unreasonable, in my view, for Barclays to need 
information about Mrs C and Mr Ys circumstances in order to do that. And I dont think it 
would be right to say Barclays shouldnt have asked these questions, just because a 
complaint was ongoing.
Taking all of this into account, while I do think Barclays could potentially have stopped calls 
sooner that in did, overall, I dont think it has acted unfairly in terms of how it has 
communicated with Mrs C and Mr Y. And so, overall, I dont think how it has handled matters 
so far, including how the outstanding balance has come about, has been unfair.Moving forward, Id expect Barclays to think about what assistance it can offer Mrs C and 
Mr Y, based on their circumstances. And Id expect it to consider the full range of options 
available to it. But in order to do that, it will reasonably need to know more about Mrs C and 
Mr Ys current financial circumstances. And I dont think it is unreasonable that it will need to 
contact Mrs C and Mr Y to obtain information about this. Barclays does need to think 
carefully about how it does this, particularly given what Mrs C and Mr Y have already told it 
about the impact the stress of this matter is having on them. But at the same time, Mrs C 
and Mr Y will need to engage with Barclays, so that it can look at what it can do to help.
Responses to my provisional decision
I gave both parties an opportunity to make further comments or send further information 
before I reached a final decision.
Barclays said it accepted my provisional decision and had nothing further to add.
Mrs C and Mr Y did not accept my provisional findings. They said my summary and 
conclusions were inaccurate.
They highlighted what Id said about the loan which was discussed in 2014, where Id said 
one of the things noted was that this was to discuss consolidating credit card debt. And they 
argued that was clear evidence of financial difficulty.
They also said they at no point argued that Barclays was not entitled to apply interest to the 
balance. Rather their issue was that the complaint had taken over two years to resolve and 
they didnt think interest continuing to accrue in that time was fair.
They said they felt they were wasting their time by corresponding with our service and would 
now look to contact Barclays directly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken on board what both parties have said. I appreciate that Mrs C and Mr Y have 
indicated they dont see the benefit in further correspondence. But for completeness I 
consider it appropriate to provide my final decision on the matter at this stage. 
Mrs C and Mr Y have said that the notes from 2014, indicating one of the reasons they were 
discussing a further loan was to clear a credit card, are a clear indication they were in 
financial difficulty. But I dont agree. It is not uncommon for consumers to review their 
finances and make changes, including changing how borrowing is structured by moving from 
one type of borrowing to another. They dont have to be in financial difficulties to make such 
a change. And I havent seen anything to suggest Mrs C and Mr Y told Barclays they were 
experiencing difficulties at that time. So, based on what Ive seen, I dont think this enquiry 
alone ought reasonably to have made Barclays aware that Mrs C and Mr Y were having 
difficulty with their existing borrowing, particularly the mortgage reserve facility.
Mrs C and Mr Y have also said that they had at no stage argued Barclays was not entitled to 
apply interest to the balance. Rather they felt it was unfair this had continued to accrue while 
the complaint was ongoing  given how long the complaint has been going on for. I appreciate that this complaint has been ongoing for some time. As I explained in my 
provisional findings though, I dont think Barclays was required to stop applying interest just 
because a complaint was ongoing. Prior to the complaint being made, Barclays was 
reviewing how it could assist Mrs C and Mr Y. Mrs C and Mr Y chose, as they were entitled 
to, to pursue a complaint rather than continuing discussions with Barclays. But, as my 
provisional findings aimed to explain, I dont think itd be reasonable to say that it was unfair 
of Barclays to continue to add interest, after Mrs C and Mr Y took this decision. 
I do realise that my provisional findings wouldve been disappointing to Mrs C and Mr Y. But, 
having reviewed and considered everything again, for the reasons Ive explained, Im not 
inclined to depart from them. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr Y to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 February 2022.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman