DRN-2237063
The complaint
Mr R complains that he was mis-sold packaged bank accounts by National Westminster 
Bank Plc (NatWest).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on my reasons for giving my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons.
There is very limited evidence available as the sales were so long ago. The records that Nat 
West has provided show that Mr R originally had a fee free account with an overdraft, so he 
knew these were available. 
They also show that he took out a loan after the Advantage Gold sale and benefitted from 
the better interest rates that came with the account. And he benefitted from the increase in 
overdraft that came with Advantage Premier account when he upgraded to it.
So, I can see why Mr R wouldve been interested in the products. This service has seen no 
systemic evidence that NatWest gave packaged bank accounts to customers without their 
consent and made them keep them. And Mr Rs records show that he used a lot of financial 
facilities with NatWest over the years, which I think its unlikely he wouldve done if hed been 
unhappy with the way the bank had treated him.
I can see no indication in NatWests records that Mr R requested his account be closed at 
any time. In his original complaint he said that NatWest wouldnt close his account without 
his overdraft being paid off. I think its very possible that NatWest did say that, and it wouldnt 
be unreasonable for the bank to expect the overdraft be repaid before it was closed. But I 
think its more likely than not that NatWest wouldve downgraded his account to a fee free 
one without the overdraft being paid off if he had requested that, as its common practice for 
this to happen.
So, although I know this will be disappointing for Mr R, I think its more likely than not that Mr 
R chose to take out the packaged bank accounts based on what NatWest told him about 
them. 
And although I dont doubt Mr Rs honest recollections, for the reasons Ive given above I 
think its more likely than not that NatWest wouldve downgraded Mr Rs account if hed 
asked it to, so I think its more likely than not he didnt make that request.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman