DRN-2635905
The complaint
Mr W complains that the loan he had from Loans 2 Go Limited was unaffordable to him.
What happened
Mr W took out a fixed sum loan with Loans 2 Go on 17 May 2019. He borrowed £500 and
was due to repay £114.28 monthly for 18 months, finishing on 30 October 2020.
Mr W says that he believes Loans 2 Go took advantage of his situation and offered him a
loan with a very high interest rate. He says that if Loans 2 Go had done appropriate checks it
would have known the loan was unaffordable to him.
Loans 2 Go says it verified Mr Ws financial disclosures by checking with a credit agency
whether his income was sufficient to afford the loan. It says it also revises the declared
expenditure upwards if it deems the figures are unreasonable. Loans 2 Go says that
although it adjusted both of Mr Ws figures, it still found the loan repayments to be 
affordable. It offered to discuss a suitable repayment arrangement for the outstanding 
balance.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint should be upheld. She said that she wasnt
satisfied Loans 2 Go had carried out proportionate checks. She said, had it done so, it was 
likely to have found Mr W spent a significant amount of money on online gambling as well as
commitments to other short-term and high cost credit. 
As a result, our adjudicator recommended that Loans 2 Go should deduct any payments 
Mr W made from the principal. It should then refund any overpayments (plus 8% statutory 
interest) or attempt to arrange a suitable repayment plan for the balance. She said Loans 2 
Go should also ensure that any negative information about the loan is removed from Mr Ws 
credit file.
Loans 2 Go responded to say, in summary, that Mr Ws credit report showed only two
accounts in arrears and no current short-term lending. So, it says, it had no reason to
request further information prior to making the lending decision.
My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision to Mr W and to Loans 2 Go on 27 January 2021. I summarise 
my findings here.
I wasnt satisfied Loans 2 Gos checks went far enough because:
The repayments on the loan were around £114 per month and Mr W needed to be 
able to sustain these for 18 months;
Loan 2 Gos analysis showed potential discrepancies between its checks and Mr Ws 
declared income and credit expenditure;
The credit check showed:
oMr W had two defaults on his credit file, the latest of which was from early 
2018;
oTwo active loans, with scheduled monthly payments of around £170, even 
though Mr W had declared he had no expenditure on credit;
oThe short-term loan was four payments in arrears;
oMr W was more than £300 over his £750 overdraft limit;
I considered there were clear indications that Mr W was already in financial difficulties and 
may not have been in a position to take on further credit. Although both the defaulted 
accounts had been settled, he was clearly struggling to repay current creditors as shown 
by the arrears and the excessive overdraft.
For the above reasons, I considered Loans 2 Gos checks should have included a full review 
of Mr Ws financial circumstances, including further verification of his income and 
expenditure.
So, I had a look at Mr Ws bank statements to see what they showed as a reasonable
proxy for what Loans 2 Go might have found out had it looked into Mr Ws finances in more
depth.
Overwhelmingly, the bank statements showed that Mr W had a serious gambling habit. In 
just one month between 9 April 2019 and 8 May 2019, Mr W spent around £3,600 on 
gambling transactions. This was almost three times his monthly income. Other bank 
statements showed significant gambling expenditure in both the month prior to this and the 
month afterwards. Indeed, I saw that Mr W gambled his Loans 2 Go loan (and a bit more) 
almost immediately upon receipt.
So I was satisfied reasonable and proportionate checks would have shown it was 
irresponsible to lend to Mr W and, indeed, by doing so, Loans 2 Go enabled Mr Ws 
gambling addiction and, as a result, worsened his financial position.
Ordinarily, my decision would have been that Mr W should repay the capital he borrowed, 
but given the extreme circumstances of this case, I considered a fairer outcome would be 
to write off the balance Mr W would otherwise owe. I saw from the latest loan statement, 
that Mr W had paid £228.56 towards this loan, which meant the remaining £271.44 capital 
should be written off, along with the outstanding interest.
I could not conclude that Loans 2 Go had acted unfairly or unreasonably in any other way 
but I found that Loans 2 Go was wrong to lend to Mr W and that the loan should now be 
closed, as described above.
Mr W responded to say he had nothing further to add.Loans 2 Go did not respond to the provisional decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice.
As neither party provided any additional information, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. Loans 2 Go Limited should:
Write off the loan, with nothing further to pay;
Remove any negative information recorded on Mr Ws credit file regarding the loan.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2021. 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman