DRN-3638321
The complaint
Mr P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly closed his current account. 
What happened
Mr P had a current account with Barclays. In November 2021 it wrote to him to explain it 
would be closing this, and some other accounts he held with it for his business. It said the 
accounts would close in February 2022.
Mr P complained about this as he said this would mean he wouldnt be able to receive his 
pension which was to be paid into that account. He also provided evidence from his doctor of 
the impact the threatened closures had had on his mental health. 
Barclays didnt change its decision, so Mr P brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered everything but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She 
said she thought Barclays had acted fairly and in line with its terms and conditions for the 
bank account. So, while she appreciated it had a big impact on Mr P, she couldnt ask 
Barclays to do anything differently. 
Mr P didnt agree. He said he felt our investigator hadnt properly considered the impact the 
matter had had on his health and wellbeing and had put too much weight on terms and 
conditions rather than fairness. He asked for the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to start by saying how sorry I am to hear about the impact the closure of his account 
has had on Mr P. I can see from his account, and that of his doctor, that this has had a huge 
impact on how hes been feeling, I can understand it would be a very stressful process to go 
through.
However my remit within this decision is to consider whether Barclays have got something 
wrong  whether it has treated Mr P fairly and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
bank account he holds with it. And only where I find it hasnt acted fairly can I go on to 
consider the impact and ask it to take action.
Here, Ive not found that Barclays has acted unreasonably. Its able to choose which 
customers it offers accounts to and it can review this decision at any time, as long as it 
follows the process laid out in its account terms and gives enough notice. The decision to 
end a relationship is a commercial one, and not something this service would generally 
interfere with.
I can see that under the terms of Mr Ps account that Barclays can close the account as long 
as it gives two months notice. Here it gave far more than two months notice as it advised Mr 
P of the closure in November 2021 and the account didnt close until March 2022. So Im 
satisfied that it met its obligations under the terms of the account. For this reason, I havent 
found that Barclays has acted unfairly. And because of this, I cant ask it to take any action. 
I want to reassure Mr P that in not upholding this complaint, it in no way diminishes the 
impact the account closure has had on him. I dont doubt its been an incredibly distressing 
time. However, as I explained, I can only ask Barclays to take action where Ive found its 
actions were unfair or unreasonable. And in the circumstances, Ive not found they are. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman