DRN-2958035
The complaint
 N, a limited company, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc unfairly closed its accounts. 
N is represented by its director Mr G. 
 
What happened
 N held accounts with HSBC. In June 2019, HSBC asked N to complete an online periodic 
safeguarding review as part of its regulatory checks. The bank explained that filling in the 
online form should take around half an hour to complete. 
On 10 July 2019, HSBC wrote to N again about completing the review form. HSBC told N 
the information needed to be provided by 2 October 2019. And set out that it was entitled to 
ask for the information under the terms of Ns accounts. In their letter under the sub-heading 
What happens if you dont provide the information? HSBC added:
We may give you notice to close your accounts if we dont receive the required information. 
Were entitled to do this under clause 29 of our Business Banking terms and Conditions
The letter also pointed to the possible outcomes at the end of the review even if N did 
provide information about its business as requested, which was that HSBC may decide it no 
longer wanted to offer N banking facilities.
On 21 August 2019, Mr G emailed HSBC stating he wasnt willing to complete the online 
form. He told HSBC that the information it held about N hadnt changed since the last review 
in 2017. And if the bank needed specific information to email him and hed be happy to 
provide any necessary information. Mr G also said that if the bank wanted him to complete 
the online form it would have to pay him for the time it would take him to do so  as nothing 
had changed as per his email.
HSBC responded in September 2019 and said it couldnt accept Mr Gs email as it wasnt 
submitted in an acceptable format. So, it wasnt able to confirm the information provided to 
comply with its obligations   it needed Mr G to complete the online form. HSBC said this 
needed to be done by 2 October 2019 and warned Mr G that failure to do so could result in 
the bank closing Ns accounts.
Mr G didnt complete the online form. So, on 3 October 2019, HSBC decided to close Ns 
accounts with two months notice. The accounts were to be closed on 12 December 2019. 
However, due to delays, HSBC didnt close the accounts until 14 January 2020. HSBC sent 
a cheque for the closing balance on 20 February 2020, but this wasnt received by N and is 
subject to a separate complaint. 
Mr G complained to HSBC about the closure of Ns accounts. The bank said theyd made 
the decision to close the accounts as they hadnt received the information via its online form 
so had been unable to complete its required checks. And had done so in line with the 
account terms and conditions. The bank apologised for the delays in closing the accounts 
and returning Ns closing balance. And offered N £200 for the inconvenience this caused.
 
Mr G brought Ns complaint to our service. Our investigator said that she wouldnt interfere 
with the banks processes to ask for information  this was up to HSBC and was part of its 
regulatory obligations. All banks including HSBC had to carry out checks in line with  anti-
money laundering regulations  and this review was part of that. Because HSBC were 
unable to complete its review for N, they closed its accounts. The investigator thought the 
offer made by HSBC for the delays in closing Ns accounts was fair. 
In response to the investigators view, Mr G said he accepts HSBC were entitled to ask for 
information and that the bank could also close Ns accounts. But he says the bank has acted 
outside the terms of the account when it closed Ns accounts. He says he had provided the 
information the bank requested in his email in September 2019  he told the bank nothing 
had changed since its last review. And hes argued that the terms dont specify there was a  
requirement for the information to be submitted in a particular format. So, its unfair for the 
bank to close Ns accounts because he didnt submit the information via the banks online 
form. Mr G has accepted the £200 offered for the inconvenience caused to N by the account 
closure delays. 
As no agreement could be reached on the remaining points, the matter has come to me do 
to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, as the investigator has already explained, HSBC has extensive legal and regulatory 
requirements they must meet by ensuring the information they hold on their customers is 
accurate and up to date. Each bank has their own procedures for reviewing accounts and 
updating their records. One of the processes HSBC uses is Safeguard reviews
HSBC is entitled and obliged to ask their customers for further information to help safeguard 
both the bank and its customers from financial crime. HSBC asked N for such information. 
Im satisfied that in line with Clause 11 of their Business banking Terms and Conditions 
terms HSBC made a reasonable request to N to provide information. And in line with these 
terms N has a duty to provide the information the bank requested.
Ive looked at whats happened here. I agree with the investigator that its not the role of this 
service to interfere with the necessary regulatory checks that HSBC must comply with. As 
part of its business model HSBC has processes in place to complete safeguarding reviews. 
We are not the regulator of firms  so we cant tell them how to run their businesses, or how 
to design or implement their processes. I know Mr G is unhappy that HSBC uses an online 
review form to request information from its customers to complete safeguarding reviews of 
accounts. And to receive the information back from them. And I accept that this would 
require Mr Gs time and appear burdensome. But thats how HSBC runs its business  and 
we cant interfere with its commercial decisions. 
I can see that Mr G did email HSBC in September 2019 in response to HSBCs prompt to 
complete the form. And he told HSBC that nothing had changed since the last review, which 
took place in 2017. I note too he offered to provide the bank more specific information if it 
was needed. But he wanted to do so via email. So it wasnt that Mr G was unwilling to give 
the bank the information it wanted. He just didnt want to do it in the way the bank had 
asked. 
Mr G says he was busy running his business and didnt want to spend the time filling in a 
form as this would take him away from his work. I can appreciate Mr Gs strength of feeling. 
But I dont think HSBCs request to fill in an online form was unreasonable. HSBC is obliged 
to gather information so that it can comply with its legal obligations. The bank also gave 
Mr G just over three months to fill in the form. And told Mr G what the consequences would 
be if he didnt complete the online form  that it may close Ns accounts.  Ive not seen any 
evidence that Mr G ever completed that form. So, I find HSBC acted fairly when it decided to 
close Ns accounts. I appreciate that would have caused N inconvenience, but that could 
have been avoided by the completion of the form.
Mr G submits that HSBC has acted outside the terms and conditions of Ns accounts. He 
argues that he did provide the information HSBC requested so the bank shouldnt have 
closed Ns accounts. But under the terms of the account N held, HSBC are entitled to end 
the relationship. The terms and conditions of the account  which both HSBC and N had to 
comply with  say that it could close the account by giving N two months notice. And sooner 
in certain circumstances. HSBC has done this. So, its entitled to close the account as it 
seems its already done. In other words, there has been no breach of contract, as Mr G has 
suggested, because HSBC has acted in accordance with the account terms and conditions.
HSBC accepts it didnt close Ns accounts when it should have and that there were delays in 
sending out a cheque for the closing balance. I note that Ns accounts were due to close on 
12 December 2019, but HSBC didnt close the accounts until 14 January 2020. A cheque for 
the closing balance wasnt issued by the bank until 20 February 2020. HSBC have offered N 
£200 for any inconvenience this caused. Having looked at all the circumstances I think this is 
a fair and reasonable way to resolve this aspect of Ns complaint. 
In summary, I recognise how strongly Mr G feels about whats happened, and I dont doubt it 
was a frustrating time. But overall, based on the evidence I have, I cant fairly say HSBC 
have acted unreasonably. So, I wont be asking them to do anything further to resolve Ns 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont require HSBC UK Bank Plc to do anything further to 
resolve Ns complaint.  If it hasnt already done so HSBC should pay N £200 for the 
inconvenience caused by the delays in closing Ns bank accounts and delays in sending out 
a cheque for the closing account balances.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman