DRN-3153799
The complaint
Mr S complains about National Mutual Life Assurance Society (NMLAS), who are now 
owned by ReAssure Ltd. He says that it gave him advice to transfer the benefits from his 
defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal pension. He says the 
advice was unsuitable for him and believes it has caused a financial loss.
What happened
Mr S transferred his DB scheme benefits to an NMLAS personal pension in 1993. Mr S 
complained in 2020 to ReAssure about the suitability of the transfer advice.  
ReAssure didnt uphold Mr S complaint. ReAssure has said that this type of policy wouldve 
been sold to Mr S by an Independent Financial Adviser (IFA), and not NMLAS. ReAssure 
say they no longer hold records of which third party advised Mr S to start the policy. 
Mr S referred his complaint to our service. An investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He 
said ReAssures records showed that NMLAS was unlikely to have advised Mr S to start the 
plan. And there was no evidence from the time of sale that NMLAS advised Mr S to transfer. 
Mr S representative disagreed. He said, essentially, that as NMLAS was the only firm shown 
to be involved in this transfer, then its reasonable to assume that it gave advice to Mr S. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case Mr S is complaining about the suitability of the advice he says he was given to 
transfer his DB scheme benefits to an NMLAS personal pension. So, it follows that, in order 
for NMLAS to be responsible for this transfer, it needs to be established that NMLAS give 
Mr S advice in 1993. If it didnt give Mr S advice then NMLAS wouldnt be responsible for the 
transfer, and I wouldnt be able to say that NMLAS gave him unsuitable advice.  
Its clear that Mr S had some contact with NMLAS as his DB scheme transfer value was 
invested in one of its pension products. But this doesnt mean that NMLAS advised Mr S to 
do this. It is possible that a third-party IFA gave advice, and NMLAS would still need transfer 
forms and other relevant paperwork, to complete the transfer. Its possible that the 
paperwork that does exist came about when Mr S was given advice by a third party to 
transfer to NMLAS. 
And whilst the evidence from the time of sale is very sparse, the information provided by Mr 
S DB scheme shows that pension transfer illustrations may have been requested by a 
number of third parties. This would suggest an IFA was involved. 
Mr S has been unable to say, with any degree of certainty, that NMLAS advised him to 
transfer his DB scheme benefits. In fact, hes said the opposite, that he was advised by a 
third party to do this. I accept, as his representative has said, that he may be thinking about 
the firm that gave him advice when he was arranging an annuity later on. And its not really 
surprising that he cant clearly recall events that took place around 30 years ago. But I think 
its reasonable to say that Mr S recollections dont support that he was advised to start the 
plan by NMLAS. 
ReAssures records show that this plan would have been sold by an IFA. And this is the only 
way that these plans were sold. And I dont think there is any compelling evidence or 
information that shows this wasnt the case here. So, I think its likely that this was how his 
personal pension was started. 
So, given all of this, I dont think that its likely, on the balance of probabilities, that NMLAS 
advised Mr S to transfer his DB scheme benefits. This means NMLAS isnt responsible for 
whether or not the advice to transfer his DB scheme was suitable for Mr S.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman