DRN-1922822
 
The complaint
Mrs H and Mr M complain that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) have unfairly declined their claim 
made under the Family Legal Protection section of their home insurance policy. 
Where I refer to UKI, this includes their agents and claims handlers. 
The policy is held in joint names, but for ease of reading Ill mostly only refer to Mr M. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview here. Mr M had water ingress to his home which caused damage to the 
walls and ceiling. He believes the water came through the party wall from his neighbours 
property. He feels it is obvious this is the case as he doesnt have any pipes or plumbing on 
that side of his house.
Mr M made a claim to UKI. He wanted to take legal action against his neighbour in relation to 
the water ingress. UKI asked one of their panel solicitors D to look into the matter. D wrote 
to the neighbour who responded with a report from a plumbing engineer which said that hed 
inspected the neighbours property and that hed found no leaks that could be causing the 
water ingress and damage to Mr Ms house.
Mr M provided his own report from a decorator which concluded the damage was coming 
from his neighbour. D considered this and placed more weight on the report from the 
engineer than the report from Mr Ms decorator. They said that without a further expert report 
that conflicted with the findings of the neighbours report  Mr Ms claim didnt have the 
required prospects of success for cover under the policy.
UKI explained that if Mr M could provide a further expert report  then they would look again 
at the claim.
Mr M complained and when UKI maintained their position  the matter was referred to our 
service. One of our investigators didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She concluded 
UKI had acted fairly in the circumstances. Mr M still disagrees and has asked for an 
ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator and for largely the 
same reasons. I know this will be disappointing for Mr M, so Ill explain why.
Mr Ms policy says: We will provide coveras long as we and the appointed representative 
agree that your claim has reasonable prospects of success The phrase reasonable 
prospects of success is given a specific definition in the policy of For civil cases, we and the 
appointed representative agree that there is a better than 50% chance that you will obtain a 
successful judgement
Terms like these are common to nearly all legal expenses insurance policies and I dont 
think it is inherently unfair. Litigation can be expensive and a privately paying client wouldnt 
generally continue funding legal action if advised they arent likely to win. So, I dont think an 
insurer should have to either. 
UKI themselves arent legal experts. So, I think it is fair that they rely on suitably qualified 
legal advice when making decisions about a claim  unless that advice is obviously wrong. 
Ive read the report from D which makes clear that its author doesnt consider that Mr Ms 
claim has the required prospects of success. Im satisfied that the reports author is suitably 
qualified, and I dont think the opinion is obviously wrong. 
UKI have said that if Mr M provides a report from an expert that concludes the water is 
coming from his neighbour, theyll ask D to reconsider the claim  I think this is fair. I also 
dont think UKI saying that it is for Mr M to fund a report to show he has a valid claim is 
unfair.
Similarly, if Mr M were to provide a legal opinion which concluded his claim did have the 
required prospects of success, Id expect UKI to reconsider it. And in those circumstances, 
Id also expect UKI to consider reimbursing Mr M the reasonable costs of obtaining the 
further legal opinion. But as things stand, I dont think they need to do more to resolve this 
complaint. 
Mr M also raised some further issues in relation to the price of his insurance policy and a 
further, more recent, instance of water ingress to his home. As our investigator has advised, 
Mr M should raise these issues with UKI in the first instance and it would be inappropriate for 
me to comment on them at this stage.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 August 2020.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman