DRN-3070323
The complaint
Miss P has complained that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) has refused to remove 
her former partner from their joint mortgage account. To settle the complaint Miss P wants 
RBS to transfer the mortgage into her sole name.
What happened
Miss P and her former partner have a joint mortgage with RBS. They are now separated with 
Miss P remaining in the property. In June 2020 Miss P completed a transfer of title 
application (ToT) with RBS to remove her former partner from the mortgage, but this failed 
RBSs credit assessment and so the application was declined.
Miss P complained to RBS, but the complaint wasnt upheld. In its final response letter, RBS 
explained that Miss P had failed a credit assessment. The bank also noted that Miss P had, 
shortly before the application, been discharged from an IVA taken out in 2017. RBS 
explained that its criteria only allowed the bank to accept an IVA if it had been registered at 
least six years earlier. Because of this, and due to adverse credit data, the application was 
declined, even after it had been reviewed at a senior level.
Miss P complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our investigator also didnt think 
the complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied that RBS was entitled to decline the ToT 
request.
Miss P asked for an ombudsman to review the investigators findings. She is unhappy her 
request was declined, and that her former partners credit file is being beneficially affected by 
mortgage payments she is making.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand the dilemma Miss P is in; she has been paying the mortgage by herself and 
thinks its fair that the mortgage should be transferred into her name. I am told that Miss P 
has agreed to pay her former partner £2,000  in monthly instalments  for his interest in the 
property.
The rules of mortgage regulation say that taking out a new mortgage  or making a material 
change to an existing one  requires an affordability assessment. Adding or removing a 
borrower is a material change. That means RBS is required to do an affordability 
assessment. It can only set that requirement aside if it can show making the change would 
otherwise be in the borrowers best interests. 
In my view, whats in Miss Ps best interests involves looking at all the circumstances. Given 
their relationship is at an end, on the face of it, its in her best interests that her finances are 
separated from those of her ex-partner. But even though RBS can set aside the affordability 
assessment where its in Miss Ps best interests to do so, it doesnt have to. In particular, I 
dont think it would be in Miss Ps best interests to set aside the affordability assessment 
where Miss Ps overall financial position shows that there are legitimate and reasonable 
concerns around affordability, even if a full detailed affordability assessment isnt done. 
Given this, Im satisfied it was reasonable for RBS to consider the affordability of the 
mortgage if it was transferred into Miss Ps sole name and that the exception provided for in 
the rules did not apply.
Turning now to the application itself and the banks decision to decline it, I will explain that 
where a complaint is about the exercise by a lender of its commercial judgment my role is to 
decide whether that judgement has been exercised fairly and reasonably; it isnt to substitute 
my own decision for the decision made by HBS. In other words, I have to decide if HBS took 
into account all relevant factors and gave proper consideration to them before reaching its 
decision.
Ive looked at the evidence RBS has provided in relation to its assessment of the application 
which led to the bank having concerns around affordability of the mortgage. Ive accepted 
some of this evidence in confidence, because it is about RBSs lending criteria, which is 
commercially sensitive. Under our rules, I am allowed to treat this type of evidence as 
confidential.
After considering this information, Im satisfied that RBS reached its lending decision fairly, 
after taking into account all relevant factors, including (but not limited to) affordability and 
Miss Ps specific circumstances. Given this, Im satisfied that RBS gave fair consideration to 
this application and so legitimately exercised its commercial judgement when deciding the 
terms upon which it would lend to Miss P. I think the concerns the bank had over 
affordability, after taking into account Miss Ps circumstances, were valid and on that basis I 
am unable to conclude that RBS has done anything wrong.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Miss P wanted. I understand from what shes told us that 
her former partner isnt happy about remaining on the property title and mortgage. However, 
thats an issue theyll need to resolve between themselves. Miss P is, of course, free to 
make a further application to RBS in the future, which will be considered against RBSs 
lending criteria and regulatory obligations in place at the time.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman