DRN-2748553
The complaint
Mr H complains TFS Loans Limited didnt complete reasonable and proportionate checks 
when approving him for three loans.
  
What happened
Mr H was approved for three loans with TFS between March 2016 and October 2018. Mr H 
complained to TFS in March 2020 and it didnt uphold his complaint. 
Our investigator reviewed Mr Hs complaint and upheld it in part. She said TFS hadnt made 
a fair lending decision at loan three.
As TFS didnt agree the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision recently where I set out, with reasons, why I thought TFS 
didnt make a fair lending decision when approving loans two and three.
The following is an extract from that provisional decision.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as 
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our 
website. Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Hs complaint.   
Bearing in mind the complaint before me, I think that there are a number of overarching 
questions I need to consider in order to fairly and reasonably determine Mr Hs complaint. 
These are:
1. Did TFS complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr H to satisfy itself he was 
in a position to afford to repay the loan sustainably?
If so, did it make a fair decision?
If not, would those checks have shown Mr H would have been able to do so?
2. Bearing in mind the circumstances, at the time of each application, was there a point 
where TFS ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing Mr Hs indebtedness in a 
way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so shouldnt have provided further 
loans?
3. Did TFS act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did TFS complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr H to satisfy itself he was in a 
position to afford to repay the loan sustainably?
TFS needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it responsibly lent to Mr H. The relevant 
rules, regulations and guidance at the time TFS lent required it to carry out reasonable and 
proportionate checks. These checks needed to assess Mr Hs ability to afford the loan and 
repay it sustainably over its term without causing him financial difficulties.
There isnt a set list of checks a lender needs to carry out, but they should be proportionate, 
taking into account things like the type, amount, duration and total cost of the credit, as well 
as Mr Hs individual circumstances. 
And it isnt sufficient for TFS to just complete proportionate checks  it must also consider 
the information it obtained from these checks to make a fair lending decision. This includes 
not lending to someone in financial hardship; and ensuring repayments can be made 
sustainably without having to borrow further.
TFS has said it completed an affordability assessment and conducted a credit search at the 
point of each loan to assess Mr Hs creditworthiness and its decision to lend.
Ive taken all of this into account when thinking about each loan.
Loan one
TFS obtained details of Mr Hs income via a payslip. It also completed an affordability 
assessment over the phone and completed a credit file search. The credit file showed Mr H 
had outstanding credit commitments of £13,615. The main purpose of this loan is accepted 
by both parties as being debt consolidation. TFS says Mr H was to repay a loan and two 
credit card accounts; and use the remaining balance for personal use. Having listened to the 
assessment call, Mr H confirms hes going to be repaying a loan and his credit cards, and 
this should leave him around £200-300 for personal use.
On review of the credit file TFS obtained at the time, Ive seen Mr H had four active credit 
card/store card accounts, two of which had balances above their limits, and one which was 
close to its limit. Two of the accounts had sustained arrears which had been present over the 
previous ten months; and one of which had entered an arrangement within the same month 
of TFS completing its credit file check. And Mr Hs overdraft showed a high level of 
utilisation, near its limit of £4,800.
Mr H had taken a loan of roughly £400 the month before this TFS loan; repayable over five 
months. He also had another loan with an outstanding balance of around £5,300 which still 
had around two years to run. TFS would also have seen Mr H had used pay day loans 
consistently between late 2011 and early 2015  there are just under 40 entries of payday 
and short-term unsecured loans recorded as settled on his credit file.
This information leads me to conclude Mr H was someone who had historical and present 
problems managing his money. I say this because of the frequency and amount of payday 
loans Mr H had used over the proceeding years before this loan. This demonstrates 
someone who isnt sustainably maintaining their financial commitments on a month to month 
basis. This is strengthened further by the fact Mr H had recently missed payments on his 
accounts. And importantly some of these accounts had exceeded their credit limits. 
Based on the above information available to TFS I dont consider it did complete reasonable 
and proportionate checks. Im satisfied TFS should have verified Mr Hs expenditure to 
satisfy itself he could sustainably meet the repayments over the full term of the loan. 
Loan two
At the point of loan two TFS completed an affordability assessment over the phone. It also 
verified Mr Hs income by obtaining his recent payslip and completed a credit file search.
Mr Hs financial situation doesnt appear to have significantly changed from loan one. While 
his total indebtedness has decreased slightly, there is further evidence of financial difficulties. I say this because Mr H has recent arrears on two of his credit accounts  one of 
these being a credit card Mr H has obtained since loan one. And with two of his active credit 
card accounts Mr H has exceeded his credit limit in eight and ten of the last 12 months. Hes 
also obtained two further loans since loan one  in December 2016 and March 2017  both 
with relatively short terms which I consider indicates these are likely to be payday/instalment 
loans. And Mr H obtained a loan in August 2017 with a total repayable value of around 
£2,500, with a 36-month term that was repaid early in October 2017. 
Ive listened to the calls TFS had with Mr H at this time, including the affordability 
assessment call. During this call Mr H makes TFS aware of two further loans, both with 
monthly repayments of around £90, that he will be looking to consolidate as part of this loan. 
The advisor acknowledges neither of these are showing on the credit file check it has 
obtained  which I consider further supports a need for it to have verified Mr Hs actual 
monthly expenses. 
TFSs income and expenditure assessment identified Mr H as having a monthly disposable 
income of around £1,000  but this is at odds with the evidence it had available to it in Mr Hs 
credit file. The advisor does acknowledge this; and Mr H says hed rather pay everything off 
in one go than on a monthly basis with his disposable income. But I dont consider TFS 
shouldnt have so easily accepted Mr H response at face value, as it seems to. The 
information Mr H provided was clearly at odds with the information TFS had within the credit 
file. Mr Hs pattern of borrowing and utilisation of credit limits  and consistently exceeding 
some credit limits across a consecutive period of time  suggests to me that Mr H didnt 
have the level of disposable income TFS calculated; and actually, he was wasnt managing 
his finances well. 
The checks TFS completed at loan two were the same as loan one; and showed similar 
information on Mr Hs credit.  As I found the checks TFS completed at loan one werent 
reasonable and proportionate; it follows I dont think the checks TFS completed for loan two 
were reasonable and proportionate either.
Loan three
At this point Mr H was returning to TFS for his third loan within around 30 months.
TFS again completed an affordability assessment with Mr H over the phone. It verified his 
income by obtaining his most recent payslip and it completed a credit file search. 
At this point Mr Hs total indebtedness stood at around £20,000. So, his indebtedness had 
increased, and his financial situation had got worse. A communication account Mr H had 
taken just before loan two was at this point five months in arrears with an outstanding 
balance of around £382.
Mr H had taken a further loan since loan two, in August 2018, payable over a six-month 
term. And the credit file shows Mr H had taken what appears to be another payday loan 
around the time he applied to TFS for loan two (although I appreciate due to the timing this 
didnt show on the credit file search TFS completed at the point of loan two).
TFS could see Mr Hs mail order account had been in arrears for five of the previous eight 
months. And hed increased the limit of one of his existing credit card accounts by £500 in 
February 2018  and had exceeded this new higher limit across six of the last eight months. 
TFSs income and expenditure assessment identified Mr H as having a monthly disposable 
income of around £750  but again this is at odds with the evidence it had available to it from 
Mr Hs credit file. I consider that TFS needed to obtain a full understanding of Mr Hs financial circumstances 
before agreeing to approve loan three. So, I dont think TFS did complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks before approving this loan. 
Would further checks have shown Mr S would have been able to meet any repayments 
towards loan one sustainably?
As I dont consider TFS completed reasonable and proportionate checks, Ive gone on to 
consider what those checks would have shown. 
I consider TFS ought to have verified Mr Hs expenses to ensure it obtained a full 
understanding of his financial circumstances. It could have done this in a number of ways. 
Our investigator asked Mr H to provide us with his bank statements from around three 
months leading up to loan one. We find this provides us with a good indication of how a 
consumers financial circumstances are around the time of applying for a loan. 
Mr H has said he isnt able to provide us with his bank statements. He has provided 
information such as his credit file, testimony of his financial circumstances around the time 
and details of his health. Whilst I appreciate him providing this information; its not 
necessarily persuasive evidence when considering the affordability aspect of Mr Hs 
complaint. 
As I only have the evidence TFS completed from the application  and Ive already explained 
why this information isnt enough  Im unable to obtain a thorough understanding of what 
Mr Hs financial circumstances were at the time of this loan. And, it therefore follows, I cant 
say what TFS would have seen had it completed more detailed checks at this time. 
Whilst there are negative markers on Mr Hs credit file; these alone may not be enough to 
demonstrate whether the loan was affordable to Mr H or not. All parties agree that this loan 
was for debt consolidation; and the information that TFS completed at the point of sale 
suggests this consolidation would benefit Mr Hs finances. Whilst Mr H says this wasnt the 
case; Im unable to say on balance whether the loan would always have been unaffordable 
to Mr H  regardless of the benefit of consolidating some of his debts.
So, in the absence of any such information; I think its more likely than not that the 
consolidation wouldve shown the loan was likely affordable to Mr H, and therefore TFS 
wouldve made a fair decision to lend. If Mr H would like to provide any further information in 
relation to this loan and his circumstances at the time leading up to the application, I will 
consider it before issuing my final decision.
So, the reasons outlined above, I dont think TFS made an unfair lending decision when 
approving loan one. 
Loans two and three
Mr H hasnt provided information such as bank statements for loans two and three either; so 
again, I only have the evidence TFS completed from the application. And this isnt enough 
for me to obtain a thorough understanding of Mr Hs financial circumstances at the time of 
these loans. So, in the absence of any further information; it therefore follows I cant say 
what TFS would have seen had it completed more detailed checks at this time. 
However, I think there are other reasons TFS didnt make a fair lending decision when 
approving loans two and three; and Ive gone on to explain why below.Bearing in mind the circumstances, at the time of each application, was there a point where 
TFS ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing Mr Hs indebtedness in a way that 
was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so shouldnt have provided further loans?
Loans two and three 
By loans two and three Mr Hs financial situation hadnt significantly changed; in fact, it had 
largely got worse. 
I find it difficult to understand how TFS concluded further consolidating Mr Hs finances from 
loan two onwards was beneficial to him. I consider TFS had enough information within the 
credit fie searches it completed at loans two and three; which ought reasonably to have led 
to it realising it was increasing Mr Hs indebtedness in an unsustainable and harmful way. 
I say this because while Mr Hs total overall indebtedness had slightly decreased by loan 
two, hed missed more payment to some of his credit accounts which were again in an 
arrears position. Mr H had also taken further borrowing between loan one and two; 
suggesting to me the consolidation at loan one had been a short-term solution to Mr Hs 
bigger financial difficulties  and he was again needing to borrow further to maintain his 
monthly expenditure. And by the time Mr H approached TFS for the third loan, his total 
indebtedness had increased by around £6,500 since loan one. The main purpose of each of 
the three loans was to consolidate existing debt; but TFS was aware from the credit file 
checks it completed that Mr H was opening new lines of credit between each loan, further 
indicating his reliance on borrowing.
Between loans one and two; and loans two and three; Mr H had missed multiple payments 
on a number of his existing credit accounts. Hed increased existing credit card limits; and 
opened new credit card accounts; all of which had been used to their limits; and in some 
cases, above their limits. Mr H had also taken further borrowing in the form of loans, some of 
which appear to have been payday lending and instalment lending; showing signs that he 
wasnt able to sustainably meet his existing commitments without taking on further 
borrowing. 
I consider all of this information within the credit file checks TFS completed presented 
someone who wasnt managing their finances well; and wasnt able to sustainably meet their 
repayments without needing to take on further borrowing. Im satisfied TFS ought reasonably 
to have been aware of this and to have identified that further lending would be unsustainable 
and harmful to Mr H. 
As such, it therefore follows I dont consider TFS made a fair lending decision when 
approving loans two and three. 
Did TFS act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Mr H has provided us with a lot of information regarding his health  and the impact these 
loans had on him. I thank Mr H for his openness in providing us with this information. Ive 
reviewed it in detail, but Ive not seen anything to suggest TFS acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in its dealings with him in relation to this.
Mr H has also told us he was in a DMP/IVA throughout the period TFS lent to him; and it 
should have been aware of this at the time of each loan. I asked Mr H to provide further 
clarity on this matter; but Mr H hasnt provided any details to confirm this. Mr H has provided 
a recent copy of his credit file, but it doesnt include details of insolvency records. While I 
appreciate Mr H has made us aware he was in arrangements to pay with some of his 
lenders  and had arrangements on a number of his accounts  these are not the same as being in a formal insolvency arrangement. If Mr H is able to provide evidence of formal 
insolvency arrangements, I will of course consider this.  
Both Mr H and TFS responded to my provisional decision, accepting the findings and adding 
no further comments or evidence for me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as both parties are in agreement with my provisional findings and have 
presented no further comments or evidence for me to consider; I see no reason to depart 
from them. 
It therefore follows I dont consider TFS made a fair lending decision when approving loans 
two and three. This is for the reasons outlined in my provisional findings but in summary:
Mr Hs financial situation had worsened by the time loan two was approved; and the 
benefits of consolidation from loan one hadnt improved matters. This meant further 
lending was likely unsustainable to Mr H as he had shown a continued dependence 
on further credit to supplement his income;
By loan three Mr Hs indebtedness had yet again increased showing a continued 
need for credit to supplement his income. Mr H had also missed payments to other 
creditors during this time showing he was in financial hardship and the consolidation 
TFS were providing was not sufficient;
As a result of this Im satisfied by loan two onwards TFS ought to have been aware it 
was increasing Mr Hs indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise 
harmful and therefore so shouldnt have provided further loans.
Putting things right
To settle Mr Hs complaint TFS Loans Limited should do the following:
Add up the total amount of money Mr H received as a result of having been given 
loans two and three. The repayments Mr H made should be deducted from this 
amount; as well as any charges or fees associated with these loans.
a) If this results in Mr H having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
b) If any capital balance remains outstanding, then TFS Loans Limited should 
attempt to arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr H.
After all adjustments have been made and once there is no outstanding balance, 
TFS Loans Limited need to remove any negative information recorded on Mr Hs 
credit file regarding loans two and three.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS Loans Limited to take off tax from this interest. TFS 
Loans Limited must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for 
one.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my recent provisional decision, Im upholding Mr Hs 
complaint about TFS Loans Limited.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Richard Turner
Ombudsman