DRN-3961090
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo 
Finance Limited was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
MotoNovo. The agreement was for £9,598 (made up of £8,100 hire purchase and an 
additional personal loan of £1,498) over 61 months; with monthly repayments of £220.94. At 
the time, the car was around five and a half years old.
Mr K says the car developed problems within a week or so of it being supplied to him. He 
took the car back to the supplying dealership on 29 March 2022, and the dealership replaced 
the glow plugs. However, the problems with the car continued and, on 31 May 2022, the 
dealership identified a problem with the accelerator pedal sensor.
The car was inspected by an independent engineer on 1 June 2022. The engineer identified 
issues with the accelerator pedal sensor and the crankshaft. But he said that faults of this 
nature tend to present themselves within 1,500 to 2,000 miles. So, he didnt think the faults 
were present when the car was supplied to Mr K.
Mr K asked if he could reject the car, but MotoNovo refused. So, he brought his complaint to 
us for investigation.
Our investigator said she thought there was a fault with the car. And she said that, because 
Mr K first had a problem with the car after around 650 miles, she wasnt convinced that the 
independent engineer knew about the previous repair. And, if they had, then she thought 
they wouldnt necessarily have reached the same conclusions. Given this, she thought that 
the faults were present when the car was supplied, and that the dealership failed to identify 
this when they conducted the original repair. As such, she thought that Mr K should be 
allowed to reject the car. 
The investigator also said that, as Mr K was without the car, or any alternate transportation, 
for a period of around six weeks, MotoNovo should refund him the equivalent of six weeks 
worth of payments. And pay him £150 for the stress and inconvenience hed been caused.
MotoNovo didnt agree with the investigator. They said the fault with the glow plugs was 
successfully repaired and hadnt reoccurred. And they thought the issue with the sensors, 
while it had the same symptoms  the car going into limp mode  was a completely separate 
fault. And MotoNovo said the second fault wasnt present or developing when the car was 
supplied to Mr K.
Because MotoNovo didnt agree with the investigator, this matter has been passed to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr K was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to investigate complaints about it. 
The CRA says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve been of a satisfactory quality 
when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, MotoNovo are responsible. Whats 
satisfactory is determined by things such as what a reasonable person would consider 
satisfactory given the price, description, and other relevant circumstances. In a case like this, 
this would include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale, and the vehicles 
history and its durability. Durability means that the components of the car must last a 
reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also implies that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, 
where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless MotoNovo can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified 
after the first six months, the CRA implies that its for Mr K to show it was present when the 
car was supplied. 
So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mr K took possession of it, and this made the car not 
of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and reasonable to ask MotoNovo to put this right.
According to MotoNovos system notes, the agreement went live on 7 March 2022, although 
the car wasnt supplied to Mr K until a week later. Mr K has said the car developed a fault, 
with the engine going into limp mode, within a week of him collecting the car.
Ive seen an invoice from the dealership, dated 30 March 2022, showing the glow plugs were 
replaced. The invoice also shows that, at the time of repair, the car had done 74,313 miles.  
However, Mr K reported a further issue with the car to MotoNovo on 23 May 2022, saying 
the car had gone into limp mode again the previous day. A further invoice from the 
dealership, dated 23 May 2022, shows they identified, but didnt fix, an issue with the 
accelerator pedal sensor. This also shows the car had done 76,363 miles.
Ive seen a copy of the independent engineers report that MotoNovo instructed. Dated 1 
June 2022, the report confirms the mileage at the time of the inspection was 76,465 miles. 
The engineer confirmed there were faults with the car relating to the crankshaft and 
accelerator pedal sensors, which meant that the car wasnt drivable. The engineer also said 
that this vehicle has covered 3,465 miles since hire to the date of our inspection and we 
consider the faults not to have been present at the point of purchase  we would envisage 
faults of this nature tend to present themselves within 1500 to 2000 [sic] miles.
It's my understanding that, following this report, the identified faults were fixed. However, Mr 
K contacted MotoNovo on 8 July 2022 to advise them that he picked the car up that day, and 
within an hour the engine went back into limp mode. He also supplied a diagnostic print out 
showing that the accelerator pedal sensor was faulty. Given this, Im satisfied that the 
attempted repair on the faults identified by the independent engineer failed.The independent engineers report says that the car had done 73,000 miles when it was 
supplied to Mr K, and that it had failed at 76,300 miles. The agreement with MotoNovo says 
that the car had done 73,000 miles when it was supplied to Mr K, but this doesnt tally with 
the MOT record, which confirms a mileage of 73,671 on 11 March 2022  around three days 
before the car was supplied to Mr K. Given this, Im satisfied that the supply mileage was 
73,671, or slightly more.
The dealerships invoice of 23 May 2022 shows the accelerator pedal failure happened at 
76,363 miles. But, given that Mr K needed to take the car to the dealership, a journey of a 
few miles, Im satisfied that the failure most likely happened at a mileage slightly lower than 
that recorded by the dealership.
I consider the exact mileage the car had done to be important, given the engineers 
comments. And, based on the above, the car went into limp mode for a second time after 
doing no more than 2,692 miles. But, for the reasons already given, the actual failure 
mileage would be less than this.
The engineers conclusion that the faults found were not present when the car was supplied 
are based on an assumption that the car had done 3,456 miles when the faults occurred. But 
this is based on a mileage that is over 760 miles more than the car had actually done. Ive 
also considered the engineers comments that we would envisage faults of this nature tend 
to present themselves within 1500 to 2000 [sic] miles. This use of envisage and tend to 
present implies that the 1,500 to 2,000 miles is not a defined range, and the faults couldve 
occurred sooner than 1,500 miles, or later than 2,000 miles.
Whats more, I havent seen anything to show me that the engineer was made aware of the 
fault with the car in March 2022. And, while MotoNovo have said that this was a different 
fault that exhibited the same symptoms, the engineer was not given the opportunity to 
comment on this.
As part of my consideration into this matter, I asked the engineer if the lower failure mileage, 
and the previous failure/repair made any difference to their conclusions. On 7 April 2022 the 
engineer said on the information we had at hand at the time of the inspection, we did 
believe that the vehicle had covered approximately 3,400 miles since point of sale and the 
conditions under review were not a characteristic of a type which would have been present 
at the point of sale.
The engineer went on to say that it does appear that the first instance of a fault identified 
was 642 miles after sale and appears to have been related to a glow plug issue. Repairs 
were affected by the selling agent this type of condition is not consistent with the issues 
under review, although clearly the condition would have been developing at the time of sale.
A further fault became evident approximate 2,600 miles after sale, although the exact cause 
of the issue has not been specified and as such, we were unable to comment whether it 
would be connected with the fault codes now under review which are specific.
You will note in the report completed  we did indicate that these conditions often develop 
within the first 2,000 miles of use and we anticipate it will be appreciated that there are some 
variables in the propagation window. Whether this condition is related to the issues under 
review is currently unclear.Based on the engineers comments, Im satisfied that the glow plug issue was developing at 
the point of supply. As such, the dealership attempted a repair on the car. The engineer also 
confirmed that the 2,000 mile window is variable and with the mileage the car had travelled 
when this fault occurred, the engineer hasnt said that this is outside of any expected 
mileage failure window.
As such, taking into consideration all of the evidence, Im satisfied that its likely the fault with 
the accelerator pedal sensor was present or developing when the car was supplied. As this 
results in the car going into limp mode, Im also satisfied that this made the car of an 
unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied.
In these circumstances, the CRA allows for a single chance at repair  not a single chance 
of repair for each individual fault. In this case, there have been two repair attempts since the 
car was supplied to Mr K and the fault with the accelerator pedal still remains.
As such, I think its now reasonable that Mr K should be allowed to reject the car.
Putting things right
Given the above, MotoNovo should:
end the agreement with nothing further to pay;
collect the car at no cost to Mr K;
refund any deposit paid by Mr K;
reimburse him the equivalent of six weeks payments, to compensate him for the time 
he was unable to use the car;
apply 8% simple yearly interest on these refunds, calculated from the date Mr K 
made the payments to the date of the refund ;
remove any adverse information relating to this agreement from Mr Ks credit file; and
pay Mr K an additional £150 for the distress and inconvenience hes suffered as a 
result of being supplied a car that wasnt of a satisfactory quality. 
HM Revenue & Customs requires MotoNovo to take off tax from this interest. MotoNovo 
must give Mr K a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Ks complaint and MotoNovo Finance Limited should 
follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 May 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman