DRN-3741600
The complaint
Ms M complains that Funding Circle Ltd unfairly sold some of the loans she had invested in 
through its crowdfunding platform. 
What happened
Ms M held a peer-to-peer (P2P) crowdfunding account with Funding Circle. Funding 
Circles platform allowed investors to lend money to prospective borrowers in return for 
interest payments. 
Ms M complained to Funding Circle in February 2022 as she was unhappy that with its 
decision to sell some of her loans to a third party for a fraction of the outstanding capital. She 
said Funding Circle didnt have her permission to do so and didnt inform her before the sale 
was carried out.  
Funding Circle looked into Ms Ms complaint but didnt uphold it. In summary, it said:
It carried out a very thorough internal valuation process to estimate an appropriate 
pricing range for the loans and to ensure it received the best outcome for individual 
investors. 
Its internal valuation and methodology was validated by a third party specialist 
valuation company. This involved looking at the returns it expected to receive over 
the duration of the recovery process in a scenario where the loans were not sold, to 
ensure that the pricing we received was in line with this. 
It also looked at other factors and risks including potential economic distress and it 
carried out a competitive bidding process to ensure it received the best price possible 
for individual investors. 
It only spoke to established and well-known players in the debt purchasing space to 
ensure it received competitive bids.
Ms M remained unhappy and so she referred her complaint to this service for an 
independent review. 
An investigator at this service considered Ms Ms complaint but didnt think Funding Circle 
had acted unfairly. In summary, she said:
By lending to third party borrowers through a platform, Ms M exposed herself to the 
risk some borrowers may not be able to repay their loans  and consequently, to the 
risk of losing all her invested capital. 
Funding Circle sent a list of the loans Ms M was invested in which it sold and she 
was satisfied these were all loans that were in default.
Funding Circles terms explained that it could take such steps as it considered 
necessary to collect outstanding debt, including assigning the debt to a debt 
purchaser.
Funding Circle said that recoveries on loans are never guaranteed and selling the 
loans allowed Ms M to receive a portion of her capital back with no delay. 
Funding Circle explained the sale proceeds were in line with its own valuations and 
expected lifetime recovery rates previously communicated with investors.
She felt that selling to a third party gave Ms M the benefit of receiving at least some 
of her money back  and with immediate effect  where recoveries couldve been 
lengthy and unsuccessful.
Ms M didnt agree with the investigators findings. In summary, she said:
Not all of the loans that Funding Circle sold on, were defaulted. Some had had 
recent, regular payments made. So Funding Circle did not act in her best interest by 
selling on loans that had not defaulted. 
Any that had defaulted should have been managed by Funding Circle to recover as 
much from her investment as possible, rather than offloading them at a fraction of 
their value.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Ms Ms complaint centres around Funding Circles decision to sell some of 
her loans to a third party. In reaching my decision, Ive taken into account the wider 
regulatory obligations on Funding Circle, what Funding Circles terms say about the actions it 
can take, as well as considering if shes been treated fairly as result of the action Funding 
Circle took. 
Funding Circle is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). The 
relevant rules and regulations FCA regulated firms are required to follow are set out in the 
FCAs Handbook of rules and guidance. The FCA Principles for Business (PRIN) set out 
the overarching requirements which all authorised firms are required to comply with. PRIN 
1.1.1G, says The Principles apply in whole or in part to every firm. The Principles 
themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. The most relevant principles here are:
PRIN 2.1.1R (2) A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
PRIN 2.1.1R (6) A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and 
treat them fairly.
PRIN 2.1.1R (7) A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, 
and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading. 
Funding Circle was also required to act in accordance with the rules set out in the Conduct 
of Business Sourcebook (COBS). And the most relevant obligations here are:
COBS 2.1.1R (1) A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its client.
COBS 4.2.1R (1) A firm must ensure that a communication or a financial promotion 
is fair, clear and not misleading.
So Funding Circle was required to provide Ms M information about her investment that was 
fair, clear and not misleading. And it also needed to be satisfied that by selling her loans to a 
third party, it was acting in her best interests.
Funding Circles investor terms explained that it would ultimately make any decisions 
regarding recovery actions on Ms Ms loans:13.6.
We, the Security Agent or the Security Holder may take such steps as we consider
necessary or desirable in our absolute discretion to collect the outstanding debt 
including, without limitation, pursuing Guarantors, enforcing Security, assigning the 
debt to a debt purchaser, and commencing formal legal action or insolvency 
processes through the courts.
I understand Ms M doesnt think Funding Circle was able to sell her loan to a third party, 
however, Im satisfied Funding Circle did have the authority to do so under the above term.
I also understand Ms M disputes that the loans sold were in default. However, I can confirm 
that Funding Circle has provided evidence to demonstrate that the loans it sold were all in 
default and were at varying stages of recovery action. So Im satisfied Funding Circle only 
sold loans of Ms Ms which were in default. 
Whilst Funding Circle was able to sell her loans under the investor terms, Ive also 
considered whether it has treated Ms M fairly by doing so.
As the investigator explained, there is always a risk when investing in crowdfunding that an 
investor could lose some or all of their invested capital. This is usually due to borrowers 
failing to make repayments or because money cant fully be returned to investors through 
recovery action. This risk was explained to Ms M throughout Funding Circles website as well 
as in the investor terms:
7.3. You confirm and agree that, when you create an Investor Account and for so 
long as you maintain an Investor Account:
[]
you understand that by entering into any Loan Contract through the Funding 
Circle Platform, you are lending to Borrowers, your capital is at risk, and you 
accept that you are fully exposed to all losses which may be incurred by you;
As such, I think Ms M ought to have been aware that recovery on any loan is never 
guaranteed, and the proceeds from this transaction may not be sufficient to pay her back her 
full capital.
Funding Circle has explained that the action it took delivered recovery immediately for Ms M 
and avoided the risk of future recovery not performing in line with expectations. Funding 
Circle also explained that the amount returned to Ms M from the sale was in line with its 
internal valuation and expected lifetime recovery rates previously communicated to 
investors. It also clarified that as all investors lend to their own unique portfolio, the amount 
each investor has received depends on the individual businesses they lent to. And that in 
general, loans which defaulted less recently have a lower value as these loans have had 
longer to recover the debt.
Weighing up all of the above, as well as that there was no guarantee of repayment
in full, or in part, due to the significant risk of non-recovery for defaulted loans, Im persuaded 
that Funding Circle has demonstrated it acted in Ms Ms best interests by achieving a fair 
price by way of a competitive auction process. 
I understand Ms M thinks she would have been financially better off if Funding Circle had 
continued to pursue the borrowers for payment. However, Ive also considered that, without 
the benefit of hindsight, its impossible to say what action would have ultimately resulted in the quickest and cheapest recovery of the loan funds. I have to decide whether Funding 
Circle acted reasonably, with due skill, care and diligence, and took decisions which it could 
reasonably be said were likely to be in the best interests of all its customers. From what Ive 
seen, Im satisfied it did so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2023.
 
Ben Waites
Ombudsman