DRN-4206844
The complaint
Mr T has complained about the way Equifax Limited handled a dispute.
What happened
Both sides are most familiar with the case, so Ill summarise things in brief.
Mr T told Equifax that two loan applications in his name were fraudulent.
Equifax raised disputes with both lenders. One deleted the record of their account, the other 
(S) said their fraud team was still looking into it. Mr T was not happy and Equifax raised 
further disputes for him, but S did not agree to remove the data. Equifax explained they 
couldnt remove the data without Ss permission, as S owned the data.
Mr T complained, though initially to a no reply email address. He later sent it to the correct 
email. Equifax replied, but did not initially treat the matter as a complaint. They offered £25 
compensation for not acknowledging the complaint earlier, which Mr T did not accept.
Our investigator looked into things independently and found that £75 compensation was 
fairer for the delay in dealing with the complaint. They confirmed that Equifax had otherwise 
handled the dispute properly. 
Neither side agreed. Mr T felt Equifax were getting away with things and felt this was a 
systemic issue. Equifax felt theyd offered enough.
In the meantime, S finished looking into the matter and confirmed the application was 
fraudulent, so they applied to have the data removed.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I understand that it is most stressful being subject to fraud, and Im glad to see that 
both lenders have now agreed to close their respective loans, remove them from Mr Ts file, 
and chase him no further. It will usually take some time for this to update with all the credit 
reference agencies. But I hope this will help take some weight off Mr Ts mind.
Turning to Equifax, in this decision I can only hold them responsible for things that were 
actually their responsibility. Equifax were not responsible for the fraudulent loan applications 
 those were done by the fraudster. Nor were they responsible for the granting of the loans  
that was done by the lenders. And I think it was the fraud itself that was the primary cause of 
Mr Ts distress and inconvenience in this matter.
Equifax were also not the owner of the data S was reporting on Mr Ts credit file  it was S 
who were the owner. And as our investigator explained, Equifax were not allowed to change 
or remove the data without Ss permission.
So Equifax were only responsible for a fairly limited amount in this matter.
We would expect Equifax to raise disputes on Mr Ts behalf when he told them that S were 
reporting incorrect information. But Equifax did raise appropriate disputes, repeatedly and in 
good time. And they updated Mr T on the results of those disputes each time. So Equifax did 
what Id expect them to there.
Mr T argued that Equifax had enough basis to delete the data because of Ss letter dated 
11 November 2022, which he felt confirmed that the account was fraudulent. But it only 
confirmed that Mr T had said the account was fraudulent and that S were looking into this 
allegation. Similarly, Mr T argued that because S added a CIFAS registration, that was proof 
that the loan was fraudulent. But thats just a fairly standard procedure when investigating 
alleged fraud. Lastly, Mr T pointed out that Equifax had the ability to suppress the data. But 
as they explained, theyd only do that if S didnt reply to their dispute  and here, S replied 
promptly each time and made it clear they did not agree to the datas removal. And S were 
the datas owner. I find that Equifax did not have a reasonable basis to stop reporting the 
account in this case. I find they acted fairly in continuing to report it.
Turning to the way Equifax handled the matter more broadly, Mr T complained that Equifax 
had simply ignored all his communications about complaints. Equifax did reply and give 
updates. But I do see that Equifax failed to initially register this as a complaint despite Mr T 
making it clear he wanted to complain.
Equifax argue that this wouldve had little detriment. But I think this oversight caused Mr T 
some unfair worry and anxiety in an already stressful situation. It delayed things and meant 
he had to chase up his complaint. And given that the final response dealt with the matter in 
more detail than the updates, I think it would have been helpful for Mr T to get this earlier. So 
that needs to be put right.
I understand that Mr T may not be happy with the way Equifax does things across the board, 
and that he feels they shouldnt get away with overlooking the registering of a complaint. 
I should explain that we are not the regulator  thats the Financial Conduct Authority, or 
FCA for short. We do not oversee businesses processes across the board, and we are not 
here to issue fines or punish businesses. Were here to resolve complaints about individual 
situations in an informal manner. That sometimes means awarding compensation, to 
acknowledge a businesss mistake and the impact it had. We have guidelines about what 
levels of compensation to award, and I need to be consistent with those. Taking into account 
what Equifax were actually responsible for here, our guidelines, and the impact Equifaxs 
actions in particular had on Mr T, I agree with our investigator that £75 total compensation is 
fair to put things right in this case.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ts complaint in part, and direct Equifax Limited 
to pay him £75 compensation in total. I do not make any further award.
This final decision marks the end of our services consideration of the case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman