DRN-1727007
 
The complaint
Ms D complains that Bank of Scotland plc reduced the credit limit on her credit card. 
What happened
Ms D had a Bank of Scotland credit card with a credit limit of £1,200. In March 2019 she paid 
off the balance of £664.11. Shortly afterwards the bank reduced her credit limit to £700 and 
wrote to explain what it had done. That letter suggested that the bank thought Ms D might 
find it difficult to repay her borrowing. 
Ms D didn't think that was fair and complained to the bank. It suggested she contact the 
credit reference agency it used to find out what information it held. Ms D wasn't willing to do 
that. The bank also offered a manual search to see if the limit could be increased, but again 
Ms D didn't want to pursue that option. She referred the matter to this service, where one of 
our investigators looked at it.
The investigator thought that Bank of Scotland had been within its rights to change Ms D's 
credit limit; it didn't have to provide reasons. Ms D didn't accept the investigator's 
conclusions and asked that an ombudsman review the case. She said that she thought the 
bank's decision might be linked to a fraud alert placed by insurers; this service had found in 
her favour when she'd complained about that. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It's generally for banks and other lenders (which includes credit card providers) to decide 
how much they're prepared to lend and on what terms. In the case of a credit card, those 
terms include credit limits and interest rates. We won't generally intervene in lending 
decisions, as long as they're made for legitimate commercial reasons. Where a lender 
makes changes, they should provide proper notice.
A lending decision can of course be legitimately made even if a different lender would make 
a different decision. Other card providers may be prepared to give Ms D a higher credit limit 
or offer a different interest rate; that doesn't mean that Bank of Scotland should do the same. 
Ms D has no entitlement to a particular credit limit; that's primarily for lenders to decide.
I note here that the account terms said that the bank could reduce Ms D's credit limit if, for 
example, it was told about changes in her financial circumstances. I note what Ms D says 
about the fraud alert, but I don't believe what she's said about that would mean that the bank 
wasn't entitled to reduce her credit limit. Overall, I can't properly say that the bank acted 
unfairly in reducing her credit limit.     
My final decisionMy final decision is that I don't require Bank of Scotland plc to take any further steps to 
resolve Ms D's complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2020.
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman