DRN-1963863
The complaint
Mr B has complained about charges Premier Insurance Consultants Limited trading as Nova 
Insurance (Nova) applied on cancellation of a motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B bought a policy from Nova online, when doing so he declared a previous claim from 
2015. Shortly after he bought the policy Nova rang him. It said a shared insurance database 
was showing a second claim for him from 2016. Mr B said he didn't know anything about that 
claim. But Nova told him that because of the second claim the policy insurer, which is a 
separate business from Nova, would require an additional premium to cover him. Mr B 
refused to pay an additional premium, cancellation charges, or go through the cancellation 
process and hung up. 
Nova then wrote to Mr B to say it would cancel his policy within seven days. A week later it 
cancelled the policy and said it had applied charges of £123 in total, including a £13 charge 
from the insurer for Mr Bs time on cover. It said the other charges were a £60 cancellation 
fee and a £50 non-disclosure fee. And, as Mr B had paid a £115 deposit, it said there was a 
balance of around £8 outstanding, which it would waive.
Mr B didn't think Nova had dealt with him fairly and brought his complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into it. She didn't think it was fair for Nova to charge Mr B the £50 
non-disclosure fee. So she said it should give Mr B an appropriate refund together with 
simple interest on that sum.
Mr B didn't agree with our investigator's assessment, so his complaints been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm going to partly uphold it. My award to put things right will be the same as 
our investigator recommended.
In bringing this complaint Mr Bs made a number of points. But in this decision I will focus on 
what I see as being the key issues at the heart of his complaint. 
Its plain Mr B thinks that, given he told Nova he didn't want the policy before it had even 
begun, he shouldnt have to pay anything for it. And while I can understand his logic I don't 
think hes right.
It might help if I explain that Nova is an insurance broker. That means it sells policies and  
may help with their administration, but it doesn't actually provide the insurance cover itself. 
That cover will be provided by the insurers of the specific policies Nova sells. And as those 
insurers are separate businesses from Nova, it isnt responsible for the insurers actions, 
even where Nova takes those actions on the insurers behalf.
Ive seen that before Mr B bought the policy he had to agree that hed read and understood 
Novas terms of business. And those set out the charges Nova would apply, which clearly 
include a £60 fee on cancellation. So Mr B was aware of that charge before he bought the 
policy. And Nova would have incurred administration costs in setting up and cancelling it. So 
I think it was reasonable for Nova to apply that fee when the policy was cancelled, even if 
the cover had yet to start.
Nova also charged Mr B £50 for what it described as a non-disclosure fee. But its terms of 
business don't refer to a non-disclosure fee. In response to our investigators queries, Nova 
said this was a charge for making an amendment to the policy. But Nova didnt make a 
policy amendment. So I don't think its fair it charged that fee. It follows that I think Nova 
should refund it, subject to any deduction for outstanding sums Mr B might owe. And as hes 
been without the use of that money I think Nova should add simple interest to its refund at a 
rate of 8% a year from the date of cancellation to the date it refunds him. 
Im aware Mr B doesn't think the above outcome goes far enough. And he accused our 
investigator of bias for not fully upholding his complaint. But Ive seen no evidence of bias.  
The investigator made her findings based on the facts, evidence and arguments and came 
to a conclusion which is entirely reasonable in the circumstances. If she had wanted to show 
bias she had no need to partly uphold Mr Bs complaint. She could simply have  
recommended Mr Bs complaint be turned down. But she didn't do that. Im satisfied she 
weighed the evidence and came to a conclusion supported by it. She then made appropriate 
recommendations to put things right. I think she dealt with the complaint fairly and 
professionally. 
For completeness Ill add that while Nova collects premiums for insurers it's not responsible 
for any sum the insurer charges for time on cover. Also, once its arranged a policy any 
action Nova takes to validate the details of the policy, such as checking the shared 
insurance database, will be action it takes on behalf of the insurer. And that means Nova 
isn't responsible for any concerns Mr B might have about those actions.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I partly uphold this complaint. I require Premier Insurance 
Consultants Limited trading as Nova Insurance to refund the non-disclosure fee it charged 
Mr B, subject to any deduction for outstanding sums he might owe. It should add simple 
interest to its refund at a rate of 8% a year from the date of cancellation to the date it refunds 
him.1
1 If Nova considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should also give Mr B a certificate showing this if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2020.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman