DRN-3021198
The complaint and background
Mr B blames Think Money Limited for not doing enough to help him recover payments to a 
scam binary-options trading company. 
He disputes the following payments:
Date Merchant Payment method Amount
30 January 2018 G Ltd Mastercard debit card £750
30 January 2018 G Ltd Mastercard debit card £2,500
30 January 2018 G Ltd Mastercard debit card £2,501
30 January 2018 G Ltd Mastercard debit card £2,499
30 January 2018 G Ltd Mastercard debit card £2,498
30 January 2018 G Ltd Mastercard debit card £2,498
30 January 2018 G Ltd Mastercard debit card £5,000
1 February 2018 G Ltd Mastercard debit card £2,500
1 February 2018 G Ltd Mastercard debit card £7,500
1 February 2018 G Ltd Mastercard debit card £7,505
26 February 2018 G Ltd Mastercard debit card £2,500
Total: 
£38,251.00
Mr B received £100 from G Ltd on 31 January 2018, he then received a further credit of 
£200 on 1 February 2018. 
Mr B further disputes the following bank transfer:
Date Merchant Payment method Amount
1 February 2018 E Ltd International transfer £15,000
Mr B pursued G Ltd for a refund and in April 2018 it offered him a goodwill gesture of £6,500 
providing Mr B signed a settlement agreement with them. 
Taking the various credits into consideration, Mr Bs alleged total loss is £46,451. 
Think Money denies liability for what happened, saying that Mr B made authorised payments 
to two different companies which matched his normal account usage and there was no 
adverse information about either of the companies at the time of his payments. Accordingly, 
there were no grounds for a chargeback claim under the Mastercard scheme, nor was the 
bank liable to him under any other grounds.
On 30 July 2021, I issued a provisional decision rejecting this complaint. For completeness, I 
repeat my provisional findings below: 
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as a binary options or forex trading scam 
is in fact a scam. Some cases simply involve high-risk investments that resulted in 
disappointing returns or losses. Some binary options platforms may have promoted these 
productswhich are unregulatedusing sales methods that were arguably unethical and/or 
misleading. However, whilst customers who lost out may understandably regard such acts or 
omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet the high legal threshold or burden of 
proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false representation and/or failing to disclose 
information with the intention of making a gain for himself or of causing loss to another or 
exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006).
Banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) have duties to protect customers 
against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large 
transactions to guard against money laundering (see below). But when simply executing 
authorised payments, they do not have to protect customers against the risk of bad bargains 
or give investment advice  and the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) has confirmed that 
a fraud warning would not constitute unauthorised investment advice (see its predecessors 
2012 consultation paper on investment fraud). So, the first question to resolve is whether this 
particular retailer/trader was a fraudster.
Mr Bs account of what happened suggests he was induced into entering into an agreement 
with G Ltd on the basis of their promise of high returns along with a dedicated account 
manager to guide him through trades. The involvement of E Ltd came about through Mr Bs 
dealings with G Ltd and he was told (by G Ltd) that E Ltd were part of them. It was on this 
belief that Mr B instructed an international payment transfer on 1 February 2018. 
I am satisfied that G Ltd were not carrying out legitimate forex, CFD or binary-options 
trades but were instead dishonestly defrauding customers, e.g. by not actually making 
trades/bets with the money received from clients but simply manipulating their online 
trading platform to show purported gainswith initial token pay-outsin order to induce 
further investments from victims such as Mr B. In the absence of evidence to the 
contrary, I have concluded this because:
In 2018, binary-options, forex and CFD traders operating in the UK were required to 
be regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority  whereas G Ltd were not. Nor 
were they regulated in any other jurisdiction so far as I am reasonably aware. This 
indicates they were operating illegally, probably with dishonest intentions. Legitimate 
firms tend to comply with regulatory requirements.
On 13 March 2018, a warning about G Ltd was placed on the Investor Alerts Portal of 
the International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO). The 
Superintendencia del Mercado de Valores of Panama reported that they were 
offering financial services in its jurisdiction without authorisation. A warning from the 
FCA followed on 18 April 2018.
There are several reports in the public domaine.g. foreign press and online 
forumsstating that G Ltd were scammers. This hearsay is not in itself sufficient 
evidence of fraud. But in the context of known regulatory facts, it may fairly and 
reasonably be regarded as circumstantial evidence that helps build an overall picture 
of scammers dishonestly seeking gains at the expense of others.
E Ltd on the other hand has no adverse information reported about them. From what I have 
found, they are based in Hong Kong and has been in operation since 2017 and their 
operation status as a company is listed as live. There are no regulator warnings that have 
been published about them. Whilst I accept Mr Bs account that he felt G Ltd and E Ltd were 
the same, they are two separate entities and there is no credible data that links either 
company for me to reasonably conclude they were one and the same. For the purposes of my decision, whilst Im satisfied that G Ltd was a scam, I have no credible evidence that 
persuades me with any degree of certainty that E Ltd was also a scam. 
Having concluded that G Ltd was a scam rather than just a bad bargain or poor investment 
choice, I must now go on to consider four more issues in order to determine the outcome of 
the complaint:
a) Did Think Money deal with Mr Bs chargeback claims fairly?
b) If so, were any of the disputed transactions still so unusual or uncharacteristic for 
Mr B and/or his account that Think Moneys fraud alerts ought reasonably to have 
triggered some sort of intervention?
c) If triggered, would Think Moneys intervention have made a difference and prevented 
or reduced the loss?
d) And if so, was Mr B partly to blame for what happened such that it would be fair and 
reasonable to reduce compensation proportionately?
chargeback
Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Mastercard whereby it will ultimately arbitrate on 
a dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved between them after 
two presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme  so there are 
limited grounds on which a chargeback can succeed. Our role in such cases is not to 
second-guess Mastercards arbitration decision or scheme rules, but to determine whether 
the regulated card issuer (i.e. Think Money) acted fairly and reasonably when presenting 
(or choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder.
Chargeback in Mr Bs circumstances will apply to the Mastercard debit card payments he 
made to G Ltd only. Think Money did not attempt chargebacks on Mr Bs behalf because it 
says Mr B did not provide it with sufficient evidence, e.g. G Ltd were operating illegally.  
Im aware that the various card schemes handle the matter of investment trading disputes 
very differently. 
Having clarified this matter with Mastercard directly, it explained that if a cardholder 
authorised and engaged in a transaction with the intent to participate in gambling, 
investment or similar services, then cardholder-dispute chargeback rights are restricted 
regardless of whether the activity was illegal or brand damaging. It went onto explain that 
issuers have no chargeback rights related to the use of these chips or value, unspent chips, 
or withdrawal of such value, or on any winnings, gains or losses resulting from the use of 
such chips or value. In short, Mastercard consider the purpose of the Mastercard transaction 
to load funds into the gambling or investment account and not what activities are 
subsequently done with the funds. In this case, Mr Bs claim relates to G Ltd operating 
fraudulently, so I dont think there was any recourse for Think Money to try to recover Mr Bs 
debit card payments to G Ltd through the Mastercard chargeback scheme. 
It would be unreasonable to expect a bank to present a chargeback that had no reasonable 
prospects, particularly as that could incur costs (at arbitration) for the bank if the merchant 
were to defend the claim successfully, which seems likely here. I also have to consider that 
Mr B signed a compromise agreement with G Ltd following its gesture of goodwill. Mr B 
hasnt provided a copy of this agreement but Ive seen similar ones and a common clause is 
that the customer (i.e. Mr B) would agree not to take any action against the merchant (i.e. G 
Ltd). This would have been strong grounds to defend a chargeback claim as a binding 
settlement had been agreed by both parties. 
For the reasons set out above, I am not persuaded that Think Money acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in connection with any rights or responsibilities under the Mastercard chargeback scheme, so I cannot uphold this complaint on that ground.
For the avoidance of doubt, Ive not considered whether Mr B had any chargeback rights in 
relation to his payment to E Ltd and thats because this was an international transfer which is 
not subject to the chargeback scheme. 
unusual or uncharacteristic activity
Think Money should be aware of our general position on a PSPs safeguarding and due 
diligence duties to protect customers from the risk of financial harm due to fraud. We have 
published many decisions on our website setting out these principles and quoting the 
relevant rules and regulations. It is unnecessary to rehearse them again here in detail.
It is common ground that the disputed payments were authorised by Mr B for the purposes 
of the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. This is 
because they were made by Mr B using the legitimate security credentials provided to him 
by Think Money. These must be regarded as authorised payments even though Mr B was 
the victim of a sophisticated scam. So, although he did not intend the money to go to 
scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and conditions of his account, Mr B 
is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Think Money should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accountsand any payments made or receivedto counter 
various risks, including anti-money-laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment; or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
I am not satisfied there were enough triggers in this case to have alerted Think Money that 
Mr Bs account was being subjected to unusual and uncharacteristic activity. I say this 
because Mr B made regular gambling transactions prior to his payments to G Ltd. In the 
month of January 2018, he paid over £50,000 (in multiple transactions) to one particular 
gambling website. So, I dont think the payments to G Ltd on the face of it were unusual or 
uncharacteristic. That being said, Mr Bs payments to G Ltd did trigger Think Moneys fraud 
detection systems. The initial transactions triggered Think Money to contact Mr B via text 
message to confirm that he had initiated the payments. Following that, Think Money say 
Mr B was prevented from making further payments due to the additional security checks 
and thresholds being triggered on his account. As Think Moneys fraud detection systems 
were triggered, I think its reasonable for me to conclude that it had reasonable grounds to 
suspect a fraud or scam, which prompted requests for Mr B to phone it. 
First, regulated firms ought reasonably to take notice of common types of scams. As long 
ago as June 2012, the FCAs predecessor indicatedin its consultation paper entitled Banks Defences Against Investment Fraud: detecting perpetrators and protecting 
victimsthat it was good industry practice for firms to build up an updated watch-list of 
types of scams and potential perpetrators; and regularly to share timely and detailed 
intelligence with other banks, UK and overseas regulators, the police, etc. Whilst the 
regulator gave no specific timings, it is not unreasonable in my view to expect a bank to 
update its watch-list and communicate internally to staff within, say, one month of an alert 
being posted by the FCA or IOSCO. In my judgment, such alerts should automatically 
trigger alarm-bellsand lead to the payment being pausedpending further enquiries (and 
a possible scam warning) to the payer.
In Mr Bs case, there was no warning about G Ltd on IOSCOs Investor Alerts Portal until 
after Mr B made all of his payments. Because of this, I dont think Think Money should have 
been triggered to ask questions at his initial payment. Though, its clear the pattern of 
transactions that followed required Mr B to phone Think Money to discuss those payments 
as text message authorisations were no longer sufficient. Following the block of Mr Bs debit 
card in relation to his payments to G Ltd, Mr B called Think Money on 30 January 2018 and 
the following call note was recorded:
He advises that the payment is for 2500.00 GBP. He advises that the payment has been split 
by the company due to the initial amount being declined. He is asked what the payment is for 
and he advises that this is for an investment and the funds have originated from his pension. 
The customer advises that he has hit a variable limit on his card and is unable to complete the 
transaction.
In another call the next day (31 January 2018) following the blocking of Mr Bs card yet 
again, this call note was recorded by Think Money:
.Customer advises of his dislike for banks stating that if he could take it all out he would. 
The customer is asked if he received an SMS regarding the declined transaction. The 
customer advises that he has and that this is a transaction he is trying to make. The agent 
advises that due to the amount of funds debited over the past few days, he would need to 
stop spending on the debit card for a few days. He advises that he will close the account if 
this carries on
A further call on 31 January 2018 stated the following:
Inbound call received from Mr B  He advises that he is having problems making a payment 
using his debit card. He advises that he is trying to transfer 2500.00 to [G Ltd]. He is aware of 
the previous transfers advising that he knows it is a lot and reassures the agent that these 
payments were undertaken by him. He advises that he is expecting more money to come into 
his account in the next few days. The agent asks if he will be making any further payments to 
[G Ltd] after today  he advises not.
I have taken from some of the comments recorded that Mr B found Think Moneys calls to 
be somewhat of a nuisance. However, if Think Money had fulfilled its duties and carried 
out due diligence by asking suitably probing questions, there is no reason to doubt that he 
would have explained what he was doing. In such circumstances, whilst the bank had no 
duty to protect him from a bad bargain or give investment advice, it could have invited him 
to check whether the payee was registered with the FCA. At that time, there was 
information in the public domainwhich a bank ought to have known even if a lay 
consumer ought notabout the very high risks associated with binary options, forex and 
CFDs including many warnings of potential fraud (e.g. Action Frauds June 2016 warning; 
the European Securities and Markets Authoritys July 2016 warning; the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys consultation paper of December 2016; the Gambling Commissions December 
2016 scam warning that an unlicensed operator is likely operating illegally; the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys forex trading scam warning of August 2017, and so forth).There is no evidence that Think Money provided Mr B with any meaningful warnings or 
gave him other reasons to doubt the legitimacy of the payments he was making. There 
were several missed opportunities to intervene.
If Think Money had asked Mr B what the payments were for and the basic surrounding 
context, it is likely he would have fully explained what he was doing and that everything had 
been done over the phone and online with G Ltd. Ive taken account of the following call note 
recorded on 27 February 2018  where Mr Bs card was blocked by Think Money:
The customer completes security and the agent advises that he is calling in relation to 
declined card payments to G Ltd. The customer advises that he recognises the activity, 
and confirms that he was making the payment. The agent asks if he is still looking to make 
the payment and he advises not as he has had enough of it now, he has put so much 
money into it now. Its a shares and bonds thing. And thought OK then if I was going to 
make a good return on it then Ill go for it and thats what I did. He asks if the company 
needs to transfer money to his account [or] do they just need the SC/ACC number. The 
agent references recent GI refunds on the debit card. The customer advises that every 
now and again he may win a large amount of money. 
Think Money did not need to know for certain whether Mr B was dealing with a fraudulent 
binary options/forex/CFD trader or investing in a legitimate (albeit highly speculative) 
product; reasonable grounds for suspicion are enough to trigger a banks obligations under 
the various regulations and principles of good practice. I consider there were such grounds 
here and, therefore, that Think Money ought reasonably to have provided a scam warning in 
light of all the information then known to financial professionals about the risks associated 
with unregulated, overseas binary options. 
Ive taken note of Think Money carrying out additional internal checks into Mr Bs 
international transfer to E Ltd and satisfied itself there was no cause for concern. As I 
explained already, there was and is no credible evidence that suggests E Ltd are fraudulent. 
I accept that Think Money carried out additional checks on E Ltd but Ive not seen that any 
similar checks (to the standard completed with E Ltd) were carried out on G Ltd at the time 
of Mr Bs payments. I dont accept Think Moneys reasoning for not questioning Mr Bs 
payments to G Ltd on this basis and I think it should have done more than simply verifying 
the payments were authorised by him. I therefore conclude that Think Money was at fault 
here  so I go on to consider whether such acts or omissions caused Mr B any loss.
causation
Although I have concluded that Think Money could and should have done more to protect 
Mr B, there is evidence that suggests he was willing to take high risks and had a history of 
gambling. Even if Think Money had warned him in the way that I think it ought to have, I 
think its likely Mr B would have continued to send money to G Ltd. During a conversation I 
had with Mr B, he said he suspected G Ltd was a scam early on but was convinced to pay 
them more money. It seems more probable that even if Mr B enquired about G Ltds 
licensing, he would have been persuaded to continue to invest with them. After all, there 
were no regulatory warnings at the time about G Ltd, so given that they persuaded him to 
continue to invest even though he suspected it was a scam, Im not satisfied a warning from 
Think Money would have dissuaded him or caused him to act differently. 
In other words, I am satisfied that a warning from Think Money probably would have made 
no difference to Mr B. Any failings by Think Money were not the dominant, effective cause of 
his losses; they were just part of the background history or occasion that led up to them. In light of my conclusions above on causation, it is unnecessary for me to go on to consider 
whether Mr B was himself partly to blame for what happened (contributory negligence). 
Indeed, I have already concluded that he was responsible for his own investment or 
gambling decisions, and that such choices were the proximate cause of his losses.  
Responses to my provisional findings
Think Money did not have anything further to add. 
Mr B and his newly-appointed representative disagree with my provisional decision. Whilst 
submissions have come from both Mr B and his representative, for ease of reading, Ill refer 
to all the submissions as having come from Mr B alone. 
Mr B made submissions both in writing and by telephone. I have carefully considered and 
digested those submissions in full and I summarise the key points below:
When Mr B opened his account with Think Money around 2007, he believed it would 
safeguard his money and carry out due diligence when processing his payments. 
Mr B pays £15 per month for the protection of his finances and Think Moneys failure 
to act is very damaging to its reputation. 
Think Money knew G Ltd were scammers two months prior to him becoming aware 
of this and felt it was under a duty to inform him and the FCA. 
G Ltd sounded legitimate and were very persuasive and persistent in their pursuit of 
Mr B. 
Mr B was not a habitual gambler and played Bingo which many people in the UK do 
and this should not be held against him. Just because he plays Bingo doesnt mean 
he doesnt have the capacity to know the difference between giving consent for his 
money towards Bingo versus his money being stolen and it was compulsory for Mr B 
to be informed of this as per the Mental Capacity Act. 
When Mr B signed a settlement agreement with G Ltd, he did so out of desperation, 
and it should be inadmissible.  
Mr B was very stressed and had not been able to provide the facts in a detailed way 
and the ombudsman had only spoken to Mr B once and did not know him, whereas 
the investigator had spoken to Mr B over a longer period and could untangle what he 
was trying to say. 
Around 2019, Mr B found some banking information that suggested G Ltd and E Ltd 
operated from the same address. 
Think Money should have tried to reach out to the bank involved with the scam to 
attempt to recover the payments and if no money was left it should have informed 
Mr B of this. Think Money should not have contacted G Ltd who shouldnt have been 
allowed to know they were being investigated. This was negligent and a breach of 
duty to safeguard Mr Bs account. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand how upsetting this is for Mr B. I do empathise with his circumstances and am 
very mindful of the losses he has suffered as a result of G Ltds cruel actions. 
When making a determination, we do so on the balance of probabilities. In other words, I am 
required to conclude what most likely occurred. It is based on the relative weightiness of the 
evidence presented by both parties. I found the way Mr B used his account to be relevant to 
the likelihood of him taking a different course of action if warned by his bank against scams. I found it unlikely that Mr B would have taken a different course of action. There were a few 
reasons for this. Mr B gambled higher sums than the total amount he is disputing on a Bingo 
website he regularly used during the period of his disputed transactions. This statement isnt 
intended to be disparaging to Mr B. He is of course entitled to spend his money as he 
wishes. But its not unreasonable for me to conclude that he has demonstrated a willingness 
to take high risks with his money  and thats simply because gambling involves high risks 
that you may lose your money. 
I take Mr Bs point that the risk of gambling on a legitimate website is different to the risk of 
paying funds to a scammer. But Mr B also informed me in a telephone conversation that he 
suspected G Ltd were scammers early on. And despite Mr Bs concerns, he still decided to 
pay them. In addition to this point, Think Money did intervene in several of the disputed 
transactions and had conversations with Mr B to question the payments he was making. He 
made it clear that he knew what he was doing and the level of interruption to his payments to 
G Ltd were unwanted. Taking all of this together, whilst I concluded that Think Money had 
breached its duty to warn Mr B of scams, Im not persuaded its inaction was the proximate 
(i.e. dominant or effective) cause of his losses. I cannot safely conclude that such losses 
would have been prevented but for the acts or omissions of Think Money. Based on what 
Ive seen, I think that Mr B would have continued to pay G Ltd regardless of any potential 
scam warning from Think Money. It of course could only have been a general warning about 
potential investment scams as there were no regulator warnings about G Ltd at the time of 
Mr Bs payments. And I dont think a general warning would have dissuaded him from 
making the payments he now disputes. 
There is no independent expert evidence here that Mr B was not of sound mind or incapable 
of making investment decisions, even high-risk ones. (The Mental Capacity Act is therefore 
immaterial to the outcome.) A banks duty is to guard against the risk of fraud and scams; it 
is not to give investment advice or protect consumers from bad bargains. I note Mr Bs 
comment that suggests Think Money was aware that G Ltd were scammers two months 
prior to him becoming aware of this. I presume he means that it ought to have known they 
were scammers when a regulator warning was published. As I note in my provisional 
decision (and above), there was no adverse information that G Ltd were subject to any 
regulator warnings at the time of Mr Bs disputed transactions. It would be expecting too 
much for Think Money to proactively contact customers that historically paid a merchant 
subject to new regulator warnings. Whether or not Think Money would choose to report 
G Ltd to the FCA is a matter for it to decide as it sees fit. Mr B is of course entitled to report 
his concerns about G Ltd to the FCA and/or the police. When Think Money contacted G Ltd, 
this was done to assist Mr B when he said he couldnt get hold of them, so I dont agree with 
his suggestion that it breached any duty to him by taking this action.
There are circumstances where a firm  like Think Money  is expected to assist with the 
recovery of funds where a payment has been made by bank transfer. This is in accordance 
with the Payment Service Regulations 2017 and good industry practice. Circumstances 
include where the funds have gone to an incorrect account or were sent as the result of a 
scam. In relation to Mr Bs payment to E Ltd  which was the only disputed transaction sent 
via bank transfer  this was sent to the recipient that Mr B intended to send it to, i.e. to the 
correct account details. Think Money also carried out additional security checks about E Ltd 
before sending the payment and it was satisfied there were no concerns about it at the time 
of Mr Bs payment instruction. 
As I mention in my provisional decision, there is no evidence E Ltd were subject to any of the 
same regulator warnings as G Ltd. It also appears still to be in operation. I dont find the 
evidence provided by Mr B around E Ltds bank account details to be credible evidence that 
it operated a scam. This evidence was also not obtained at the time Mr B reported the scam 
to Think Money in 2018 but only obtained in 2019. There was certainly no credible evidence to suggest that Think Money had any valid grounds (at the time Mr B reported the scam to it) 
to attempt to recall his payment. 
Even if Think Money did have grounds to attempt to recover Mr Bs payment to E Ltd, Mr B 
is adamant that G Ltd and E Ltd are one and the same company. Mr B signed a settlement 
agreement with G Ltd to accept its goodwill gesture of £6,500. Ive seen similar agreements 
and offers are made in full and final settlement of the claim against the merchant and there 
are usually clauses preventing action being taken against them or their associates, which 
would probably rule out any claims against E Ltd too (assuming Mr B were correct about 
there being a link, which remain unproven). I appreciate Mr B felt under duress when signing 
this settlement agreement but there is no evidence that it was in fact signed under duress. 
Feeling under pressure  even significant pressure  to resolve a dispute out of court is not 
the same as actual duress in the legal sense of that word, i.e. where someone really has no 
option but to sign due to unlawful threats or coercion such as violence, blackmail, etc. There 
is no persuasive evidence that this was not a valid or freely-executed settlement. In the 
circumstances, I am satisfied that its existence significantly limited any recovery action Think 
Money could reasonably have taken.  
Final decision
For the reasons set out above and before, I am not persuaded that Think Money Limited 
acted unfairly or unreasonably with regard to Mr Bs disputed transactions to G Ltd and 
E Ltd, so I am unable to uphold this complaint or make any award against the bank.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2021.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman