DRN-3097905
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Ocaso SA, Compania de Seguros y Reaseguros (Ocaso) unfairly 
declined a claim under a commercial property insurance policy.
  
What happened
Mr B found water was causing internal damage to a property he owned, which seemed to 
get worse each time it rained. So, he contacted Ocaso to make a claim. Ocaso investigated 
the claim and then declined it. It said claims of this type would normally be dealt with as 
accidental damage, but there was no accidental damage cover available because the 
property was tenanted.
Mr B complained to Ocaso. When Ocaso replied it maintained its decision to decline the 
claim. It said that had it been reported as a storm claim it would have been used a different 
process to determine if an insured event had taken place. It said there was accidental 
damage cover under the policy, but there was an exclusion where properties were lent or 
sub-let.
So, Mr B contacted this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said the 
claim had been declined in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
As Mr B didnt agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 17 September 2021. In my provisional decision, I 
explained the reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
I should note as part of my decision that I asked Ocaso some questions about this complaint 
and it didnt reply.
Mr B owned a property that was covered by a block insurance policy. I have to decide 
whether it was fair for Ocaso to apply an exclusion under the accidental damage part of the 
policy. In doing so, I need to consider whether the precise wording of the exclusion 
described the circumstances under which Mr B made the claim. 
The key exclusion under the accidental damage part of the policy said:
Loss, damage or destruction whilst the Buildings are lent or sub-let in whole or in part.
So, I think an ordinary reading of that wording would be that accidental damage cover didnt 
apply if the property was sub-let at the time of the loss, damage or destruction.
When Mr B made the claim, he told Ocaso that a couple of weeks after his tenants had 
moved out, he was carrying out some maintenance and found water entering the property. 
So, at the time of the damage, the property wasnt sub-let. Based on the wording of the 
policy, the exclusion therefore didnt apply. 
Im aware that the property had tenants a short time before the damage and I understand 
that Mr B intended to rent it out again. But the exclusion wasnt based on the typical use of 
the property and if that is what Ocaso wanted to exclude, it should have said that in the 
wording of the exclusion. Instead, the exclusion was based on the circumstances at the time 
of the damage. 
As a result, I currently intend to say that I dont think it was fair or reasonable for Ocaso to 
decline the claim and that it should reconsider the claim in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy without applying this exclusion. 
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 17 October 2021. Both parties replied before that date and accepted my decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint and for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision, as I havent found any reason to depart from my previous decision.
  
Putting things right
Ocaso must reconsider the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy, without applying the exclusion for sub-let properties.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that the 
complaint is upheld. I require Ocaso SA, Compania de Seguros y Reaseguros to reconsider 
the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy, without applying the 
exclusion for sub-let properties.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman