DRN-1420070
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that UIA (Insurance) Limited, trading as UIA Mutual (UIA), has declined his 
claim for damage to his property, which he believes was caused by a storm and should be 
covered under his home insurance policy.
Mr B is represented by a loss assessor but, for ease, Ill refer to Mr B throughout. 
What happened
In February 2019 Mr B returned home from a short break to find that his roof had been 
damaged and two bedrooms affected by rainwater. He asked a local builder to make a 
temporary repair to his roof to stop the water coming in and then made a claim under his 
home insurance policy. He said thered been a storm a few days earlier and the damage had 
been caused by the strong winds and rain. 
UIA declined the claim. It accepted there had been a storm at the time Mr B said the damage 
had been caused. But it didnt accept the storm was the main cause of the damage. It relied 
on a report prepared by its surveyor who found many defects that werent storm related and 
concluded that the main cause of the damage was wear and tear. UIA said Mr Bs policy 
doesnt cover any damage caused by wear and tear or any other gradually operating cause.
Our investigator was satisfied there were storm conditions at the time the damage was said 
to have occurred. She also said the type of damage caused was typical of storm damage. 
But she was satisfied the damage occurred over a period of time due to poor maintenance, 
previous workmanship and the limited lifespan of a flat felt roof. She said the bad weather 
might have highlighted the damage but it didnt cause it.
Mr B didnt agree with the investigators view and the complaint has been passed to me to 
make a final decision. Mr B questioned the surveyors findings and maintained that the 
damage had been caused by the storm. He also believed that, whatever might have been 
wrong with the roof, the internal damage wouldnt have been sustained but for the storm and 
should fall within the policy cover. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusion as our investigator and for broadly the same reasons. Let me explain why.
Mr B thinks his property was damaged during a storm and, as his policy covers storm 
damage, he thinks he should be covered for this type of claim. So Ive considered this, taking 
into account the policy terms and conditions.
When we look at storm damage cases we ask three main questions:
1. Were there storm conditions on or around the date the damage is said to have 
happened?
2. Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?3. Were the storm conditions the main cause of damage?
 
If the answer to all of these questions is yes then the claim is likely to succeed. But, if the 
answer to any of above questions is no the claim for storm damage is unlikely to be 
covered.
There was a storm shortly before Mr B made his claim. Reports show that the peak gust 
during that week reached 59mph in the area he lives, with periods of heavy rainfall. Both 
parties accept there were storm conditions around the date the damage is said to have 
happened and there is no need for me to comment any further on that issue. So I can 
answer yes to issue one. 
I can also answer yes to issue two. High winds are known to dislodge roof tiles and lift felt, 
so Im satisfied the damage claimed in this instance is consistent with damage typically 
caused by a storm. Storm weather can also sometimes cause damage to internal 
decorations and contents, for example where rainwater has got in to the property. So Im 
satisfied the damage to Mr Bs bedrooms is also consistent with damage caused by a storm. 
I now need to consider whether the storm was the main cause of the damage in this 
instance. The surveyor appointed by UIA decided water had got into the property due to 
wear and tear defects around the dormer window, which sits on the second floor above the 
two bedrooms that were damaged by rainwater. He saw no evidence of storm damage. Mr B 
disputes that and cites the report prepared by the contractor who did the temporary repairs 
on his property. The contractor states that the felt had been lifted up due to the high winds, 
the lead flashing had moved and about 15 tiles had been moved or blown out. Mr B 
questioned the thoroughness of the surveyors inspection and responded to the points he 
made, believing all the evidence pointed towards the damage being caused by high winds 
and rain.  
Ive reviewed the evidence from the surveyor and Im satisfied his inspection was adequate. 
Hes taken a number of photographs of the relevant areas of the roof and of the internal 
spaces damaged by rainwater - and I think these help to support his findings. For example, 
the photographs support his view that the cover flashing fitted to the front of the dormer room 
is sitting unsupported and is forming a trough which is gathering standing water with run off 
under the tiles and into the roof structure.
I realise that some repairs were made to the roof before UIA conducted its survey and this 
might have meant the roof wasnt in quite as bad a state when the surveyor saw it as it had 
been immediately after the storm. Had tiles moved or blown off the roof as reported, this 
might have caused damage to the roof and allowed rainwater to enter the property. But there 
was no evidence of that when the surveyor visited. And, in any event, Im persuaded by the 
surveyors report that there were defects around the dormer window that would have allowed 
rainwater in to the property over a period of time. 
Mr B has also claimed for internal damage to his property. The surveyor says the poor 
condition of the roof has caused the water to enter the property around and to the front of the 
dormer window on the second floor, causing saturation of the roof timbers and the bitumen 
underlay sarking felt, which appears to have been occurring for a long period of time. He 
says this would appear to have eventually led to the collapse of a section of the first floor 
ceiling and bowing to the plasterboard ceiling to the second rear bedroom on the first floor. 
Mr B disputes this version of events and believes the timbers are only wet because of the 
storm event and the sarking felt is punctured but not perished. He said there was no 
indication of any ingress of water prior to the storm and nothing to suggest the internal damage had occurred over a period of time. So he believes the internal damage was caused 
by a one-off storm event and should be covered under his policy. 
Ive reviewed the evidence, including the photographs taken by the surveyor. To my mind, 
those photographs clearly show the poor condition of the sarking felt. They also show that 
the timbers are wet, which might have been caused by a one-off storm event as Mr B says. 
But, taken together with the other defects the surveyor identified around the dormer window, 
which would have allowed water in to the property, Im satisfied he reached a reasonable 
conclusion that this had been caused over a period of time. 
On balance, Im persuaded by the surveyors report and UIAs opinion that the internal 
damage was caused not by a one off storm event but by wear and tear and a gradually 
operating cause. It seems to me that the damage to the roof was already present when the 
bad weather began and that the strong winds and heavy rainfall simply highlighted the 
damage that was already there.
Mr and Mrs Ms policy doesnt cover Any loss or damage arising from wear and tear or any 
other gradually operating cause. And, with all of this in mind, Im unable to answer yes to 
storm issue three. 
Mr B has also suggested that, whatever might have been wrong with the roof, the internal 
damage was caused by the storm and should be covered under his policy. Ive looked very 
carefully at the terms and conditions of Mr Bs policy to see if the internal damage to his 
property would be covered elsewhere by his policy. But I cant see that it is. On page 4 of 
Mr Bs policy it says, Whilst your policy provides cover for a wide range of Insured events, it 
does not provide cover for the general maintenance or wear and tear of your property. Cover 
is provided for unforeseen events for example fire, storm and flood damage, but it is not a 
maintenance contract or service policy, and therefore does not cover the general upkeep or 
repair of your property. There is a section on accidental damage but that also includes an 
exclusion which says we will not pay for any loss or damage caused by wear and tear or 
depreciation. 
Im sorry to hear about the problems Mr B has experienced at his property. But for the 
reasons Ive given, I think it was reasonable for UIA to refuse his claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 May 2020.
Richard Walker
Ombudsman