DRN-2127309
The complaint 
Mr P complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc have failed to honour a cheque he issued in 
October 2019.
What happened
Mr P has three accounts with Barclays - a current account, a savings reserve and an 
Openplan savings account.
On 9 October 2019 a cheque issued from Mr Ps current account for the sum of £4,656 was 
unpaid by Barclays due to lack of funds. As the Openplan Savings account had enough 
funds to cover the cheque, Mr P assumed that his cheque would be honoured. 
Mr P raised a complaint with Barclays, they advised Mr P that it is the Savings Reserve 
account that transfers funds into the current account. They also explained that on 9 October 
2019 the balance on the Savings Reserve account was £2,001.63. The balance on the 
current account was £1,480.50 which meant that there wasnt enough money to cover the 
cheque. 
Barclays also explained that although there were sufficient funds in the Openplan Savings 
account, this would not automatically replenish either the current or the savings account. 
Accordingly, Barclays did not uphold the complaint, however, as a gesture of good will, they 
credited Mr Ps account with £8 for the unpaid transaction fee. 
One of our investigators here looked into this matter and didnt find that Barclays had done 
anything wrong. Mr P was not happy with the view and explained that in 2001 a Branch 
Manager told him that if he needed to write a cheque, provided there were sufficient funds 
in the accounts in total, then the Cheque would be honoured. 
Our investigator considered the additional information provided by Mr P but felt that the 
evidence showed Mr P understood how the account worked, so her view remained 
unchanged. 
Mr P remained unhappy with this and requested an Ombudsman to decide on the case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Openplan savings account is for long-term savings, it does not automatically transfer 
funds into the current or savings account. Having reviewed the bank statements for the 
current account and the reserve savings account, its apparent that there was a combined 
shortfall of £1,173.87 which is why the cheque was not honoured. 
Since 2001 Mr P does have an Openplan money manager facility, this facility transfers funds 
(both ways) between the current account and the savings account and allows Mr P to earn 
interest on surplus funds and avoid charges on the current account. But the Openplan 
Savings account doesnt automatically transfer funds into the current account or savings 
account, so Mr P would have been required to do a manual transfer to cover the cheque. 
Due to the length of time that has passed, Barclays were unable to provide details of the 
terms and conditions that they say were given to Mr P when the account was opened. I find 
it likely that he was given the documentation and that it would have explained how the 
account the works.
I havent disregarded Mr Ps testimony that he visited the Branch in 2001, and that they said, 
provided there were sufficient funds in the accounts in total, then the cheque would be 
honoured. Barclays have no record of this given the passage of time, so Ive thought very 
carefully about what I find was likely to have been said at the time. I do accept that there 
may have been a mis-understanding on Mr Ps part, but I consider that its unlikely Barclays 
would have provided Mr P with information or guidance that is outside the rules of the 
account. 
I can see that Mr P receives monthly bank statements for his current account. These 
statements provide a regular snapshot of the overall account position, this would indicate 
that Mr P would have some knowledge regarding his account and the balances.  
Also, Barclays has shown us that Mr P has made a manual transfer in the past to cover a 
direct debit payment. This is an indication that where the current account did not have 
enough funds to meet a payment in full Mr P manually transferred funds from the Openplan 
savings account to into the reserve account. I understand that this payment was not a 
cheque, however, it would suggest that Mr P is aware of how the account works as he 
needed to make a manual transfer. 
I can see this an embarrassing situation for Mr P, and I understand his strength of feeling. 
But having considered all the circumstances here, I dont find that Barclays have done 
anything wrong. So, there is no basis on which I could require Barclays to compensate Mr P. 
Finally, I note that the length of time it took Barclays to resolve the complaint caused trouble 
and upset to Mr P. As complaint handling is not a regulated activity, I am unable to look into 
this matter. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my decision is that I do not uphold complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2020.
 
Afroz Rasool
Ombudsman