DRN-3602974
The complaint
Ms M complains about charges made by Marsh Finance Limited (Marsh) when she returned 
her vehicle. 
What happened
In June 2019 Ms M entered into a hire purchase agreement to acquire a used car that was 
first registered in the UK in January 2011. The cash price of the car was £6,390 and the 
agreement was set for a duration of 60 months. The mileage on delivery was approximately 
52,000 miles.
 
In September 2021 Ms M exercised her right to voluntarily terminate the agreement. Marsh 
explained to Ms M that the vehicle would be inspected by collection agents, and she would 
be liable for any charges outside of fair wear and tear.
  
The car was collected and inspected in September 2021, and March invoiced Ms M for 
damage outside of fair wear and tear as follows: 
Front bumper  scratched greater than 25mm through topcoat - £141.50
Bonnet - chipped and rusted - £209
Left hand front door shut inner  dented up to 15mm no paint damage - £48
Left hand rear door shut inner  dented up to 15mm no paint damage - £48
Right hand front door shut inner  dented between 15 and 75mm with paint damage - 
£250
Rear bumper  dented between 15 and 75mm no paint damage - £193
Right hand front seat  hole - £60
Ms M complained to Marsh in September 2021 contesting the charges. Marsh sent Ms M 
their final response to her complaint in October 2021. They said theyd reviewed the photos 
from the inspection, and the damage was clear and outside of fair wear and tear standards, 
so the charges were fair. 
Unhappy with this, Ms M brought her complaint to this service for investigation. She said the 
damage was already there when she acquired the car, so she shouldnt be charged for it. 
Our investigator gave her view that some of the damage wasnt visible in the photos, and so 
should be removed. She also said the remainder of the damage was fair wear and tear given 
the age and mileage of the vehicle and so should also be removed, except for the charge for 
the hole in the seat which she thought had been fairly applied. 
Marsh didnt agree. They said Ms M had accepted the damage that we now said wasnt 
visible in the photos, so this was fairly charged. They said the collection agent had 
considered the age and mileage of the vehicle before applying the charges, so those items 
charged for werent commensurate with a vehicle of this age and mileage. They offered to 
reduce some of the charges as a gesture of goodwill. 
Ms M didnt accept Marshs offer. As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case was 
passed to me for a decision. I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in June 2022 
recommending that it was upheld. I made the following provisional findings: 
Ms M acquired the car under a hire purchase agreement, which is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement. Our service can look at complaints about these sorts of agreements. Ms 
Ms agreement with Marsh sets out that Ms M must keep the vehicle in good working order 
and condition.  
Marsh said that the decision to charge for the damage was because it was outside of fair 
wear and tear. 
The agreement doesnt set out the parameters of the condition that the vehicle needs to be 
returned in, or what Marsh would consider represented fair wear and tear to the vehicle. But 
I think its clear from the agreement that Ms M is responsible for returning the vehicle in good 
condition. 
Marsh said that Ms M accepted some of the damage when she brought her complaint to us, 
so this shouldnt be considered again. Ms M said she didnt accept that she should pay for 
the damage, she just accepted that she hadnt noticed the damage on the car previously, 
whereas for the other areas of damage, she said she knew they were there when she 
acquired the car. 
Theres nothing to prevent me from considering each item of damage, so I think its fair to 
consider all of the charges and whether theyve been fairly applied. 
When reaching my decision, Im required to consider relevant industry guidance. There are 
industry standard guidelines published by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association 
(BVRLA) which set out what is considered to be fair wear and tear in respect of a hired 
vehicle. 
This guidance is generally intended for new cars that have been returned at the end of their 
first finance agreement, so it is used mainly to consider damage to cars that are a few years 
old. But it can also be used for older cars, where the age of a car and the number of miles it 
has covered are taken into account when considering what would be deemed fair wear and 
tear.
Ive also considered that the BVRLA guidance is just that - guidance. While I take it into 
consideration, I also need to take into consideration what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. So, I think its fair that any damage is assessed by considering whether its 
reasonable to expect this type of damage, given the cars age and mileage. 
Here, the car was around eight years old when Ms M acquired it. It had travelled 
approximately 52,000 miles and had a cash price of £6,390. When Ms M handed back the 
car in September 2021, it was approximately ten years old and had travelled around 90,000 
miles. So, I would expect the level of what is considered fair wear and tear to be greater than 
if Ms M had taken out finance on a brand-new car.
In deciding whether Marsh have acted fairly in relation to each charge, Ive taken into 
consideration the terms and conditions of the hire purchase agreement, BVRLAs guidelines, 
as well as the age and mileage of the car when it was returned.Front bumper
The BVRLA fair wear and tear standards say that surface scratches of 25mm or less where 
the primer or bare metal is not showing are acceptable, provided they can be polished out. 
Ive seen the photos provided by Marsh, and they do show scratches to the front bumper 
outside of the BVRLA standards. But I think on a vehicle of this age and mileage, scratches 
to the front of the vehicle would be acceptable even where they are through the topcoat. 
There is one small and one larger scratch in the photos, and I think a person acquiring a car 
of this age and mileage would expect some wear of this nature. So, I dont think this damage 
is outside of fair wear and tear, and Marsh should remove the £141.50 charge for it. 
Bonnet
The BVRLA fair wear and tear standards say chips of 3mm or less are acceptable provided 
they are not rusted. 
Ive seen the photos provided by Marsh and there are chips to the bonnet that are rusted. 
But I think on a vehicle of this age and mileage a number of chips to the bonnet would be 
acceptable. The fact that the damage is rusted supports Ms Ms view that this damage has 
been apparent for some time, and I dont think the damage is outside of fair wear and tear 
taking into account the age and mileage of the vehicle. So, Marsh should remove the £209 
charge for this damage. 
Left front and left rear door shut inners 
Marsh have said there are dents with no paint damage to the left front and left rear door shut 
inners. Ive seen the photos provided by Marsh and I cant see any dents to these areas. So, 
Marsh should remove the two £48 charges for these items. 
Right hand front door shut inner
The BVRLA fair wear and tear standards say that dents of 15mm or less in diameter are 
acceptable provided there are no more than two per panel and the paint surface is not 
broken. 
Ive seen the photos provided by Marsh of the right-hand front door shut inner, and I can see 
a number of large dents through the paint surface. I dont think a person acquiring a car of 
this age and mileage would expect this severity of damage, and so I think it falls outside of 
fair wear and tear. So, I find the charge of £250 has been fairly applied for this item. 
Rear Bumper
Marsh have charged for dents to the rear bumper. Ive reviewed the photos provided by 
Marsh, and I cant see any dents to the bumper. So, Marsh should remove the charge of 
£193 for this item. 
Right hand Front seat
The BVRLA fair wear and tear standards say the interior upholstery and trim must be clean 
and odourless with no burns, scratches, tears, dents, or staining. 
Ive seen the photos provided by Marsh of the right-hand front seat, and there is a large tear 
in the upholstery. Even considering the age and mileage of the vehicle, I dont think this this is acceptable fair wear and tear, and so the charge of £60 has been fairly applied for this 
item. 
Ms M responded to my provision decision to say she had no further points to raise. 
Marsh didnt respond to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has raised any new arguments, or sent me new information to consider, for 
the same reasoning that I set out in my provisional decision, Ive decided to uphold this 
complaint.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Marsh Finance Limited to 
remove a total of £639.50 from the end of contract charges, leaving £310 for Ms M to pay. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2022.
 
Zoe Merriman
Ombudsman