DRN-2468409
The complaint
Mr K complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed his account, recorded a marker at CIFAS 
the national fraud database and hasnt responded to his requests for information.
What happened
Barclays wrote to Mr K in May 2019 to say that it would be closing his account with
immediate effect. He tried without success to open an account at a different business. And
he found out that Barclays had registered a fraud marker. Through his representative he
tried to pursue a complaint about this and make a subject access request (SAR). But even
after he contacted Barclays again it didnt deal with this. He says he no longer wants an
account with Barclays but that it hadnt accused him of anything, and the marker should be
removed.
Barclays says that it received a report that a payment of £3,984 credited to Mr Ks account
on 4 May 2019 was fraudulent. All of the money was withdrawn using Mr Ks card and
security information. It decided to close his account and said that it was correct to apply the
fraud marker. It recognised that it hadnt responded to Mr K and his representative in a
timely way and it issued a final response letter offering him compensation of £400 and a
payment of the outstanding balance on his account of £0.16. It accepted that it hadnt
responded to a letter Mr K had subsequently sent repeating his SAR.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld in part and Mr K be paid a
further £200 for Barclays not responding to the SAR that had been made again in December 
2019. He said that:
- Following receipt of the payment Mr K had withdrawn £2,500 in cash from his 
account and also purchased foreign currency.
- Hed listened to a call Barclays had with Mr K about his account when it explained 
that it needed to check the activity on his account as the pattern of spending had 
changed. Mr K confirmed the payments as genuine.
- During that call Mr K had indicated that hed bought the Euros as he was going to 
Spain.
- Mr K had told him that a friend had asked him to receive a payment from that friends 
father as he didnt have his card or cash. Mr K withdrew cash and bought the Euros and 
gave this to the friend. He says hed been told that his friend wanted the Euros
and was going to buy clothing and he assumed had kept some of the cash. Mr K said he 
hadnt spoken to that friend since.
- The payment was from a company. Mr K had first told him that he didnt know who 
this company was. He later said that his friends father owned the company and that 
he was told this shortly after hed made the payments. That didnt seem consistent 
with him not speaking to the friend again and was material information hed have 
expected Mr K to have told him.
- He didnt think Mr K had given a consistent account of what happened, and he 
thought that Barclays had sufficient grounds to add a CIFAS marker and close the 
account. 
- It was clear that Barclays hadnt dealt with a renewed SAR even though Mr K had 
sent this by recorded delivery to the address he had for Barclays. He considered 
that further compensation was appropriate.
Mr K didnt agree. In summary he said that during the call with Barclays on 4 May 2019 the
payments on his account had been verified. There was no explanation why if the credit was
fraudulent Barclays had allowed the transfers. And he thought it would be speculation on the
part of our investigator that the payment was reported as fraudulent some time later. He
didnt think wed asked Barclays about the evidence to show he was committing fraud and
wasnt in fact the victim himself. And he said he was unhappy with the way his telephone call
with Barclays had both been noted and summarised. Now he has had the belated SAR and
has listened to a recording of the call he disputes saying he was going on holiday or that the
Euros were for himself to use in Spain. He also maintained he wasnt asked specifically
about what he knew about his friends connection to the company and could only answer the
questions put to him. His earlier statement I do not know [name of company] remained
correct. And he did have a conversation with his friend after the payments which led to a
dispute and so hasnt spoken to him since that time. He considered that wed manipulated
Barclays terms and conditions by saying it had a basis to close his account because of fraud
when this allegation hadnt been put to him by Barclays. He didnt think that the
compensation for the issue with the SAR was sufficient especially as he considered the
information has been altered. But compensation wasnt what he is mainly seeking: it is the
removal of the CIFAS marker so he can have an account elsewhere.
Barclays said it thought we should deal with the issue about the SAR after its final response
as a separate complaint.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision to this complaint on 19 November 2020. I set out below what I 
said.
I needed to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Barclays
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the
evidence would support this being reported to the authorities.
I said I was issuing a provisional decision so I can explain my reasoning. Clearly Mr K feels 
his emails and information has been misinterpreted and has made extensive reference to 
why he doesnt believe he has been inconsistent. And I was going to be introducing new 
points which he should fairly be allowed to comment on. I needed to say to him though that 
we provide informal dispute resolution and arent a court. I was going to be deciding what I 
thought is most likely and I wouldnt be able to say exactly what happened here. I would deal 
with what I thought are the key issues and points hes raised here in making that 
assessment.
the call with Barclays on 4 May 2019
Id listened to this call. I was satisfied that the purpose of the call was for Barclays to confirm
that payments Mr K had made from his account were genuine. It wasnt specifically to ask
about the credit of £3,984. Having looked at statements of his account those payments
werent the usual pattern.
In the course of the discussion he was asked if he was going away. And he said that he wassupposed to be going to Spain with friends in the next two to three weeks. And that money
had been put into his account. I thought that an impression that the Euros were for him could
have been formed. But he wasnt specifically asked that.
why his account was allowed to operate
I said Id come on to the specifics of the SAR process below. But I needed to say to Mr K 
that I wouldnt expect Barclays to provide information to him about how fraudulent payments 
are reported and disclose information about third parties. And I wouldnt be able to disclose 
that to him either. But I could assure him that I knew that the fraud report didnt come in until 
after 4 May 2019. So, as I said above Barclays only concern on that day was about whether 
his payments were genuine.
Barclays hasnt made any allegation, but we have
This is a significant concern for Mr K. Effectively Barclays decided that Mr Ks account had 
been used to receive and withdraw fraudulent funds. That gave it grounds under its terms 
and condition to close the account and add the CIFAS marker. That constitutes its position. 
Our role is to consider whether that was done fairly.
was Mr K a witting participant?
Mr K says he was out shopping with a friend and who asked him to receive this money. It
isnt in dispute now that money had originally been obtained fraudulently and it passed
through Mr Ks account. I needed to decide whether its fair for Mr K to be held responsible 
for this or as he argues that he was really a victim here too. I didnt think that any more 
forensic comparison of what hes said in various emails to this service is going to resolve 
that. To me the following are the most relevant points:
- Mr K says he agreed to receive money for someone else. Hes no evidence other 
that his testimony to support that or who had the benefit of the money or what he 
was told about this.
- The money came from a company. Accepting Mr Ks position that his friend hadnt 
told him this at the time this seemed unusual and on his account didnt raise any 
questions in his mind. Id seen evidence he checked his account online and I 
couldnt see why he wouldnt reasonably have noticed and questioned the name of 
the sender. Even later he seemed to accept an explanation from his friend that this 
friends father owned the company. Id not seen any evidence to support that 
either.
- This was a large amount of money and especially given the normal pattern of 
entries in Mr Ks account. Mr K has never indicated he found that a concern or 
questioned why his friend needed so much money that day. He says he assumed 
the friend would keep some cash back.
- There was a balance of £0.81 in Mr Ks account before the money was credited at 
12:23 on 4 May 2019. At 12:32 he withdrew £2,000 in cash from an ASD machine 
in a branch. At 13:18 he paid £1,450.93 for currency he says was Euros. At 13:24 
he increased his limit for cash machine withdrawals from £300 to £500. And at 
13:36 he withdrew £500 in cash.  The small remainder of the money was used for 
payments that afternoon.
- While Mr K can correctly say that he wasnt specifically asked about the company 
at first by our investigator he gave the impression that he didnt know the 
connection to his friend. Thats important for him in arguing there was some 
legitimacy to the payment. Its up to him to support his case with evidence and I 
thought its puzzling this didnt come out earlier.- Theres no evidence presented that Mr K didnt act willingly in receiving the 
money and making these payments or that hes been intimidated into acting in 
this way.
- I would as I said deal with the SAR below. But now hes had that response theres 
no new evidence hes put forward. I know he refers to not having recordings of 
other calls, but hes not explained what he thinks those would demonstrate. 
I found this leaves Mr K in a difficult position and with an onus on him to provide a credible 
explanation of what happened. What he says isnt supported with evidence. And the 
amount of money involved and the speed and manner in which this was withdrawn to me 
is consistent with the dispersal of fraudulently obtained funds. I concluded that the most 
likely explanation is that Mr K reasonably knew that these significant funds werent 
legitimate. And that he is fairly responsible for the activity on his account.
the CIFAS marker and account closure
Barclays says that it applied the CIFAS marker because Mr K received fraudulent funds into
his account. So, Id looked at whether Barclays was fair to apply the marker, based on the
evidence it had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the business must
have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set by CIFAS. This
essentially means that Barclays needs to have enough information to make a formal report
to the police. And that any filing should be for cases where there are reasonable grounds to
believe fraud or financial crime has been committed, rather than mere suspicion.
Having reviewed Mr Ks account of events and the evidence Barclays has provided, I was
satisfied that Barclays had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded and to
close his account immediately. In coming to this view, Id taken into account the following
reasons:
- Mr K received fraudulent funds into his account and didnt report this to Barclays at 
the time.
- He authorised the withdrawal of the funds and so was in control of who had the 
benefit of this money. 
- Barclays had grounds to believe that Mr K had used fraudulently obtained 
funds based on the evidence it had.
responding to the SAR
I agreed with our investigator that this is rightly considered within this complaint as it is a
continuation of what happened following the final response. Mr K wrote again with this
request on 21 December 2019. I wasnt satisfied that its reasonable for Barclays to say that 
this mightnt have been acted on given the address Mr K sent it to. It was a matter for
Barclays to redirect this. And I agreed that there was further inconvenience for Mr K.
However, I took into account whether the outcome of the SAR has made a difference
especially as Mr K had been in touch with this service by December 2019 too. So, I agreed
that a further payment of £200 is reasonable here making total compensation including the
amount already offered by Barclays of £600.16.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays didnt make any comments.Mr K said he didnt agree. He made clear that he denies any wrong doing on his part. He 
referred back to his email of 13 October 2020 and said that I had failed to address all his 
points in that. In particular he said that there was no evidence from Barclays to support there 
being fraud and he wanted to see the fraud report. Barclays had tampered with the 
disclosure of material under the SAR and had removed reference to the credit on 4 May 
2019 being verified. This affected its credibility and I hadnt dealt with that. Mr K wanted to 
know why we hadnt asked Barclays what evidence it had that he wasnt a victim himself. 
Barclays hadnt complied with the SAR and had breached data protection law and we hadnt 
dealt with that. Mr K said he wasnt clear what new points Id put forward and if I pointed 
them out he would deal with them. Having said all that Mr K said he would accept the 
compensation on a without prejudice basis again bearing in mind that the outcome he 
wanted was for the CIFAS marker to be removed.
I need to say again to Mr K that this service provides informal dispute resolution. There isnt 
an option for him to accept the resolution with conditions and he needs to decide whether he 
accepts my decision in its entirety. If he doesnt then he remains free to pursue this matter in 
court subject to any relevant time limits. I have looked at the problems he was caused 
relating to the SAR, but he remains free to take up any breaches of data protection 
legislation with the Information Commissioners Officer if he hasnt already done so. 
I paid close attention to what Mr K said in his submissions to this service and I set out what I 
thought about that. Points about the service he received had been dealt with separately and 
Im looking at the merits of his complaint. And as my reasoning I thought differed to our 
investigator I issued a provisional decision so he could comment on what I said. I dont have 
any new points to make now. But I will refer back to findings I set out above from my 
provisional decision.
There seems to be a fundamental difference between what Mr K believes happened during 
the call with Barclays on 4 May 2019 and my interpretation. As I said Barclays didnt verify a 
credit as genuine  but instead the payments Mr K had made from the account. And the 
verification came from him  that is to say he had made and recognised them. As I result I 
dont see that Barclays has tampered with its notes of the call in a way that affects its 
credibility. But in any event I have based what I think on the actual call recording.
As I said Ive seen evidence that at the time of the call Barclays hadnt had a fraud report. 
That came later. Such a report was clearly that the credit to his account wasnt a genuine 
one authorised by the account holder through the relevant sending bank. This is the 
evidence of fraud. There is nothing else further I can say about that. We wouldnt disclose 
information about a third party and Mr K has made a SAR about his personal data so he can 
see the information hes entitled to. And Barclays would only be able to decide if Mr K was a 
victim too based on what hed said and the evidence he had. But in any event Im looking at 
this afresh taking into account everything Mr K has said. Im afraid I conclude that there is 
more than suspicion of his involvement. Mr K received fraudulent funds to his account and 
withdrew them. Its fairly up to him to show that the funds were legitimately his. I cant see he 
has supported what he has said with evidence.
Having carefully considered what Mr K has said I consider my findings in the provisional 
remain appropriate for the reasons Ive already given, and I see no basis to depart from 
them. The CIFAS marker was fairly applied in my view and I know how disappointed Mr K 
will be about this.
My final decisionMy decision is that I uphold this complaint in part, and I require Barclays Bank UK PLC to 
pay Mr K a total of £600.16.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman