DRN-3794393
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Health Shield Friendly Society Limited declined to cover his claim for
health screening.
What happened
The background to this complaint was set out as part of my provisional findings (a copy of 
which is available on request). In summary, Mr S went for a health screening appointment 
and claimed under his private medical insurance policy with Health Shield. However, the 
claim was declined because it didnt take place in a clinic, or hospital setting, as defined by 
the policy terms. 
Our investigator acknowledged the terms, but upheld Mr S complaint anyway, saying that 
Health Shield shouldve made this clearer during a phone call it had with Mr S in November 
2021. I disagreed and so set out my provisional findings. I said that the policy terms were 
clear that it wouldnt provide cover should the health screening take place in a hotel, or pop-
up environment and that it must take place in a hospital or clinic. I invited both parties to 
submit any new evidence, or comments, prior to reaching my final decision. 
Health Shield had nothing to add. Mr S had no new evidence to put forward, however he 
made some additional comments. In summary, he acknowledged that Health Shield gave 
him the correct information during the phone call in November, and that the policy terms 
support Health Shields position on his claim. However, he said that whether the health 
screening took place in a hospital setting, or a hotel, was irrelevant because it was still 
carried out by two medical professionals. He said it makes little difference to the outcome of 
the screening and so still believes Health Shield should cover his claim. 
And so, its now for me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. I say that because Im satisfied that Health 
Shield hasnt made a mistake and therefore my provisional decision still stands. Ill explain 
why.
I wont list the policy terms here as Ive already explained, in detail, how they apply in these 
circumstances. However, I also wanted to highlight that Mr S made the mistake by selecting 
his health screening to take place at a hotel. Its not in dispute that he was given the correct 
information on the phone, he simply made an error when he came to arranging the 
screening. Its because of this I think it would be unfair to ask Health Shield to effectively 
compensate Mr S for a mistake it didnt make. 
I take on board Mr S comments about whether theres a material difference between having 
the health screening at a hospital or a hotel, but thats not for me to question. I say that 
because its for Health Shield to decide how it wants to conduct its business. My role is to 
simply determine whether its treated Mr S fairly and that its operated within the scope of the 
policy terms  which I think it has for the reasons Ive explained. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint because Health Shield hasnt done anything wrong.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman