DRN-2343873
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him several packaged bank 
accounts. He paid monthly fees for the accounts and received several potential benefits in 
return. He thinks that Lloyds should refund him the fees he paid for all the accounts, plus 
interest.
What happened
Mr B has banked with Lloyds for quite a long time. Lloyds has told us that he first opened 
one of its accounts around 1997. It doesnt have detailed information going back that far, but 
it believes this was probably a fee-free account. 
Lloyds first more detailed records show that by September 2001 it had sold Mr B a 
packaged account, known as a Select account, which replaced his fee-free account and for 
which it charged a monthly fee. From then on, its records show that: 
 
in January 2008, it sold Mr B a second packaged account called a Gold account, 
which replaced his Select account and for which it charged a higher fee, 
in March 2011, it sold him a third packaged account, called a Platinum account which 
replaced the Gold account and for which it charged a higher fee again.
Despite the lack of detailed information about Mr Bs early years as a Lloyds customer, I 
think its records about his account history are probably reliable, and I have taken them to be 
correct. I understand that Mr B kept the Platinum account until at least 2018, although I am 
not sure if he still has it.
When Mr B complained directly to Lloyds, it agreed that it had mis-sold him the Select 
account. It paid him compensation for that mis-sale, which Mr B has accepted, and which 
seems to have been fair. So, I havent considered that part of Mr Bs complaint any further. 
Lloyds has said that Mr B complained about the Platinum account too late for us to consider 
under the rules which determine which cases we can look into. Another ombudsman 
reviewed the case and decided that Lloyds was right about this and that the complaint was 
too late. We have not therefore considered that part of Mr Bs complaint any further. 
One of our adjudicators then looked into the way Lloyds had sold the Gold account to Mr B. 
The adjudicator thought that Lloyds had treated Mr B fairly and didnt recommend that it 
should give him any money back. Mr B didnt agree with the adjudicators findings and asked 
for an ombudsman to review this part of his complaint. So, it has come to me to make a final 
decision.
(Before going any further, I would like to clarify that this decision only concerns the way 
Lloyds sold the Gold account to Mr B, not the Select or Platinum accounts). 
What Ive decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about Mr Bs complaint. Ive
looked into everything that Mr B and Lloyds have told us or sent us about the case and
Ive decided not to uphold it. Ive explained why below.
Both Lloyds and Mr B have told us that it advised him to buy the Gold account, probably 
during a meeting at one if its branches. In an advised sale like this, I would have expected 
Lloyds to check that the Gold account was a reasonable match for Mr Bs needs and 
financial situation, tell him clearly about its benefits and costs, and give him a fair choice 
about buying it. 
At that time, the main benefits of the Gold account included worldwide travel insurance, use 
of a car breakdown service and insurance for mobile phones. Lloyds also charged 
customers with Gold accounts lower interest rates on overdrafts than it usually applied to 
customers with fee-free accounts. This typically included no interest on the first £100 of any 
overdraft. 
Lloyds records show that in 2008, Mr B was considering a holiday outside Europe, so he 
may well have needed the worldwide travel insurance. I understand that he drove a car and 
so had a potential need for the car breakdown service. (Indeed, Lloyds records show that he 
used it several times). And I also understand that Mr B went on to register at least one 
mobile phone for the insurance cover. So, it seems to me that it was reasonable for Lloyds to 
recommend the Gold account to Mr B. 
I also think its highly likely that Lloyds told Mr B about the benefits of the Gold account. After 
all, it was trying to sell the account to him, and it was in its own interests to explain what he 
could gain by buying it.
In correspondence, Mr B has told us that Lloyds never told him what the fees for the Gold 
account were for. Hes said that Lloyds told him that was all free, not paid for stuff. 
Obviously, as I wasnt present at the meeting, I cant tell for sure what Lloyds said, or didnt 
say, to Mr B. But I find it highly unlikely that it told him all the benefits were free, I think it 
probably explained the monthly fee paid for the benefits. 
Mr B has also told us that after the holiday I mentioned earlier, he rarely travelled abroad, so 
no longer needed the travel insurance; and that later on (Im not sure exactly when) he had 
a company car and so didnt need the car breakdown service. I accept both of these points, 
but as these changes took place after Lloyds had sold the account to Mr B, they dont mean 
it acted unreasonably when it made its recommendation. 
Mr B has also told us that Lloyds led him to believe that overdrafts would be free. Most of 
his comments about this seem to have been about the Platinum account, which I cant 
consider. However, with respect to the Gold account, I havent seen anything to make me 
think Lloyds misled him. I fully accept that Lloyds may have told him about the lower interest 
rates he could obtain by buying the Gold account, but as this was true, it was not mis-
selling. 
Similarly, Mr B has also said that Lloyds told him that buying a packaged account would 
improve his credit score. If Lloyds said this, it would not have been true, as the type of 
account someone holds does not usually affect their credit rating. But again, I think Mr Bs remarks were mainly about the Platinum account, and I havent seen anything to make me 
think that Lloyds misled him in this way about the Gold account.
As Mr B had previously held a fee-free account and the Select account, I doubt that Lloyds 
led him to believe he had to change accounts. I think its more likely that it gave him a choice 
to buy the Gold account, to keep the Select account, or to go back to a fee-free account. 
So, in summary, I think that it was reasonable for Lloyds to recommend the Gold account to 
Mr B and Im satisfied that it told him about the costs and benefits of the account and gave 
him a choice. I dont think that Lloyds mis-sold the Gold account to Mr B.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mr Bs complaint that Lloyds Bank 
PLC mis-sold the Gold account to him.  I am not going to tell it to give him any money back. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2020. 
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman