DRN-2829013
The complaint
Mrs D is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc continued to charge interest on her credit account 
even though they had previously advised Mrs D that no more interest would be charged.
What happened
Sometime in 2019, Mrs D visited a HSBC branch and explained that she was dissatisfied 
with the level of interest being charged on her credit account. HSBC agreed to freeze the 
interest on Mrs Ds account and took the credit card from her and destroyed it.
In February 2021, Mrs D noticed that interest was still being charged on her account. Mrs D 
wasnt happy about this, so she raised a complaint.
HSBC looked at Mrs Ds complaint. They didnt have any record of Mrs D visiting their 
branch in 2019, or any record of it being agreed around that time that all interest on Mrs Ds 
account would be frozen. However, HSBC did have record of a 30-day interest freeze that 
had been applied in 2019. Because of this, HSBC didnt uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
Mrs D wasnt satisfied with HSBCs response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they didnt feel that there was sufficient 
evidence to show that HSBC had agreed to freeze all future interest on Mrs Ds account at 
some point in 2019, so they also didnt uphold this complaint.
Mrs D remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC dont have a record of Mrs D visiting a branch in 2019, and Mrs D has also been 
unable to recall when her visit to branch took place. This means that its not possible for me 
to conduct my review of this complain with the benefit of meeting notes from the time of Mrs 
Ds visit to branch, and instead Ive had to rely on the other information available to me, 
including the testimonies of both Mrs D and HSBC.
Its notable that HSBC have no record on any of their systems of an agreement undertaken 
in 2019 to freeze all future interest on Mrs Ds credit account. However, HSBC do have a 
record of a 30-day interest freeze that was agreed on Mrs Ds account, and so Ive 
considered whether it might be possible that Mrs Ds recollection of a permanent interest 
freeze does in fact relate to HSBC agreeing to freeze the interest on her account for 30-
days.
Mrs D has confirmed that during her visit there was no income and expenditure assessment 
conducted at that time as it wasnt deemed necessary by HSBC considering the action that 
they were taking. This is strongly suggestive to me that it wasnt the case that HSBC had 
agreed to permanently freeze the interest on Mrs Ds account at the time of the meeting, and 
I say this because it would be expected that a detailed income and expenditure assessment 
would be carried out before HSBC would consider such a permanent freeze.
Instead, the more informal nature of the meeting, as Mrs Ds recollects it, appears to give 
credence to the idea that a temporary interest freeze was being agreed, which wouldnt 
necessarily mandate an income and expenditure assessment, and which tallies with HSBCs 
own records which show that in 2019 a 30-day interest freeze on Mrs Ds account was 
agreed.
So, in the absence of any direct evidence to the contrary, it seems reasonable to me to 
conclude that its more likely than not, on balance, that Mrs D did visit a HSBC branch in 
2019, but that at that time it wasnt the case that a permanent interest freeze was agreed, 
but rather than a temporary 30-day interest freeze was put in place.
All of which means that its difficult for me to conclude that HSBC have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably here, and I must note that it remained incumbent on Mrs D, following her visit 
to branch, to monitor the credit account and to raise any concerns that she might have with 
the account, including the accrual of interest, with HSBC.
It follows then that I wont be upholding this complaint or asking HSBC to take aby further 
action at this time. I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mrs D was wanting here, but I 
hope that she can understand, given everything I have explained, why I have made the final 
decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman