DRN-1490060
 
Complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Hanley Economic Building Society (Hanley) mis-sold them a 
monthly premium mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
Background
Mr and Mrs W were sold a MPPI policy in 2005 during a meeting. The MPPI would have 
provided a monthly benefit for up to 12 months per claim if Mr and/or Mrs W were off work 
sick or lost their job. 
Our adjudicator thought that Mr and Mrs Ws complaint should be upheld. Hanley didnt 
agree with our adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ws case.
Having done that, I agree with the adjudicator that this complaint should be upheld. I will now 
explain why.
Hanley accept they advised Mr and Mrs W to take MPPI. Given the documents Ive seen I 
also think that Hanley advised Mr and Mrs W to take MPPI. This means that Hanley had to 
check that the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs W. I dont think the policy was suitable. 
This is because the policy would have prevented Mr and Mrs W from making a claim for a 
pre-existing medical condition in certain circumstances. It is clear from the paperwork 
provided by Hanley that Mrs W made Hanley aware that she was suffering from a condition 
for which she was seeing her Doctor every six months and which was being controlled by 
medication. According the policy document, Mrs W would have been unable to make a claim 
for this condition if she was off work sick because of it. 
Although Hanley have guided us to the documents from the time of the sale as well as the 
renewal letters sent out following the sale, I havent seen any evidence that they actually 
discussed what the effect of the exclusions relating to pre-existing medical conditions would 
have been on Mr and Mrs W. This was particularly important given that they were made 
aware that Mrs W was suffering from a medical condition at the time of the sale which would 
have meant she wouldnt have been able to make a claim for it. It isnt sufficient that Mr and 
Mrs W were simply provided with a policy document and renewal notices (with associated 
documents) with a view to them looking through the documents to find these exclusions and 
restrictions.I think that if the exclusions relating to pre-existing medical conditions had been discussed 
with Mr and Mrs W as they should have been, then they wouldnt have taken the policy out 
as it wouldnt have been of good value for money in their circumstances.
So I think Hanley mis-sold Mr and Mrs W this policy and I require them to pay Mr and Mrs W 
the compensation as set out below.
Fair compensation 
Hanley should put Mr and Mrs W in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out PPI. 
The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Hanley should:
 
Pay Mr and Mrs W the amount the paid each month for the PPI
 
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
 
If Mr and Mrs W made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Hanley can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them. 
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Hanley to take off tax from this interest. Hanley must 
give Mr and Mrs W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint against Hanley Economic Building Society and require 
them to pay Mr and Mrs W the compensation set out above. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W to accept or reject my decision 
before 14 May 2020.
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman