DRN-4252450
The complaint
Mrs S complains National Savings and Investments (NS&I) couldnt find her account.
What happened
Mrs S was due to make a large payment to a mortgage, and wanted to withdraw some 
money from NS&I. Mrs S contacted NS&I on 7 September 2022 by phone but, after 
speaking to several people, couldnt withdraw the money.
Mrs S was told to complete a cash in form, which she did the next day and returned to 
NS&I. Mrs S then called again on 21 September 2022 as she still hadnt been able to 
withdraw the money from NS&I.
Mrs S spoke to NS&I again on 28 September 2022 and was told her she had two different 
customer numbers. Mrs S was giving NS&I an old, dormant, customer number and this 
number had no money associated to it.
Mrs S was able to withdraw the money on 10 October 2022.
Mrs S complained to NS&I and it responded to say Mrs S had two profiles and shed been 
trying to access the closed profile. 
NS&I said people can end up with two profiles if they dont quote their original customer 
number in subsequent applications or if the details provided arent an exact match.
NS&I accepted Mrs S hadnt had great service and paid her £75 to compensate for this.
Unhappy with this answer Mrs S brought her complaint to this service. An investigator looked 
into things and thought Mrs S complaint should be upheld. The investigator said it took too 
long for NS&I to realise Mrs S had two profiles.
This delay meant Mrs S had to disclose other financial information to her husband, which 
was distressing for Mrs S. The investigator thought NS&I should pay a further £125.
Mrs S agreed with this assessment. NS&I didnt agree.
NS&I said it was Mrs S responsibility to know she had two different customer numbers and 
quote the correct one. 
NS&I also said the first advisers Mrs S spoke to had a lack of experience and training, and 
this meant her different profiles werent found sooner. NS&I said it would be providing 
training as a result of this.
NS&I asked for an ombudsman to decide things.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read through what NS&I has sent in and its clear Mrs S had two different profiles. Its 
also clear Mrs S was asking for a withdrawal from an old, closed profile.
Ive listened to the calls Mrs S had with NS&I, and in the last call the adviser is quickly able 
to locate Mrs S two profiles. Like the investigator I think this should have been done much 
sooner in the process.
NS&Is response to this is its staff arent all well enough trained to locate duplicate profiles. 
But I think this response admits NS&I made an error. I dont think Mrs S is responsible for 
the training of NS&I staff.
NS&Is final response says multiple profiles can be set up if the details provided in separate 
applications dont match.
Ive looked at the two applications Mrs S made, and the details are the same. NS&I admits it 
had Mrs S incorrect date of birth on its systems. Again, I think this is NS&Is error.
Mrs S completed both forms with the right information, so the details provided by Mrs S did 
match. I think the reason Mrs S ended up with two profiles is because of NS&Is error.
I dont agree it was Mrs S responsibility to know she had two customer numbers or quote 
the correct one when she wanted to withdraw money. I think it was NS&Is responsibility to 
ensure it opened Mrs S account correctly, and record the correct date of birth for her.
Had NS&I done this the two profiles would have merged. This would have meant Mrs S 
wouldnt have had two customer numbers and wouldnt have experienced the issues she did 
when she tried to withdraw from NS&I.
I think Mrs S should have been able to start the withdrawal process on 7 September 2022. 
Instead, the process didnt start until three weeks later. And only after several calls and 
completing a form NS&I appears to have taken no action with.
This meant Mrs S withdrawal was delayed by three weeks.
Mrs S has said this was very inconvenient for her. And Mrs S says she needed to source the 
money for her mortgage from elsewhere. This meant she had to tell her husband about 
some money she had which he didnt know about previously.
This must have been distressing for Mrs S. In the circumstances, I think an overall payment 
of £200 is fair in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint and National Savings and Investments should 
pay Mrs S a further £125 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience she 
experienced.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2023.
 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman