DRN-3062784
The complaint
Mr F complains about the exclusions Allianz Insurance Plc trading as Pet Plan has applied to 
his lifetime pet insurance policy. 
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties and has been detailed by 
our investigator previously. So, Ill summarise the key points Ive focused on within my 
decision.
In January 2019, Mr F took out a lifetime policy for his dog  Ill refer to as M. 
On the online application Mr F declared that M had flaky skin between toes prior to the 
policy starting.  So, Allianz placed exclusions for skin disorders and ear disorders and these 
exclusions were placed on the policy from inception date.
In August 2019 Mr F made a claim on the policy. During the investigation of this claim, 
Allianz discovered that M has skin allergies and a growth/mass on her elbow that was there 
before inception of the policy. It therefore added the following exclusions and backdated 
them to the start of the policy; 
oTumours Warts Cysts Growths Abscesses 
oSkin Allergies
Mr F says these exclusions are too general and many things are connected to the skin and 
it therefore means he cant claim under the policy. Mr F says he isnt receiving the policy he 
is paying for which provides lifetime cover and says Allianz knows that he cant go to 
another provider due to the exclusions it has placed on the policy and the likely premium 
increase. 
Mr F wants Allianz to pay the claims that have been declined and remove the exclusion for 
Tumours Warts Cysts Growths Abscesses
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She felt that Allianz hadnt done anything 
wrong in applying the exclusions. Mr F didnt agree. In summary he said when he took the 
policy out, he gave permission for the insurer to see the dogs medical records and its not 
his fault that it didnt do that, and he did disclose them by giving them access to the 
records. He doesnt understand how hes meant to say what the growth is when its not 
been diagnosed by a vet and it isnt causing M any problems. But he also said the growth is 
a wart and therefore the exclusion should just be for warts. 
The complaint has therefore been passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms are clear that any pre-existing conditions are not covered. Insurance is 
generally intended to cover the risk of something happening in the future and its very 
common for policies to exclude existing conditions. So, if Mr Fs dog had any medical 
conditions before he took out the policy, those conditions wouldnt be covered.
There are limited circumstances where an insurer can add backdated exclusions to a policy 
after its started. The relevant law is set out in the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (or CIDRA). Under CIDRA, if there has been a 
misrepresentation by the consumer, and the insurer can show that, without that 
misrepresentation, it would only have offered the insurance on different terms, it may then 
change the terms of the policy to reflect what would have happened, if it had been given the 
correct information at the time.
For this to happen, Id need to be satisfied that Allianz had asked Mr F clear questions and 
he had failed to take reasonable care when answering the questions. 
I can see Mr F was asked:
Has M shown any sign of illness or injury or been unwell either now or in the past? 
This is regardless of whether or not M was seen by a vet for the problem.
No answer was provided
Has M been seen by a vet for any reason?
Mr F answered:
Flakey skin between toes. Treated with anti biotics and shampoo. Cost 
around £200.
Im satisfied that the questions were clear. Mr F had a duty to take reasonable care when 
answering the questions. And I dont think he did so, as he didnt mention the mass, or the 
skin allergies so the information he provided wasnt accurate. I understand Mr F has said he 
had given the insurer permission to get the medical records, but this doesnt take away the 
necessity for him to provide the answers to the questions asked. So, Im satisfied there was 
a misrepresentation.
If Allianz can show it would have done something differently  for example, offering the 
policy on different terms  if there had not been a misrepresentation, then this is whats 
known as a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA. Allianz has provided details of what 
it would normally do when a pet has skin allergies and when a mass hasnt been diagnosed. 
In these circumstances it would still offer insurance but would add exclusions, meaning there 
would be no cover for any claims arising out of those medical conditions.
So, when Mr F put in the claim in August 2019, Allianz requested Ms full medical history and 
it was after it reviewed this, a further two exclusions were added and backdated as they 
were pre-existing conditions. On this basis what Allianz has done is in line with CIDRA, as it 
has added the exclusions that would have been added when the policy started if Mr F had 
answered the questions correctly.
I appreciate Mr F feels the exclusion for Tumours Warts Cysts Growths Abscesses is too 
broad but the mass on the elbow hasnt been formally diagnosed. Ive considered the fine 
needle aspirate (FNA) report which said haemodiluted and therefore non-diagnostic. It 
provided reasons why this might be and said a biopsy with histopathological examination 
are possible considerations to characterise it further.  
I can see the vet discussed this with Mr F and the vets notes say Mr F decided to monitor it 
and if it changed or started to bother M, hed have it removed. I appreciate this has not been a cause for concern. But Allianz have shown me that if any pet has a growth/mass that is 
undiagnosed then a broad exclusion is applied as it has done in this case. This would be 
applied to all customers in the same circumstances. I appreciate Mr F has said the vet told 
him its a wart, but I cant see that this has been recorded anywhere in the vets notes. So, 
without a firm diagnosis I cant say Allianz has acted unfairly in applying the broader 
exclusion. It has said it would be open to review the exclusion if the mass has fully regressed 
or been removed and M remains clear for 24 months. I am satisfied this is fair in the 
circumstances. 
I understand that the exclusions applied to Mr Fs policy do significantly reduce the cover 
available. But taking all of this into account, in my judgment Allianz decision to add the 
exclusions backdated to the date of inception is in line with the policy terms and the relevant 
law and is fair. So, I wont be asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman