DRN-3299648
The complaint
Mr W complains AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited have undervalued his car 
when paying out on a total loss claim under his motor insurance policy. Mr Ws also unhappy 
with the delay in receiving the interim payment.
What happened
At the end of August 2021 Mr Ws car was unfortunately hit by another party. He reported 
the claim, on 9 September 2021 called for an update, and was told his car had been 
declared a total loss. He was offered a value of £6,150 which he wasnt happy with, and AA 
then increased this offer to £6,300. After AA said they wouldnt increase this offer further, 
they attempted to pay him the money. Initially, this was by cheque, which Mr W received on 
1 October 2021. On 4 October, Mr W checked his account and the cheque had been 
returned unpaid. He contacted the AA, who initially said they couldnt see why the payment 
had been returned but would arrange for it to be made by bank transfer. The money was 
eventually credited to Mr Ws account on 13 October 2021.
AA explained they review industry trade guides which is how they came up with the figure of 
£6,150  and said this was the average which is in line with how this kind of issue is 
generally looked at. They later increased this to £6,300 after Mr W complained but said they 
wouldnt increase it further.
Unhappy with this, Mr W asked us to look into things. He let us know his main concern was 
about the valuation, but he also wasnt happy with the cheque being returned unpaid, and for 
how long it took for the payment to actually reach his account.
One of our Investigators considered things and found the valuation AA had offered of £6,300 
was fair. But she felt AAs customer service in getting the payment to Mr W wasnt good 
enough and awarded £100 compensation for this.
AA disputed the award of the £100. They explained following our Investigators outcome the 
cheque had bounced because Mr Ws bank did a fraud check, but never contacted them. 
They also said its their usual process to issue a cheque when theres a dispute over an 
interim payment  and at best the delay was five days. So, the complaints been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Valuation
I can see our Investigator has explained in detail our approach to motor valuation complaints 
 which is Mr Ws key point and which I cant see hes disputed with our service. I wont 
explain this in the same detail, but I will say that the approach the AA is taking by using the 
average of the motor trade guides is what Id usually expect.
Ive seen the evidence of the trade guides they used  the figures came out at £6,580 and 
£5,725 meaning AA offered a middle figure of £6,150. After Mr W disputed this, they raised it 
to £6,300 but said that was their final offer.
Ive noted Mr W sent in adverts which he says shows he cant buy another car to replace the 
one hes got  saying he had to extend the radius of the search to 30 miles from his location. 
One of the adverts he provided showed the car was advertised at over £1,000 more and had 
more than 10,000 miles less on the odometer. So, I dont think this would necessarily be a 
fair comparison. And, on the other car, it was advertised at £500 more in price, with very 
similar features. But, as with any private sale, Id expect there to be a margin of negotiation  
and I dont find this difference persuasive enough to say it shows AAs valuation is lower 
than it should be. So, I cant fairly say the adverts prove AA have given a lower figure than 
they should have.
Taking all of that information into account, I think AA have acted fairly in giving Mr W a 
£6,300 valuation for his car.
Issues regarding the payment
It seems initially the payment was to be sent by cheque. AA have said this is their procedure 
in cases where the payment is disputed. Theyve not explained why this differs from their 
procedure when a customer accepts the valuation  as I can see an email from AA to Mr W 
on 10 September 2021 offering the original £6,150 figure and asking for his account details.
But what I can see from the emails and notes provided by both parties is that the cheque 
sent to Mr W was returned unpaid, and no one at AA was able to provide clarification on this. 
It took from when the payment was originally agreed on 20 September 2021, until 13 
October 2021 for the money to be received in Mr Ws account. Ive seen Mr W called AA on 
multiple occasions to find out what was going on. Ive noted AAs comments in response to 
our Investigators outcome that this was down to Mr Ws bank not contacting them. But 
theyve not provided any evidence of their contact with Mr Ws bank to query what happened 
and why. 
Mr W had contacted the AA about this the settlement of the claim multiple times  and says 
when the payment was finally agreed he wasnt asked for his account details. Ive noted AA 
have said this isnt their procedure, and I dont have the authority to change their 
procedures. But, where their procedures have caused unnecessary inconvenience to 
someone, I can award compensation. The notes show Mr W contacting AA on multiple 
occasions, talking about long delays in getting through on the phone, to chase up the 
payment. So, to be told they didnt know why, and for him then not to be given an 
explanation for what happened isnt helpful. Had they made this payment by bank transfer 
itd likely have avoided a lot of the issues Mr W has experienced. And, because Ive not been 
provided with any evidence of AAs investigations with Mr Ws bank, I cant confidently say 
theyre not at fault for the cheque being returned either. So, I think £100 compensation for 
this is fair.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I partially uphold this complaint and require 
AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr W £100 compensation.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman