DRN-4141393
The complaint
Miss P complains that Vanquis Bank Limited lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
In October 2021 Miss P applied for a credit card with Vanquis. Vanquis approved the 
application and gave Miss P a card with an initial credit limit of £250. There were no further 
credit limit increases.
Miss P complained to Vanquis that it had lent to her irresponsibly. Vanquis didnt uphold the 
complaint. It said it had carried out proportionate checks before approving the card.
Miss P wasnt happy with the response and brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that Vanquis had carried out 
reasonable and proportionate checks and that the lending decisions was fair.
Miss P didnt agree do Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending is set out on our 
website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering Miss Ps complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, the rules say that Vanquis had to carry out reasonable and 
proportionate checks to ensure that Miss P could afford to repay the credit. The nature of 
whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary but could include things like the 
amount of credit, the total sum repayable, the amount of repayments, the cost of the credit 
and the consumers financial circumstances.
Theres no set list of checks a lender must complete. But lenders are required to consider 
the factors Ive mentioned above when considering whats reasonable and proportionate.
Miss P declared annual income of £16,000 in her application. Vanquis carried out an income 
and expenditure assessment and obtained further information by carrying out a credit 
search. The credit search showed that Miss P had other credit totalling around £100 across 
three active accounts. It also showed that Miss P had previously defaulted on an account 
around 38 months prior to the application, and that a county court judgment had been 
registered around 22 months prior to the application.
Based on what Ive seen, I think the checks carried out by Vanquis were reasonable and 
proportionate, considering Miss Ps circumstances and the low credit limit. There was 
nothing in the information gathered by Vanquis to suggest that Miss P was in financial 
difficulties or that further checks were needed.
Ive gone on to consider whether the lending decision was fair. Ive reviewed the information 
gathered by Vanquis. Although there was some adverse information on Miss Ps credit file, 
this was historic, so I dont think this wouldve been a reason for Vanquis not to lend to Miss 
P. The card had a low credit limit if £250. If Miss P had fully utilised this credit limit, the 
minimum repayments wouldve been around £28 per month. Based on the information Ive 
seen about Miss Ps financial circumstances, I think Vanquis fairly concluded that the lending 
was likely to be affordable for Miss P and that she would be able to sustainably repay it.
For the reasons Ive given Im unable to uphold the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 July 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman