DRN-3879477
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC delayed his application for further borrowing by 
asking for the completion of unnecessary documentation and, in doing so, denied him of the 
mortgage rate he wanted.
What happened
Mr M held a mortgage with Barclays on his shared equity property. In 2021 he wanted to buy 
the whole of the part of the property he didnt already own and approached Barclays, via a 
mortgage broker, for a mortgage to allow him to do that.
Documentation provided by Barclays shows that Mr M applied to it for a mortgage of 
£165,000 in October 2021. That would have brought his total mortgage borrowing with 
Barclays up to £256,355. His mortgage application shows an estimated property value of 
£358,508, meaning his loan to value percentage would be 71.51.
Barclays  in error  appears to have sent Mr M and acceptance of his rate switch 
application and a mortgage offer on 14 October 2021. However, Barclays required further 
documentation from Mr M to fully disclose all commitments and that evidence was received 
from his broker around 15 November 2021. Barclays underwriting notes say the application 
was within its lending criteria in respect of affordability at that time. The underwriting notes of 
29 November 2021 confirm Barclays was happy to proceed to the next stage of its 
application process. At that time Barclays received the valuation report. That said the 
external wall system may contain potentially combustible material. So, it required paperwork 
known as an EWS1 form and an accompanying letter confirming the cladding to be 
satisfactory. It informed Mr Ms broker of that requirement on 29 November 2021.
On 13 December 2021 Barclays heard from Mr Ms broker saying all the information needed 
for the EWS1 paperwork was on the first page. Its not clear whether that referred to the 
application form or other documentation, but Barclays notes indicate it would look into that. 
On 11 January 2022, the surveyor confirmed that the covering letter/EWS1 paperwork was 
required and that what it already had in that had regard wasnt sufficient. The required 
documents appear to have been received from the broker by Barclays on 19 January 2022 
and they were sent to the surveyor the same day. 
The surveyor confirmed to Barclays on 21 January 2022 that it had down-valued the 
property to £315,000, resulting in the loan to value  81.42%  exceeding that applicable to 
the product Mr M had chosen. It isnt clear when Barclays informed Mr Ms broker he needed 
to choose a new product, but that appears, from Barclays application notes, to have been 
confirmed in early February 2022. Barclays sent a mortgage offer for a fixed rate of 1.71% 
on 2 February 2022, but that was subsequently withdrawn as Mr Ms broker had submitted a 
request for a remortgage application in error. Mr M didnt qualify for that rate because he 
was applying for a further advance. And the mortgage offer was sent on 17 March 2022 and 
accepted soon after that. The amount of £165,000 was sent by Barclays to Mr Ms solicitor 
on 19 April 2023. The mortgage offer confirmed the mortgage would be on a fixed rate of 
2.57% for approximately two years.
Mr M says Barclays took too long completing his mortgage application and that led to him 
getting a higher fixed intertest rate than he otherwise would. In particular, he says there was 
no need for Barclays to request the EWS1 paperwork because the government rules say 
that is not needed for flats in a block less than 18 meters high. Mr M complained to Barclays 
by phone. Barclays final response letter dated 22 April 2022 refers to that conversation but 
doesnt provide details of what was discussed  it merely states that his complaint was 
resolved and closed.
Mr M wasnt satisfied with Barclays response so asked us to look into his complaint. Our 
investigator upheld Mr Ms complaint. He said he thought there was an avoidable delay 
caused by Barclays and one error with a mortgage offer that Barclays was partly responsible 
for. But our investigator didnt think Barclays caused other delays in the process or that all 
the delays were unnecessary. So, he thought Barclays should pay Mr M £150 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused to him.
Barclays accepted our investigators opinion, but Mr M didnt as he thought he paid rent on 
the portion of the property he didnt own for longer than necessary and he should have 
obtained a lower fixed interest rate.
As Mr M didnt agree with our investigator, his complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To decide this complaint, Ive thought about whether Barclays caused the delays leading to 
the losses Mr M has outlined and whether it was reasonable for it to ask Mr M to provide 
EWS1 paperwork.
Barclays has provided evidence in the form of its internal notes and some correspondence 
during the application process. Ive not been able to establish a clear timeline of events from 
that evidence and have outlined my understanding of what happened in the above section of 
my decision. Understandably, Mr M hasnt provided evidence to show a clear outline of all 
the things that happened so my understanding comes from Barclays evidence and Mr Ms 
testimony.
From what Ive seen, I think Barclays made errors in making offers for products Mr M didnt 
qualify for on two separate occasions. The first of those errors occurred when Mr Ms 
application was originally submitted. Barclays made a mortgage offer without making all the 
necessary checks. And it withdrew that offer relatively quickly and asked Mr Ms broker to 
provide evidence that some of Mr Ms commitments would be repaid before the mortgage 
was advanced to ensure his application met Barclays affordability criteria. Its notes indicate 
that the commitments disclosed in the application didnt match those showing on the credit 
file search Barclays conducted. So, while Barclays did make an error at that time, I think that 
was rectified within a reasonable time and the more significant delay was as a result of 
contradictory information about Mr Ms commitments. I dont think Barclays was at fault for 
that.
The next issue causing delay was that relating to the submission of EWS1 paperwork. There 
was some communication between the parties establishing whether that paperwork was 
necessary and that caused delay. Mr M maintains that paperwork wasnt necessary. He says 
the government found there was no systemic risk of fire in blocks of flats under 18 metres and some major high street lenders had agreed to review their practices on blocks under 18 
metres based on the new advice. 
However, Barclays lending requirements at that time said the surveyor needed to assess 
the property in line with guidance given by the Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors 
(RICS). And where the surveyor deems it necessary  to satisfy the RICS guidance  they 
will ask for an EWS1 form along with a separate letter prepared by a suitably qualified and 
experienced professional. The case notes Barclays has provided indicate that the surveyor 
asked for the EWS1 form along with the separate letter and I think its reasonable to 
conclude that, as a professional, he did so having considered RICS guidance. In any event, I 
think Barclays acted reasonably in following the instructions of the surveyor. And, more 
generally, I think its fair for Barclays to set its lending policy based on the risk it is willing to 
take in relation to the security property. I also think its fair that Barclays expected surveyors 
to consider RICS guidance and that formed part of its lending policy in that regard.
There appears to have been a delay in Barclays receiving the EWS1 paperwork from Mr Ms 
broker. I think that was a combination of delayed communication from Barclays over the 
Christmas period and Mr M disputing the necessity of that paperwork. I dont think that delay 
was significant under those circumstances. 
Barclays sent another incorrect offer on 2 February 2022. That was, in part, due to an error 
by Mr Ms broker, but I think Barclays should have checked whether Mr M qualified for the 
rate before it issued the mortgage offer. So, I think Barclays was partly responsible for the 
delay that error caused.
Overall, because of the nature of the delays, the lack of evidence to provide a reliable 
timeline and the shared responsibility for errors, I dont think its possible to determine the 
total length of the delays or the amount of delay Barclays was solely responsible for. And, 
even if that were possible, given the type of application and the additional requirements, I 
dont think I can conclude what timescale would have been reasonable. So, while I 
understand that Mr M is disappointed because he missed out on two rates he thought hed 
get  but didnt actually qualify for  I havent seen he missed out on a rate caused solely by 
a delay Barclays was responsible for.
Ive identified the same avoidable delays as our investigator  those relating to offers sent in 
error. I think the payment of £150 he recommended  and Barclays subsequently agreed to 
 is reasonable to compensate Mr M for the distress and inconvenience caused. I havent 
seen that he missed out on a rate he qualified for because of a Barclays error. So, I uphold 
Mr Ms complaint in respect of the distress and inconvenience caused by delays its possible 
to attribute to Barclays.
Putting things right
To resolve Mr Ms complaint, Barclays should pay him £150 in respect of the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold Mr Ms complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC, and it should 
pay him £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2023.
 Gavin Cook
Ombudsman