DRN-3278826
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Y complain about OVO (S) Home Services Limited (OVO) poor customer service 
and that it erroneously cancelled their home emergency policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs Y held a home emergency policy that covered amongst other things, boiler 
breakdowns at a tenanted property they owned. In January 2021, OVO were first contacted 
as the boiler kept shutting down. It sent an engineer who (once he had obtained the relevant 
parts) completed a repair. Following on from this visit, there were around a further eight visits 
from various engineers who completed different repairs for different faults, that were 
happening to the boiler. 
During the final visit in March 2021, an engineer found there to be sludge in a part in the 
boiler. Mr and Mrs Ys policy didnt provide cover for any damage caused by sludge. They 
questioned OVO as to why it had taken so long with so many engineer visits before the 
presence of sludge was diagnosed. OVO then cancelled the policy without Mr and Mrs Y 
instructing it to do so. 
Mr and Mrs Y instructed an independent engineer to inspect the boiler and carry out a power 
flush. Their engineer also replaced a fan and advised them that there was no sludge found in 
the system. But soon afterwards, Mr and Mrs Y chose to replace the boiler at a cost of 
£1,900.  
Mr and Mrs Y complained to OVO given the poor customer service they had experienced 
and because they felt that under the terms of the policy, it shouldve replaced their boiler. 
They sought reimbursement of their costs for the new boiler. 
In its final response, OVO accepted that there had been customer service failings and 
offered to refund all the premiums paid, as well as offered a good will gesture of £50, making 
the total payment £208.10. It didnt accept that it was responsible for reimbursing the cost of 
the new boiler, as the presence of sludge in the old boiler meant that this wasnt covered 
under the policy. It gave Mr and Mrs Y their referral rights and they referred a complaint to 
our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He 
said that there had been customer service failings, such as engineers attending when there 
was no appointment made, Mr Y having to chase OVO for a response, as well as cancelling 
the policy without Mr and Mrs Ys request. He found no evidence that the diagnosis of the 
presence of sludge was given to avoid repairing the boiler.
His view was that OVO had been fair in refunding all the premiums (especially as Mr and 
Mrs Y had had the benefit of the policy) and offering the goodwill gesture of £50. And 
because of this, he couldnt ask OVO to do anything further to resolve the complaint
OVO accepted the view. Mr and Mrs Y did not. They said their engineer had found no sludge 
in the system but advised that it was more economical to replace the boiler, which is what 
had been done. They reiterated that the policy shouldnt have been cancelled as OVO didnt 
offer them any other options, so they asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint. I realise this will be a disappointment to 
Mr and Mrs Y, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this 
decision.
I note that Mr and Mrs Y have made a few detailed points, which I have read and 
considered. I hope the fact that I dont respond in similar detail here wont be taken as a 
discourtesy. As an informal dispute resolution service, we are tasked with reaching a fair and 
reasonable conclusion with the minimum of formality. In doing so, it isnt necessary for me to 
respond to every point made, but to concentrate on the nub of the issue.
The main issues of this complaint are whether OVO has fairly declined to fix the boiler and 
whether it had reasonably cancelled Mr and Mrs Ys policy. Ive considered the terms and 
conditions of the policy to see if OVO were fair not to have fixed the boiler. I have also 
considered whether OVO were reasonable in having cancelled Mr and Mrs Ys policy without 
their instruction to do so. 
I have considered the terms and conditions of the policy to see what OVOs obligations 
were. The policy provides that unlimited repairs are offered when a boiler breaks down or 
isnt working correctly. Mr and Mrs Y describe that OVO attended on around eight occasions 
for various faults that had occurred with the boiler and on each occasion, according to the 
service records, a repair was carried out and the engineer left the boiler working.  So, I think 
OVO complied with its obligation to carry out the repairs as it was required, under the policy.
On the final occasion, that OVO attended to the boiler, it found that there was sludge present 
in a part within the boiler. The policy terms, under the key exclusions and limitations section 
state: Repairs and or system flushes required as a consequence of sludge, limescale or 
corrosion, are excluded from cover. OVO confirmed that it had relied upon its expert who 
had diagnosed sludge in the system. And following this diagnosis, hadnt given the option of 
replacing the boiler as the boiler had been affected by sludge, which wasnt covered under 
the policy terms and conditions.  
Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs Y shouldve been reasonably aware that this repair wouldnt be 
covered under the terms of the policy and I cant agree that OVO were unfair not to have 
offered to replace the boiler, given the presence of sludge. 
Mr and Mrs Y said that the engineer they instructed to carry out the repairs on their boiler 
removed a fan and carried out a power flush.  But they chose to replace the boiler. I cant 
see any evidence that suggests that OVO advised  Mr and Mrs Y to have the boiler replaced 
or that OVO wouldve refused to carry out any further repairs to the boiler (had any 
presented) had Mr and Mrs Y chosen to carry out the repair that could remove the blockage. 
So, I cant be satisfied that the decision Mr and Mrs Y made to purchase the new boiler was 
done as a result of OVO cancelling their policy or of the service it provided. And as such, I 
dont think it would be fair to ask them to cover the cost of the replacement boiler.I have next considered whether OVO ought to have cancelled Mr and Mrs Ys policy without 
their instruction and the impact this had on them. OVO has accepted that the standard of 
service it provided fell below what it wouldve liked and this culminated in it erroneously 
cancelling Mr and Mrs Ys policy. For the poor customer service issues and it cancelling the 
policy it refunded all the premiums paid and offered a £50 goodwill gesture, making a total of 
£208.10.
Im satisfied that there was a level of impact caused to Mr and Mrs Y, not least the distress 
and inconvenience of having to chase OVO, appointments being cancelled or engineers 
attending when appointments hadnt been scheduled and of course for OVO to have 
cancelled the policy. Our role isnt to fine or to punish the businesses we cover. Thats 
because were not the industry regulator. Rather, we look at the effect on the customer 
including their upset. I can make awards for a consumers distress and inconvenience 
though, if I think a business has done something wrong which has caused them trouble, 
upset or material inconvenience.
OVO has accepted that there was a poor level of customer service provided to Mr and Mrs 
Y. So, its fair for OVO to recognise this. It should be noted that OVO acted quickly to resolve 
the error and thereby minimise the impact on Mr and Mrs Y. Further, Mr and Mrs Y chose to 
replace their boiler, so I think the impact was reduced.  
OVO has refunded all the premiums paid and paid a goodwill gesture of £50. Which meant 
that Mr and Mrs Y had had the benefit of the policy with all the premiums returned and I think 
its reasonable that OVO refunded the premiums. 
Additionally, Mr and Mrs Y have sent me further information that I have considered. That 
information shows that OVO has also refunded the cost of an annual service, that hadnt 
taken place when it ought to have. I think that as OVO has recognised the error of the 
service not having taken place when it should, it is right that it has refunded the full cost of 
this, which I think is fair.   
Whilst I appreciate that this would not have been the outcome that Mr and Mrs Y were 
looking for, I am satisfied that OVO was fair to refund all the premiums paid and to pay 
compensation of £50. Accordingly, I wont be asking it to do anything further to resolve this 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
OVO (S) Home Services Limited has already paid £208.10 to settle the complaint and I think 
this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Y and Mr Y to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman