DRN-1666766
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T have complained that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold them a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs T took out the PPI in 1992 at the same time as arranging their mortgage. 
Although it was a joint mortgage, the PPI was set up just to cover Mr T.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs T disagree with the adjudicators 
opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint and Ill explain why.
BoS doesnt have any documentation for the sale of the PPI, which isnt surprising given how 
long ago it took place. But this does make the complaint more difficult to decide. So in 
reaching my decision I have considered the evidence that we do have, as well as what I 
consider is most likely to have happened.
Mr and Mrs T say they were told they had to take out the PPI if they wanted the mortgage to 
be agreed.
I have no doubt that Mr and Mrs T have provided their genuine recollection of events. But 
the sale was a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if Mr and Mrs Ts memory has 
faded. From what we know of BoSs sales processes at the time, PPI was usually presented 
as optional. I havent seen any evidence that the adviser deviated from the usual process on 
this occasion. Ive thought about what Mr and Mrs T have said but, on balance, I think its 
more likely than not that Mr and Mrs T decided to buy the policy, knowing they didnt have to, 
even if they no longer remember doing so.
Although BoS has no details of the sale, it has treated it as an advised sale, which holds it to 
a higher standard. Thats because, in advising (or recommending them) to take out the 
policy, it needed to ensure that it met Mr and Mrs T needs. And from what I know of their 
circumstances at the time, the policy was suitable for them.
As the policy was set up only to cover Mr T, that suggests that there was some discussion 
about how the policy would best meet the couples needs. Mr T says his employer would 
have given him six months full pay, followed by six months half pay, if he was off sick. But 
the policy would have paid out in addition to this and potentially for longer than Mr T would 
have received full pay for. Mr and Mrs T had some savings. But having the policy would 
have allowed them to retain these or use them to cover other outgoings at what would have been a difficult time. So I consider that Mr and Mrs T has a need for the policy and could 
have benefitted from it. A mortgage is a significant financial commitment and so it wouldnt 
be surprising if they had an interest in protecting their repayments.
I think that Mr and Mrs T would have known something about the policy - that it would have 
covered their mortgage repayments if Mr T was unable to work due to accident, sickness or 
unemployment  because I dont think they would have bought it without knowing anything at 
all about it.
Its possible that BoS didnt provide as much information about the policy as it should have, 
particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr T wasnt affected by any of those 
things. As I consider that Mr and Mrs T had an interest in the PPI and decided to buy it, I 
dont think that further information would have caused them to change their minds. So they 
are no worse off as a result of anything BoS may have done wrong. So there is nothing that 
BoS needs to do to put things right.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 June 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman