DRN-4470749
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain about the way AmTrust International Underwriters DAC handled a 
claim they made under their new home warranty.
What happened
The circumstances arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the background:
Mr and Mrs M bought a new home covered by a ten-year structural warranty 
underwritten by AmTrust.
After Mr and Mrs M moved in, they experienced a variety of problems and reported 
them to the builder. The problems werent resolved, so they got in touch with 
AmTrust in late 2018. AmTrust appointed a loss adjuster, C.
Mr and Mrs M appointed a number of parties, including a professional representative, 
B, and a firm of engineers and surveyors, W.
W prepared a schedule of work, invited three contractors to tender for it, and 
analysed their responses. In summary, it recommended appointing a contractor 
whod quoted around £370,000 plus VAT for the work  and holding a contingency of 
£85,000 plus VAT. It also noted that some of the work remained uncertain until the 
property could be opened up. The tender analysis was shared with C in May 2021.
In September 2021, C made an offer to settle the claim by paying a total of £409,400, 
including £14,400 AmTrust had already paid.
B asked for further information about the offer as it didnt think it was clear what was 
included or excluded. AmTrust didnt answer the queries. Nonetheless, Mr and Mrs M 
accepted the offer and were paid the remaining £395,000.
Work began soon after. In January 2022, B told C that more serious defects than 
anticipated had been found. C inspected them but it didnt change the settlement.
In February 2022, B complained on behalf of Mr and Mrs M. It said Mr and Mrs M felt 
coerced and intimidated into accepting the offer. Whilst they thought the offer was 
grossly inequitable and would leave them to contribute to the cost of repair, they 
said their only alternatives were to begin the complaint process or take legal action  
neither of which they felt able to do given the increasing deterioration of their property 
and the length of time the matter had been outstanding.
C responded to the complaint on behalf of AmTrust in April 2022. It said a settlement 
had been offered and accepted. But that settlement was the subject of an ongoing 
review and, once that had been completed, C would let B know its position.
By October 2022, B hadnt heard further from AmTrust or C, so it referred the 
complaint to this Service. It said Mr and Mrs M had spent £357,000 more than theyd 
received from AmTrust to complete the work and asked to be paid that amount.
Our investigator thought the offer was clear about the acceptance conditions, and 
that didnt include scope for further payments. So she didnt think AmTrust should 
pay £357,000. But she thought it had caused some delays and communication 
problems during the claim, so she asked it to pay £200 compensation as a result.
AmTrust agreed to pay £200 compensation. B didnt agree on either point.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute the warranty covers the problems Mr and Mrs M encountered. 
AmTrust has paid over £400,000 for investigations, building work, professional fees, 
alternative accommodation, removals and storage.
The dispute I have to consider is whether AmTrust should pay anything further.
B says it should do so because Mr and Mrs M have faced an additional £357,000 of 
costs to put the problems right. This figure takes into account the policy excesses, 
interim payments, private work unrelated to the warranty and a contribution from 
another insurer. The costs arose as further problems and damage were discovered 
after work began and previously concealed parts of the property were opened up.
On the other hand, AmTrust says an agreement was reached to settle the claim 
before those costs arose. So it doesnt agree to pay anything further.
In September 2021, C set out the offer to B. Amongst other things, it said:
oIt offered to settle the claim, including all defects, damage and losses 
notified and any issues that are subject to further investigations.
oThe offer was made in full and final settlement of the whole of the claim.
oIt was open to acceptance for a week.
oIf it wasnt accepted, C reserved the right to seek costs under certain 
circumstances, should legal action be taken.
In response, B raised a number of queries and asked for longer than seven days to 
discuss the matter further. C agreed to further time, but not to answer Bs queries. It 
said it had made a cash offer and it was under no obligation to qualify it further than it 
had done  it was simply open to Mr and Mrs M to accept or reject it.
Mr and Mrs M accepted the offer and signed a form of acceptance which referred to 
Cs offer from September 2021 and reiterated it was in full and final settlement of the 
claim.
The money was paid in October 2021 and work began soon after. More problems 
and damage were discovered once the property was opened up and B asked 
AmTrust to consider the claim further. Although C revisited, and it later said the claim 
was the subject of an ongoing review, no further offers have been made.Im satisfied the offer letter and the form of acceptance were sufficiently clear about 
the impact of accepting the offer. It was made clear that the offer would settle the 
claim, including any issues subject to further investigation, in full and final settlement.
Mr and Mrs M had been represented by B for most of the claim and were able to take 
its advice if they wished. Through B they ought to have been aware of Ws comments 
about the possibility of discovering further damage beyond that in the schedule of 
work and its recommendation to include a sizeable contingency sum. So Im satisfied 
they had reasonable information available to them about the consequences of 
accepting the offer. And AmTrust didnt keep any relevant information from them.
Whilst B says Mr and Mrs M felt coerced and intimidated into accepting the offer, I 
havent seen any evidence to support that. Bs communication with C at the time 
didnt indicate they felt that way. It said they would give very serious consideration to 
the offer presented which doesnt suggest they felt concerned or pressured about it. 
And C made clear Mr and Mrs M were entitled to reject the offer if they wished.
B said the offer was made with a very short deadline. Given the delays caused by 
AmTrust prior to that time, which Ill discuss below, and the significant impact of the 
offer, I would have expected to see a longer deadline. But when B asked for an 
extension, it was granted. So I dont agree that Cs actions were indicative of 
coercive, intimidating or pressurising behaviour.
B noted Cs reference to reserving the right to seek costs in certain circumstances. 
And pointed out that C didnt answer the questions B raised about the offer. 
However, Mr and Mrs M nonetheless chose to accept it. I think C was entitled to set 
out the offer as it saw fit and allow Mr and Mrs M to decide how to proceed.
It was clear from what B said that Mr and Mrs M were understandably eager to have 
their home repaired and their lives return to normal. But I dont think the offer was 
made in a way that would have put them under pressure to accept it or which was 
coercive or intimidating.
Overall, Im satisfied AmTrust, through C, acted fairly when it made the offer. As it 
was in full and final settlement, and Mr and Mrs M accepted it, Im not persuaded 
AmTrust was obliged to consider the claim further. So Im not going to require it to 
take any further action on this point.
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint was also about the time taken to deal with the claim and 
the way they were communicated with. I wont go over each and every detail of the 
claim, instead Ill highlight some key points Ive taken into account.
AmTrust, in its role as underwriter of the warranty, first became responsible for 
handling this matter in late 2018, when Mr and Mrs M reported the problems to it. At 
that time, Mr and Mrs M had already appointed a surveyor and they went on to 
appoint other companies to investigate the cause of the problems and provide 
recommendations for how to put them right.
AmTrust accepted the claim in mid 2019. But after that, there were significant delays 
waiting for it to agree the next steps in late 2019 and early 2020. The delay was 
compounded by one of the companies appointed by Mr and Mrs M failing to progress 
the tender effectively  for which I cant hold AmTrust responsible.After further investigation and discussion, W created the schedule of work and 
carried out the tender exercise. After B shared this with C, there were delays in mid 
to late 2021 waiting for AmTrust to agree how to proceed.
After the offer was accepted, paid, work began and the further problems reported to 
AmTrust, through C it took steps to look into it and even said it would review things 
further. But it didnt do so. Whilst Ive found above that it wasnt obliged to offer to do 
anything further, saying it would do so and then not keeping to that was 
unreasonable  and added unnecessarily to Mr and Mrs Ms distress.
On several occasions C gave B unclear information, such as how many excesses 
should apply and which investigation costs it would meet. It was also repeatedly slow 
to respond to B and often had to be chased numerous times before it did so.
I take into account this was a very high value claim and one with various causes of 
damage  some of which AmTrust thought were covered and some they didnt. There 
were also complex recovery possibilities to consider. So I think it was reasonable for 
some of the claim steps to take longer than might usually be expected. Nonetheless, 
Im satisfied there were significant avoidable delays and communication problems.
Mr and Mrs M were represented by B, so they didnt directly suffer some of the 
inconvenience of poor communication. But it contributed to the overall delay and I 
think it would have been frustrating and disappointing for them to hear from B that 
communication had often been lacking.
Mr and Mrs M suffered the impact of the delays directly. Up until work began in late 
2021, they were living in a property that had suffered significant damage. Had it not 
been for the avoidable delays during the claim, work could have begun much sooner 
and minimised the distress and inconvenience Mr and Mrs M experienced.
Bearing all of this in mind, I consider AmTrust should compensate Mr and Mrs M for 
the way it handled the claim. Im satisfied a total of £1,000 is reasonable in the 
circumstances. If AmTrust has already paid the £200 it previously agreed to pay, it 
can deduct this and pay only the remaining £800.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AmTrust responded to my provisional decision to say it had no further comment to make.
B responded to make a number of points. Ill summarise and consider each in turn.
B said the warranty is designed to provide cover for its full ten year duration. At the 
time of the offer, it still had five years of cover remaining. For AmTrust to make an 
offer which precluded Mr and Mrs M from making claims for any and all further 
defects during the remainder of the warranty was unfair.
I can see why it might be unfair if this is what had happened, but I dont think 
AmTrusts settlement was as broad as B says it was. C made the cash offer in 
relation to the Claim, and defined that to mean all defects, damage and loss notified 
to AmTrust under a certain reference number, including further investigation into 
those things. That was reflected in the form of acceptance document Mr and Mrs M signed. So the full and final cash settlement is, in my view, limited to that definition. 
Were some new matter to arise that Mr and Mrs M may wish to claim for under the 
warranty, they wouldnt necessarily be precluded from doing so by the settlement. 
Although that would depend on the nature of the matter and to what extent it related 
to the Claim thats been settled.
B said AmTrusts role as underwriter was wider than handling claims made under the 
warranty  it also included the sale of the warranty and inspections during the build in 
order to confirm the warranty would be issued. B says the now known defects mean 
there was a problem with the inspections and responsibility for that must ultimately 
fall with AmTrust as it accepted the inspections were sufficient to issue the warranty.
I can only consider a complaint about the sale, including the inspections, if it were 
made by the party who bought the warranty. In this case, thats the builder, not Mr 
and Mrs M. They acquired the warranty with the house, after the warranty had been 
sold to the builder. So I cant consider a complaint from them about the sale. All I can 
consider a complaint from them about is the claim  and AmTrust first became 
responsible for that in 2018, after the house had been built, the warranty had been 
sold, and the inspections had been carried out.
B said AmTrust hadnt complied with the term in the warranty that says, in summary, 
that the limit of liability or indemnity wont be reduced following a claim, subject to 
payment of an additional premium by Mr and Mrs M. AmTrust hasnt offered them 
this opportunity, so they have less than £100,000 worth of cover left and cant claim 
on that in any case.
Ive explained above why I dont think Mr and Mrs M are precluded from making 
further claims if they wish, dependent on the nature of those claims. So I wont repeat 
that point here. On the other point, the total sum insured is over £2,000,000 and the 
policy says it will pay up to £500,000 for any claim. So its not clear to me why the 
policy term highlighted by B would mean Mr and Mrs M have less than £100,000 
worth of cover left. And I havent seen AmTrust say thats the case.
B said feelings dont come with documented evidence and none of us can pass 
judgement on others emotions. Mr M had expressed anguish about the offer, 
including its lack of clarity. He and his family had various reasons for wanting to get 
the repairs carried out as soon as possible in order to allow them to return to a 
normal life. And the way AmTrust and C had acted amounted to intimidating and 
coercive behaviour.
I agree that none of us can know what someone else is feeling. But this is an 
evidence based Service, so I must consider whether the evidence provided by B 
supports its position that it would be unfair for AmTrust to rely on Mr and Mrs Ms 
agreement to the full and final settlement because they were coerced or intimidated 
into accepting it.
As I set out in my provisional decision, in my view the evidence doesnt support that. 
Whilst Mr and Mrs M were clearly and understandably motivated to progress the 
repairs promptly, I dont think it follows that was it was unfair for AmTrust to put 
forward a cash settlement offer to them. Ultimately it was open to Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject it, they had access to professional advice, and were aware of Ws 
comments about the risk of further damage, and therefore costs, being discovered 
once work began. And I dont think the way AmTrust or C set out the offer was 
unreasonable  I havent seen any suggestion they put Mr and Mrs M under pressure to accept it. So whilst I dont claim to know how Mr and Mrs M were feeling at the 
time, the evidence available to me doesnt, in my view, show they were coerced, 
intimidated or pressurised into accepting the offer.
B questioned why C referred to an ongoing review when further damage arose after 
the settlement had been paid. That would suggest the settlement wasnt full and final. 
And normally a settlement such as this would be open to negotiation  rather than an 
insurer making a full and final offer with limited explanation.
In my provisional decision, I noted that C took steps to look into the further damage 
and even said it would review things further. But it didnt do so. It was unhelpful and 
misleading to look into it when a full and final offer had already been accepted  and 
to say it would consider things further but not fulfil that agreement. So Im satisfied 
this treated Mr and Mrs M unfairly. I took into account the impact of that when 
considering appropriate compensation for distress and inconvenience.
AmTrust, like any insurer, was entitled to negotiate the claim settlement if it wished  
but it was also entitled to set out a full and final settlement offer if it wished. It wasnt 
required to negotiate. Similarly, it was open to Mr and Mrs M to reject the offer if they 
didnt think it was fair and seek to negotiate the claim settlement if they wished.
Finally, B said I was able to make a decision that I considered fair and reasonable, 
even if that meant not following the relevant law. I agree with that. Ive taken into 
account the law but also what would, in my view, be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. Having done so, including addressing all the points B made in 
response to my provisional decision, Im satisfied AmTrust acted fairly in relation to 
the claim settlement offer for the reasons set out above. Im not satisfied it handled 
the claim fairly and I consider £1,000 compensation is a reasonable remedy to that.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require AmTrust International Underwriters DAC to pay a total of £1,000 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman