DRN-2510312
The complaint
Mrs E has complained as Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance plc (RSA) rejected her claim 
for storm damage under her buildings insurance policy. Mrs E was also unhappy with the 
company chosen by RSA to survey the damage to her home.
What happened
Following Storm Ciara, Mrs E raised a claim to her property for damage caused to her roof. 
She explained that heavy winds had blown tiles from her roof resulting in rainwater entering 
her home and damaging the ceiling in the bedroom.
RSA appointed a building surveyor, B, to assess and validate her claim. Following advice 
by B, RSA declined her claim as they said the damage was long standing in nature due to 
wear and tear.
RSA agreed that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage happened. 
RSA said there was clear evidence of previous repairs to Mrs Es roof and noted the tiles 
had broken and slipped. They said this deterioration was not consistent with storm damage 
but considered it as wear and tear. They said the internal water damage is consistent with 
rainwater ingress over a period of time. RSA said wear and tear was covered by an 
exclusion clause in the policy and as they didnt think the storm was the main cause of the 
damage, RSA decided to decline Mrs Es claim.
Mrs E didnt agree that her claim should have been declined. She was unhappy with the 
appointment of B as building surveyors to validate the claim. She said referring to B as 
surveyors was misleading. She said she didnt think they were qualified as surveyors as she 
couldnt find evidence to support this on Companies House, LinkedIn or Bs website. Mrs E 
also said that 85% of the reviews posted on a public review site rate their work as bad. She 
said the B surveyor who visited her property did not come equipped with a ladder and did not 
examine the roof. She said he merely waved a camera attached to a stick over the roof I 
have no way of knowing whether any photographs were actually taken of my roof as I wasn't 
shown any.
Mrs E has also said she thinks its irrational that evidence of previous repairs to her roof 
invalidates her claim as her house was over one hundred years old. She said houses of that 
age will require various repairs over the course of their lives. She said evidence of previous 
repairs is an indication that the roof has been well maintained, so any visible damage is of 
recent origin and not the result of accumulated wear and tear. She said, the experienced 
roofing contractor I engaged to repair the damage had no doubt that it had been caused by 
the storm.
Our investigator looked at the evidence and took a view not to uphold Mrs Es complaint. He 
was comfortable with the use of B as surveyors and thought their report was compelling in 
support of RSAs conclusion that the damage was caused by wear and tear. Mrs E 
disagreed, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When our service looks at a storm claim complaint, there are three main issues normally 
considered: 
1.    Do I agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said 
to have happened? 
2.    Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
I will use this structure to work through the claim. Im likely to uphold the complaint if the 
answer to all three is yes. If the answer to one of the questions is no, Im unlikely to uphold 
the complaint.
Do I agree that storm conditions occurred?
In RSAs final response letter to Mrs E, they explain:
Within the insurance industry it is accepted that storm conditions exist when either 
47mph winds or 10mm of rainfall per hour intensity is present. Ive checked the weather 
records within your area for the period leading up to you noticing the damage and there 
were occasions where wind speeds met these conditions, but not rainfall.
RSA have said the wind conditions met their minimum threshold for storm conditions, but 
said that the rainfall did not. However, as their test said only one of these needs to be 
present for them to confirm storm conditions, I can see they have agreed that storm 
conditions were present on the date of the incident.
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
RSA declined the claim under storm damage as they didnt think the damage claimed for 
was consistent with the damage a typical storm causes. They said:
Externally there is clear evidence of previous repairs to your roof and the surveyor has 
noted the tiles have broken and slipped. This deterioration is not consistent with storm 
damage, but considered wear and tear. Your internal water damage is consistent with 
rainwater ingress over a period of time.
RSA also said the claim was declined as Mrs Es policy doesnt cover wear and tear. I have 
checked the policy terms of Mrs Es insurance to see if this is valid reason for them to reject 
her claim. I can see there is a policy-wide exclusions section, which highlights Any loss, 
damage, liability, cost or expense of any kind caused directly or indirectly by or resulting 
from wear and tear cant be claimed for. Therefore, it is reasonable that RSA has used this 
reason to decline the claim, however, I need to be happy that they have fairly reasoned that 
the damage is due to wear and tear and not due to the storm itself.
It is normal following a claim for an insurer to ask a surveyor or loss adjuster to survey a 
property to assess the damage and to determine a cause.  RSA appointed B who are a 
preferred supplier. Mrs E complained about the competency and qualifications of B to carry 
out this work. RSA told our service that B specialise in validating low value building claims 
and all their appointed surveyors have the skills, knowledge and experience to validate 
building claims upto ten thousand pounds. They said they were happy with Bs work and they provided evidence to support their statement which I found to be persuasive. RSAs 
approach to training seems reasonable and consistent with other professional organisations, 
and they have controls in place to measure the performance of their suppliers.
I dont think that RSA have been unfair in appointing B to do their surveying. It is common 
place in the industry for an insurer to employ an independent organisation to survey damage 
after an incident. Therefore, I think it is reasonable to rely on their findings in this case, as its 
more persuasive than Mrs Es own roofing contractor for the fact they have provided 
photographic evidence to support their view. Mrs E didnt like that the surveyor took the 
photos using a stick. However, the photos are good quality, so I dont think this makes any 
difference. I assume the surveyor was practicing a technique that speeds up the assessment 
process. 
The surveyors report said there was no evidence of any storm damage. RSA said their 
surveyor:
has noted a number of previous repairs as the slate are a different colour. One slate has 
slipped, and our surveyor believes this is the point of ingress. Our surveyor has also 
noted cracked slates with silicone repairs on the outrigger section. On the main roof 
some slates have become brittle and have simply fallen to the ground. Damage is the 
result of a natural breakdown of materials. Internally damage is consistent with an 
ingress over a period of time. 
Ive reviewed the report of the expert. I have checked for any inconsistencies between the 
photos of the damage and what the surveyor has concluded. The roof in some areas does 
look to have deteriorated with age. I think the surveyors commentary is a fair reflection of 
what I can see in the photos and therefore, I think RSA were right to conclude the damage 
was a result of wear and tear and not as a result of the storm.
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
I have also noticed on the case file, that Mrs E told our investigator that the repairs to the 
roof were done a few years ago and slate would occasionally fly off in the wind. Based 
primarily on what the photos show and the surveyors commentary, I think it is reasonable 
that RSA have concluded that the storm was not the main cause of the roof damage and the 
subsequent water ingress. It is more likely that the storm conditions merely emphasised 
some patches of deterioration in the roof.
In conclusion, whist I can see a storm did occur, its my decision that the damage claimed for 
was not consistent with damage a storm typically causes and it was not the main cause of 
damage. So, RSA have been fair in declining the claim as the damage was caused by wear 
and tear and this was not covered by Mrs Es policy
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Peter Averill
Ombudsman