DRN-3832609
The complaint
Ms C has queried the amount of compensation Lloyds Bank PLC paid her for the mis-sale of 
some payment protection insurance (PPI) policies.
What happened
Ms C complained to Lloyds about the sale of PPI in a chain of loans.
In 2010, Lloyds agreed that some of the PPI policies had been mis-sold, but not others. They 
paid Ms C some compensation.
In 2018, Lloyds looked at things again, and accepted that the other policies in the chain had 
been mis-sold too. They paid Ms C some further compensation.
Ms C asked us to check that Lloyds had worked things out correctly. She queried why some 
loans had not been reassessed, and why shed received some redress for a loan when it 
didnt have its own PPI policy.
Our adjudicator looked into things independently and found that Lloyds had worked things 
out correctly. They broke this down for Ms C. Ms Cs representatives asked for an 
ombudsman to look at things afresh, in order to protect their clients position. So the 
complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a business has mis-sold PPI, we expect them to put their customer in the financial 
position theyd be in now if theyd never had the policies  as far as its possible to do that.
For a chain of loans like Ms Cs, that means refunding the extra she paid each month for the 
PPI premiums and the associated interest and charges. It also means refunding the extra 
she paid when she cleared each loan, including any leftover PPI that got wrapped up into the 
next loans in the chain. And Id expect them to add 8% simple interest per year onto her 
overpayments, to compensate Ms C for the time she was without her money.
Ive looked at how Lloyds worked out Ms Cs PPI compensation, and I can see theyve 
followed that method. Theyve refunded the extra Ms C paid for PPI in her monthly loan 
repayments, including the associated interest and charges. Theyve refunded the extra she 
paid to clear each loan, along with the extra she paid for any PPI that was left over and 
flowed through into the next loans in the chain. And theyve added 8% simple interest onto 
her overpayments, to compensate her for the time she was out of pocket.
Lastly, Lloyds took off what theyd already paid Ms C, so that they did not refund the same 
costs twice over.
So I think that Lloyds worked out Ms Cs PPI compensation in a fair way.
Ms C queried why some of the loans were labelled as not reassessed  decision remains 
unchanged. I appreciate why she might have felt that wasnt clear. Those are the loans 
which Lloyds previously refunded the PPI for back in 2010. In other words, Lloyds had 
already decided to refund those PPI policies in the past, and that decision remained 
unchanged, so they hadnt reassessed those loans. There was no need to reassess them, 
as Ms C had already received a refund of the PPI for those loans.
Ms C also queried why shed received redress for a loan which didnt have PPI. Thats 
because earlier loans in the chain had whats called single premium PPI policies. Thats 
where the PPI gets added on top of the loan as an upfront cost and attracts interest. 
Because the PPI was part of those older loans, when Ms C refinanced those loans, some of 
the PPI got wrapped up into each new loan. So while the final loan didnt come with any PPI 
policy in and of itself, it contained some leftover PPI costs from the previous loans. Lloyds 
have refunded those costs too.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint, as I think Lloyds Bank PLC 
have already offered Ms C fair compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman