DRN-3976931
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy Advantage Insurance Company Limited cancelled his car insurance policy 
when he didnt install a new telematics device in time.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill summarise the key 
points Ive focused on within my decision.
Mr M purchased the telematics policy online on 24 July 2022. He was sent a 
welcome pack that informed him he would need to download the app and pair the tab 
within 20 days from the start of the policy on 27 July 2022.
Mr M has said he downloaded the app on 24 July 2022. Following notifications that 
he hadnt paired the device he says this was done on 9 August 2022 and he believes 
the tab was faulty.
Mr M says he didnt receive anything else until he was notified on 16 August that the 
policy had been cancelled. He was unable to call Advantage until the following day 
as its customer service department had closed.
Advantage said it made it clear that the telematics box needed to be installed within 
20 days of the start of the policy. It said it sent letters via its communication platform 
on 2, 8 and 9 August and the latter letter was sent manually as well. These informed 
Mr M that the device needed to be paired and the consequences of not doing this 
would lead to cancellation of the policy. 
Advantage also said Mr M hadnt followed the terms and conditions of the policy. As 
the app hadnt been set-up correctly with the correct location permissions as they 
were set to when in app and not set to always as instructed.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She felt Advantage had fairly followed 
the conditions of the policy as Mr M hadnt paired the tab and app correctly. She 
noted Mr Bs testimony didnt match the data provided by Advantages systems in 
that he said he paired the device on 9 August but there was no record of the app 
being opened on the 9 August. 
Mr M didnt agree he said he mayve got the date wrong but thats irrelevant and says 
that the pairing was attempted and as he received no further notifications from 
Advantage, he presumed he had paired it successfully. He said he only found out 
about the cancellation after the customer service department was closed and he had 
tried to pair it again that evening to rectify the situation. He feels this has just been 
disregarded. He has therefore asked for the complaint to be passed to an 
Ombudsman for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What I need to consider in this complaint is has Advantage fairly cancelled the policy in line 
with its terms and conditions of the policy.
Having looked at the data provided by Advantage I can see Mr M was clearly notified in the 
welcome pack that the tab needed to be set-up within 20 days from start of the policy on 27 
July 2022. This would mean the tab needed to be paired no later than 15 August 2022 or the 
policy would be cancelled on 16 August 2022.
Further to this Mr M was informed on 2, 8 and 9 August that the tab needed to be paired as 
instructed within the 20 days or the policy would be cancelled.
I dont disagree with Mr M that he downloaded the app on the 24 July on one device. And it 
also appears the app was downloaded to a different device on 16 August albeit any attempt 
to pair on this date wouldnt have been successful as the policy was already cancelled. 
However, what is relevant here is that the tab isnt showing that it has been correctly paired 
regardless of which date Mr M believes he did it on. Mr M wouldve had notification on his 
phone that the pairing was successful if the instructions had been followed correctly and it 
would record the driving data. 
Mr M has said he thought the device was faulty, but Ive seen no evidence of this. 
I note the location settings were not set-up as instructed either, which is a requirement of the 
policy. I wouldve expected Mr M to have contacted Advantage if he thought he had paired 
the device correctly and it wasnt recording the data. But there is no evidence that Mr M 
contacted Advantage prior to the cancellation.
Having looked at the terms and conditions of the policy, Advantage have the right to cancel 
the policy if the tab isnt paired to the app within 13 days of the policy start date which is a 
shorter period of time than what it states in the welcome letter. But as the policy wasnt 
cancelled until day 20, Im satisfied Advantage has fairly applied its terms and conditions and 
I wont be instructing it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman