DRN-2227039
The complaint
Mr C complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold payment protection insurance 
(PPI) to him alongside a secured loan in 1991. 
What happened
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr C disagreed with that view. 
He said that Lloyds shouldnt have recommended the PPI to him because he had a lot of 
financial protection available to him at the time. He said he did not need a PPI policy. 
As Mr C is not in agreement with our adjudicator, the matter has been passed to me to make 
a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken that into account in deciding this case.  
Im sorry to disappoint Mr C, but I havent upheld his complaint. Ill explain why below.
There is very little evidence available to me in this case. Lloyds has no documentary 
evidence from the point of sale. And Mr C told us that he couldnt remember what was 
discussed when PPI was sold. Neither of these things are surprising. I wouldnt expect either 
party to keep documentary evidence for 30 years. And I also appreciate that it is difficult to 
recall precisely what happened during a meeting about a loan such a long time ago. 
Given the paucity of evidence, I have applied the balance of probabilities in this case. In 
other words, I have looked at whats most likely to have happened based upon the 
information I do have. 
The first thing Ive thought about in this case is whether it would have been made clear to Mr 
C that PPI was optional and he didnt take it out if he didnt want it. I can see that Mr C said 
that he would have refused PPI if it had been offered to him. I accept that what Mr C told us 
is what he honestly recalls. But I think its most likely that Mr C would have been sent 
documentation about the policy after the sale. And it may also be that the cover was debited 
separately from his bank account. So if PPI had been added without Mr Cs knowledge, I 
think he would have challenged what the payments for the PPI policy were for. I think hed 
have also queried why he had received documentation for PPI if he hadnt agreed to it at the 
relevant time. The evidence before me doesnt suggest he did. 
The parties agree that I should treat this as an advised sale. That means Lloyds had to take 
steps to ensure the cover was suitable for Mr Cs needs. To help me decide whether the 
cover was suitable, Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the policy. And Ive also looked 
at what Mr C told us about his personal circumstances at the relevant time. 
I can see that if Mr C had to make a claim on the PPI, his loan repayments would have been 
covered for up to 12 months if he was off sick or if he lost his job. Mr C told us he had 26 
weeks full sick pay and so it follows that the cover would have lasted longer than his full sick 
pay would have lasted. 
I appreciate that in his complaint, Mr C told Lloyds his salary would have been sufficient to 
cover the loan repayments regardless of whether he received full pay or half pay. But I do 
note that Mr C told us in his PPI questionnaire that the loan was taken out to consolidate 
other debts, which suggests Mr C may not have been able to manage on half pay as 
comfortably as he now recalls. 
I must stress that this borrowing was secured on Mr Cs home. So the consequences if he 
fell behind with the repayments could have resulted in him losing his property. With the PPI 
cover, it seems to me that he could have used his existing resources on his other essential 
expenditure at what would have no doubt been a very stressful time if Mr C was out of work.
 
I appreciate Mr C told us that he didnt need the PPI because he had other insurance, 
namely life insurance and critical illness cover. However, neither of those policies would 
have covered him for the same eventualities as PPI  life insurance would have only paid 
out in the unfortunate event of Mr Cs death and in order to qualify for critical illness cover, it 
is likely that Mr C would have to be diagnosed with a specific condition. 
From what Mr C told us, he appears to have been in good health when this cover was sold 
to him in 1991. So I dont think he would have been affected by any of the policys exclusions 
about medical conditions. I havent seen anything else that was unusual about his 
circumstances that would have stopped Mr C from being able to make a claim if he needed 
to. 
With all of this in mind, I think Lloyds appropriately advised Mr C to take the PPI policy out. 
Nevertheless, it still had to give Mr C enough information about the cover so he could decide 
for himself whether it was a good fit for his needs. I accept that Lloyds may not have told Mr 
C everything it should have done about the cover. 
But that doesnt mean I can automatically uphold the complaint because I must then look 
objectively at what Mr C would have done if hed been given all of the right information. Ive 
set out above why I think PPI could have been helpful to Mr C if he became unwell. And so I 
cant reasonably say he would have acted differently even if he had been given more or 
better information about the cover. 
As I said above, I am sorry to disappoint Mr C, but for the reasons set out above, I dont 
uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2021.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman