DRN-3036399
The complaint
Mr F complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr F, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr F acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then BMWFS, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr F. The car here was brand-
new so I dont think a reasonable person would expect it to have any faults.
Mr F says that the cracked alloy was caused by a design fault and hes directed me to 
several articles and online chats about the issue. BMWFS have referred me to comments 
from the franchised dealership who noted impact damage to the alloys and werent able to 
pursue a warranty claim as a result.
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to 
assume it was present at the point of supply, when BMWFS were responsible for the cars 
quality. This fault occurred two years and four months and almost 15,000 miles after supply. 
So, the relevant legislation puts the onus on Mr F to demonstrate the fault was most likely to 
have been developing when the car was supplied.
Im not persuaded by the evidence I have been given that this fault is most likely to have 
been developing when the car was supplied to Mr F. I say that because:
the dealership think its most likely to have occurred because of impact damage and I 
think theyre likely to have significant expertise in these matters;
there is evidence of impact on the alloys;
as the car was under warranty there seems little reason for the dealership to reject 
Mr Fs concerns as the damage would be paid for;
Ive not been provided with any metallurgical or expert evidence to support Mr Fs 
suggestion this failure was caused by a design error;
most of the reports Mr F has directed me to are quite old and whilst I can see there 
are still some concerns about alloy failures, I dont think I have sufficient evidence to 
suggest the alloy failure on this car was most likely to have been developing when 
the car was supplied to Mr F. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman