DRN-3425775
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as S, complains that AXIS Speciality Europe SE declined a 
claim it made on its machinery movement policy.
Reference to AXIS or S includes things said and done by their respective agents and 
representatives.
What happened
The circumstances of the complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the key points:
S was contracted by its customer, B, to move a crane at Bs premises. It carried out a 
risk assessment at the site and prepared a method statement for dismantling the 
crane, moving it to the new position, then reassembling it.
I understand that on the morning of the move, B asked if the crane could be moved 
without taking it apart and putting it back together again in order to save time. S 
agreed to do so. During the move, the crane buckled, collapsed, and was damaged.
S got in touch with the insurer of its machinery movement policy, AXIS. After 
investigating the circumstances and taking advice, AXIS declined the claim. It said S 
hadnt carried out a revised method statement to reflect the change in lifting method 
 and this meant it hadnt taken reasonable precautions and had acted negligently.
S didnt think this was fair. It made a number of points, and the matter was discussed 
further, but AXIS maintained its position.
Our investigator was satisfied it was fair for AXIS to rely on the reasonable 
precautions condition to decline the claim.
S disagreed. It noted AXIS had indicated S wouldnt have foreseen a problem even if 
it had revised the method statement. It thought that meant not revising the statement 
made no difference. It also thought AXIS needed to do more to show it hadnt taken 
reasonable precautions, such as showing it had acted recklessly.
An agreement couldnt be reached, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXIS has relied on two policy terms to decline the claim:
The policy excludes damage caused by your wilful act or wilful neglect.
A policy condition requires S to take reasonable precautions to prevent accidents 
and to safeguard any insured property against damage.
Whilst two terms have been raised, they are based on the same underlying reasoning. AXIS 
thinks S ought to have carried out a new method statement if the lifting operation was to 
change significantly  or the operation should have gone ahead as originally planned. As S 
did neither of things, AXIS thinks its entitled to decline the claim.
Having thought about all the points made by both parties, I agree. Ill explain why.
S initially proposed to move the crane by dismantling it, relocating the parts to the new 
position, and then reassembling it. S prepared a method statement for this proposal. I dont 
think theres any question this amounted to taking reasonable precautions.
On the day of the move, in order to allow the crane to become operational again much 
sooner, B enquired whether the crane could be moved in one piece. S initially said it couldnt 
be. After discussion between staff members, S thought it would be possible. A revised 
method statement wasnt prepared.
S accepts the original method statement was based on dismantling the crane. And the 
method was changed without updating the method statement. But it says that even if a new 
statement had been prepared, its unlikely S staff members would have foreseen the 
problem. So the damage would likely have happened even with a new statement.
S said it hadnt been reckless and had taken the necessary precautions. The damage was 
simply the result of an error in judgement from an experienced machinery movement 
professional  which is what the policy was in place for. And the damage to the crane wasnt 
the result of a wilful, intentional, or deliberate act.
AXIS has pointed to the Lifting Operations and Lifting Equipment Regulations 1998 and 
noted a section within it which says individual lifting operations should be planned so they 
can be carried out safely. It says when the proposed method of carrying out the move was 
fundamentally changed, the work should have been postponed until a new method 
statement had been prepared.
AXIS has relied on the advice of a chartered mechanical engineer, who is a member of a 
relevant professional body. After inspecting the damage, they prepared a report. I find it 
thorough and persuasive and I think it was reasonable for AXIS to rely on it.
The engineer said there were two options for moving the crane without risking collapse and 
damage  adding temporary bracing to support it or dismantling the structure. They also said 
the method statement should have been reconsidered and revised when the lifting method 
was changed. They thought that would have included giving thought to bracing the crane.
The lifting regulations noted and the findings of the engineer both support AXIS position. 
Either the original lifting plan should have been maintained  or, if it were to be changed, a 
new method statement should have been prepared, including consideration of the risks of 
moving the crane without dismantling it.
So I think even if S had revised the method statement without recognising the risk of 
collapse without bracing, the core argument that it hadnt taken reasonable precautions 
would remain the same.
Ive taken into account the points S has made about relevant case law and other case law 
with some similarities. Im satisfied S recognised a degree of risk in changing to the new 
lifting method. It initially said it wouldnt be possible to lift the crane without dismantling it, 
which I think shows it had reservations about the feasibility of that proposal. I understand further discussion with staff members led to an agreement to change the method. But 
without taking the time to revise the method statement and thoroughly consider the risks 
involved  and potential ways to mitigate them, such as bracing  Im not persuaded S took 
reasonable precautions at that stage.
Because of that, Im satisfied it was fair for AXIS to decline the claim.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2022.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman