DRN-3639206
The complaint
Mr A complains that U K Insurance Limited mishandled his claim on a motor insurance 
policy.
Where I refer to UKI or the insurer, I refer to the above-named insurance company and I 
include claims-handlers and others insofar as I hold UKI responsible for their acts or 
omissions. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a sports utility vehicle, first registered in 
2009.
For the year from 1 March 2021, Mr A had the car insured on a comprehensive policy under 
which UKI was responsible for dealing with any claim.
Mr A reported that, early on 26 November 2021, someone had stolen his car from his 
driveway.
Within a couple of days, Mr A located the car. But he couldnt get it to move. So UKI had the 
car taken to a garage.
The garage inspected the vehicle and said there was no sign of forced entry. But the garage 
reported that the gearbox had failed.
Mr A complained to UKI that it should provide a courtesy car and meet his claim. By a final 
response dated 7 March 2022, UKI turned down the claim and the complaint. Mr A brought 
his complaint to us without delay.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think that it 
was unfair of UKI to decline the claim. He said that the insurer had conducted an adequate 
investigation and consulted with experts to conclude that the vehicle couldnt have been 
stolen without the use of a key. Mr A had said that he was in possession of both keys, but he 
had been unable to provide both keys for investigation, our investigator said.
Mr A disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
He bought the car in December 2017 from a dealer franchised by the car maker. 
He isnt aware of any immobiliser.
People can gain entry and steal the car without a key. Criminals have found a way 
around alarms. 
Within 10 minutes of the theft, the car was caught on camera speeding. 
36 hours after it was stolen, it was again caught on camera driving on a bus lane. 
The insurer shouldve consulted the franchised dealer who sold him the car.
He said that the original key he was using got damaged. He said it must be 
somewhere around the house. They never asked to see if he could get it or find it. 
The insurer delayed getting the police report but then treated it as of no value and 
declined his claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy didnt entitle Mr A to a courtesy car unless UKI was repairing his car.
From what Mr A and UKI have each said, I accept that the car was recorded speeding very 
shortly after Mr A reported it stolen. It was recorded driving in a bus lane shortly before Mr A 
got it back. Thats consistent with his report that someone had stolen the car.
However, the garage said that there was no damage to windows, doors or ignition. Thats 
not consistent with forced entry.
UKI wasnt going to repair Mr As car. So I dont find it unfair that UKI didnt arrange a 
courtesy car.
Theres no evidence that UKI consulted the franchised dealer. But UKI did consult the car 
maker. UKI also consulted a vehicle security company and arranged an interview of Mr A.
I dont find it unreasonable that UKI waited to hear from the police. But the police letter dated 
25 February 2022 didnt add very much.
The evidence was that Mr As car was not of a type that anyone could get into and start 
without a key or without causing damage. So UKI wanted to know about the keys.
The investigator reported that Mr A had said he couldnt find the second key. The 
investigator regarded this as a change from what Mr A had said before. But  whatever hed 
said before  Mr A hasnt produced the second key. 
I can understand that Mr A feels that the insurer regards him as complicit in the theft. But I 
consider that the insurers investigation was into whether the evidence supported the claim 
as Mr A had reported it.
My role is to consider whether UKI treated Mr A unfairly. Overall Im satisfied that UKI did a 
reasonable, proportionate and timely investigation. Ive noted the expert input UKI obtained. 
Based on that, UKI decided that the car had been taken by someone with a key. 
I keep in mind the missing key and the gearbox failure. I dont find that UKI treated Mr A 
unfairly by concluding that the evidence didnt support the claim as he had reported it. I dont 
find it fair and reasonable to direct UKI to settle Mr As claim or to do any more in response 
to this complaint. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct U K Insurance limited to do any more in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman