DRN-3491819
The complaint
Mr W complains about Lloyds Bank General Insurances decision to decline his claim for an 
escape of water under his buildings insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr W noticed a damp section of carpet in his living room. He says he pulled up the carpet 
and found it was soaked through. He says he also noticed damp marks appearing on the 
walls and contacted Lloyds to make a claim.
Mr W says he was asked to pay a £350 policy excess charge upfront for Lloyds to arrange 
the source of the leak to be investigated. He asked if he could use a local plumber instead. 
Lloyds agreed. Mr Ws plumber found the waste pipe under the bath had failed and was the 
source of the dampness. He says Lloyds then sent its own contractor anyway, and it 
concluded the source of the dampness was from groundwater, following testing for nitrates.
Mr W states he is a civil engineer and doesnt think nitrate testing is reliable to identify the 
source of the problem. He thinks the problem will have taken longer to manifest itself if rising 
dampness was the source. 
Lloyds sent a surveyor to carry out a further inspection. He didnt think the waste pipe in the 
bathroom was the cause of the dampness. He recommended that a damp specialist should 
investigate. Lloyds declined the claim as the waste pipe wasnt thought to be the cause and 
no other insured cause had been confirmed. Mr W complained to Lloyds and it suggested he 
should arrange for a damp specialist to inspect if he wanted to dispute its decline decision. It 
says it would reimburse the costs Mr W incurred, if he showed the issue wasnt related to the 
damp issue. 
Mr W didnt think this was fair and referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator 
didnt uphold his complaint. He thought it was reasonable for Lloyds to rely on the opinion of 
the experts it instructed. He thought Lloyds explanation that the location of the dampness, in 
relation to the bathroom, and the damp testing results were persuasive in showing the 
bathroom waste pipe wasnt the cause of the problem.
Our investigator didnt think Mr W had shown that he had suffered an insured loss covered 
by his policy terms. 
Mr W didnt agree with this outcome and advised that he was undertaking further 
investigations to excavate the concrete floor and some walls to further identify the source of 
the dampness. He asked that an ombudsman review his complaint and to consider his 
comments on the further investigations and that of a plumber he employed. 
The complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint. Im sorry to disappoint him 
but I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
Its for the policy holder to demonstrate to their insurer that they have suffered an insured 
loss. If they can do this then, generally speaking, the insurer should pay the cost of the claim 
in line with the policy terms and conditions, unless the insurer can reasonably rely on a 
policy exclusion that shows it neednt.
When considering Mr Ws complaint, I have relied, in part, on the expert opinions provided 
by both parties.
Mr W says that the plumber he employed found the cause of the damp was a failed waste 
pipe from the bath in the upstairs bathroom. I have copied the relevant excerpt from the 
plumbers report below:
The carpet had been pulled back and I could see the line of the reinstated concrete 
surround of the pipe. There was some dampness here, but looking at the extent of the damp 
across the living room floor and rising up the walls in several locations even out to the front 
door I felt this was an unlikely source. On inspection of the heating system, this proved to be 
correct as there was 1 bar of pressure still in the system, and the occupier said that this had 
been the case since the heating had been off for most of the summer.
I looked at other potential water sources and discovered the waste pipe fitting to the upstairs 
bath had completely failed. When putting the tap on the water flowed freely out of outlet 
fitting beneath the bath directly onto the floor boards and then freely escaped. There was no 
sign of dampness in the kitchen ceiling directly under the bath, nor coming down the walls. 
There is a chimney void next to the bath that is not accessible, but there have been signs of 
damp on the tiled kitchen floor downstairs (becoming slippery and darkening of the grout). 
The dampness that is appearing across the living room and downstairs floors, and rising up 
the downstairs walls must be caused by this leak because of the volume of water escaping 
and finding a path downstairs and under the laminated flooring and carpets etc..
I have read the leak detection survey Lloyds arranged after Mr Ws plumber had completed 
his inspection. The pertinent excerpts from this report are copied below:
Our engineer has carried out a full leak detection survey to ascertain the cause of water 
damage to the living room floor and the hallway walls. Our equipment indicated all mains 
pipework to be sound at the time of our survey. Further testing indicated the cause of the 
water damage to the walls downstairs is due to a rising damp issue ongoing within the 
property. Our equipment has found the bath waste pipe to still be leaking, although our 
equipment has suggested this is not the cause of the damage to the living room and hallway 
flooring and walls. 
We suggest the bath waste trap is replaced. The chimney will also need inspecting to find 
the cause of moisture in the loft area. It would be prudent for a rising damp specialist to 
inspect the property in order to rectify the damp issues.
Mr W didnt accept Lloyds findings. Following discussion, a further inspection was arranged 
around three months later. The resulting surveyors report provided the following 
conclusions:
Diagnosing why such damp issues are present, is commonly a process of elimination. The leak from the first-floor bathroom is discounted as there would no doubt be damage to the 
ceiling below the area in the kitchen. Utilising a Flir 6 Thermal Imaging camera has revealed 
buried heating pipes within the floor next to the doorway to the living room and within the 
wall. These would be the first areas to be investigated further. 
Secondly high readings are evident on the party wall and given the property is semi-
detached further investigation should also be carried out next door. Rising damp cannot be 
ruled out but also cannot be confirmed from a visual inspection alone. However, the issue is 
not widespread throughout the property and localised to the central area. Ideally, we would 
recommend that a damp expert is engaged to investigate the issues further by process of 
elimination.
I have seen a diagram that shows the layout of Mr Ws home. The upstairs bathroom is 
toward the rear of the house. The area in the living room where Mr W found the damp 
section of flooring is at the front of the house. I understand Mr W strongly believes the bath 
waste pipe is the cause of the leak. This is also his plumbers view as detailed in the report 
he provided to Lloyds.  
I have thought about the plumbers findings along with that of the leak detection specialist 
and the surveyor who inspected.
The reports Lloydss relied upon agree that although there was a leak from the upstairs 
bathroom, this wasnt the cause of the dampness Mr W reported. Both reports are detailed, 
including photos of the areas and the testing that was carried out. This included the use of a 
damp meter, thermal imaging and salts testing. I note the surveyor that carried out the 
second inspection is also registered with the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors 
(RICS). 
I have given thought to Mr Ws plumbers comments but based on the information provided 
Im more persuaded by Lloydss inspection reports. Particularly that the location of the 
bathroom leak, in relation to the dampness downstairs, suggests its unlikely to be the cause. 
Lloydss suggestion that the cause could be the result of rising dampness, a concealed pipe 
or a source from the neighbouring property, was I think more probable based on this 
information. 
So, having considered the expert opinion provided, Im more persuaded by Lloyds view that 
the cause of the dampness wasnt from the bathroom leak but from another cause. 
Mr W says he wasnt prepared to pay for an expert report of his own to counter the opinion 
obtained by Lloyds. But he has since supplied a letter dated in December 2021 from a 
plumber he employed to help him identify and resolve his damp problem. The letter says:
Ive carried out inspection works for Mr [W] over many months. I explained from the outset 
that water is very unpredictable, and finding the source of any sort of leak is very difficult, 
hence my taking a reasoned approach over many months. I fixed the initial problem that was 
clearly the main source of water damage to the house, with probably many bath loads 
leaking undetected for some time. It was clear that this water has deposited between the 
downstairs ceiling and the upstairs floor, eventually working its way downstairs soaking the 
laminate flooring and the living room carpet.
The second issue was only detected after many months, that of ivy growing into the 
downstairs walls, and findings its way into the building. I have also fixed that problem too. 
Following extensive searching and examination of where water could have got into the 
house I also found some leakage to the c/h system, but it looks as though a self sealing product has been added to the system by the previous householder to seal the system. I 
have recommended that the affected parts are replaced eventually, as this is not an issue at 
the minute 
Rarely have I struggled to find a leak, but having done this sort of work for about 30 years 
now and again cases such as this do happen, I am just please that I have found both 
sources, the bath water being the primary cause, and most recently the ivy growth that have 
led to a solution for Mr [W]. The house is bone dry now, and has been for over a month now, 
even after really heavy rainfall.  
In a subsequent email to our service Mr W says he thinks the primary cause of the damp is 
still the bathroom leak, but the secondary cause is surface water entering the brickwork. He 
says he has supplied photos that show water marks between the downstairs ceiling and the 
upstairs floorboards, water marks on the kitchen wall and on the beam across the 
kitchen/dining area. He says this cant be rising damp.   
Mr W says he has lifted the floorboards in the bathroom and broken through an outside wall 
to see if the pipe was damaged in the cavity, with reference to the waste pipe. He says it 
wasnt damaged. He says a mains water pressure test was carried out and no leaks were 
detected. When moving some bricks externally he says this is when the ivy growth was 
found. He says roots had penetrated the mortar bedding at the front of his house and had 
allowed rainwater to ingress causing damp issues internally. 
Mr W concludes that there is no evidence of rising damp and says the terms of his policy 
should support his original claim. 
We asked Lloyds to comment on the plumbers letter, Mr Ws comments and the additional 
photos he had supplied. It responded to say it had asked the surveying company it used to 
review this information. It says the head of surveying doesnt think Mr W has presented new 
information to confirm his claim. The surveyor who originally inspected his property also 
provided a response. He says:
In relation to the attachments sent, I do not feel that this evidence would change our 
minds at all. Firstly, the leak to the bath as per my original report the bathroom and alleged 
bath is directly above the kitchen area no water damage is evident to the plasterboard 
ceiling, any leak from this bath would first manifest itself on this ceiling and not a number of 
metres away at the base of walls. 
And in relation to the ivy growth photos:
Again these are remote form [sic] the areas of concern as per the plan above form [sic] my 
original report. In any case Ivy growth would be a maintenance issue and not an insured 
peril.
I have considered the photos Mr W has provided in detail, along with his further comments, 
that of the plumber he employed and the response we received from Lloyds surveyors. Im 
sorry Mr W has experienced an ongoing issue with dampness in his home. And Im glad that 
he has now been able to remedy this issue. But Im not persuaded that hes shown Lloyds 
was wrong to conclude the bathroom leak wasnt the cause of the damage in his claim.  
I also dont think hes shown that Lloyds was wrong to rely on the expert opinion that 
suggested groundwater was indicated as the source of the dampness. Given this was 
highlighted by the presence of nitrates in the salts testing, I dont think this was 
unreasonable. I understand Mr W has strong views on this form of testing. But this is an 
established test used by the industry. In this case an expert in this field has said this indicates groundwater as the source of the dampness.
The surveyor and leak detection specialist concluded there was another source of the 
dampness, which as Lloyds highlights in its most recent response, is what Mr W and his 
plumber indicate they had found.
I have read Mr Ws policy terms to understand what cover is provided here. The terms under 
General Exceptions say:
Gradually operating cause. Any loss, damage or liability arising from wear and tear or 
damage that happens gradually over time.   
I think the ivy growth can reasonably be considered as something that happens gradually 
over time. Based on the exclusion terms this means cover isnt provided for this cause. 
Finally, Mr W wasnt happy that he was asked to pay the policy excess of £350 when he 
made his claim. However, his policy schedule confirms this is the amount he must pay 
toward each and every incident of loss or damage. So, I dont think Lloyds behaved unfairly 
in relation to this point.
In considering all of this, Im not persuaded that Lloyds treated Mr W unfairly when relying on 
its experts opinions, and its policy terms to decline his claim. So, I cant reasonably ask it to 
do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman