DRN-2499137
The complaint
Mr I is unhappy Barclays Bank UK PLC blocked and closed his personal current account. 
I note Mr I has mentioned he also had issues with Barclays in relation to business accounts 
he held in the capacity as director of a limited company. This isnt something I will be 
addressing in this complaint. Mr I has already received our decision on this matter 
separately.
  
What happened
Barclays blocked Mr Is account on 8 January 2019 so it could conduct a review. It issued 
him with an immediate notice to close the account the following day. At this point there was 
£36.33 in the account, which Barclays didnt release to Mr I until July 2019. 
Barclays issued its final response explaining that it had conducted its review of Mr Is 
account within the usual time frame of 10 days and hadnt made an error in closing the 
account. It said it didnt have to give a reason for the review or closure. 
Since the complaint has been with our service Barclays has acknowledged there was a 
delay in releasing the £36.33 to Mr I.   
As a result, our investigator upheld the complaint in part. She was satisfied Barclays hadnt 
made an error in blocking or closing the account  she said this had been done in line with 
Barclays statutory and legal obligations, and the terms of the account. However, she thought 
Barclays shouldve released the £36.33 to Mr I sooner than it did. Given Mr I never used the 
account and the amount was so low, she thought £100 compensation was fair. Barclays 
agreed with her recommendations. 
Mr I disagreed stating the offer was derisory and insulting given what Barclays has put him 
through. He explained that Barclays actions caused him to close his business, lose a £90k 
investment and damaged his reputation. This all led to the breakdown of his marriage and 
him attempting suicide on two occasions. 
Mr I wanted to know his credit rating hadnt been damaged by Barclays actions and why his 
account with another bank had been closed and hed been unable to open an account with a 
mainstream bank since.
Because Mr I disagreed, his complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as the investigator 
previously set out and for much the same reasons.
Account review and closure 
Barclays has a wide range of legal and regulatory obligations it must meet when providing 
account services to its customers. These are ongoing so dont just apply at account opening 
stage. To comply with these obligations, it may need to review accounts and the activity 
taking place on them. Sometimes these reviews will lead to the accounts being blocked and 
closed.  If Barclays didnt do this, it could risk serious sanction.
With this in mind, Im satisfied Barclays was within its rights to block Mr Is account and
carry out a review. It was also entitled to close his account. It did so in line with its legal and 
regulatory obligations and, having reviewed the terms and conditions, it did so in line with 
these too. Barclays has the discretion to offer accounts to who it wishes, just as Mr I can 
choose who to bank with. 
Barclays wasnt obliged to tell Mr I why it blocked and closed the account. And it wouldnt be
appropriate for me to require it do so.
Mr I is concerned his credit rating may have been damaged by Barclays actions. I have 
seen nothing to suggest this is the case. But in any event, Barclays didnt make an error in 
reviewing and closing the account, so any consequences of this wouldnt be something I 
could hold Barclays accountable for. 
I appreciate Mr I had difficulties with his account at another bank being closed and difficulties 
opening an account elsewhere. However, Ive not seen anything to suggest this is because 
of the actions Barclays took in relation to Mr Is personal account.  
Release of funds
Im satisfied Barclays didnt make an error in blocking and closing Mr Is account. However, 
Barclays has acknowledged that it shouldve released the funds in Mr Is account to him 
sooner. So, I need only address the issue of how it would be fair and reasonable to settle 
this complaint in terms of compensation for this error. 
Mr I is unhappy with the £100 Barclays has agreed to pay.
Im very sorry to hear what Mr I has been through. My decision is in no way meant to belittle 
this. But I do have to take into account that this complaint is in relation to Mr Is personal 
account. It seems to me that much of the anguish hes feeling is in relation to his business 
accounts, and the impact the closure of these accounts had on him  and as Ive already 
explained, Im not able to consider this here. 
Taking this into consideration, Im satisfied £100 is fair and reasonable for the trouble and 
upset caused by Barclays delay in releasing the £36.33 from his personal account. 
Having reviewed the statements for Mr Is account, I can see it had a balance of £36.33 from 
at least December 2016, and there was no activity on the account during that time. I 
therefore think it is reasonable to conclude that the delay in releasing this money - which Mr I 
had not touched for such a long period of time - wouldve had a minimal impact on him.  
I have no doubt Barclays actions wouldve caused Mr I a degree of frustration and 
inconvenienced him in as much as he had to chase Barclays for the money. But I think the 
£100 Barclays has agreed to pay is fair for this. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold the complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC and instruct it 
to pay Mr I £100 for the trouble and upset caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2021.
 
Sarah Brimacombe
Ombudsman