DRN-1800106
The complaint
 X complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) didnt handle a claim he made to 
them under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75) properly and that they 
didnt make adjustments for his disability to enable him to contact the relevant department.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Tescos should not have put X at a disadvantage in the way they treated him or provide him 
with a worse quality of service as a result of his disability.
Im not persuaded that Tescos prevented X from contacting them or made it difficult for X to 
contact them. The agent he called offered to raise a complaint for him so he could challenge 
their view that hed need to raise his concerns to ATOL before they would review them. 
Whilst I understand X is upset he couldnt access the legal department reasonably through 
the contact number hed found in the public domain, the complaints procedure was the 
appropriate method by which he could air his concerns and it wasnt necessary for him to 
speak to the legal department. I therefore dont think Tescos were unreasonable. The 
service it provided for X was the same as it would have provided for any dissatisfied 
customer.
X says he holds a few shares in Tesco PLC and that the Companies Act allows him to make 
reasonable enquiries about the running of the business. The rules under which the Financial 
Ombudsman Service operate are set out by the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. 
These are known as the DISP rules. These rules set out the limits to what our service can 
and cant consider and can be found on the FCAs website. DISP 2.7 explains that we can 
only consider complaints from consumers and I dont think when X is acting as a shareholder 
he is a consumer. So, whilst he may be able to make these enquiries to Tescos his rights 
under the Companies Act arent something Ill consider here.
I note that Tescos have now upheld Xs section 75 claim, but I dont think they were fair to 
direct X to ATOL before they would consider it. Section 75 gives the consumer an equal right 
to claim against the creditor as against the merchant and Tescos should therefore have 
considered his claim when he raised it to them. Their refusal to do so caused a delay and 
frustrated X as he understandably struggled to grasp any justification for their suggested 
course of action. In the circumstances, I would therefore agree with the investigator that 
Tescos should pay X £100 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused by 
that delay. 
I can see that in June 2020 Tescos objected to the investigator considering the section 75 
complaint as they said they hadnt been given the opportunity to do so. The investigator 
explained that we had an investigatory remit and didnt have to stick to the exact wording of 
the complaint. He thought Tescos response to Xs section 75 claim had always been a 
central aspect of Xs complaint and that Tesco had been aware that was being considered 
from the start. For clarity, although I note Tesco didnt challenge the investigators view at 
the time, I agree with him and think for the same reasons that it was, and is fair, for this 
service to consider Tescos actions in relation to the section 75 claim.
Putting things right
Tescos should provide compensation of £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint in part and tell Tesco Personal 
Finance PLC to pay X £100 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman