DRN-3460904
The complaint
Miss W complains that a car supplied under a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn 
No. 1 Limited was not of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In March 2021 Miss W took a used car from Moneybarn under a five-year conditional sale 
agreement. The car was around five years old and had covered around 90,000 miles. It cost 
just over £8,700.
Within a few months, Miss W says she started having problems with the car. They included 
worn tyres, a broken tyre valve, problems with the drive train, problems with the exhaust and 
a deep scratch. She arranged to have two tyres replaced and the valve fixed, but other 
issues remained unresolved.
Miss W referred the matter to Moneybarn, and it arranged for the car to be inspected. It 
concluded that the issue with the drivetrain had probably been present at the point of sale 
but said that it was not clear if the same could be said of the exhaust issue.
Based largely on the inspection report, Moneybarn agreed that the dealership should repair 
the drivetrain. It did not agree to the exhaust repairs and said that Miss W had not shown 
that it was a problem when the car was supplied.
Miss W was not happy with Moneybarns response and referred the matter to this service. 
Our investigator recommended that Moneybarn arrange for repairs and refund a proportion 
of the monthly payments, to compensate Miss W for the impaired use of the car. Moneybarn 
did not respond to the investigators findings. Miss W said she was no longer in contact with 
the dealership; she also provided a quote for some of the work. The case was therefore 
passed to me for further consideration.
I reviewed the case and issued a provisional decision. In that decision, I said:
Miss Ws contract with Moneybarn was to be read as including a term that the car would be 
of satisfactory quality. That means the quality a reasonable person would expect in all the 
circumstances, including the cars age, price and mileage. It does not include matters which 
a reasonable inspection would have revealed. The car here was around five years old and 
had a high mileage. It was priced very much lower than a new car of the same make and 
model would have been. It was not therefore reasonable to expect it to be entirely free of 
faults. Some wear and tear was to be expected.
Miss W says the car was scratched. I think though that was something she could have 
noticed before she took delivery of it. So, I dont believe it meant the car was not of 
satisfactory quality.
Tyres are items which need to be replaced from time to time, and I would often regard worn 
tyres as matters of wear and tear. In this case, however, the level of wear was such that it 
appears the front tyres were potentially dangerous. I think Miss W was entitled to expect that 
the cars tyres, even if worn, would at least be serviceable.
Moneybarn appears to accept that repairs were needed to the drivetrain, in the form a 
replacement clutch and flywheel. Miss W has provided a quote of £980 for this work. The 
inspection report indicated that the issue with the exhaust may be the result of a blocked 
diesel particulate filter (DPF), and I have approached the complaint on the assumption that is 
correct.
In my view, all of these matters mean that the car was not of satisfactory at the time they 
were identified. It does not follow however that it was not of satisfactory quality at the point of 
delivery. I have therefore considered whether it was or whether the faults might have 
developed later. I note that Miss W had driven the car some 4,000 miles before the 
inspection took place.
In court proceedings, it is for the person who alleges something to prove it. Here, it is Miss W 
who says the car was not of satisfactory quality. However, one effect of the Consumer 
Rights Act 2015 is that, where a fault becomes apparent within six months of delivery, there 
is a presumption that it was present at the point of delivery. I dont believe that Moneybarn 
has shown that the faults I have discussed above developed in the six months after Miss W 
took delivery of the car. It follows that it is responsible for them.
In part, it seems that Moneybarn accepts its liability here. Its response  to agree to repairs 
to be carried out by the dealership  has not however resolved matters. I note that Miss W 
lives more than 250 miles from the dealership, so that is in any event unlikely to be practical. 
Instead, I think Moneybarn should pay Miss W an appropriate sum in compensation so that 
she can arrange for repairs, if she wants to resolve the matter in that way. Miss W has not 
provided copy invoices and estimates for all the work needed, and it is open to her and 
Moneybarn to do so in response to this provisional decision. If they do so, I will take them 
into account. It appears however that a reasonable estimate of the cost of repairs is £1,450, 
made up as follows:
Clutch and flywheel - £1,000;
Diagnostics - £100;
DPF cleaning  £200;
Tyres and valve - £150.
The investigator thought that Miss W should have a refund of part of the monthly payments 
as compensation for impaired use of the car. I note however that Miss Ws use of the car has 
been close to the national average, so I dont propose at present to include that in any 
award. There can however be no question that she has been put to significant 
inconvenience and distress, so I am proposing a further payment of £250 in recognition of 
that.
I note as well that Miss W has not made all the monthly payments due, and the investigator 
recommended that any adverse credit information be removed from Miss Ws credit file. 
Again, my present view is that that would not be appropriate. Miss W remained liable to
make payments towards the purchase of the car and continued to use it.
I recommended that Moneybarn pay Miss W a total of £1,700 to resolve the complaint. 
Miss W responded to explain the effect the credit report was having on her. Moneybarn had 
nothing to add.  What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have not changed my view of how Miss Ws complaint should be resolved. 
I remain of the view that Moneybarn should pay for repairs and pay Miss W a further £250 in 
recognition of the inconvenience to which she has been put and the distress she has 
suffered. I do not believe however that it would be appropriate to require Moneybarn to 
remove any adverse credit information in relation to the finance agreement.  
My final decision
For these reasons, as well as those set out in my provisional decision, my final decision is 
that, to resolve Miss Ws complaint in full, Moneybarn No.1 Limited should pay her £1,700.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 June 2022.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman