DRN-2219698
The complaint
Ms R complains because Aviva Insurance Limited hasnt paid for the full cost of hospital fees 
under her private medical insurance policy. 
What happened
Ms R holds a private medical insurance policy, provided by Aviva. 
On 8 July 2019, Ms R contacted Aviva to make a claim under her policy. Ms R needed to 
see a specialist and Aviva gave her the names of two such specialists who it said worked out 
of a particular hospital (which Ill call hospital H). 
Ms R contacted one of these specialists and underwent a scan. She telephoned Aviva on 16 
July 2019 to say the specialist had referred her to one of his colleagues (Mr S) to discuss 
treatment, including the possibility of surgery. Ms R said Mr S worked from a different 
hospital (which Ill call hospital W). In addition, Ms R told Aviva that the original specialist 
also worked out of hospital W, and not hospital H, as Aviva had previously told her. Aviva 
said hospital W wasnt on Ms Rs hospital list under her policy, so there could be quite a 
substantial shortfall in what Aviva would pay if she underwent any treatment there. 
Ms R contacted Aviva again on 19 July 2019 to say shed seen Mr S the previous day and 
would be having an operation at hospital W on 22 July 2019. There were several telephone 
calls between Ms R and Aviva throughout the day on 19 July 2019. During these calls, there 
was confusion about the codes for the procedure Ms R was due to undergo, as well as to 
why Mr S and the original specialist would both be present for the operation and which of 
them was billing Aviva for it. After speaking to Ms Rs specialist, Aviva confirmed it would 
pay £3538 as an average price towards hospital Ws fees. Aviva said it would request 
Ms Rs theatre notes after her operation to identify exactly what procedure had been carried 
out and establish if there should be any uplift in the amount paid. 
There was a shortfall of nearly £2000 for the cost of Ms Rs hospital fees, so Ms R 
complained to Aviva. Aviva sent Ms R a number of final response letters explaining why it 
thought the shortfall was Ms Rs responsibility to pay. 
As Ms R remained unhappy, she brought her complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened but said he wouldnt be asking 
Aviva to pay anything further. Ms R didnt agree, so her complaint has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the experience Ms R has been through. I have no doubt the situation 
she found herself in, being in pain and needing an operation at short notice, will have been 
frightening and stressful for her. I also note Ms R was chased for payment by both hospital 
W and debt collectors, which will have added to her distress. 
Before making my decision, Ive listened to a number of telephone calls between Ms R and 
Aviva from July 2019 and Ive given careful consideration to all the arguments which both 
parties have made. 
The terms and conditions of Ms Rs policy with Aviva say:
Hospital charges
If you receive treatment as an
in-patient or
day-patient
for a condition or suspected condition for which we dont have a network, in a 
hospital that is not:
an NHS pay-bed at an NHS hospital recognised by us, or
included on your hospital list and recognised by us for the treatment that you 
need
we will calculate the average cost of equivalent treatment across all hospitals on your 
list and that average cost is the maximum we will pay. This could leave you with a 
shortfall that the policy does not cover.
During Ms Rs call with Aviva on 8 July 2019, Aviva recommended hospital H, which was on 
Ms Rs hospital list. Aviva said it was recommending hospital H due to a number of factors 
including its location, waiting times and independent rating. Ms R asked if there was any 
alternative hospital closer to her home address and Aviva said there wasnt one with an 
equivalent independent rating. When Ms R confirmed she was happy to go to hospital H, 
Aviva gave her the name of two specialists. Aviva said, according to its records, these 
specialists worked from hospital H and that Ms R could book an appointment with either one 
for a consultation, any imaging she needed and a follow-up consultation to discuss that 
imaging. 
However, when Ms R contacted one of these specialists, she was told he didnt work from 
hospital H and that only saw patients at hospital W. Hospital W isnt on Ms Rs hospital list.
Aviva said it records at the time, which are based on information provided to it by individual 
specialists, showed both specialists as working out of hospital H. Aviva has provided 
evidence from hospital Hs website in support of this. However, Ms R has provided evidence 
from a different website which says the specialist she saw works out of hospitals which dont 
include hospital H. 
It appears the first time Aviva became aware that the specialist Ms R saw didnt work out of 
hospital H was when Ms R told it about her conversations with the specialists secretary. But, 
even accepting that the initial mistake in this case was made by Aviva, I think Aviva put this 
right and clarified the terms of the cover available under Ms Rs policy during its call with her 
on 16 July 2019.
During the call on 16 July 2019, I think Aviva gave Ms R clear and accurate information 
about the likely consequences of having any procedure or treatment at hospital W. Aviva told 
Ms R that hospital W wasnt on her hospital list under her policy, and that if she went ahead 
with any treatment at hospital W there could be a substantial, large shortfall between the hospital fees charged and the amount Aviva would pay. Aviva wouldnt have been in a 
position to give Ms R any estimate of the likely amount of the shortfall. At that time, Ms R 
had yet to be seen by Mr S so she didnt know what treatment would be recommended for 
her. 
Aviva also offered Ms R alternative options during this call. It said it could look for another 
specialist for Ms R  although it acknowledged this meant she would need to start the 
process again by having an initial consultation with a new specialist. Aviva also suggested 
that Ms R could ask Mr S if any procedure could be performed at a hospital other than 
hospital W or ask the original specialist if he could refer her to another colleague instead.  
After the call on 16 July 2019, Ms R was seen by Mr S and an operation was arranged for 
the following week at hospital W. 
I understand, from Ms Rs point of view, time was of the essence medically and she was in 
pain and anxious to have her medical issue resolved. But Aviva clearly explained to Ms R 
before her consultation with Mr S and before her operation was booked, that it was likely that 
the full cost of undergoing any treatment at hospital W wouldnt be covered under her policy. 
Ms R contacted Aviva on the morning of 19 July 2019, which was a Friday, to let it know 
shed be having an operation on the morning of Monday 22 July 2019. Ms R told Aviva the 
procedure code shed been given and said both the original specialist and Mr S would be 
present for the operation. Aviva needed further clarification about both the procedure code 
and the billing arrangements by the specialist and Mr S before it could confirm what the 
average cost it would pay for hospital Ws fees would be. Aviva was unable to obtain this 
information until Ms Rs specialist was free to speak to it at about 3pm that day. In the 
meantime, Aviva advised Ms R to speak to hospital W to confirm what its charges were, so 
she could understand the amount of the shortfall in fees which shed have to pay herself. 
After speaking with Ms Rs specialist, Aviva told Ms R it would pay the closest average price 
it could identify for the procedure in question (£3538) and offered to review Ms Rs theatre 
notes after the operation to establish if there should be any uplift in the amount it would pay. 
While I understand Ms R was given very short notice of the operation and was anxious to 
make arrangements for her upcoming hospital stay, Aviva was entitled to make reasonable 
enquiries into the details of the procedure which Ms R was due to undergo before confirming 
what would be covered under Ms Rs policy. Overall, having reviewed Avivas claim notes, I 
dont think there was any unreasonable delay by Aviva on 19 July 2019.
Although there was some confusion surrounding the correct procedure code for Ms Rs 
operation, this isnt what caused a shortfall in cover for hospital Ws fees. The relevance of 
the correct procedure code was to give Ms R some certainty about what the likely amount of 
the shortfall would be. Aviva had already explained on 16 July 2019 that the full costs of any 
treatment at hospital W were unlikely to be covered under Ms Rs policy because hospital W 
wasnt on her hospital list.  
Ive reviewed the letter from Ms Rs original specialist referring to Mr Ss involvement. I 
understand there was a degree of urgency to Ms Rs surgery, that Ms R was in pain and 
seeing a new specialist would have delayed her treatment. But, the shortfall in Ms Rs 
hospital fees arent covered under her policy and I think Aviva made this clear to her before 
her treatment at hospital W was arranged. Im sorry to disappoint Ms R but I dont think it 
would be fair or reasonable in the circumstances to ask Aviva to pay anything more. I note Aviva offered to request Ms Rs theatre notes and review these to see if there should 
be any uplift in the amount it paid. I think it would be fair and reasonable for Aviva to go 
ahead and do this, and liaise directly with Ms R about the matter.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2020.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman