DRN-2834702
The complaint
 Mr and Mrs S complain about National Westminster Bank Plcs decision to close their 
accounts without an explanation. To put things right, Mr and Mrs S would like an 
explanation, an apology and compensation. 
What happened
 Mr and Mrs S have been customers of Nat West since around the 1960s. They held their
current accounts and saving accounts with the bank.
In August 2019, Nat West wrote to Mr and Mrs S giving them 60 days notice to close their 
accounts. Mr and Mrs S complained to Nat West about this and wanted to know the 
reasons why. Nat West considered Mr and Mrs Ss complaint and didnt uphold it  they 
said they were entitled to close the accounts and didnt have to give an explanation.
Mr and Mrs Ss accounts closed in October 2019 after the 60 days.
The money left in Mr and Mrs Ss accounts was transferred to a suspense account with 
Nat West. Mr and Mrs S had to complete a transfer form to allow Nat West to release the 
money to them. Mr and Mrs S completed the forms and handed it in to their local branch in 
October 2019. Nat West processed the transfer in March 2020.
Mr and Mrs S remained unhappy with Nat Wests decision  and namely that they hadnt 
been given an explanation. They said the situation had caused them distress and in 
particular triggered some medical problems for Mrs S. They brought the complaint to our 
service.
The investigator who considered the complaint didnt think Nat West had done anything 
wrong. She explained that Nat West were entitled to close the account with 60 days notice 
 and they werent obliged to provide an explanation.
Mr and Mrs S asked for an ombudsman to review things, so the complaint has been passed 
to me.
In April 2021, I issued a provisional decision. In it, I said;
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to a different conclusion to the investigator. Im minded to ask Nat 
West to pay compensation to Mr and Mrs S so Ive explained my reasons further below.
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ss accounts confirm that Nat West are able to end 
their relationship with a customer at any time, providing they give appropriate notice. The 
terms state 60 days notice should be given.
Im aware that Nat West wrote to Mr and Mrs S in August 2019 with their notice to close the 
accounts  and they specified the 60-day timeframe. I dont doubt receiving this letter would 
have come as a shock to Mr and Mrs S  theyd banked with Nat West for a number of 
decades. But that doesnt mean Nat West werent entitled to take the action they did.
Nat West can decide who they have as their customers  the same way as Mr and Mrs S 
would have been able to move their bank accounts away from Nat West at any time if 
theyd decided to. By Nat West giving Mr and Mrs S the appropriate notice, Im satisfied 
that Mr and Mrs S had enough time to arrange for alternative banking facilities.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs S would like Nat West to give them an explanation as to why they 
closed their accounts. And of course, I understand why theyd want to know after being 
customers for so many years. But a bank isnt obliged to give an explanation when they 
close an account  so I cant ask Nat West to give one. I would, however, like to reassure 
Mr and Mrs S that I am satisfied Nat Wests actions were fair in the circumstances of this 
complaint. And I havent seen anything to suggest Nat West have made an unfair or 
inappropriate decision. Im sorry I cant share the reasons with Mr and Mrs S directly, but I 
hope Ive been able to reassure them that Nat West havent treated them unfairly.
Ive also considered the time it took from Mr and Mrs Ss accounts being closed to when 
they received their money back. Nat West have provided evidence to show they received 
the transfer form in branch around October 2019. And due to internal errors, the form 
wasnt passed to the relevant department. This meant Mr and Mrs S had to complete 
further forms and delays were encountered. Nat West have explained they have 60 days 
from receiving the form to process the money transfer. Having considered the notes, it 
seems Mr and Mrs S gave the form to their local branch on or around 22 October 2019. 
Therefore, the money should have been transferred to them no later than around 
21 December 2019. However, the money was eventually transferred at the beginning of 
March 2020. Therefore, I recognise there was a delay of around two and a half months. Im 
likely to ask Nat West to pay 8% simple interest on the amount they held from the date they 
should have refunded the money  21 December 2019  to the date they actually refunded 
it  5 March 2020. And I think they should pay Mr and Mrs S £100 compensation to reflect 
the upset and inconvenience this would have caused them.
Overall, I recognise how strongly Mr and Mrs S feel about whats happened. So, I realise 
theyll be disappointed overall by my decision. But overall, based on the evidence Ive seen, 
I cant say Nat West have acted unreasonably or treated Mr and Mrs S unfairly when they 
closed their accounts. But I do recognise the delays they experienced when waiting for their 
money to be returned. I think £100 compensation  plus the 8% simple interest fairly 
reflects this.
So, I thought the complaint should be upheld. And I thought Nat West should pay the 
following to put things right:
£100 compensation
8% simple interest on the total amount they refunded Mr and Mrs S.
Nat West responded to my provisional decision and didnt have any further comments to 
add.
Mr and Mrs S responded and in summary said;
They accept my independent assurance that Nat West acted properly in closing the 
account. 
They agree with the 8% simple interest as an appropriate way to compensate for 
the unreasonable delay made by Nat West.Apart from the shock of having to deal with the sudden closing of their account, 
Mr S had to take considerable action to chase the money outstanding. They feel a 
figure of £500 would be more appropriate compensation.
Because of Nat Wests error with Mr S name  he had to transfer his entire ISA 
savings to a savings account with another bank instead of another ISA account. 
This has meant Mr S has lost the benefit of his entire ISA allocation built up over 
several years which has resulted in Mr and Mrs S losing money.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Ive thought very carefully about the additional arguments put forward by Mr and Mrs S. 
However, I wont be changing my decision. Ive explained my reasons further below.
Ive no doubt that this situation had an overall impact on Mr S but Ive found that Nat West 
were entitled to close Mr and Mrs S account in the way they did. I appreciate Mr S had to 
spend time chasing to get the money which remained in the account back  and I recognise 
the distress this would have caused. However, having considered the circumstances again, I 
feel the 8% added interest recognises the time Mr and Mrs S was without the funds. And I 
think £100 compensation fairly recognises the inconvenience. I know Mr and Mrs S will be 
disappointed with this, but I cant fairly agree a higher compensation amount is due.
Ive also considered the issue around Mr S ISA account. Im aware that Mr S has two 
variations of his name  both confirmed to Nat West through Mr and Mrs S marriage 
certificate which they accepted. However, Ive also seen screen shots from Nat Wests 
system which confirm that the difference in name isnt the reason for the delay with the 
transfer. Due to the commercial sensitives, I cant share the full reasons for the delay with 
the ISA transfer but based on the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied Nat West didnt cause any 
unnecessary delays or act inappropriately which resulted in Mr S not being able to transfer 
his original ISA allowance. Its also difficult to hold one bank solely responsible when the 
transfer involves another bank. I recognise the impact this would have had on Mr S and the 
bearing on his ISA allowance, but for me to uphold the complaint on this point, Id have to be 
satisfied Nat West did something wrong. And based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think 
they did.
Putting things right
Overall, based on the evidence Ive seen, I cant say Nat West have acted unreasonably or 
treated Mr and Mrs S unfairly when they closed their accounts or attempted the transfer in 
regard to Mr S ISA allowance. But I do recognise the delays they experienced when waiting 
for their money to be returned. I think £100 compensation  plus the 8% simple interest fairly 
reflects this and therefore I wont be asking Nat West to pay anything in addition to this.   
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. National Westminster Bank Plc should do 
the following:
Calculate interest at 8% simple per year on the amount they refunded Mr and Mr S. 
They should calculate this from 21 December 2019 to 5 March 2020.
HM Revenue & Customs requires National Westminster Bank Plc to withhold income 
tax from the above-mentioned interest. Nat West should give Mr and Mrs S a 
certificate showing how much is taken off if Mr and Mrs S asks for one.
Pay Mr and Mrs S £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 21 June 2021.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman