DRN-2347672
The complaint
Mr N complains about how Police Mutual Assurance Society Limited have handled his 
investment proceeds and believes a bonus hasnt been paid.
 
What happened
Mr N put £30,414.33 into a Guaranteed Individual Savings Account (ISA) with Police Mutual 
in 2015. It was a stocks and shares ISA and had guarantee points every five years  Mr Ns 
first guarantee point was 5 April 2020 and the guaranteed value was the £30,414.33 that he 
invested. 
In December 2019, Mr Ns statement said his investment was worth £34,621. Knowing the 
guarantee date was approaching, Mr N called Police Mutual on 16 March 2020 as he was 
intending on withdrawing his money. The member of staff he spoke to confirmed when the 
guarantee date was, and that Police Mutual would send him a letter around a week before to 
give him his options. Mr N was interested to see what the current value was and the staff 
member confirmed this was £34,788.30. 
Mr N asked about withdrawing ahead of the guaranteed date and how the final bonus is 
worked out  the staff member explained that he could withdraw early, but there wasnt a 
bonus, instead it was more to do with how the fund was performing at the end. He reiterated 
it was up to Mr N as to whether he withdrew then or waited until the guarantee date. Mr N 
decided to wait. The staff member confirmed a letter would be sent before the guarantee 
date.  
But Police Mutual didnt send the letter when they said they would. So Mr N called to chase 
things up. When the letter still didnt arrive, Mr N called on 15 April 2020. The staff member 
explained some letters were delayed due to the impact of the pandemic, but they would be 
honouring the guaranteed value nevertheless. 
Mr N wasnt happy  he said other companies were doing things on time despite the 
pandemic, and hed got other letters and bills. He felt Police Mutual were trying to hold onto 
his money and wanted to know precisely when the letter would arrive. The staff member 
couldnt tell him that but offered to give an updated value on the phone  this was 
£34,008.87. 
Mr N said there was also mention of a final bonus within the paperwork. The staff member 
explained that value was determined on the performance of the underlying investments. 
Mr N said he was disappointed with the end value and pointed out it was less than when 
hed called before. The withdrawal was then processed. 
Mr Ns guarantee letter was sent on 21 April 2020. He made a complaint to Police Mutual  
he was unhappy the letter had been delayed, that the value of his investment was less than 
expected, that no bonus had been applied and because he felt the level of service wasnt 
good enough given the fees hed paid. 
Police Mutual looked into his concerns  they apologised for the delayed letter but thought 
the charges had been explained and explained that performance was dependent on market 
conditions. 
Mr N remained unhappy and questioned the final bonus and challenged the guaranteed 
values as his withdrawal sum was less than what he was quoted when enquiring in mid-
March. Police Mutuals responses didnt resolve things, so Mr N asked for our help. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. She thought the reduced valuation 
from March to early April was attributable to the impact of the pandemic on investments 
worldwide  and it was just unfortunate that the guarantee date happened to fall around the 
time it did. She also noted the sum Mr N received was slightly higher than the guaranteed 
value. And that any bonus wasnt guaranteed. She didnt think the delayed letter was 
deliberate, and instead recognised the impact of the pandemic on normal working 
timeframes. She also noted that the delayed letter didnt have any impact on the outcome for 
Mr N either as hed withdrawn his money.
Mr N felt the amount hed withdrawn was less than it ought to have been. And said that 
Police Mutual had denied a bonus existed, but then said it did exist but it had already been 
paid. As the bonus was said to be paid on top of the final sum, Mr N still felt it was due. So 
the case was passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that Mr Ns guarantee point letter was delayed. It ought to have arrived in 
late-March but instead arrived in late-April. But I dont agree with Mr N in that this delay was 
anything sinister. Police Mutual have explained that the changes to working environments 
around the beginning of the pandemic caused disruption  rather like other organisations, 
they had to make the overnight switch to home working. And while their administrative team 
thought the guarantee letters would be automatically generated, they later realised they 
needed an element of manual intervention. 
So while Police Mutual are at fault for the letter being sent out later than it ought to have 
been, I do understand why this was the case. Also, I dont think its an error for which they 
ought to compensate Mr N for. I say that because they still took 5 April as the guarantee 
date, so Mr Ns guaranteed fund value remained the same. 
Police Mutual also gave investors 60 days to decide what to do while the guarantee was in 
place, rather than the usual 30. I know this didnt affect Mr N as hed already given his 
withdrawal instruction, but nevertheless I think they did what they could to put things right. 
So while I appreciate Mr Ns point about paying charges and expecting a certain level of 
service, I also recognise the challenges facing Police Mutual around the time. 
I can see from Police Mutuals letter dated 21 April that the value of Mr Ns fund on the 
guarantee date of 5 April was £33,639.58. His withdrawal on 15 April ended up being 
£34,088.66  £369.30 more than the guaranteed value. So it isnt the case that the value of 
Mr Ns investment fell or wasnt protected as it should have been. 
Additionally, the valuations in December and March of £34,621 and £34,788 are not what 
Mr N was guaranteed to receive  his ISA was subject to market fluctuation until the 
guarantee point in April. So I dont see an issue here either.I recognise the explanations around how the final bonus ought to work, or if it even applied, 
caused confusion. Mr N shared a highlight from his paperwork on this point  his guide to 
investing said [w]e use a final bonus as a way to share out profits made by the Fund. These 
are paid on top of your plans guaranteed amount. And as the underlying fund was 
smoothed  meaning some gains were held back to reduce the impact of some losses  the 
guide also said [i]f your plans [smoothed] share is higher than your guaranteed amount 
then well add a final bonus.
As there was no reference number on the footer of the paperwork, Police Mutual didnt know 
whether it was right version, relevant at the time of his investment commencing. So they 
shared the key features document that was in force at the point of sale. At page 11, this said:
What should you expect back?
When the plan reaches a guarantee point, or if you die beforehand, you will get back at least 
the guaranteed minimum payout that we explain to you at the start of your plan There is the 
potential for a final bonus which may make a significant difference to your payout.
And at page 12 it continued:
What bonuses will be added?
The plan has a guaranteed minimum payout at certain points. We may also add a final bonus 
at the end of your plan, or if you die, as a way of sharing out the profits earned by the fund.
We will pay a final bonus if your smoothed share of the fund is more than the guaranteed 
value of your plan
And page 13:
How we decide bonuses
Your final bonus is based on the share of the fund that we calculate applies to your plan. This 
will depend on how profits have built up over the years. We work out the final bonus by 
calculating a smoothed share of the fund over the past twenty six weeks. If this is more than 
the guaranteed value of your plan we will pay a final bonus. If it is less, we may apply a 
market value reduction unless you are at a guarantee point
So this explained how and why a bonus would be applied, but also pointed out that it wasnt 
something that was guaranteed. While it reads differently to what Mr N has shared, his 
paperwork did also say a bonus would be paid if the value of his share was higher than the 
guaranteed sum. 
I contacted Police Mutual to clarify what happened in Mr Ns case. Theyve said, in 
summary, that due to growth within the underlying investments between the guarantee date 
of 5 April and the withdrawal date of 15 April, they were able to pay and additional element 
of bonus based on that growth and thats what the £369.30 difference is. Im satisfied with 
this explanation, so although I appreciate the confusion on this point left Mr N doubting 
Police Mutual, from what Ive seen hes been paid fairly. 
While I can understand Mr N is disappointed with the value of his investment, I dont think 
thats because of anything Police Mutual have done wrong so I dont require them to do 
anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2021.
 
Aimee Stanton
Ombudsman