DRN-3038662
The complaint
Mr C and Mr C complain that Fairmead Insurance Limited trading as Legal and General 
(Fairmead) were unfair in payment of their claim on their home insurance policy.
Mr C has a joint policy with his brother, but for the purpose of this complaint I shall only state 
Mr C as he is the complainant.
There are several parties and representatives of Fairmead involved throughout the claim but 
for the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to Fairmead.
What happened
Mr C damaged his sofa and so made a claim on his home contents insurance policy. His 
home contents cover included accidental damage and new for old cover.
Fairmead tried to organise for a representative to go to Mr Cs house to assess the damaged 
sofa but Mr C refused and said that his policy had new for old cover and he wanted a cash 
settlement to replace the sofa.
Eventually Mr C gave permission for an inspector to attend his property and inspect the 
damaged sofa. A burn mark was found from a cigarette on his three-seater sofa. The 
inspector advised it was not repairable. There was also a matching two-seater sofa that was 
undamaged. A similar like for like, in appearance and size, three-seater sofa was found by 
Fairmead and a cash settlement offer of £765 was made to Mr C.
Mr C rejected the offer and said his damaged sofa and matching two-seater was bought 
from Europe and they had cost around £4,000. He was unable to supply receipts of 
purchase. 
Mr C did not know exactly where the sofa had been bought from as it was bought by his ex-
partner, but he did know that it had come from Europe. Mr C undertook research himself and 
found a sofa that he felt was very similar to the one that was damaged, and he obtained a 
quote. This was more than £4000 for a matching pair. He asked Fairmead to offer the cash 
settlement based on this quote. He said that the settlement was not negotiable.
Fairmead said that it could not consider this quote without proof of purchase or without 
evidence of the manufacturer of the sofa to validate his claim and it gave Mr C the 
opportunity to provide this information. Mr C said that as he had taken out extra cover within 
his policy to cover his settees for £4000, at a cost of approximately £20, that Fairmead 
should pay £4000 and that he should not have to provide a valuation or proof purchase.
 
Mr C did not provide the information requested so Fairmead made a final cash settlement 
offer. It said that it normally settles at the cost to it, which in this instance would be a 
discount of 15% on the retail cost, but as the replacement it found was not an exact match it 
would settle at full retail price as detailed below.
Replacement of damaged sofa £899 + £69.99 delivery.
Undamaged matching item (two-seater sofa) retail cost £849 but it would only settle 50% 
for this £424.50 as Mr C did not have matching sets cover.
£90 extra for foam filled cushions.
Total cash settlement £1483.49, minus the policy excess of £100 making £1383.49. 
It would not consider any of the scatter cushions as these were undamaged and are not part 
of the sofa.
Mr C is unhappy with Fairmeads offer and said that he will only settle for the amount that he 
has found in the quote from the European store. He would accept the 50% offer for the 
matching two-seater, but the price quoted at the European store.
Fairmead say that it will not settle the amount Mr C has asked for without further information 
from him to support the origin of the sofa and the price paid for it.
As Mr C was not happy with Fairmead he brought the complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked in to the case and she decided that the offer made by Fairmead to 
Mr C was fair, so did not uphold his complaint. 
As Mr C is unhappy with our investigators view the case has been brought to me for a final 
decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The claim for damage to the Mr Cs sofa was accepted by Fairmead as accidental damage 
and it agreed that it should be paid. 
In his policy Settees £4000 were specifically listed in the standard cover section. Mr C did 
not have cover for matching sets. 
After it had conducted the assessment of the damaged sofa Fairmead initially made a cash 
settlement offer to replace it based on a sofa that it had identified as being similar from a 
retailer in the UK.
 
Mr C felt stongly that the offer was not a fair comparison and said that as he had specifically 
listed Settees £4000 when taking out his policy that Fairmead should pay him £4000 as a 
cash settlement. He also said that the sofa that Fairmead suggested as a replacement was 
not the same quality as his damaged sofa. I accept that the quality of an item cannot be 
confirmed by looking at a picture of it so it is understandable that Mr C would want to be sure 
that he was offered the same quality for the replacement sofa.
I have seen that Fairmead have tried to validate the quality of the damaged sofa, but it was 
unable to find any identifying marks or labels on the sofa that confirmed the manufacture or 
origin, so this has not been possible. It has also said it has not been possible to obtain 
receipts for the purchase of the sofa to validate how much it cost. 
Mr C has been adamant thoughout his claim and subsequent complaint that he will settle for 
nothing less than a cash settlement for the cost of the replacement from the European store 
that he found. I am sure that Mr C has looked at lots of sofas to try and find one similar to his damaged one, but that doesnt mean that the one that he has found, and wants his claim to 
be based on, was where the damaged one originally came from or that it is of the same 
quality.
Fairmead has pointed out within his policy it states items of jewellery, valuables and 
personal belongings valued at in excess of £500 a valuation or proof of purchase may be 
required in the event of a claim. Even where items are specifically mentioned in a policy, as 
in this case. Fairmead still require evidence when a claim is being settled.
Mr C said that he should have been told when taking out the additional cover that a valuation 
or proof of purchase would be required if he were to make a claim. Fairmead did not conduct 
the sale and the adding of any extra cover  this was done by a broker..  
I reviewed the policy booklet and found that the requirement to have proof was clearly 
documented.
It is Mr Cs responsibility to justify his claim to Fairmead and he requested more time to 
supply further evidence, but this has not been provided. Fairmead have said that if Mr C had 
the correct evidence then it would pay the claim in full if it was worth £4000 but as no 
evidence has been provided it could not pay this amount.
As Mr C used a broker to buy this policy Fairmead says it is unable to say if an additional 
£20 premium has been charged for settees as the policy is sold and administered by the 
broker and the broker does not send pricing details on to it. Mr C may wish to take this up as 
a separate query with the broker.  
In its final cash settlement offer to Mr C, Fairmead made some changes to its initial offer. It 
has not applied its usual discount on the retail cost and in addition it has offered an amount 
for the same quality of sofa cushions as in the damaged one, plus a cash amount relating to 
50% cost of a matching two-seater sofa. 
 
I am sure that Mr C will  be disappointed with my decision but I think that in the absence of 
any evidence of either manufacturer and origin of the damaged sofa or receipts of purchase 
that the offer made to Mr C by Fairmead is fair and reasonable.
Therefore, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint and feel that the offer made by Fairmead is fair in 
the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman