DRN-1544377
The complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) rejected his claim under Section 75 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 in respect of a holiday.
What happened
Mr M booked a hotel room through a company I will call E, at a cost of £291.34. He says that 
the air conditioning was broken. He pursued his complaint with the hotel verbally and has no 
written record of the issue. He says the hotel refused to find him another room.
Mr M contacted BoS to claim a refund, but it said that he had provided no evidence of the 
problem and it noted that E wasnt the supplier of the service. This meant his claim under 
Section 75 didnt meet the requirement that there be a direct link between the debtor, 
creditor and supplier.
Mr M brought his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. She explained the options available to the 
bank, chargeback and Section 75. She said there wasnt enough evidence to allow the bank 
to make a chargeback claim and the debtor creditor-supplier link was broken which 
invalidated any Section 75 claim. Mr M didnt agree and asked that the bank make a goodwill 
gesture.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is regrettable that Mr M had no working air conditioning in his room, but he has provided 
no evidence that would allow the bank to pursue a chargeback claim. I am satisfied that if it 
had made one it would have been rejected out of hand.
The rules for Section 75 make it clear that there has to be a direct debtor (Mr M), creditor 
(BoS) and supplier (hotel) link. However, that is not the case. Mr M entered into a contract 
with E to arrange the booking of a hotel room. This it did and so it cannot be said to have 
failed him. There is no connection between the bank and the hotel which supplied the 
alleged faulty service so there is no valid claim under Section 75.
I cannot ask the bank to make a goodwill gesture, that is something the bank would have to 
do of its own account and I can see no reason why it would.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2020.
Ivor GrahamOmbudsman