DRN-2703935
The complaint
Miss G complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) is holding her liable for transactions which 
she says she didnt make or otherwise authorise.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide a brief summary of events below.
In December 2020, Miss G contacted Monzo about some approved and declined 
transactions on her account which she says she didnt authorise.  The eight approved 
transactions amount to £126.93.  Monzo investigated this matter and declined a refund, 
which Miss G raised a complaint about.
Monzo says the first of the eight transactions for £1.00 was authorised via 3D Secure.  This 
means the transaction was authorised using Miss Gs Monzo app on her mobile phone; 
access to which wouldve required her four-digit Personal Identification Number (PIN).  
Monzo says the subsequent payments were credential on file transactions, which allowed 
the merchant concerned to store Miss Gs card details, and then debit £17.99 from her 
account fortnightly.
Monzo says Miss G informed it that she had her mobile phone and card in her possession.  
She added she hadnt shared her PIN with anyone, and that no one had access to her 
mobile phone.  Based on this, Monzo concluded that it wasnt possible for the transactions to 
have been authorised by anyone other than Miss G.  So, it refused to refund £126.93 to her.  
Monzo informed Miss G that it would raise a chargeback claim if she contacted the merchant 
to dispute the transactions and provided details of this. 
Unhappy with Monzos response, Miss G referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt uphold it.  In summary, he 
thought Miss G had authorised the initial £1.00 transaction which consequently led to the 
further debits.  He said he was not persuaded that a third party gained access to Miss Gs 
card and mobile phone to make the transaction  particularly given the fact her phone was 
password protected, and her Monzo app fingerprint protected.  He also added that Monzo 
had acted reasonably by telling Miss G what steps she would need to take if she wanted to 
raise a chargeback claim. 
Miss G disagreed with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to consider 
her complaint.  In broad summary, she said she hadnt authorised any of the transactions 
and that her Monzo app was not fingerprint protected.  She also said that Monzo had 
refused to provide her with information she requested. 
Our investigator responded saying his view remained unchanged.  He also added that 
although he appreciated Miss Gs Monzo app was not fingerprint protected, there was still a 
security code attached to it.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for reasons I set 
out below.
Disputed transactions
The relevant regulations in this case are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the 2017 
Regulations).  In short, they state that a payment service provider (in this case, Monzo) is 
generally required to refund the amount of an unauthorised transaction.  However, Monzo 
can hold Miss G liable for any disputed transactions if the evidence suggests that its more 
likely than not that she made or otherwise authorised them.
Im satisfied from the technical evidence Monzo has provided that Miss Gs genuine card 
was used for the initial transaction of £1.00 to the merchant concerned.  With that in mind, I 
must now consider whether Miss G actually consented to this transaction, which 
consequently led to the fortnightly transactions of £17.99 thereafter.  
Having looked on the merchants website, I can see from the section where the merchant 
requests card details for payment, it is stated, amongst other things:
I agree to participate in the 3 day trial offered for only 2 USD and acknowledge that if not 
cancelled within due time, my membership will automatically be renewed and converted into 
a full 14 day membership at the price of 28 USD every 14 days from my subscription.
Im satisfied that if an individual makes the first payment to the merchant (as described 
above), theyre also agreeing, and thereby authorising, subsequent fortnightly transactions  
until that is, the individual decides to cancel their subscription with the merchant.
Miss G says she didnt authorise the initial transaction nor the subsequent ones.  So, Ive 
thought about whether a third party did so.  
For a third party to have made the initial transaction, they wouldve needed to be in 
possession of not just Miss Gs card, but her mobile phone as well.  I say this because Ive 
seen evidence to show the transaction was authorised via 3D Secure.  This means, to 
complete the transaction, it wouldve needed to have been authorised through Miss Gs 
Monzo app on her mobile phone, before then returning to the merchants page to confirm the 
payment.
Miss G says she didnt give her card or mobile phone to anyone and that they were secure.  
So, Im not persuaded that a third party took possession of Miss Gs card and mobile phone; 
and even if they did, I find it unlikely that the third party wouldve taken a further risk by 
returning the items to Miss G after making the transaction.  Further, even if I were to accept 
that a third party took Miss Gs mobile phone and card  this wouldnt explain how they 
wouldve been able to access her phone, which Miss G says was secure.  Nor would it 
explain how the third party knew Miss Gs PIN to access her Monzo app, which she says she 
didnt share with anyone.I acknowledge Miss G says she didnt make the initial transaction and has seen reports 
online that the merchant is part of a scam.  However, taking all the above factors together, I 
consider its more likely than not that Miss G authorised the initial transaction and thereby 
the subsequent ones (whether intentionally or not).
Further information/chargeback
Miss G says Monzo has refused to provide her with information she has requested.  Having 
considered the online chat log between Miss G and Monzo, I dont agree.
In the course of the chat, Monzo said to Miss G, amongst other things, that once she had 
contacted the merchant about the transactions, it would raise a chargeback claim.  Monzo 
also said if Miss G spoke to the merchant directly, it would provide her with the information 
the merchant requires to be able to locate the transactions.  Having considered this, I dont 
find what Monzo said to be unreasonable in the circumstances. 
From what Ive seen, Miss G has the information she needs to contact the merchant about 
the transactions.  This includes the screenshots of the transactions which Miss G sent to our 
investigator.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 August 2021.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman