DRN-2720437
The complaint
Mr F brings a complaint, on behalf of Y (a company) in his capacity as director of that 
company, that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) sent incorrect address details to a third-party lender. 
What happened
Mr F says following a request for funding for Y being declined by Lloyds, it sent Ys details to 
a third-party lender, but this contained incorrect address details causing confusion and 
upset. As a result, Mr F says he is concerned how Ys data has been handled by Lloyds and 
feels their offer of compensation for this is insufficient. 
Lloyds says they have accepted they should have checked with Mr F his companys address 
details were correct before passing these onto any third-party lenders. Lloyds says they 
have no record of previous phone calls from Mr F asking for his address details to be 
changed. That said,  Lloyds have accepted Mr Fs version of events, and paid Y 
compensation of £162 in total and feel this is fair in the circumstances. 
Mr F says he is unhappy with Lloyds response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold Ys complaint. The 
investigator felt that although Lloyds should have checked Ys address with Mr F before 
providing these details to third parties, they had compensated Y adequately here. 
Mr F wasnt happy with the investigators view and ask for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision.
I can understand it would have been frustrating for Mr F to be questioned by a third-party 
lender regarding Ys address details, having thought Lloyds had changed its address details 
previously, as he had instructed. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Lloyds fairly compensated Y for the 
inconvenience it caused, when failing to confirm with Mr F, Ys address details were correct, 
before passing this information onto third-party lenders.
What happened here is Ys application for funding was declined by Lloyds and part of their 
process is to give other third-party lenders the opportunity to consider such lending requests. 
From the information I have been provided with by both Y and Lloyds, there is no dispute 
regarding these actions being taken, and file notes I have seen evidence Mr F gave his 
consent to this. What Mr F is saying however, is Lloyds gave incorrect address details of Y 
to the third-party lender, despite several previous telephone instructions to change it. Mr F is 
concerned Ys address data may have been incorrectly used by Lloyds and they have not 
updated his address data as he instructed them to. 
I have considered the points Mr F makes here and its important to say this complaint 
concerns the address details of Y and not Mr F personally. 
From the information provide to this service I can see that Y have had their address details 
changed on a number of occasions over the years by Lloyds, and I have seen copies of 
change of address documents signed by Mr F on behalf of Y. Its fair to say Mr F would have 
been aware that forms like this would be required by Lloyds when changing Ys address 
information.  
I say this because Mr F says he telephoned on a number of occasions to discuss Ys 
address details, but Lloyds failed to change it. That said, I cant see that Lloyds would have 
changed Ys address details over the telephone as this is not part of their process. Lloyds 
have accepted Ys version of events, and I am satisfied that Mr F believed he had changed 
Ys address and Lloyds should have checked Ys address details before passing these onto 
third party lenders. 
Its important to say there is no evidence provided by either party to suggest there have been 
anything other than an old address of Ys being provided to third party lenders here.
As a general point, if Mr F is concerned how his data is stored there is the opportunity to 
discuss his concerns with the Information Commissioners Office who regulates compliance 
to data protection laws in the UK for consumers  however, as I have said earlier, we can 
only consider the complaint brought to us on behalf of Y and not him personally. 
Lloyds have offered Y, in compensation and costs, £162 for not checking its address details 
before passing this on to third party lenders and I am satisfied this is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances.
While Mr F will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Lloyds here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 April 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman