DRN-4269088
The complaint
Mr B complains about how Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays 
Partner Finance (BPF) handled his claim.
What happened
The background details of this case are well known to the parties so I will only summarise 
these briefly.
Mr B purchased a kitchen from a supplier using a fixed sum loan from BPF. However, he is 
unhappy with the design of it and the suppliers response to his concerns. He wants the 
kitchen re-designed completely as a resolution. 
Mr B raised a claim with BPF under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 
75) but it didnt respond. So he complained about it.
BPF apologised for the delays and issued a claim outcome letter not upholding the claim. 
They also paid him £50 compensation for the delays in responding to the claim.
Our investigator didnt think BPF should do anymore here in respect of Mr Bs Section 75 
claim. She noted there didnt appear to be any outstanding breach of contract for BPF to 
remedy.
Mr B disagrees so the matter has been put to me to look at again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service is not a court and my role here is to resolve disputes informally. So while I will 
have read and considered the submissions of the parties I wont be commenting on all of 
these. I will focus on those matters I consider central to the dispute. 
I am sorry to hear about Mr Bs experience with the kitchen. However, it is important to note 
here that BPF is not the supplier of the kitchen. Its role is as a finance provider  and it is 
that role which I am considering here. So my focus here in deciding what is fair and 
reasonable is how it responded to the claim Mr B made to it, and whether in the particular 
circumstances this was fair and reasonable.
I note here that initially BPF delayed in responding to the Section 75 claim and did not 
provide promised call backs. It admits fault for this and has apologised. It has also paid Mr B 
£50 for this and then issued a claim outcome very soon after this. Considering the length of 
delay here it can be argued that £50 is on the low side and could be increased by a modest 
amount. But I have also noted that Mr B has said that he doesnt want the £50 as it is 
insulting and it was paid against his will  he just wants the issue with the kitchen resolved. I 
also note that regardless of how long the outcome took  as BPF didnt uphold the claim the 
delays have not had a wider impact here. With all this in mind I am not requiring BPF to do 
anything more in respect of the delays and am now moving on to BPFs eventual answer to 
the Section 75 claim here which is what Mr B wants this service to focus on.
Even though BPF had not provided a claim outcome at the point Mr B complained it has not 
objected to this service considering the outcome of the claim as part of the complaint. And in 
the circumstances I consider it fair that we do  as ultimately Mr Bs complaint is about 
BPFs failure to put things right via Section 75, and it initially failed to respond to him for a 
while. So in agreeing that BPF should have responded sooner it follows that I move on to 
what a fair response is.
I have gone on to look at what BPF has eventually said about the claim  and whether its 
assessment and refusal to uphold this appears to be fair in the circumstances.
Under Section 75 Mr B can hold BPF responsible for a like claim he would have against the 
supplier for a breach of contract or misrepresentation. 
Certain criteria need to be met for Section 75 to apply relating to matters such as the cash 
price of the goods or services and the relationship of the parties to the transaction. I am 
happy those are met here so in deciding if BPFs response is fair I have gone on to consider 
whether there is evidence of a breach of contract of misrepresentation.
From what I can see Mr Bs main point about the kitchen is the design of a unit built for 
appliances where the washer and dryer are stacked. Other key points I consider forming part 
of his claim to BPF are:
Boiler unit not level with other units;
gap in oven/microwave unit;
dishwasher too big for unit; and
cornices of two different heights.
I dont think Mr Bs claim is about misrepresentation nor do I think there is persuasive 
evidence of that here  so I have focused on whether the issues constitute a breach of 
contract.
When considering if there has been a breach of contract I note both the express terms of the 
contract Mr B agreed with the supplier and any implied terms, such as those by the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 which says that goods will be of satisfactory quality, and services 
will be provided with reasonable care and skill.
Here, like BPF I note the contract is only for the supply of the kitchen  not the fitting. Mr B 
employed his own kitchen fitter. I also note that the contract with the supplier specifically 
states that Mr B or his installer should check that measurements are correct, that cabinets 
and appliances are the correct specification and that the kitchen can be installed as 
designed. I think this reasonably puts a greater duty on Mr B here (and any fitter he 
employs) to carry out a survey and ensure that the design accords with the space and any 
third party units that need to be housed within this.  
I note here the dishwasher and microwave were not provided by the supplier but units Mr B 
had bought  so I dont consider there to be a clear case for breach of contract in relation to 
the sizing issues which Mr B has identified. I know Mr B has pointed out that in respect of the 
dishwasher certain elements of trim mean the dishwasher is too big for the gap and cut-outs 
are required. But considering the supply only nature of the contract, the many variables with third party appliances and the responsibilities on Mr B and his fitter I dont think there is a 
clear case of the kitchen design being carried out without reasonable care and skill. 
Furthermore I note that in respect of the boiler unit the contract says the housing will sit 
lower than other units due to the position of the boiler. So I dont think this is a breach of 
contract either. 
Regarding the stacked appliances this appears to be something covered in the contractual 
agreement which says that Mr Bs fitter is to build a custom unit to store the washer and 
dryer in a stacked configuration. It seems at one point the supplier indicated this was not 
something allowed in kitchens  but it appears it has clarified that this is OK as long as the 
correct supports are used. And I have not seen anything in any regulations or rules from Mr 
B to persuasively show it cant be done. So allowing Mr B to include this idea as part of the 
design does not appear to be a mistake by the supplier, while the responsibility for building it 
properly and with sufficient supports appears to be with Mr Bs fitter. So I dont think there is 
a breach of contract by the supplier in respect of how this unit turned out.
Regarding the cornice heights  the supplier says this is due to Mr B selecting from two 
different ranges for different sections of the kitchen  and that the supplied cornices are what 
were ordered. However, even if it could be argued this is a breach of contract BPF has noted 
that the supplier offered to supply more of one cornice type at no charge to remedy this in 
any event. So I dont think I can fairly say there is an outstanding breach of contract which 
BPF would reasonably be expected to remedy here via Section 75.
I note there are also several offers from the supplier which it has described as a goodwill 
gesture and Mr B has pointed out is likely an admission of liability. However, I dont consider 
BPF acted incorrectly by not reaching this conclusion as I dont consider the supplier has 
made any clear admission it did anything wrong. And while I note Mr B has produced a 
report by another kitchen fitting company pointing out several issues with the kitchen and 
quoting the price to redo the whole kitchen I dont find this persuasive or sufficiently 
independent in the circumstances.
Ultimately, in my role resolving disputes informally I dont consider there persuasive 
evidence showing BPF has acted unfairly in its claim outcome. For completeness I also cant 
fairly say it has made a mistake in reporting missed payments to credit reference agencies  
as despite the ongoing dispute it is not unreasonable to expect Mr B to maintain his 
payments.
It is also worth noting here that Mr B has refused several goodwill offers by the supplier 
some of which, at least on the face of it appear generous. However, it seems the matter has 
escalated to this stage as a complete re-design is sought instead. It is worth noting here that 
even if I agreed that BPF needed to do something more to remedy matters  taking out the 
kitchen and redesigning it completely would likely be a disproportionate remedy in the 
circumstances.
Mr B is likely going to be disappointed by my decision however he does not have to accept it 
and can pursue his claim in court if he wishes where matters can be considered further. He 
may wish to consider seeking appropriate legal advice if he wants to go down this route.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman