DRN-3450602
The complaint
Miss M complains that Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) acted 
irresponsibly by granting her a loan that was unaffordable for her.
What happened
In late 2021, Miss M took out a loan with Madison for £3,500. It was to be paid off over 36 
months with repayments set at £172.93 a month, meaning that Miss M was required to pay 
back a total of £6,225.48.
Miss M later complained to Madison that it had lent to her irresponsibly. She said she was on 
maternity leave with very low income and other debts when she took it out. She didnt 
believe Madison had carried out proper checks to ensure she could afford the loan. She said 
it hadnt requested bank statements or payslips and her income was much lower than shed 
declared. So, she couldnt afford the repayments.
Madison said it had asked Miss M a number of questions about her income and expenditure, 
personal circumstances and employment details when she applied for the loan. It also used 
reasonable average figures for income and expenditure and information from Miss Ms credit 
file. It said all the loan details were explained to Miss M and she was asked if the loan was 
affordable during the application process. Madison said it was satisfied it had acted correctly 
in approving Miss Ms loan application.
Miss M remained unhappy and asked our service to consider her complaint. She said she 
already had three personal loans, a credit card which was up to its limit and an overdraft 
which was close to its limit when she took out the loan. She thought that if Madison had 
asked for payslips or bank statements it would have seen she was on maternity leave with 
her income going to zero. She said she believed the interest and charges should be 
removed.
Our investigator looked into Miss Ms concerns but didnt think her complaint should be 
upheld. The investigator concluded that the information Miss M had provided on her 
application, along with what appeared on Madisons credit check, indicated that the lending 
was affordable.
Miss M disagreed with our investigators view. She said she didnt think the information 
Madison had pulled from the credit reference agency was accurate. She felt Madison should 
have asked for proof of income or bank statements. She thought her mobile phone contracts 
and council tax arrears should be taken into consideration. So, her complaint has been 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
The relevant rules, regulations and guidance required Madison to carry out reasonable and 
proportionate checks to ensure Miss M could afford to repay the loan in a sustainable 
manner.  
The checks needed to be borrower-focused. It wasnt enough for Madison to think only about 
the likelihood of getting its money back. It also had to ensure that making the repayments 
wouldnt cause Miss M undue difficulty or have adverse consequences for her.  
There isnt a set list of checks that lenders need to carry out, but they should be 
proportionate, taking a number of factors into consideration. These factors include the 
amount, type and cost of the credit as well as the personal circumstances of the consumer.
Madison gathered information from Miss M before it agreed the loan and also checked her 
credit file. On her application, Miss M said she was employed - full time and gave her 
income as £1,740 a month. However, shes since said that her income was much lower than 
shed declared because shed been on maternity leave for around a year. She says she 
returned to work on a part-time basis the same month she took out the loan. 
Madison used information provided by a credit reference agency to validate Miss Ms 
income. I appreciate Miss M feels this wasnt sufficient and that Madison should have asked 
for bank statements or payslips which would have shown her income was far less than shed 
stated. However, when Miss M took out the loan, she agreed to the following declaration on 
the loan agreement: 
All the information about You and all other information is true and complete and that You 
realise that We rely on this information in agreeing to make a loan available to You.
So, I think Madison was entitled to rely on the information Miss M gave it about her 
employment circumstances and income as being accurate.
On her application Miss M said her outgoings for home were £450 and food were £130 a 
month. For card and loan payments Miss Ms application form says £0. However, Madison 
says it didnt rely solely on the information Miss M gave it. It used reasonable average 
figures and it also checked her credit file.
The information from Miss Ms credit file indicated that she had existing debt of £10,086. 
This consisted of £9,316 for loans / instalment credit and £770 of credit card debt. Miss M 
says she was in her overdraft at the time, but the credit file showed her balance on her 
current account as £0. 
Miss Ms monthly repayments for her loans (two of which were to telecommunications 
suppliers) added up to £360. Allowing for Miss M paying 5% a month for her credit card, her 
existing credit commitments totalled £398.50. 
Using the information Miss M provided on her application and the credit commitments 
showing on her credit file, she would be left with a disposable income of almost £600 after 
the repayments for the Madison loan. So, I think it was reasonable for Madison to have 
concluded that the lending was affordable.
Theres nothing else on Miss Ms credit file that I think should have given Madison cause for 
concern. There were no recent defaults or County Court Judgments. 
Miss M has commented that her council tax arrears should have been taken into account. 
However, her application form is showing £0 for council tax and council tax arrears dont 
show up on a credit file, so Madison wouldnt have been aware of these. I appreciate Miss M believes Madison would have had a better understanding of her financial 
situation if it had asked for bank statements. But I dont think proportionate checks would 
have extended to Madison asking for these. 
I know my answer will be disappointing for Miss M, but I think Madisons checks were 
reasonable and proportionate in the circumstances. And these suggested the loan was 
affordable. So, I dont think Madison acted irresponsibly when it granted Miss M the loan.
Although Im not upholding Miss Ms complaint, Id like to remind Madison of its duty to treat 
her positively and sympathetically if she is still having difficulty repaying the loan.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman