DRN-2062808
The complaint
Mr F has complained about Oakwood Homeloans Limited. His complaint was summarised 
by our investigator as:
1. The contents of a Subject Access Request (SAR) was received in the post torn and 
damaged, as a result Mr F is concerned for his personal information.
2. As a result of contact with Oakwood Homeloans to address some financial concerns, a 
package was received without the provision of a stamped addressed envelope, 
subsequent requests were ignored.
3. Lenders only insurance cover was charged as a result of some difficulties with the 
receipt of the buildings insurance details, because of this Mr F was charged, and he 
wants some answers.
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and goes back over many 
years so I wont repeat it again here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
Mr F said he made a SAR and when he received the package it was damaged and he fears 
theres been a loss of his data. He complained and asked Oakwood to investigate it with the 
courier and tell him the exact weight and number of pages, but it has refused to do so. He 
says he didnt sign for the package and it was left in the porch at his parents house contrary 
to what Oakwood said in its response to his complaint. 
Im satisfied - on balance - that the SAR package wasnt damaged when it left Oakwood as 
that wouldnt make sense, and it is unlikely the courier would have accepted it in a damaged 
state. I cant hold Oakwood liable for what happened with the package after it left its 
premises.
Mr F hasnt notified us of any issues that would indicate his personal information had got into 
the hands of an unauthorised third party due to the damage to the package so theres 
nothing for us to put right here. We can consider whether a financial loss has come from 
the issue, but Mr F hasnt told us of any direct losses hes incurred from this. Of course, if 
something happens in the future, then thats something he can raise as a fresh matter at the 
time.
Whilst I understand Mr F is unhappy with how Oakwood dealt with his complaint about the 
SAR package, the handling of complaints is not itself a regulated activity. Its something that 
the regulator - the Financial Conduct Authority - requires financial businesses to do. But that 
isnt enough to make it a regulated activity within the meaning of the rule; that is, one from 
the list of activities set out in the legislation from which we derive our powers.
Were able to consider concerns about complaint handling in some limited circumstances, for 
example, if the complaint handling was ancillary to something we have the power to 
consider. So we can, in theory, consider how Oakwood handled Mr Fs complaint about the 
damage to the SAR package.
But there is another thing that we need to consider and that is that we can only make an 
award for any poor customer service in handling a complaint if were upholding the 
underlying issue being complained about.
Ive not upheld Mr Fs underlying complaint about the SAR package being damaged, as Im 
satisfied that damage wasnt caused by Oakwood. It then follows I cant deal with his issues 
relating to how that complaint was handled by the business. I dont underestimate how 
strongly Mr F feels about it, but this isnt something we can deal with.
Oakwood sent Mr F a letter with an income and expenditure form and asked him to send it 
back with documentary evidence in a prepaid envelope, but Mr F says Oakwood didnt 
enclose the envelope. Mr F says that he asked Oakwood for an envelope on six occasions 
without a reply. Oakwood says it did enclose the envelope, and it didnt reply to Mr F as it 
knew one had been enclosed and, in any event, Mr F could have returned the information by 
email.
Ive considered this point very carefully and its unfortunate theres no definitive evidence 
either way as to whether the envelope was supplied, and we have two directly opposing 
versions of events. But I dont think this issue turns on that. 
The main cause for complaint is that when Mr F told Oakwood that there wasnt an envelope 
it admits it didnt respond to that. Surely the simplest way to have dealt with this would have 
been for Oakwood to have replied to one of Mr Fs emails to confirm another envelope would 
be sent out (and actually doing so) or to explain the information could be returned by email. 
That said, Mr F could have easily resolved the situation himself by sending the information 
by email as thats how he has been contacting Oakwood. Mr F could have taken 
photographs of all the completed paperwork he needed to return and emailed them through, 
just like he did with the photographs he took of the damaged SAR package.
Instead the issue just became entrenched on both sides. Having considered everything Im 
satisfied the £100 compensation recommended by our investigator due to the lack of 
response from Oakwood on this point is fair and reasonable.
Finally, Mr F is unhappy that Oakwood charged him for lenders only insurance (LOI). LOI is 
charged when a lender doesnt receive adequate proof the borrower has their own building 
insurance. A lender doesnt have to provide details of the LOI cover to its customer, so Mr F 
isnt entitled to see anything relating to that. In any event, once Oakwood was satisfied Mr F 
had his own cover it agreed to refund the costs it had charged in relation to the LOI, so 
theres nothing for me to decide here.
I understand Mr F later complained that he hadnt received the refund, but thats not 
something Im dealing with here as thats the subject of a separate complaint Mr F has with 
us. Here I only go as far as Oakwood saying it will refund the costs, and for this complaint 
Im satisfied thats a fair and reasonable outcome.
My final decisionI uphold this complaint in part and order Oakwood Homeloans Limited to pay £100 
compensation to Mr F. I make no further order or award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman