DRN-2887645
The complaint
Mr G complains that Aviva Insurance Limited charged him twice for a mobile phone 
insurance policy. Mr G is represented by Mrs G in bringing this complaint. But for ease, I will 
refer to all comments and submissions as being made from Mr G directly.
What happened
Mr G has complained about several mobile phone insurance policies taken out with Aviva, 
including those in his wife and sons name. But as this is Mr Gs complaint, my decision will 
focus solely on those policies in his name. 
Mr G purchased a mobile phone contract through a third-party retailer in September 2017. At 
the time of taking out the contract, he also took out a mobile phone insurance policy with 
Aviva. The policy was paid for monthly at cost of £8.99.
In August 2019, Mr G upgraded his phone and took out a new phone contract, and bought 
another mobile phone insurance policy  this time at a cost of £70 per year. 
In 2020 Mr G realised that having paid the annual premium for his new policy, he was also 
being charged £8.99 a month by Aviva. So he complained he was being charged twice. 
Aviva considered Mr Gs complaint, but said the £8.99 a month was for the first policy taken 
out in 2017. They said this policy was still in place and would run for up to a maximum of five 
years if not cancelled  it didnt cancel automatically when a phone contract ended. Mr G said 
this wasnt made clear when he took the policy, so he brought his complaint to our service. 
An investigator considered Mr Gs complaint, but agreed it was Mr Gs responsibility to 
cancel the policy at the end of his contract or at the time of an upgrade. And she felt this was 
made clear to Mr G when he bought it. So she didnt recommend his complaint be upheld. 
But Mr G remained unhappy, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr G took out the first insurance policy in 2017, there was a section near the start 
titled helpful information at a glance. It states: If you pay monthly premiums, you will be 
provided with one months cover for each monthly premium paid and cover will continue on a 
month-by-month basis, up to a maximum term of five years from the date this policy was 
purchased for this phone, after which your cover will cease.
There is a section below this titled Period of Cover. It states: Cover begins on the start 
date shown on your Mobile Complete certificate. If you pay your premium monthly, cover will 
continue on a monthly basis, for a maximum of 5 years, unless it is cancelled by you or us 
before then.
So, from what Ive seen, I think Aviva made it clear to Mr G at the time he bought the policy, 
that it would run for a period of five years. And if he did not wish for his old policy to continue 
to run beyond the end of his phone contract, then it would be down to him to cancel it. So 
while I appreciate Mr G is unhappy that hes paid out for two policies at the same time, I 
dont think Aviva are responsible for the fact Mr G has found himself in that position. 
Mr G has also complained that despite trying to contact Aviva on a number of occasions, he 
received no response. And has made reference to calling Aviva in April, June and July 2020, 
before cancelling the policy just before Julys payment was due. 
But Aviva have provided records that show they wrote to Mr G in April 2020, and made 
attempts to call him twice in April and again in May him while considering his complaint. So 
from everything Ive seen, Im not persuaded there were any delays on Avivas part that 
resulted in Mr G paying out more than he needed to. 
In summary, I appreciate it wouldve been frustrating for Mr G to be paying out for two 
policies on two phones at a time when he may have only required one. But I dont think 
Aviva are responsible for this, as Im satisfied Mr G was made aware when he bought the 
policy, of his right to cancel it, should he no longer require it. 
So for this reason, I wont be upholding his complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Brad McIlquham
Ombudsman