DRN-3589353
The complaint
Mrs Z complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc arranged a mortgage on her property without 
her knowledge or agreement and failed to take proper steps to protect her from this alleged 
fraud. 
Mrs Z is represented in this matter by her son  who Ill refer to as Mr A
What happened
In 2019, a mortgage was taken out on Mrs Zs property in joint names with her and her other 
son. The mortgage is with Barclays but arranged via a broker. 
Mr A raised a complaint on Mrs Zs behalf. He says that Barclays failed in its duty to protect 
her from this alleged fraud. 
Barclays responded to say that it was provided information from the broker and so has not 
made an error when it completed the mortgage. It said that Mr A could take this matter 
further with the broker or the police. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr A referred the complaint to this service. Our investigator 
considered the matter but didnt think that it should be upheld. 
Mr A didnt agree and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im very sorry to learn of the circumstances surrounding this complaint and can 
appreciate how difficult this matter must be for Mrs Z  and Mr A.
Ive looked very carefully at Mr As comments and all of the information provided in this 
complaint. Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusion as the investigator did, 
for much the same reasons. 
The mortgage was sold by a broker, not by Barclays. The broker was responsible for making 
sure the mortgage was suitable and appropriate for Mrs Z and her son and ensuring that 
both parties were happy with the arrangement. 
As this complaint is against Barclays, I need to consider its role here and whether I think it 
acted fairly or not based on the information it was provided with at the time. 
Ive reviewed the information and evidence provided and note Mr As comments and what he 
has submitted to this service. Hes provided a report from a signature expert to show that 
there is a high probability that the signature was not Mrs Zs.
Ive considered this, but its not my role to analyse the signature  what I need to decide is 
whether, based on the information Barclays had at the time, it acted unfairly when it 
arranged this mortgage. And from the information Ive seen, there was nothing to alert 
Barclays to the fact that there may have been something wrong here.
And Ive also kept in mind that Mr A has said that Mrs Z may have signed the documents  
but that she was led to believe these were insurance documents. 
Barclays received a properly completed application via a regulated broker and I dont 
consider that there was anything to alert it to the fact that the information it received from the 
broker was not an accurate picture of the parties wishes to arrange this mortgage. Ive also 
kept in mind that it would have been the role of the broker, and solicitors, to carry out 
identification checks. 
Mr A says that Barclays has confirmed the fraud but has since done nothing. Ive considered 
the letter of September 2021 which acknowledges this complaint but explains that it was not 
a Barclays error as the application was submitted by a broker. I think this letter could have 
been worded better. But it seems to me that Barclays is repeating what Mr A has said as 
part of the complaint  rather than confirming in some way that it thought that fraud had 
definitely taken place. And Ive noted that this letter was drafted by Barclays during a phone 
call with Mr A  in which he had input as to the wording.
As a result, I dont consider this letter proved that Barclays confirmed that this was definitely 
a fraudulent application. And Ive noted that Barclays has confirmed it later wrote to Mr As 
solicitors to address the comments made in the letter. 
Having reviewed all of the information provided here, I dont consider that there is anything 
that could have alerted Barclays to the fact that this mortgage may have been arranged 
without Mrs Zs consent. 
Whilst I understand that this will come as a disappointment to Mrs Z and Mr A  particularly 
as I found that this service was unable to consider a complaint about the broker - Im afraid I 
dont think I can fairly uphold this complaint against Barclays.
I understand that Mr A has been in touch with the police and Land Registry fraud team. My 
decision doesnt prevent him from pursuing the matter through them or other channels. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Camilla Finnigan
Ombudsman