DRN-3926423
The complaint
Mrs M complains about how Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd settled a claim she made on 
her motor insurance policy following the theft of her car.
Reference to Accredited includes its agents.
What happened
Mrs M holds a motor insurance policy with Accredited. After her car was stolen, she made a 
claim. Accredited accepted the claim, and because the vehicle was leased, it settled the 
claim by settling Mrs Ms finance agreement with the lease company.
Mrs M complained about this. She said she was initially told shed receive the difference 
between the market value of the car and the amount left on the finance agreement.
Accredited said it did initially tell Mrs M this, but it corrected its mistake quickly. It didnt think 
it needed do any more.
Mrs M wasnt happy with and brought her complaint to us.
One of our investigators thought Accredited needed to do more to put things right form 
Mrs M. he agreed it didnt need to pay the difference between the market value of the car 
and the outstanding finance. But he thought Accredited needed to cover some finance 
payments, because it took too long to settle Mrs Ms claim.
Mrs M agreed with our investigator, Accredited didnt. So, the case has come to me to 
decide.
I issued a provisional decision saying I was minded to uphold the complaint for broadly the 
same reasons, but recommend Accredited do something slightly different to put things right.
That provisional decision said:
Mrs Ms car was financed through a lease agreement. She never had right to title of 
the vehicle, and at the end of the agreement shed need to have given the car back 
to the finance company. In these circumstances her policy says Accredited will will 
pay the owner named in the agreement. When We have done this Our responsibility 
under the Contract will end. As Mrs Ms loss was the amount outstanding on the 
finance agreement, not the value of the car, Im satisfied Accredited did what it 
needed to by settling the finance agreement with the finance company.
Ive considered whether it would be fair for Mrs M to receive a pro-rata refund of the 
deposit she paid. But because she was so close to the end of the agreement, I dont 
think this is needed.
I understand Mrs M was told shed receive the difference between the amount 
outstanding on the finance agreement and the market value of her car. And I can 
understand how subsequently being told this wasnt the case would be disappointing. 
But Im satisfied Accredited corrected its error reasonably quickly and dont find that 
any compensation is due for this.
But I do think Mrs M is due some more money on this claim. This is because the 
claim is settled when Accredited pay the finance company. Until it pays the finance 
company, Mrs M is still contractually obliged to make payments to it herself. So, the 
longer Accredited takes to pay the claim, the more Mrs M has to pay, and the less 
Accredited has to. Our investigator recommended Accredited refund Mrs M any 
amount she paid to the finance company following the date of the incident. But Im 
recommending something slightly different.
I think its reasonable Accredited took some time to investigate the claim. It didnt 
know at the time of loss whether it would even be paying the claim. And it didnt know 
what the value of the car was. So, I think it should be allowed some time to 
investigate and validate the claim. Generally speaking, I think a reasonable amount 
of time is roughly a month (without other reasons which may legitimately prolong a 
settlement). Here, Accredited had valued the car, accepted the claim and agreed a 
settlement value within three weeks of the claim being made. So, allowing for a 
further week to settle the claim with the finance company, I think the claim should 
have been settled within four weeks of it being made.
The claim was made on 8 March 2022, so following the above I think it should have 
been settled by 5 April 2022. Therefore, any payment made to the finance company 
after 5 April 2022, up to the point Accredited settled the claim, should be returned to 
Mrs M.
To put things right I recommended that Accredited: 
Pay Mrs M any payment she made to the finance company in relation to the 
contractual monthly payments toward the lease of her vehicle between 5 April 2022 
and the date Accredited settled the agreement with the finance company. Any 
payment should also include 8% interest to be calculated within the same time 
period.
Mrs M agreed with My provisional decision. Accredited pointed out that they asked Mrs M for 
some documentation needed to settle the claim on 29 March 2022 but didnt receive it until 
18 May 2022. So, it says it doesnt agree that its responsible for the delay. But its agreed to 
settle the complaint as recommended in my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, as both parties agree to the resolution proposed in my provisional decision, 
I see no reason to change it.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint. To put things right Accredited 
Insurance (Europe) Ltd need to:
Pay Mrs M any payment she made to the finance company in relation to the 
contractual monthly payments toward the lease of her vehicle between 5 April 2022 and the date Accredited settled the agreement with the finance company. Any 
payment should also include 8% interest to be calculated within the same time 
period.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman