DRN-3684546
The complaint
Mr F complains about the advice Andrew Bourne & Co Independent Financial Advisers 
Ltd gave to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension 
scheme to a personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this 
has caused a financial loss.
Professional representatives have helped Mr F to bring this complaint. But, for ease of 
reading I will refer to the representatives comments as being Mr Fs.
What happened
Mr F approached Andrew Bourne in 2013 to discuss releasing money from his pension 
plans. 
Andrew Bourne completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Fs circumstances, 
objectives and attitude to risk. Amongst other things Andrew Bourne recorded that:
Mr F was 54 years old and would soon turn 55, he was working and divorced.
He lived in rented accommodation.
He had no assets beyond his pension funds.
He wanted to take tax free cash (TFC) from his pension pots on an urgent basis to 
pay off a divorce settlement.
He had a low attitude to risk.
Andrew Bourne established that Mr F had two pension plans. A personal pension with a 
cash value of £3,423 which he could access  tax free  immediately. He also had a DB 
scheme with a cash equivalent transfer value of £22,569, which would pay him a pension of 
£1,406 a year at age 65. 
On 3 June 2013 Andrew Bourne wrote to Mr F. It said that his DB scheme would not allow 
him to take funds from it at age 55. Andrew Bourne said his only option to raise TFC from it 
was to transfer the benefits to another provider. It suggested he buy an annuity from a 
named provider. Andrew Bourne added that Mr Fs DB scheme provided a guaranteed 
pension at retirement. It said it would not generally recommend this course of action but as 
Mr F had confirmed that he urgently needed the capital and had no other way of raising the 
money required it was treating him as an insistent client. It enclosed forms for Mr F to 
complete to apply for the transfer and to buy the annuity. 
Mr F signed forms to take the full value of £3,423 from his personal pension. He also applied 
to transfer his DB scheme funds, taking £5,642 as TFC and using the remaining £16,927 to 
buy an annuity which would pay him a pension of £819 a year.
On 3 July 2013 Andrew Bourne confirmed that the TFC had been sent to Mr Fs account and 
the annuity set up. 
A week later, on 10 July 2013, Andrew Bourne sent Mr F a suitability report setting out the 
reasons for its recommendations. Amongst other things the report repeated that Mr F was 
desperately in need of money for his divorce settlement and wanted to use his pension 
funds for that purpose. It again said that his DB scheme would provide a guaranteed income 
in retirement. Mr F had confirmed he had no other way of raising cash and it was treating 
him as an insistent client. 
Andrew Bourne said Mr Fs DB scheme would provide an inflation proofed guaranteed 
pension in retirement of £1,406, increasing in line with the consumer price index (CPI). It 
said that, given those guarantees, it couldnt recommend transferring out of the DB scheme. 
Its advice was on an insistent client basis in order to help Mr F access TFC. It said that it had 
recommended an annuity as Mr F wanted a fixed guaranteed regular income for the rest of 
his life.
Mr F complained to Andrew Bourne in 2021 about the suitability of the transfer advice. 
Amongst other things he said:
Andrew Bournes recommendations werent in his best interests and it was negligent.
Its advice was confusing, contradictory and misleading.
It didnt explain the consequences of treating him as an insistent client.
It didnt fully explore alternatives with Mr F that might have prevented the transfer of 
his DB pension. 
It failed to adequately warn Mr F about the risks of transferring out of the DB scheme.
While it was a difficult time for Mr F that wasnt sufficient basis for transferring out of 
his DB scheme.
Mr F thought that the residual pension, after taking TFC would be reinvested and 
allowed to grow.
Andrew Bourne should have advised Mr F against transferring out of the scheme.
Andrew Bourne didnt act in line with the regulator's guidance or principles.
Andrew Bourne didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint. Amongst other things it said:
Mr F had difficulties with outstanding debts, was in a dire financial position and had 
no other way of raising cash. 
Taking any form of loan would have been virtually impossible or would have been at 
an extortionate rate of interest.
Things had become so bad that, by 11 June 2013, bailiffs were threatening to 
remove Mr Fs belongings.
Mr Fs only option was to release funds from his pensions.
As he didnt want to take any risks with his pension funds the only suitable option 
was an annuity.
The suitability report explained it was treating him as an insistent client.
It had also clearly explained the guaranteed benefits he was giving up in its letter of 
3 June 2013.
Mr F referred his complaint to our service. When doing so, amongst other things, he said:
The bailiffs contacted him in connection with his divorce settlement but he paid that 
without needing TFC.
He was not desperate for money at the time.
He didnt know Andrew Bourne was treating him as an insistent client.
It didn't explain the annuity to him. 
One of our Investigators looked into the complaint. He didnt uphold it. In summary he said 
that the evidence showed that Mr F needed cash urgently. Mr F had agreed with that at the 
time. Andrew Bournes suitability report had explained that Mr F wanted TFC and that he was desperate for it. And Mr F had chased Andrew Bourne for progress in receiving the 
cash. The Investigator thought Andrew Bourne was right to say that Mr F had no other way 
of accessing the cash he needed.
Mr F disagreed, amongst other things he said
At the time he was going through a divorce, was in something of a state and was 
worried as he would now take on the household finances alone whereas previously 
they were shared.
Andrew Bourne should have identified that he was vulnerable and treated him as 
such.
At the time his finances were in order but he acted out of character as a result of 
being vulnerable.
Andrew Bourne should have suggested to Mr F that he seek legal advice.
It should have explored the issue with the bailiffs more fully to ensure Mr F didnt 
make a decision in haste.
It should have recommended that Mr F should not transfer out of the DB scheme.
Our Investigator replied. In summary he said:
There was no evidence on file that Mr F was vulnerable and this wasnt raised 
previously.
Andrew Bourne had clearly recorded that Mr F urgently required TFC and Mr Fs 
emails about bailiffs confirm that.
It would be usual for someone going through a divorce to seek legal advice. But in 
any event at the time Mr F met with Andrew Bourne he was looking for cash for his 
divorce settlement and he had no other way to raise it.
Andrew Bourne had explained the guaranteed benefits Mr F would lose and that it 
was treating him as an insistent client.
As our Investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion, the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In bringing this complaint and responding to it both Mr F and Andrew Bourne have made a 
number of points. I've considered everything on file carefully. But I dont intend to address 
each issue individually. Instead I will focus on what I see as being at the heart of Mr Fs 
complaint and the reasons for my decision. 
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirementsThe below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Andrew Bourne's actions 
here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided not to uphold the 
complaint for broadly the same reasons given by the Investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), says in COBS 19.1.6 that the starting 
assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Andrew Bourne 
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that it was in Mr Fs 
best interests. In this case Andrew Bourne said that it wasnt in Mr Fs best interests and 
decided to treat him as an insistent client.
Financial viability 
Ive noted that from a relatively early stage Andrew Bourne told Mr F that it wouldnt usually 
recommend transferring out of a DB scheme because of the guaranteed benefits that would 
be lost on doing so. And its suitability report showed a clear comparison between the £1,406 
a year that the DB scheme would pay to Mr F at age 65 against the £819 a year it was 
recommending as an alternative. 
So, its clear to me that all parties to the complaint are agreed that Mr F would likely be 
worse off in retirement by going ahead with the transfer. For that reason I dont intend to 
spend further time analysing financial viability. If Mr F had wanted to be better off in 
retirement then it made no sense to transfer. But I dont think thats why Mr F approached 
Andrew Bourne for advice  he needed to access a lump sum from his pension.
Did Andrew Bourne appropriately treat Mr F as insistent?
Where a consumer decides to proceed with an investment against a financial adviser's 
advice then the consumer is known as an insistent client. 
In 2013 there was no regulatory advice or guidance in place in respect of insistent clients.
But there were COBS rules which required Andrew Bourne to act honestly, fairly and 
professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client. In addition, COBS required 
Andrew Bourne to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading.
Andrew Bourne has consistently recorded that Mr F wanted to release TFC from his pension 
funds to pay an outstanding divorce settlement. And it used terms like needs TFC urgently 
and that he was desperate for the money. It also said that Mr F was in a dire financial 
position and couldnt raise the funds in any other manner. It said that it wouldnt generally 
make a recommendation to transfer out of a DB scheme but because Mr F had no other way 
of raising the cash it was treating him as an insistent client. Mr F has since said that, in fact, he wasnt desperate for the money and had other means by 
which to pay the divorce settlement without taking TFC. All the evidence on file from 
Andrew Bournes fact-find gathering however, is that Mr F was desperate for the money. And 
Mr F signed those documents to say that Andrew Bournes fact-find was accurate. So 
I asked him for evidence that he had other means by which to pay the divorce bill without 
taking TFC. In reply, Mr F told me that he doesn't have any evidence that he had other 
means by which to pay the divorce settlement. For this reason, I think its fair to rely on 
Andrew Bournes records from the time.
Mr F told us that at the time of the advice he was vulnerable. I think Mr F is implying that 
Andrew Bourne should have treated his comments about desperately needing money with 
caution. Hes said that apart from the issue with his divorce settlement, his finances were in 
order and as such his actions were out of character. I accept Mr Fs statement that, but for 
the issue of the divorce settlement, he wouldn't have otherwise been in financial difficulty. 
But the point remains that, at the time, he had a threat of bailiff action hanging over him 
because of an unsettled debt. Theres no evidence on file  that is evidence provided at the 
time  that Mr F was vulnerable to the extent that he didnt understand Andrew Bournes 
advice or that he wasn't in a fit state to make decisions for himself. So I don't think 
Andrew Bourne had any reason to treat Mr Fs instructions with more care than it would 
usually take. And while I dont doubt that having recently gone through a divorce would be 
stressful, I dont think that was any reason for Andrew Bourne to refuse to take his 
instructions or to treat his statements with suspicion or caution. 
Mr Fs suggested that the very fact that hed been through a divorce meant that he was 
vulnerable and Andrew Bourne should have treated him as such. I think its generally well 
recognised that divorce is a stressful process for most (if not all) individuals who experience 
it. So, while I accept that Mr F may have had a certain level of vulnerability, I dont think that 
means Andrew Bourne shouldve refused to transact the business. I think it was still in a 
position to have regard for Mr Fs circumstances and act in his best interests.
Further, its apparent that Mr F was clear that he didnt wish to take any risks with the 
residual funds once hed taken his TFC. And, as a result, Andrew Bourne recommended that 
he took an annuity. That is he took his pension immediately. An alternative would have been 
for Mr F to reinvest his pension funds in some form of personal pension with the aim that the 
invested funds would grow. But such an investment would have been subject to the 
volatilities of the market and as such there was potential for the fund to go down in value. 
And as Mr F didnt want to take any risks he instead accepted Andrew Bournes 
recommendation that he should take an annuity immediately. That doesn't indicate that he 
acted rashly or in a manner that was obviously out of character. Instead it paints a picture of 
someone who wanted to act conservatively and cautiously. So I think it was reasonable for 
Andrew Bourne to proceed on the basis that Mr F had an understanding of the proceedings 
and was capable of making an informed decision. 
Andrew Bourne told Mr F that it wouldnt generally recommend a transfer from a DB scheme. 
Thats in line with the regulators guidance and Andrew Bourne clearly recognised that Mr F 
would be worse off by doing so. And, on that basis it told him, on 3 June 2013, it would treat 
him as an insistent client. It wrote to him that day to confirm that. On the same day It also 
told him that it would apply for an annuity on his behalf. But it did those things before it had 
produced its suitability report. In fact, it didnt provide its suitability report until after the 
transfer had gone ahead and the annuity was already in place. So it went ahead with the 
transfer before it had explained in writing all the information Mr F needed in order to make an 
informed decision about what he would be losing by transferring out of the scheme. Andrew Bourne would no doubt argue that it explained the content of its suitability report to 
Mr F in person. And, as he was so desperate for the money it went ahead with the transfer 
without first putting things to him in writing. But, transferring out of a DB scheme is a one-off 
event. Once transferred there's no going back, the benefits of the DB scheme are lost 
forever. So, regardless of the urgency I think Andrew Bourne should have ensured that Mr F 
had sight of the likely advantages and disadvantages of transferring in writing before 
proceeding. And, I think it would have been helpful if Andrew Bournes advice had stopped 
at that point. That would then have left it for Mr F to contact it again if he genuinely wanted to 
go against its advice and to continue as an insistent client.
But, while I think that Andrew Bournes advice process could have been more robust on that 
point, I think its likely that Mr F would have gone ahead with the transfer anyway. Thats 
because there are numerous mentions of Mr F requiring the funds urgently. And there are 
emails where Mr F was chasing Andrew Bourne for progress on the matter. In one of those 
he was clearly worried that bailiffs would take away his possessions if he didnt have the 
money soon. That is persuasive evidence of someone who was indeed desperate for the 
cash.
Mr Fs since said that he could afford to pay the divorce settlement from other funds. Hes 
added that he was continuing to work and his income covered his expenditure. But, while 
Mr Fs regular income may well have covered his usual expenditure, in this instance it was 
clear that what Mr F needed the funds for was to cover an outstanding divorce bill that 
bailiffs were chasing him for. That bill doesn't appear to be one of his regular outgoings. Mr F 
hasnt provided evidence that he could meet the divorce settlement demand from other 
sources. And, if he could, it would seem rather strange that he would find himself in a 
position of receiving threats from bailiffs, when he could address that threat by simply paying 
the bill. Also, if those funds were available its not at all clear why he would be so keen on 
the pension transfer going ahead with such speed. In fact, if he had the funds available from 
other sources there would have been no requirement whatsoever to even consider a transfer 
out of his DB scheme. 
Further, Andrew Bournes evidence is clear that Mr F would be worse off in his retirement by 
transferring. But Mr F not only wanted to go ahead with the transfer but was pressing 
Andrew Bourne to speed up the process. So, I think its more likely than not that, at the time, 
Mr B couldnt raise the funds he needed to settle his divorce from other sources. And that he 
was indeed desperate to release funds from his pension. On that basis its likely, even if 
Andrew Bourne had provided clearer advice and followed a more robust insistent client 
process, Mr F would have gone ahead with the transfer regardless. It follows that I think 
Andrew Bournes decision to process the transfer on an insistent client basis was reasonable 
and as such, Im not upholding the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman