DRN-3252114
The complaint
Mr D complains about a secured loan which is administered by BCMGlobal Mortgage 
Services Limited. He complains that the loan was mis-sold, about the interest rate, and 
about action taken to recover the loan now the term has ended.
What happened
Mr D borrowed £26,000 by way of a second charge secured loan. The loan was taken out in 
2005 over a ten year term. 
The original lender was a company called Future Mortgages Limited. Future sold the loan on 
to another company. It is now owned by a company called Skye Loans Limited. As Skye 
Loans is not regulated, it has appointed BCM to manage the loan on its behalf.
Mr D complains about the loan. He believes it was mis-sold by Future when he took it out, 
since there were no proper checks to see if he could afford the loan.
Mr D says that since the loan was taken out, the interest rate increased, and he believes it 
was impacted by the LIBOR manipulation scandal. Mr D fell into arrears, but Future then 
agreed to capitalise the arrears and restructure the loan.
Shortly after this, Future sold the loan on to another company. Mr D again fell into arrears. 
The term ended in April 2015, but there was still around £5,000 outstanding. Mr D disputes 
this, saying that by this time he had already paid back much more than he borrowed.
In June 2015, the loan was transferred to Skye. Since then, Skye has not charged Mr D 
interest, but acting on its behalf BCM has tried to recover the outstanding balance.
Mr D does not think he has been fairly treated. He says that in recent years his partner has 
been very unwell, and this led to a change in their circumstances. As a result, he has found it 
difficult to make payments.
BCM sent a field agent to visit Mr Ds property, and then took litigation action to recover the 
debt. It added the costs of doing so to the loan balance. A payment arrangement of £200 per 
month was then agreed.
Mr D then became very unwell himself. His partner took over managing his finances, but no 
payment was made to BCM for several months. Mr D says that his partner missed this 
amount going out of his account, and didnt make arrangements to take it over.
BCM didnt contact Mr D during this time. It says this was due to a system error  because 
the loan term had expired, it wasnt referred for collections activity. But standard arrears 
letters were still sent out.
Mr D complains that he hasnt been treated fairly, or his and his partners vulnerability taken 
into account. He says BCM has made many mistakes and he cant trust it that the balance of 
the account is correct. He says it should be responsible for everything that happened from 
the sale of the mortgage onwards.
Our investigator said that she could only consider what had happened since 2017, and didnt 
think BCM had acted unfairly. Mr D didnt agree and asked for his complaint to be reviewed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Mr D has complained about matters throughout the length of his loan, I am limited 
in what I can consider.
This is a second charge loan, for more than £25,000, taken out before 2008. That means 
that this is an unregulated loan. 
The current lender, Skye Loans, is an unregulated lender. It does not fall within the 
jurisdiction of either the Financial Conduct Authority or the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
That means I cannot consider any complaint about Skye Loans. I have no power over Skye 
Loans.
Skye Loans has appointed a regulated firm, BCM, to administer the loan. Because BCM is 
regulated, I can consider what it has done. 
However, I can only consider things that BCM has done. As the current administrator of the 
loan, it is not responsible for things that previous lenders or administrators have done.
The first parts of Mr Ds complaint are about the sale and lending decision, and about the 
interest rate charged before the end of the loan term.
I cannot consider those matters in a complaint against BCM, because BCM was not the 
administrator of the loan at that time.
Mr D says that the current lender should be responsible for everything, because in taking 
over the loan it also took over all liabilities. 
That may or may not be true. But if it is true, I still cannot consider it  because the current 
lender, Skye Loans, is not regulated and does not come within my jurisdiction. I therefore 
cannot consider anything that it is responsible for. I can only consider things that the 
administrator BCM has done  and BCM is not the lender, and has not inherited the previous 
lenders liabilities.
I dont know if under the terms of the transfer of the loan to Skye, Skye became responsible 
for the sale and interest charged before 2015. If it is, then Mr D would have to consider 
taking action against Skye direct since it does not come within the jurisdiction of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service.
If Skye did not become responsible for the sale and interest, then the original lender Future 
Mortgages would be responsible. But Future Mortgages no longer exists. And because this 
was an unregulated second charge loan, it is not covered by the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme. Im afraid that means that if Future is still responsible, Mr D has no 
recourse since Future no longer exists and there is no compensation scheme that has taken 
on its liabilities.
Mr D complained about the previous lenders conduct of his loan up to the transfer of the 
loan in 2015. Skye replied to that complaint in 2017, passing on the comments of the 
previous lender. Skye said that Mr D had six months from the date of that final response to bring that complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service, but Mr D did not do so. He did 
continue to deal with Skye and BCM, so Im satisfied he would have been able to complain 
to us too. As he did not do so, this part of his complaint is out of time  and so even if BCM 
were responsible for things that happened before it began to administer the loan (which it is 
not), I would not be able to consider that part of the complaint.
For all those reasons, Im only able to consider what has happened in connection with this 
loan since it was taken over by Skye and began to be administered by BCM.
Skye took over the loan in 2015. At that time, the balance was around £4,900 and the term 
had ended. As Ive explained, Im not able to consider whether that balance was correct or 
the actions of the previous lenders which might have affected the balance. Part of Mr Ds 
complaint is that the previous lender wrongly told him that the outstanding balance was over 
£14,000. Im unable to consider that  but Im satisfied that BCM has not tried to collect an 
incorrect balance. 
Since it took over the loan, BCM has worked on the basis of a balance of £4,900 less the 
payments Mr D has made since, plus fees added since. It did send him a letter with an 
incorrect balance early on, but it has apologised for that and has not tried to collect an 
incorrect balance.
Skye has not charged, and BCM has not tried to collect, interest on the loan since then. 
Although the debt remains outstanding, and therefore is liable for interest, Skye and BCM 
have decided not to charge interest in view of Mr Ds situation. I think thats fair.
Equally, I think its fair that BCM has expected Mr D to repay the remaining capital balance, 
and has tried to find ways of agreeing a way of doing so.
It was reasonable for BCM to send a field agent to visit Mr D in 2016, since by then the loan 
was over a year past the end of the term, yet there was still a substantial balance 
outstanding. The field agent would have tried to understand Mr Ds situation, whether there 
was any reason why the loan hadnt been paid off, and how much Mr D could afford to pay. 
Im satisfied the visit took place, and it was reasonable for BCM to add the cost of the visit to 
the loan balance. 
The loan terms and conditions allow the lender to set a tariff of charges from time to time, 
and the fee was in line with the tariff at the time. These are the original terms set by Future, 
and agreed by Mr D  and they continue to be the terms and conditions applicable now. The 
terms allow the loan to be transferred onto a new lender, as happened twice  most recently 
to Skye in 2015.
By 2017, the loan term had been over for two years, and there was still a substantial balance 
outstanding. I dont therefore think it was unreasonable for BCM to consider taking legal 
action to recover the balance, and to add the costs of doing so to the loan balance.
This led to an arrangement to pay being agreed. Mr D offered to pay £100 per month. BCM 
asked for details of his income and expenditure. Mr D said that part of his self-employment 
income was paid in cash and paid into his partners bank account, so BCM asked to see his 
partners bank statements to confirm that.
Mr D says it should not have done that, and it had no right to see them. Hes right that BCM 
has no right to insist on seeing the bank statements of a third party, and cant require a third 
party to produce them. However, it is reasonable that where theres an outstanding debt, 
BCM wanted to make sure before it agreed to a payment arrangement that not only would 
the payment arrangement be sustainable, but also that Mr D was paying as much as he could.
So while BCM couldnt insist on Mr Ds partner providing bank statements, or require their 
production, it could ask to see them  and, if Mr D or his partner refused, take that into 
account in deciding whether to agree to his proposals.
In the end, Mr D then offered to pay £200 per month, which BCM accepted. Mr D says this 
was unfair, since it wouldnt accept £100 in case he couldnt afford it, then took double that. 
He says this makes no sense. But I dont agree  BCM didnt reject the initial offer of £100, it 
asked for evidence it was sustainable before making a decision; when instead of providing 
the evidence Mr D made a larger offer, it accepted that offer.
Its unfortunate that due to a system error BCM didnt contact Mr D when he was unwell in 
2018 and no payments were being made. It seems this was because its system triggers 
collections activity when no payments are made during the term of a loan  but Mr Ds loan 
was out of term. Clearly this is not ideal. However, I dont think this caused Mr D any 
detriment. Since he was not being charged interest, the loan balance didnt increase during 
this time. And the fact that BCM didnt chase him for payments during this time gave him the 
space to focus on his recovery.
In fact, Mr D has made no payments since 2018. BCM has not so far taken further action.
Im very sorry to hear about Mr Ds poor health, and that of his partner. Im sure things have 
been very difficult for them both.
However, the fact is that this debt is still outstanding seven years after the loan term ended. 
Its not unreasonable for BCM to want the remaining balance to be paid off. Mr D will 
therefore need to contact BCM, and have a frank and open discussion about his current 
circumstances and finances, and see if an arrangement can be reached. Even though the 
term ended many years ago, BCM still has an obligation to treat Mr D fairly and to give 
proper consideration to any proposals he might make. 
I do understand how Mr D feels about his situation. But I dont think  as far as the matters 
for which it is responsible are concerned  that BCM has treated him unfairly or is no longer 
entitled to collect the debt. And so I dont think I can fairly uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman