DRN-3213454
The complaint
Miss A complains that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) has turned down an abandonment 
claim she made on her travel insurance policy.
What happened
Miss A had booked a holiday abroad between 14 and 30 December 2019. She was due to 
fly from the UK to a country Ill call K and then take a connecting flight to a country Ill call D. 
Shed booked a package tour in D, which she was due to start on 15 December 2019. Miss 
A flew to K as planned. However, when she tried to board her connecting flight in K, Miss A 
says she was ultimately informed there was a technical fault with the original plane and the 
replacement aircraft was too small for all of the passengers.  So she couldnt board her pre-
booked flight. Instead, she said she was offered a new flight which would arrive in D late on 
the evening of 16 December 2019.
Miss A says she was concerned about travelling alone in D; she wouldve missed some of 
the tour and wouldve had to make alternative arrangements to join it. She says she tried to 
call IPA to discuss what steps to take, but as it was the weekend, she wasnt able to speak 
with anyone. She decided to abandon her trip to D and remained in K for a few days, 
returning to the UK on 18 December 2019.
The airline paid Miss A €600 compensation and the tour company in D gave Miss D a credit 
voucher of £200 which could be put towards a future tour with it. As Miss D was still out of 
pocket for the costs associated with abandoning her tour and for the new arrangements 
shed made, she made a claim on her travel insurance policy.
IPA turned down Miss As claim. It said that delayed departure cover only applied if a 
policyholder abandoned their trip following a 12-hour or more delay on their outbound flight 
due to one of an exhaustive list of insured-events, including technical or mechanical fault. 
Miss As airline had provided her with a letter which stated that shed been denied boarding 
on her original flight due to lack of seats on the aircraft. As flight overbooking wasnt an 
insured event under the delayed departure section of the policy, IPA said the claim wasnt 
covered.
Miss A was unhappy with IPAs decision and she asked us to look into her complaint. She 
also thought IPAs claims handler had led her to believe that her claim would be covered.
Our investigator didnt think IPA had treated Miss A unfairly. She didnt think the policy terms 
and conditions covered the circumstances of Miss As claim. Thats because a) the evidence 
didnt show the claim was down to an insured event and b) cover only applied on the original 
outbound flight from the UK. She wasnt persuaded that IPA had told Miss A her claim would 
be paid. And while she accepted that Miss A might not have been able to speak to IPA 
before deciding whether or not to abandon her trip, she thought it was most likely that Miss A 
wouldve decided to abandon her trip to D regardless. So she didnt think IPA needed to take 
any action.
Miss A disagreed. She didnt think it was fair to conclude that shed have abandoned her trip 
either way. She said that if shed been told that none of her costs would be covered, its 
likely she wouldnt have cancelled the tour of D. But she couldnt give a definitive answer 
about what she would have done and shed have needed to consider the costs involved in 
reaching D and whether IPA wouldve covered those costs. She said she cant help but feel 
that the policy wording is unfair and falls short of what could be expected from a travel 
insurance policy. She thought it was reasonable to expect that the flight would cover the 
entire flight, not just the first leg.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.,
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Miss A, I think it was fair for IPA to turn down 
her claim and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
circumstances of Miss As claim and the terms of her policy, to decide whether IPA handled 
the claim fairly.
The policy terms
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Miss As policy, as these form the basis of 
her contract with IPA. Miss A took the first leg of her flight to K as planned. So I dont think 
her trip could be considered to have been cancelled. Instead, I think it was reasonable for 
IPA to conclude that Miss A had abandoned her trip on to D as a result of being unable to 
take her connecting flight from K to D. This means I think it was appropriate for IPA to 
consider the claim under the delayed departure section of the policy.
If you have arrived at the terminal and have checked-in, or attempted to check-in for your 
prebooked flight, sea crossing, international coach or international train journey from or to 
the United Kingdom, and in addition for residents of Northern Ireland, any departure point in 
the Republic of Ireland, and it is:
1. delayed for more than 12 hours beyond the intended departure time; or
2. is cancelled before or after the scheduled time of departure as a result of any of the 
following events:
a) strike or industrial action or
b) adverse weather conditions or
c) mechanical breakdown of or a technical fault occurring in the public transport on 
which you are booked to travel
we will pay you: .
2. Up to £2,000 for any irrecoverable unused travel and accommodation costs and other pre-
paid charges which you have paid or are contracted to pay, if:
a) after a delay of at least 12 hours, or
b) following cancellation, no suitable alternative public transport is provided within 12 hours 
of the scheduled time of departure you choose to cancel your trip before departure from the 
United Kingdom.I appreciate that Miss A doesnt think its fair for IPA to limit delayed departure cover to the 
outbound flight from the UK and to potentially exclude cover for connecting flights. But I dont 
think I need to make a finding on that point in this particular case. Thats because I think IPA 
has made it clear in the policy terms that it will only cover delayed departure in certain, listed 
circumstances. Theres no dispute that Miss As flight from K wasnt delayed due to strike or 
adverse weather conditions. And Ive seen an email from Miss As airline which sets out its 
reasons for her being denied boarding. The email says:
Miss Awas denied boardingdue to lack of seats at the aircraft
Miss A says that the airline told her at the time that her original aircraft had developed a fault 
and so passengers were being diverted onto a smaller plane, which didnt have enough 
seats. Ive thought about this. But I think it was fair and reasonable for IPA to rely on the 
evidence the airline had provided when it assessed the claim. This shows that Miss A was 
unable to board her booked flight because there werent enough seats. I dont think I can 
fairly conclude that IPA shouldve treated this as a mechanical or technical fault in the 
aircraft. And lack of seats on an aircraft simply isnt something the delayed departure section 
of the policy covers. On this basis, I dont think it was unfair for IPA to turn down Miss As 
claim
If Miss A feels that the airline has wrongly categorised the reason for her delay, its open to 
her to obtain further evidence from the airline and to send it on to IPA to consider.
It seems to me that Miss A ultimately cut short her trip by returning to the UK early. So I think 
IPA could also have assessed her claim under the curtailment section of the policy. Ive 
looked at what this section of the policy covers. It says:
We will pay you up to £2,000 for your proportion only of any irrecoverable unused travel and 
accommodation costs (including excursions up to £250) and other pre-paid charges which 
you have paid or are contracted to pay, together with your proportion only of any reasonable 
additional travel expenses incurred if the trip is curtailed before completion
as a result of any of the following events:
1. The death, bodily injury, illness, disease, or complications of pregnancy of:
a) you
b) any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with
c) any person who you have arranged to stay with
d) your close relative
e) your close business associate.
2. You or any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with, are a member of 
the Armed Forces, Territorial Anny, Police, Fire, Nursing or Ambulance Services or 
employees of a Government Department and have your/their authorised leave cancelled or 
are called up for operational reasons, provided that the curtailment could not reasonably 
have been expected at the time when you purchased this insurance or at the time of booking 
any trip or one-way trip.
3. The Police or other authorities requesting you to stay at or return to your home due to 
serious damage to your home caused by fire, aircraft, explosion, storm, flood, subsidence, 
fallen trees, collision by road vehicles, malicious people or theft.
I think IPA has clearly set out the events it covers if a policyholder needs to cut short their 
trip. And lack of seat availability simply isnt something IPA has chosen to cover.
Overall then, I simply dont think Miss A held the cover which wouldve paid a benefit in the 
situation she found herself in. I understand Miss A has mentioned that she wasnt offered 
travel disruption cover, which may have covered her claim. However, IPA wasnt responsible for selling Miss As policy to her. So if Miss A would like to complain about the sale of her 
policy, shell need to complain to the broker which sold it.
The service provided by IPA
Miss A has told us that before deciding not to take the trip to D, she tried to get in touch with 
IPA to discuss her options, but that she wasnt able to because it was a weekend. So Ive 
gone on to carefully consider whether I think Miss A wouldve done anything differently had 
she been able to speak to IPA before making a decision about whether or not to abandon 
her trip to D. Miss A told our investigator that if shed known her costs wouldnt have been 
covered, she wouldve been more likely to go ahead with the trip to D, although shed have 
needed to consider her costs in doing so and whether IPA wouldve had any liability towards 
it.
Ive thought about this very carefully. But on balance, I find its more likely that Miss A 
wouldve chosen not to continue on to D even if shed known her trip wasnt covered. I say 
that because in her original submissions to us, Miss A said she didnt have the confidence or 
knowledge to travel through D on her own. And she said shed have had to use her own 
time, money, and initiative to catch up with the tour. Shes also told us that she was 
concerned about her personal safety if shed travelled alone and arrived late into D. Taking 
into account all of these factors then, while I appreciate how difficult a decision it mustve 
been for Miss A to make, Im persuaded shed have more likely than not chosen not to fly on 
to D to catch up her tour. This means I cant fairly find that she lost out as a result of any 
failure by IPAs to answer her calls.
Having listened to the call between Miss A and IPAs claims handler, Im satisfied that that 
while she was told she was eligible to make a claim, it was made clear to her that the 
claims handler couldnt guarantee that her claim would be paid. It was also made clear that 
the claims documents would need to be assessed by the claims team. So I dont think Miss a 
was wrongly led to believe that her claim would be covered.
In the round then, while I understand Miss A was disappointed with the service she received, 
I dont think IPA made any errors which have caused her to lose out. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Miss A, as I appreciate this was an upsetting situation and that 
being denied boarding onto her flight to D was outside of her control. But I simply dont find 
that IPA has done anything wrong which it needs to put right.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman