DRN-3085752
The complaint
Miss M has complained about the way NHBC have dealt with a claim she made for damage 
to her property, caused by an ingress of water.
What happened
In September 2018, Miss Ms flat was damaged by water coming into her property from the 
roof. The property had previously suffered damage from water ingress in 2015. That damage 
was repaired under a different claim reference and addressed in an earlier complaint brought 
to this service. The parties agree that the September 2018 claim is a new claim. This 
decision will therefore only address matters which have arisen in relation to the September 
2018 claim, from the date of that claim. 
The managing agent for the development in which Miss Ms flat is located, contacted NHBC 
on 27 September 2018, to report that her flat had been damaged by further water ingress. 
They also informed NHBC that the hallway outside the flat and the lobby had also been 
damaged by water. 
Extensive water testing was carried out inside Miss Ms flat in February 2019 to identify 
where the water was coming from. In order for the tests and investigations to be completed, 
a large hole was cut in her ceiling by NHBCs contractor which exposed the electrical cables. 
At that time the contractor concluded the water ingress was caused by a badly maintained 
flashing detail and told Miss M it had been temporarily repaired as a courtesy. 
NHBC issued their investigation report in relation to the claim on 18 June 2019 (claim 
18/45752). The report explained that that the water damage to the lobby was investigated on 
23 November 2018 to determine the extent of the damage and access, with scaffolding 
erected. Further visits were made to the property on 27 February 2019 and 6 March 2019. 
The report went on to say that the water ingress into the common area and Miss Ms flat was 
caused by a defect in the roof covering of the pitched roof above flat 99. It explained that the 
damage was consistent with a defect in the Redland Cambrian slate roof which allowed 
rainwater to enter the roof structure. To rectify the issue, the roof covering needed to be re-
laid over the slope above flat 99. 
The report concluded that while the damage was caused by a failure to comply with NHBCs 
mandatory requirements, as the cost of the repairs wouldnt exceed the common parts 
minimum claim value, the claim wasnt covered by the policy. In the next steps section of 
the policy, it said that NHBC wouldnt take any further action in respect of the holes in the 
lobby ceiling made for investigations purposes as any repair would be further damaged by 
water ingress. 
With regard to the damage to Miss Ms flat, and the hole in her ceiling, NHBC said they were 
willing to cash settle the claim because any remedial works undertaken would need to be 
repeated unless the managing agent first resolved the issue with the roof. It was at this point 
that the progress of the claim stalled. The managing agent believed that the claim for the 
common parts ought to be covered by the warranty, and NHBC believed the responsibility 
for repairing the common parts rested with the managing agent. 
Miss M complained to NHBC about the lack of progress on her claim and on 23 May 2019, 
NHBC issued a final response letter to her, upholding the complaint in relation to the delay 
and offering a goodwill payment of £500. However, Miss M told us that she hadnt accepted 
the compensation because she was concerned it might have a negative impact on the 
resolution of her complaint. Miss M made a further complaint in January 2020, which NHBC 
didnt uphold, so in March 2020 she referred her complaint to our service. 
After carrying out a review of the complaint, our investigator issued his view upholding the 
complaint on 23 September 2021. He said he was satisfied that the claim Miss M had made 
wasnt linked to a previous claim of a similar nature. Rather, it was a new claim for internal 
damage to her flat, caused by a leak from the roof due to the way the Redland Cambrian 
slate roof covering had been installed in the vicinity of Miss Ms flat. 
He noted NHBC had accepted that the damage caused to Miss Ms flat was covered by the 
policy and should be repaired. However, NHBC considered that the managing agent need to 
repair the leaking roof before NHBC repaired Miss Ms flat.
Our investigator explained that in some circumstances, otherwise uninsured damage may 
have to be put right to ensure that the property repairs required to settle the claim are lasting 
and effective. In his view, this was the case with Miss Ms claim. He concluded that in order 
for NHBC to settle Miss Ms claim for damage to her flat in a way that would ensure a repair 
that was lasting and effective, theyd need to repair the part of the roof that was allowing a 
leak into Miss Ms flat, in addition to repairing the damage in her flat. 
With regard to the cause of the damage to Miss Ms flat, our investigator noted the cause of 
the ingress was known and the parties agreed it needed to be repaired by the re-laying of 
the Redland Cambrian slate roof covering in the vicinity of the point of ingress. As Miss Ms 
internal damage to her flat is covered by the policy, and the only way to insure the repair to 
her flat is lasting and effective, is to repair the roof, our investigator was satisfied it should be 
repaired as part of settling Miss Ms claim. However, as the minimum claim value wasnt met 
for the common parts claim, our investigator concluded that NHBC wasnt responsible for 
repairing the damage to the landing area outside Miss Ms flat. 
Miss M also told us about the distress and inconvenience shed sufferance as a result of the 
way the claim had been handled. Our investigator concluded that NHBC should pay Miss M 
£500 compensation for the impact on her of the delays in getting the damage fixed in her 
flat, and the stress shed suffered of having to live with a leak into the flat.
NHBC accepted our investigators view but Miss M did not. She felt that compensation in the 
region of £3,000 was merited. Our investigator issued a second view in which he increased 
the compensation to £750, but Miss M still felt that didnt go far enough to address the stress 
and difficulties shed been through, over a five-year period, from when she first started 
experiencing problems with water ingress into her flat. NHBC accepted the increased level of 
compensation, but as Miss M did not, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Claim for damage to Miss Ms flat caused by the ingress of water from the roof 
For the avoidance of doubt, I agree that dealing with the claim on the basis set out in the 
investigators view and summarised in the What happened section of this decision, above, 
is a fair and reasonable way to settle Miss Ms claim for damage to her flat. And its pleasing to see that NHBC have agreed to settle Miss Ms claim in this way. 
What remains for me to decide in this decision, is whether the sum of £750 awarded by our 
investigator is sufficient to compensate Miss M for the distress and inconvenience shes 
suffered as a result of the way NHBC have handled her claim.
In explaining the impact NHBCs actions have had on her, Miss M has mentioned a hospital 
stay she had in June 2018 and a five-year period during which her claim has been ongoing. 
However, I would first clarify that as Im only looking at the circumstances of the complaint 
from September 2018, it is a three-year, two-month period Im considering which starts after 
the hospital stay. I also note that the first claim (for damaged caused in 2015) was settled 
and £1,000 compensation was paid by NHBC to Miss M for inconvenience shed suffered in 
relation to the way that first claim had been settled. 
However, three years is not an insignificant period of time to live in a flat with a large hole in 
the ceiling (albeit covered by plastic) and water damage. Miss M also told us that her roof 
was stripped off during the two biggest storms in February 2020, which she says was the 
most stressful experience shed had. She also explained that shed suffered from increased 
chronic stress and anxiety as a result of the way her claim had been handled. Miss M added 
that the hole in her ceiling made it very difficult to keep her flat warm during the winter 
months, and the leak had caused her problems with her electricity. 
Compensation awarded by this service is meant to make up for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by unfair and unreasonable actions of an insurer. To determine an 
award amount, we look at what happened and take into account our guidance on 
compensation (published on our website) as well as what awards weve made on other 
complaints in similar circumstances. 
NHBC have confirmed that in addition to accepting our investigators recommendation that 
they pay £750 compensation to Miss M, the offer of £500 compensation made in 2019 is 
also still open for Miss M to accept. I think that shows NHBC genuinely accepts that it failed 
Miss M and that it has intended to do what it can to put that right. And taking everything into 
account, I think that £500 offered in 2019, together with the £750 recommended by our 
investigator is fairly and reasonably due to Miss M for the distress and inconvenience shes 
suffered during this time due to NHBCs failures. I therefore conclude that its fair and 
reasonable for NHBC to pay an award of compensation, totalling £1250 to Miss M, for the 
considerable upset, worry and disruption she has suffered over a sustained period. 
Putting things right
I require the National House-Building Council to:
settle Miss Ms claim, in accordance with the policy terms and conditions so as to 
achieve an effective and lasting repair to the damage within Miss Ms flat; and 
pay Miss M £1,250 compensation for her distress and inconvenience.
I make no other award against the National House-Building Council.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and make the awards detailed above.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 
Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman