DRN-2771743
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Lloyds Bank PLC made a payment to one of her credit cards using the 
wrong payment reference. She also says they didnt let her know theyd completed a 
payment to another credit card, so she ended up paying it twice. Finally, she complains 
about the way she was treated by branch staff  she says Lloyds allegation that she was 
verbally abusive is unfair.
What happened
In July 2020 Mrs L attended a Lloyds branch to arrange payments to two credit card 
accounts held with other providers  Ill refer to these as card B and card M.
After the cashier had made the requested payment to card B, she proceeded with the 
payment to card M (bank records show that these payments were completed less than two 
minutes apart). At this point Mrs L realised that the payment reference used for card B was 
out of date (shed recently been issued with a new card). Mrs L was unhappy about this, and 
a disagreement followed which resulted in Mrs L being asked to leave the branch.
The following day Lloyds advised Mrs L that if there was a repeat of what they described as 
verbal abuse, theyd close her account.
Later that month Mrs L attended a different Lloyds branch to make the payment to card M. 
She then obtained a statement and realised the payment to card M had already gone 
through on the day of the disagreement about the payment to card B. So, shed ended up 
paying card M twice.
Mrs L complained to Lloyds about what had happened in branch, but they didnt uphold her 
complaint. They said the cashier hadnt made any error.
What Mrs L told us
Mrs L told us that what happened in branch that day was the cashiers fault. She said she 
asked the cashier to correct the payment to card B, but she called the manager to kick me 
out and Lloyds sent me a letter stating that I verbally abused them. She said shed left the 
branch not knowing the payment to card M had been completed because she wasnt given a 
receipt.
Mrs L would like compensation for how Lloyds treated her. Shes said she was caused 
inconvenience because she had to make sure the payment to card B reached the correct 
account, and resolve the overpayment to card M. She said she panicked when she thought 
the payment to card B had gone astray and was lost. She thought shed get charged a late 
payment fee because the card B payment was due.
What Lloyds told us
Lloyds said Mrs L was given a chance to check the details before they finalised the payment 
to card B. They were able to show us a copy of the payment slip shed signed.
With regard to the card M payment, they explained that a receipt would usually only be 
generated if needed by the customer. Given what happened on the day of the disagreement 
they couldnt say whether a receipt had been given to Mrs L. But they said Mrs Ls account 
statement confirmed that the payment to card M had been made and she could have 
checked that via telephone or internet banking, or contacted the card M provider, before 
making the payment again.
Lloyds also said that when Mrs L realised the payment to card B had been made using her 
old card details, she became very angry and began shouting and being verbally abusive to 
all colleagues  she was asked to leave the premises and her complaint would be dealt with 
over the phone.
Overall, Lloyds didnt feel any error had been made or that compensation was appropriate.
Our investigators view
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Ls complaint. She said it was Mrs Ls responsibility to 
make sure the payment reference for the card B payment was correct, and the evidence 
suggested the cashier had given her an opportunity to do that. She also said she thought the 
cashier had acted reasonably when she advised Mrs L to raise the matter with the card B 
provider.
With regard to the card M payment the investigator accepted its unlikely Ms L received a 
receipt in the circumstances. But she didnt think Lloyds had made an error by processing 
the payment. And she thought Mrs L could have avoided making the payment twice if shed 
checked her statement.
The investigator also said that whilst she could understand why Mrs L had become upset, 
she hadnt seen any evidence that Lloyds had acted unfairly by asking her to leave the 
branch. She said staff had recorded that theyd found Mrs Ls behaviour unacceptable on the 
day and later during telephone calls. Although she didnt think Mrs L had intended to be 
intimidating, she thought it was more likely than not she had behaved angrily and raised her 
voice. So, she thought Lloyds had acted fairly, and in line with their policy, by asking her to 
leave and by sending her a letter warning her about her behaviour.
In response to the view, Mrs L said she hadnt even instructed Lloyds to make the payment 
to card M, so they took money out of her account without her permission. Mrs L also said 
she couldnt accept what the investigator had concluded about her treatment by Lloyds staff.
The investigator found it more likely than not Mrs L had authorised a payment to card M.
So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator and for broadly the same 
reasons. Ill explain why and, for ease of reference, set out my findings against the main 
points of Mrs Ls complaint.
The payment made to card B was made using the wrong payment reference
Lloyds have been able to show us a copy of the printed slip, signed by Mrs L, which included 
all the details for this transaction. This included the payment reference; a 16-digit card 
number. It was using these details that the cashier processed the payment. It was only after 
the cashier had completed the payment that Mrs L realised the payment reference was out 
of date. This was because shed received a new card with a different 16-digit card number. 
Whilst I can appreciate the anxiety that this caused Mrs L, because her payment for this card 
was due, and she was concerned that if it didnt reach the correct account shed be charged, 
I cant hold Lloyds responsible for the error. Nor can I say they should have resolved the 
problem in branch.
When Mrs L realised the payment reference wasnt accurate, the Faster Payment had 
already been sent, and these generally cant be recalled or reversed. I therefore think it was 
entirely appropriate for branch staff to advise Mrs L that the best thing to do  to ensure that 
the payment was credited to the correct account despite the changed card number  was to 
contact the card B provider.
I also think the payment was at low risk of going astray because the sort code and account 
number were correct and the payment reference, although out of date, was a card number 
associated with Mrs Ls card B account. In those circumstances, a request from Lloyds to 
return the funds might well have had the unintended effect of delaying the payment to the 
card B account.
Lloyds completed a payment to card M without letting Mrs L know/without her authorisation
Mrs Ls version of what happened about this payment has changed over time. Initially she 
told us she attended branch to make payments to both card B and card M. Later, in 
response to the investigators view, she said she hadnt authorised any payment to card M, 
so Lloyds had sent money out of her account without her permission.
Ive thought carefully about the card M payment and I note that Lloyds havent been able to 
find the printed slip for this payment like they have for the card B payment. This is 
disappointing given that the Faster Payment process document Ive seen includes the step 
Obtain the customers signature as the agreed authority on the printed slip, to agree the 
transaction details. But I dont think the absence of the printed slip means the payment to 
card M was unauthorised. On balance, Im still satisfied that Mrs L gave her consent to this 
payment. I say this because:
Mrs L has said the purpose of her branch visit was to make payments to both cards
Shes said her usual practice was to pay card B and card M at the same time every 
month
The payment made to card M was for the amount Mrs L has told us she intended to 
pay  the cashier wouldnt have known what amount Mrs L wanted to pay if she 
hadnt asked for the payment to be made
The payment to card M was processed within two minutes of the payment to card B, 
suggesting that Mrs L asked for both payments to be made at the same time
There would be no reason for a cashier to process a payment to a customers credit 
card account without a verbal or written instruction from that customerThat said, I accept, as the investigator did, that its likely Mrs L left the branch that day not 
certain this payment had been completed. The circumstances were such that she did not get 
a receipt. But that doesnt mean I think Lloyds did anything wrong here.
Lloyds processed the payment to card M in line with a request I find Mrs L made. If Mrs L 
was unsure whether this payment had been completed, I think it would have been 
reasonable for her to have checked her statement before attending another branch, later in 
July, and duplicating the payment. Ive seen evidence that Mrs L had an online banking 
facility which she used and that she knew how to get a mini-statement from an ATM. Mrs L 
says it shouldnt have been necessary for her to check her account; shes a busy person. 
However, I think this simple and quick check would have prevented the overpayment to card 
M. And I dont think it would be fair to hold Lloyds responsible for that overpayment.
Lloyds staff treated Mrs L unfairly on 21 July 2020 in that they wouldnt help her resolve the 
issue with the payment to card B, made her leave the branch and, later, alleged that shed 
been verbally abusive and threatened her with account closure
I recognise that what happened after Mrs L realised that the reference for the card B 
payment wasnt accurate caused Mrs L great upset and some embarrassment. Ive listened 
to what shes said, and I can hear that she was very worried her payment would be lost or 
that shed incur a late payment charge. With that worry in mind, when the cashier told Mrs L 
that the payment to card B couldnt be reversed, I can understand why she interpreted that 
response as unhelpful or a refusal to help. From that point there seems to have been a rapid 
breakdown in communication with Mrs L feeling blamed for what had happened, and Lloyds 
staff feeling verbally abused.
I dont think there is any evidence that Mrs L used foul language or swore at Lloyds staff. But 
I do think the evidence suggests its more likely than not she presented angrily and raised 
her voice. I say this because Ive heard how worried she was about the card B payment  
understandably this was not money she wanted to risk losing  and how frustrated she was 
that branch staff didnt meet her expectations by apologising and reversing it there and then.
I also think Lloyds records support their decision to ask Mrs L to leave the branch and then 
send her a letter warning her about her behaviour. Written two days after the branch visit, 
the banks contact notes summarise that Mrs L was verbally aggressive in branch and when 
telephoned the following day was not willing to speak with branch staff and was 
continuously shouting. Although I dont think Mrs L intended to make staff feel abused, her 
frustration and volume resulted in staff implementing their Dealing with verbal abuse 
process. This involved escalation to a senior colleague and then asking Mrs L to leave the 
branch.
Overall, I dont think that was an unreasonable thing to do in the circumstances. I also dont 
think the letter Lloyds sent Mrs L (warning that if there was a repeat incident, theyd give her 
notice to close her account) was unreasonable, considering what had happened in branch 
and the subsequent phone conversation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2021.
 Beth Wilcox
Ombudsman