DRN-3326780
The complaint
Mrs D has complained that the market value of her car as detailed by U K Insurance Limited 
(UKI) under her motor policy, following an accident wasnt enough bearing in mind the make 
and model of Mrs Ds car.
Mrs D has been represented by her son, Mr D. However, for ease of reference I shall just 
refer to Mrs D throughout.
What happened
Mrs D was involved in a quite a severe car accident on 6 November 2021. She made a claim 
to UKI and its engineer decided on 9 November 2021 that her car was a total loss. 
Initially UKI said the cars market value was £6,400. But Mrs D didnt think this was enough. 
So UKI looked at it again and increased the market value to £7,263. Mrs D said there were 
further conversations with UKIs engineer when he mentioned the value could be increased 
to £7,600. However, UKI said there was no evidence of this.
 
Mrs D remained unhappy with UKIs valuation of her car. She also raised other service 
issues which are being dealt with separately.  So, she brought her complaint to us. The 
investigator was of the view that UKIs valuation of Mrs Ds car was reasonable. Mrs D didnt 
agree so her complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
First, I do understand and appreciate that Mrs D will be very disappointed with my decision. 
Secondly, I want to reiterate that all Im dealing with is UKIs valuation of Mrs Ds car in this 
decision and that the other issues are being treated separately should Mrs D wish to pursue 
them. Also, I do understand how distressing this matter has been for Mrs D, more so given 
the severity of her accident, which must have been very frightening and upsetting. However 
obviously UKI werent involved with Mrs Ds accident, but nonetheless there is an element of 
distress consequently in having to deal with the subsequent claim, which is very standard in 
these issues and not at all pleasant for Mrs D either. But this is all from the fact that the 
accident sadly happened and that the claim must be made, rather than anything UKI did or 
didnt do, too, leaving aside the further service elements which Mrs D has complained about 
separately. In other words, there is always quite an inconvenience and upset in having to 
make a claim after an accident which causes upset and inconvenience too.
The service doesnt provide vehicle valuations, as were not motor engineers. What we do 
instead in complaints like this, is to assess whether UKI came to a reasonable decision in 
deciding the market valuation in accordance with the terms and conditions of the policy. 
Valuing a vehicle isnt an exact science however, as the market changes all the time too. As 
the investigator explained, our approach consequently is to ensure the insurer has regard to 
the valuations in the motor trade guides. This is because these guides record the actual 
selling prices rather than the advertised prices which can be of course subject to negotiation. 
Therefore, we take the view they provide the most reasonable vehicle valuation amounts.
In common with all other motor insurers, UKIs policy sets out the extent of its liability as a 
result of any claim made by the policyholder. The policy says the following under what is 
covered:
If your car is damaged, we have the option to:
 pay to repair the damage or repair the damage ourselves;
 replace what is lost or damaged, if this is more cost-effective than repairing it; or
 settle your claim by sending you a cheque or by bank transfer.
And the clause clearly explains that the valuations are calculated at the date of the accident 
not at the date the claim is settled as it says:
 We will not pay more than the market value of your car at the time of the loss (less 
any excess that may apply).
The policy defines the market value is defined as:
 the cost of replacing your car with another of the same make and model and of a 
similar age and condition at the time of the accident or loss.
UKI has shown us that it used the three main trade guides to ascertain the value of Mrs Ds 
car. The investigator also confirmed that she checked these guides to make sure the figures 
were correct bearing in mind the registration number and mileage of Mrs Ds car along with 
the date of her accident. The figures returned by the guides were £7,327, £7,078, and 
£6,400. Not unusually there was some discussion to ensure the correct specifications were 
used for Mrs Ds car. These valuations showed her car as being a manual whereas Mrs D 
said it was an automatic. In fact, it transpires that Mrs Ds car was classed as a semi-
automatic. So, Im satisfied UKI and indeed the trade guides were returning valuations for 
the correct specifications of Mrs Ds car with the correct transmission as semi-automatic cars 
are classed as manual transmission cars.
 
Mrs D said that she didnt think the figure which UKI offered of £7,263 was enough bearing 
in mind several adverts for similar cars which she produced. However, these adverts were 
not for cars with the same age or specification as Mrs Ds, so I dont find them persuasive. 
Also, they only quote the asking price not the eventual sale price, which again isnt as 
persuasive as the prices listed in the trade guides in my view. 
Mrs D also thought it was unfair that the valuations were dated the day of the accident 
instead of now, as second-hand cars had increased in value in the meantime. The policy 
term is clear that the extent of UKIs liability is the valuation at the time of the loss, and not 
after any protracted negotiation therefore I dont consider UKI did anything unfair using the 
date of the loss, as thats the same in every motor policy too. 
Our general approach is that if the insurers valuation of the car is in line with the trade 
guides (plus given here that Im satisfied UKI did use the right specifications for Mrs Ds car), 
then that valuation isnt unfair or unreasonable. That is the case with UKIs market valuation 
of Mrs Ds car in the sum of £7,263. That figure is higher than two of the guides and just under the third guide price. So, there is nothing to show me that UKI ought to have offered 
anything more.
Im aware Mrs D is of the view that UKIs engineer said he could increase the figure of 
£7,600. Im afraid theres no evidence of that within UKIs files. Further given the trade 
valuations theres nothing to show me why the value should have been increased to this 
figure, which would have above all three trade guides. Its also not usual to share vehicle 
valuation trade guides in the manner Mrs D requested and UKI has said it is classified 
information. So, I dont think UKI did anything wrong in not doing so.
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2022.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman