DRN-3139334
Complaint
Mr F has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) unfairly added interest, fees and 
charges to his overdraft when it ought to have realised that he was experiencing financial 
difficulty.
  
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought HSBC should have realised   
Mr Fs overdraft had become unsustainable for him by September 2017 and so it needed to 
refund all the interest, fees and charges it added to Mr Fs overdraft from this point. HSBC 
disagreed with our adjudicator. So the complaint was passed to an ombudsman.   
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I also think HSBC acted unfairly when it 
continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees from September 2017. 
By this point, HSBC would have seen that Mr F had been hardcore borrowing for a number 
of months. In other words, Mr Fs account remained persistently overdrawn for lengthy 
periods without returning to credit. Its clear Mr F was only crediting the account with 
amounts to cover the interest being added and avoiding unarranged overdraft fees. Its also 
worth noting that by this stage Mr F had already got in contact with HSBC to say he was 
struggling and HSBC said Mr F could ask for a review. But given the conduct of the account 
and Mr F was asking for help I think HSBC should have imposed a review and corrective 
action in September 2017. 
Ive considered HSBCs arguments regarding a credit in 2015. But I dont see how this is 
relevant to events some two years later. Equally, HSBC has also referred to Mr F making no 
attempt to repay his balance and that hed broken promises to do so. In my view, this was 
even more reason for HSBC to have realised that the facility had become unsustainable and 
that corrective action was required. 
Finally Ive also seen comments about Mr Fs salary in 2019. But while its fair to say that   
Mr Fs salary on the common financial statement he provided in 2019 was significantly 
above average, its also clear he had extensive debts to a number of creditors  many of 
them high-cost lenders. The sheer amount owed and the fact Mr F went into a debt 
management plan suggests to me that his difficulties had been ongoing for sometime. And 
Im satisfied this is further evidence of Mr F having been in financial difficulty at the time he 
asked HSBC for help.   
Overall I think that by September 2017 HSBC should have realised that Mr F was struggling, 
stopped providing the overdraft on the same terms and treated Mr F with forbearance rather 
than adding even more fees and charges on the overdraft. 
As HSBC didnt react to what it was told as well as Mr Fs overdraft usage and instead 
continued charging in the same way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably towards him. 
And as this led to Mr F paying additional interest, fees and charges at a when he was 
already experiencing difficulty, Im satisfied that he lost out as a result of HSBC failing to act 
fairly and reasonably towards him. So HSBC needs to put things right.
  
Fair compensation  what HSBC needs to do to putting things right for Mr F
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Fs complaint for HSBC to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Fs overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges applied 
to it from September 2017 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made HSBC should contact Mr F to arrange a suitable repayment plan for 
this. If HSBC considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Fs 
credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the 
process of taking corrective action on the accounts from September 2017.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr F along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then HSBC 
should remove any adverse information from Mr Fs credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must give 
Mr F a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, upholding Mr Fs complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman