DRN-4127791
The complaint
Mrs R has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano) rejected her claim against it under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
Mrs R bought a solar panel (the system) for her home in 2019. The purchase was funded 
by a loan from Ikano, and that business is therefore liable for the misrepresentations and/or 
breach of contract of the supplier under the relevant legislation. In this case, Mrs R alleges 
that the supplier misled Mrs R into believing that the panels would be self-funding.
Mrs Rs complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She thought that the 
documents from the time of sale (which Mrs R signed) made it clear that the benefits of the 
solar panel system would not cover the purchase price and therefore the system would not 
be immediately self-funding in the way Mrs R says she was led to believe. So, the 
investigator did not think a misrepresentation had taken place.
Mrs R disagreed. She said (through her representatives): 
That the sale was conducted based on verbal representations made by the supplier 
and Mrs R should not have to check the paperwork for contradictions between what 
was said and what was written in the documentation. 
That there was no evidence the salesperson went through the paperwork with Mrs R, 
and she did not get a chance to independently review the paperwork.
There were two quotation documents, but while the second one was sent to Mrs R, 
she did not see or sign it and was unaware why the two documents are different. 
She didnt receive a copy of the paperwork so was not aware of the discrepancies. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved by our investigator, Ive been asked to make a
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56, section 75 and section 140 of the Act. 
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mrs R paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Ikano agrees that section 75 
applies to this transaction. This means that Mrs R could claim against Ikano, the creditor, for 
any misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier in the same way she could have 
claimed against the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is 
fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mrs R and 
the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by the supplier as an agent of Ikano. And 
section 140A is about unequal relationships between the parties to a credit agreement.
For the purpose of this decision, Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for broadly the same reasons as those 
explained by the investigator, I do not uphold this complaint.
Both Ikano and Mrs R have provided us with a range of documents from the time of sale, 
and Mrs R has also provided her testimony about what she recalls from the time of sale. Im 
satisfied that Mrs R wouldve seen these at the time of sale, as she has signed the 
documents  so Ive considered them as well as her testimony.
Mrs Rs fixed sum loan agreement sets out the total cost of the system (£12,000), as well as 
the total cost including finance charges (£17,237.40), the term of her loan 120 months (i.e. 
10 years), and her monthly payment of £143.65. This was signed by Mrs R on the 27 June 
2019. I also think its unlikely that Mrs R would agree to take out a loan for over £17,000 
without considering the details related to her finance agreement such as the term of the loan 
etc. 
Her quote set out her first-year benefit of £862.90  this was signed on 2 July 2019 which I 
understand was signed during a second visit by the supplier to survey Mrs Rs roof. 
But on the 2 July 2019, Mrs R also signed a validation sheet which again repeated her 
finance costs including the cash price, the total cost including finance charges, the term of 
her loan and monthly payment. 
        
Mrs R has signed each one of the documents mentioned above, albeit over two meetings. 
But I think it would have been clear to her what the system cost, and what benefit the system 
was likely to produce in year one. The year one benefit is not hidden away but clearly 
displayed. Without doing any calculations, I think its apparent to repay around £17,000 over 
10 years, Mrs R would need the system benefit to be at least £1,700 a year to cover the full 
cost of the system. This is almost double the first-year benefit set out for her in her quote. 
And of course, 12 payments of £143 is significantly more than £862. 
Sales documentation usually reflect the discussions that the sales advisors had with 
consumers during the sale. And while I understand the loan agreement was signed on a 
different day to the quote, the validation sheet and the quote were signed on the same day, 
so Mrs R would have seen the finance charges (for a second time) at the same time as her 
quote. 
Overall, I think its clear that the solar panels would not be self-funding in the way Mrs R 
says she was told they would be. If Mrs R had been told something different during the 
original meeting, on being asked to sign the documents on 2 July 2019, I would have 
expected her to have questioned what she had been told. Ive seen no evidence that she 
did, so I think that suggests that the document most likely did not contradict Mrs Rs 
understanding, at that time. 
I understand Mrs R was sent a second quote on 9 July 2019  which she didnt sign and 
shes unaware why the figures are slightly different. As Mrs R says she didnt see this 
document when she signed the other documents, and agreed to purchase the system, I 
dont think shes relied on it. And even if she did, on this document the first-year benefit is 
only marginally different at £874.39. This would also similarly show quite clearly that the 
system would not be self-funding. 
While Ive carefully considered Mrs Rs testimony, I find the documents from the time of sale 
to be more persuasive in terms of what information she was likely given at the time of sale. 
So, on balance, I think the evidence suggests that it is unlikely there was a 
misrepresentation that would enable me to uphold this complaint.
Ive also gone on to consider whether a court may conclude that there existed an unfair 
relationship under section 140A the Act. 
A sufficient inequality of knowledge and understanding is considered a classic source of 
unfairness in a relationship between a creditor and a consumer. Ikano has confirmed that it 
paid no commission to the supplier and, considering that I havent found any 
misrepresentation, I think a court is unlikely to conclude that there is an unfair relationship 
under section 140.
Other issues 
Mrs R says that sufficient credit checks werent carried out and she informed Ikano that her 
financial circumstances might change in the near future. She doesnt feel Ikano fully 
assessed her affordability. Ikano says it did carry out sufficient checks and also went through 
her income and expenditure with her. If shed informed them of any future plans than it would 
have taken this into account before agreeing to lend to her  but its notes show no 
discussion took place. It also looks like Mrs R has maintained her payments following the 
sale. So, Im satisfied the loan was affordable at the time it was granted to her. 
Mrs R also says she suffered some problems following the installation of the system with her 
heating control, and the removal of scaffolding  but it looks like these issues were resolved 
by the supplier without any additional cost. 
Mrs R was also disappointed to find out that a referral commission she was paid was only 
£250 rather than £500 the sales advisor told her about. The sales advisor was unaware the 
commission levels were different depending on whether systems were purchased with or 
without finance. I understand that this mustve been disappointing for Mrs R, but even if the 
sales advisor informed her of the correct amounts, Mrs R would only have been entitled to 
£250 which she received. So, I dont think theres anything Ikano needs to do about this now. 
Mrs R also confirmed while she was quoted for 15 panels, the suppliers were able to fit 16 
panels on her roof which they confirmed to her during the roof survey. But, as set out by our 
investigator, having an extra panel has not caused Mrs R any financial loss and it looks like 
she was aware that shed be getting an extra panel before it was installed. So, I dont think 
Ikano needs to do anything about this now. 
So, while Ive thought carefully about these concerns, I dont uphold her complaint for these 
reasons. Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by the supplier that induced 
Mrs R to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold 
this complaint. So, I dont think Ikano declining this claim was unfair. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman