DRN-1980087
The complaint
Miss S complains that Sytner Group Ltd didnt fully inform her of the consequences of paying 
off her finance agreement early.
What happened
On 16 August 2019 Miss S acquired a car funded by a hire purchase agreement. The term 
was 48 months and the monthly sum due was £112.22. The dealer was offering two years 
free servicing with this particular form of finance. Miss S thought the interest rate was unduly 
high and wished to pay off the finance shortly after taking it out.
Miss S says she asked if there were any penalties when settling the loan early and was told 
there would be a "small amount of interest" to be paid. When she settled the finance on 14th 
November 2019, she was charged 58 days interest for settling early.
Prior to settlement she was given a payment schedule which detailed your monthly 
payments of £112.22, but how these reduced the loan wasnt apparent. Miss S says she 
asked the dealer if the interest was front loaded but he was unable to say. None of the 
documents given to Miss S explained that she would be charged 58 days interest if she 
settled early. It simply said that if she wished to settle early a settlement figure could be 
requested, and how far into the agreement would determine the amount left to pay.
She complained to Sytner who sold the car and acted as broker for the finance deal. It 
rejected her complaint and said she had been given details of the agreement a few days 
before signing it and had sufficient time to consider her options. It also said she had signed a 
detailed list of aspects of the agreement to say these had been explained to her. It 
mentioned the right of withdrawal terms if she had ended the agreement within 14 days. 
It also explained that the agreement is regulated by the Consumer Credit Act 1974 and all 
settlement figures must be calculated in line with the Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) 
Regulations 2004. It concluded that Miss S had been given sufficient information to allow her 
to make an informed decision and it was up to her to ensure it was the right type of finance 
for her.
Miss S remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service where it was considered 
by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld.
She undertook further investigations and established that Miss S had asked about how much 
it would cost to settle the finance early. She had been given the recommended explanation 
and told that a specific figure could not be given as it would depend on when the finance is 
settled. The recommended explanation stated:
All customers with a regulated credit agreement have a right to settle their account early. 
The settlement figure is calculated using the rules set out in the Consumer Credit (Early 
Settlement) Regulations 2004, which is used by all creditors for regulated credit agreements. 
This rule states that the settlement figure should be calculated assuming a settlement date 
which is 28 days after the date on which the customer requests a settlement figure or a later date if one is specified by the customer. Audi Financial Services (UK) Limited also adds one 
months further interest to give the final settlement figure as allowed by the relevant 
legislation. 
Our investigator thought this made it clear that in addition to 28 days the finance provider 
would add one month's further interest. She said that had Miss S given a date on which she 
intended to pay off the agreement the broker would have been in a position to give her a 
clear answer. 
Miss S had also complained that she wasnt told the agreement was front loaded. Our 
investigator said a balance had to be struck as to how much detail was provided and she 
satisfied that enough information was provided to enable Miss S to make an informed 
decision.
She also addressed the inconsistency regarding the annual mileage. The Demands and 
Needs questionnaire and statement" showed the anticipated annual mileage was10,000, but 
the agreement was for 5,000 miles. The business has said this had been used to reduce the 
initial payments and, in any event, this hadnt become an issue.
Miss S didnt agree with our investigator and said that she didnt think 58 days worth of 
interest was a small amount and the use of that term was misleading. She also thought it 
wasnt necessary for her to have given a date for settlement for the business to have told her 
about the 58-day interest charge. The payment schedule hadnt made it clear the loan was 
front loaded.
She had been encouraged into taking out the agreement with the offer of two free services, 
but before doing so she had asked two questions, how much penalty for an early settlement 
and was the interest front loaded? She didnt think the answer to the first was accurate and 
the second hadnt been answered. She said if she had been given full and accurate 
information she may have concluded that the offer of two free services wasnt sufficient for 
her to take the finance offered. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have a great deal of sympathy with Miss S, but after due consideration I have concluded I 
cannot uphold her complaint. I will explain why.
The provision of the finance was not an advised sale and the decision to take it was that of 
Miss S. That means the broker provided information about the options and it was up to Miss 
S to decide what to do. 
She asked two specific questions and these were answered. On the matter of front loading 
the broker said they didnt know and that was a reasonable response and allowed Miss S the 
opportunity to explore that issue further before committing herself to the agreement. Of 
course, it would have been preferable if the broker did know the answer to the question, but 
he answered honestly and allowed for the matter to be further investigated, if it was 
important.
On the question of the early termination charge the answer wasnt specific. As Miss S has 
said the term used was subjective and open to interpretation. In her eyes the sum charged 
wasnt a small amount but taken in the context of the interest chargeable if the agreement 
was taken to term which would have been some £5,000 then it could be regarded as a small sum. What Miss S wanted to do was a little unusual and I suspect she was given 
mainstream answers. 
Ultimately the decision was hers and it was her responsibility to carry out due diligence. I can 
see that she feels that she did so and the broker failed to give her the clarity to which she 
was entitled. I agree it would have been better had the broker had all the information 
available, but he didnt, and Miss S proceeded with the agreement.
I have to consider if the business did anything wrong. I cannot say that its description of the 
early termination charge was clearly misleading and it was honest about not knowing about 
the front loading. As such I cannot safely conclude that it has done anything wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 September 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman