DRN-3296868
The complaint
Miss B is unhappy with the amount BUPA Insurance Limited has offered by way of a 
premium rebate.
What happened
Miss B has had the benefit of medical insurance, underwritten by BUPA, for many years. 
The policy was renewed for one year in May 2019, and again in May 2020.
Due to the unusual and unprecedented circumstances of the Covid-19 global pandemic, and
the pressure this was putting on the NHS, medical facilities ordinarily used for privately
funded treatment were utilised by the NHS for treatment. As a result, BUPA says it had to
suspend routine and non-urgent treatments.
Shortly before this happened, in early 2020, Miss B underwent a knee replacement. And she 
says because she had severe back pain, she couldnt do the post-operative knee exercises 
without the assistance of a physiotherapist. She had also seen a back surgeon about the 
pain shed been experiencing and had been prescribed medication. A follow-up appointment 
to see the back surgeon had been arranged for April 2020. However, that appointment didnt 
go ahead due to medical facilities temporarily being utilised for NHS treatment. 
Miss B underwent surgery for a different medical issue in September 2020 and as such she 
didnt end up having a back operation until many months later. She says if shed been able 
to see the back surgeon in April 2020, its likely that the operation wouldve been scheduled 
for May 2020. And she wouldve experienced less pain over a shorter period of time. 
Throughout the time when medical facilities were being utilised by the NHS due to the 
pandemic  affecting BUPAs ability to provide a full range of services  Miss B continued to 
pay her insurance premiums. And she renewed her policy. 
At the time, BUPA said it was committed to pass back any exceptional financial benefit it
ultimately received because of Covid-19 to its UK health insurance customers  either by
way of a rebate or other appropriate means (BUPAs pledge). 
BUPA wrote to Miss B in March 2021 confirming that it had undertaken a review as part of 
BUPAs pledge. As a result, Miss B was told shed receive a rebate equivalent to one 
months premium at some point between April and July 2021, if eligible. 
Miss B doesnt think a rebate equivalent to one months premium is fair given the 
circumstances she found herself in. She says she unnecessarily experienced prolonged 
physical pain which was distressing for her. She says BUPA should be reimbursing her four 
months premiums at the very least.
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Bs complaint. As Miss B disagrees her complaint has 
been passed to me consider everything afresh and decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
At the outset, BUPA said that if it transpired that there was a reduction in the claims it paid 
for customers overall, it would pass back to customers any exceptional financial benefit it 
has made arising as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. I think BUPAs published course of 
action in or around April 2020 was fair and reasonable. The effects of the pandemic were still 
ongoing, and the impact was still uncertain. 
From what Ive seen, Im satisfied that there had been an overall reduction in the claims 
made on BUPAs private medical insurance policies. However, BUPA says that non-urgent 
treatments - deferred in the earlier stages of the pandemic - wouldve still needed to have 
been delivered and funded by BUPA at a later date, once private facilities were no longer 
needed by the NHS to treat patients. I accept what it says about that.
Miss B isnt happy with BUPAs offer to reimburse her for one months premium, if eligible - 
communicated to her in March 2021. And from her perspective, I can understand why. 
However, Im satisfied that the basis of the offer made is to represent any exceptional 
financial benefit made by BUPA as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. And I dont think the 
way in which the rebate has been calculated leads to an unfair or unreasonable result for 
Miss B in this case.  
BUPA commissioned a third party to assure that the way in which it shares out the rebate is 
fair and reasonable across eligible UK health insurance customers and it was satisfied with 
its intended course of action. That third party is independent of BUPA. Its reflected on 
BUPAs website:
We have independently reviewed BUPAs proposed approach to allocating its rebate
fund between its eligible UK health insurance customers. We recognise that finding
the right balance between fairness, simplicity and BUPAs desire to act promptly in
distributing the rebate fund is challenging, and that no single approach will fully
satisfy all stakeholders. We are satisfied that BUPAs proposed approach to
allocating its rebate fund between its eligible UK health insurance customers is
reasonable and strikes an equitable balance between these objectives.
Im also conscious that BUPA has committed to carry out a final review in due course to
ensure it has met BUPAs pledge. I think thats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of
this complaint given that Covid-19 is still prevalent, and its full impact hasnt been fully 
determined.
When determining this case, Id like to assure Miss B that I have carefully considered her 
personal circumstances and the comments shes made. 
Im very sorry to hear of the health issues she was experiencing in 2020, going into 2021, 
and I appreciate what a worrying and distressing time this mustve been for her. I can also 
understand why she felt that she couldnt cancel the policy  or felt that she had to renew it. 
Particularly given her pre-existing medical conditions which required continuing treatment 
and how this mightve impacted her taking out another private medical insurance policy 
which suited her needs once private facilities were once again available for more routine 
private treatment. However, Im not persuaded that it would be fair and reasonable for BUPA to make an 
exception for her in this particular case and provide a rebate in excess of one months 
premium to her.
I accept that as private medical facilities were taken over by the NHS to support the NHSs 
response to the pandemic, this temporarily affected BUPAs ability to provide the full range 
of services it would usually be able to offer customers under their particular medical 
insurance policies  including Miss B. And that she says treatment she needed was 
therefore delayed. I appreciate this wasnt her fault. However, this was due to the 
unprecedented and unforeseen impact of Covid-19 pandemic and, Im satisfied, was also 
outside of BUPAs of control. And I can see that Miss B had been able to utilise her policy 
during the months leading up to private facilities being taken over the NHS in March 2020. 
And within the months after private facilities were being used for private treatment again. So, 
within the periods of insurance covered by the policy she had the benefit of.  
Although routine and non-urgent treatments may have been deferred or delayed as a result 
of the pandemic, from what I know, Im satisfied BUPA did put in place other benefits to 
support its customers at this time. That included, where possible, arranging remote 
consultations with appropriate medical professionals and offering access to a virtual GP. So, 
I think Miss Bs policy was capable of benefitting her during this time even if certain 
appointments and treatment were delayed. 
Ive also taken into account what Miss B says about providers of holiday lets reimbursing 
customers if they were unable to use the accommodation due to the pandemic. Even if I 
accepted that routinely did happen, an insurance policy operates differently to holiday 
bookings. And for the reasons Ive already set out above, I think she was still capable of 
benefitting from the policy even though certain treatments mightve been restricted or 
delayed at that time.
My final decision
I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 June 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman