DRN-3028929
complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a credit 
card in 2003. Mr W says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him the PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint (which includes Mr Ws 
circumstances at the time as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and exclusions) 
arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator didnt think we should uphold the mis-sale complaint. However, they thought 
Capital Ones subsequent offer to pay back some of the cost of the PPI, because of the non-
disclosure of high commission and profit share, was fair in the circumstances.
Mr Ws representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ws. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Ws complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive too decided Capital One should have 
disclosed the commission it received - but that Capital Ones subsequent offer to refund 
some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. 
Ive summarised my reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
Capital One says its records show the PPI was sold to Mr W over the internet. Mr W also 
says this. Capital One sent us an example of the type of web-based form it thinks Mr W 
would have used during the online credit card application back in 2003. It says he would 
have been presented with a yes / no choice about having PPI with his new card. It says he 
would have had to choose one of the two options to be able to continue his way through to 
the next stage of the application and that he must have chosen the yes option on the 
screen for PPI to be added.
Theres no dispute Mr W was sold PPI. So I think hed have selected the yes option and 
then also started to see the PPI charges appearing on his monthly statements over quite a 
long period of time. I also think Mr W would have been sent a welcome letter explaining the 
PPI because Ive seen other very similar cases where this was done. 
So, on this basis I think its much more likely Mr W asked for the cover to be added and 
would have been able to see it was optional. I think if he hadnt agreed, he would have 
wanted to know what the letter was for and why the charges were occurring. On balance, I 
think he probably agreed to the PPI. 
This wasnt an advised sale as Mr W would have completed the application himself and in 
his own time. And so it was for Mr W to decide for himself what he wanted to do. Capital One 
had a responsibility to provide clear information to allow him to make that decision.
Its certainly possible Capital One could have explained the policy in more detail than it did, 
although I can see there were some links about the price and other key features of the PPI. 
So I think Mr W probably had enough information to decide what he wanted to do. Even if 
I accept more could have been explained by Capital One, I dont think this makes any 
difference to my decision.
This is because the cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr W, for example he wasnt 
affected by the significant exclusions on or limits to the cover. So I dont think the policy was 
too dissimilar to what he reasonably thought he was buying from the information he was 
most likely given at the point of sale.
I see there were some additional policy rules about the cover for back problems, but I have 
seen nothing to suggest that these would have mattered too much to Mr W in his situation. I 
also doubt he would have expected to claim for a back problem without first providing at 
least some evidence, which is what the rules required. Overall, I think Mr W was eligible for 
the cover and not caught by any of the main exclusions we tend to see in these types of 
policy. The cost of the cover seems affordable for him and the PPI would have paid off 10% 
of his outstanding credit card balance each month for up to a year if hed needed to claim. 
Looking at Mr Ws job and general circumstances, I think this would have been useful.
Mr Ws representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant Capital One should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mr Ws representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of his individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Ws particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means Capital One doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
non-disclosure of commissionAs I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Capital One should have disclosed the commission it received 
and that Capital Ones offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the 
unfairness caused is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Capital One didnt tell Mr W about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this 
case. So taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Capital One and Mr W was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 
because Capital One didnt tell him about the high levels of commission and profit share 
in this case 
I dont think Capital One acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr W because it 
failed to disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mr Ws representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on his complaint. In summary they have said Mr W should get back all 
the money he paid for the policy because: Capital One failed to tell Mr W about the high 
commission and profit-share rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and 
exclusions on cover. Because they say that meant the policy was poor value, I should find 
that Mr W wouldnt have taken out the policy had they known about the level of commission 
and he should receive a refund of all the premiums he paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a 
consumer would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; 
and
- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge 
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance 
about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
Mr W in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Capital One not disclosing the high 
level of commission to him before he purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mr Ws representative suggests, driven to conclude that he wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for Capital Ones failure to disclose the level of commission for 
the reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for Capital One to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance 
and return some of the money Mr W paid for his PPI policy. I consider this fairly removes the 
source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Mr W with the policy Ive concluded above 
he would still have taken out if Capital One had done everything it should have done  but 
with lower commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that Capital Ones offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the commission 
and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mr Ws complaint or make any award in 
favour of him for this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that Capital 
One (Europe) plc should pay Mr W an amount equivalent to the commission and profit share 
paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable) if it 
hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 Michael Campbell
Ombudsman