DRN-2223712
The complaint
Mrs G complains on behalf of the late Mr Gs Estate. 
She says Scottish Equitable Plc (the business) failed to notify Mr G that his life cover  
following medical underwriting  had been cancelled.
Shes being assisted by a solicitors firm. 
What happened
In December 2012, Mr G was advised (by a third-party seller) to take out life cover with the 
business. He was sold a policy with a £85,927 sum assured  costing £42 a month  for a 
term of 10 years. 
The policy began as an immediate cover facility, which meant that cover would be offered  
for the first 60 days whilst the routine medical underwriting took place. 
Based on Mr Gs answers, the business sought additional medical evidence from his GP. 
After reviewing the information, it found that it couldnt provide cover. In a letter dated 3 
January 2013, the business notified the third-party seller of its decision. 
On 7 February 2017, some four/five years after the policy was applied for, Mr G sadly 
passed away, and Mrs G later found out that the policy had been cancelled. She says had 
Mr G been notified of the business decision in 2012, he couldve obtained cover elsewhere.  
In a final response letter dated 19 April 2017, the business said that although it didnt write to 
Mr G, it did write to his adviser  the third-party seller  at the time, and it was for them to 
pass on the information to him. It also says that Mr G shouldve noticed that the monthly 
premiums due werent being collected, suggesting that he didnt have cover. 
Unhappy with the business response, Mrs G recently referred her complaint to our service. 
The business has consented for us to consider the merits of this complaint. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought the business shouldve also 
written to Mr G. However, she cant now recommend the business pay Mrs G any 
compensation  by way of distress and inconvenience  because as representative shes not 
entitled to any.  
The investigator also cant say the business has done anything wrong by cancelling the 
policy based on the information it received form Mr Gs GP. She satisfied the business made 
clear that it reserved the right to cancel or amend the terms of the policy following its 
underwriting assessment. In this instance it hasnt done anything wrong. 
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion, for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I think the business probably shouldve written 
to Mr G in January 2013, to notify him that his policy had been cancelled, however I note it 
did write to his adviser at the time. That notwithstanding, I dont think the business has done 
anything wrong by cancelling the policy based on the information it received from Mr Gs GP. 
But before I explain why, I think its important for me to recognise Mrs Gs strength of feeling 
about this matter. Im also sorry for the loss of her husband in 2017, I appreciate it must be 
difficult for her. 
Mrs G has provided detailed submissions to support her complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully. However, I hope she wont take the fact my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by her and the business, and reach what I think is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation 
and best industry practice, but Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, based on the 
information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
In this instance, on balance I think the business shouldve written to Mr G, as the applicant, 
to let him know that it cancelled his policy. I note that at the time the business wrote to the 
adviser responsible for the sale of the policy, but Mr G never received this news. But I dont 
think the failure to write to Mr G directly means that the business should pay the amount Mr 
G wouldve got if the policy hadnt been cancelled for the reasons I have set out below.
Whether or not his adviser is responsible for any wrong doing, isnt what Im considering in 
this decision, Im only considering what the business has done. Im also aware that theres a 
separate complaint against the adviser, so Im unable to comment any further. 
I note the points made by the business about the lack of payments being collected from Mr 
G. So, in the circumstances I think he ought reasonably to have been aware that he wasnt 
paying for life cover, and therefore the policy probably wasnt in place even though he wasnt 
specifically told this by the business. I dont think Mr G wouldve expected to receive life 
cover for free. 
Im also aware that the business made clear in its application process that it reserves the 
right to cancel the policy based on information it receives during the medical and financial 
underwriting.  In a document to Mr G, I note the business said:
Weve commenced cover from the date given above on the terms set out overleaf without 
having carried out our full assessment We started the assessment and underwriting 
procedures when we received your application
If during the medical and financial underwriting process we discover something which affects 
our assessment of the risk, then we reserve the right to terminate or amend the terms of the 
policy.I agree with the investigator that this also shouldve put Mr G on notice that the policy might 
not be accepted just because he applied for it, so coupled with his premiums not being 
collected, I think he ought reasonably to have made further enquires with the business. 
I appreciate the point made by Mrs G about the opportunity to get cover with a different 
provider, but even if Mr G had been notified sooner  that his application for life cover had 
been denied on medical grounds  I cant safely say that he definitely couldve obtained 
cover elsewhere, or if he did, the terms under which he wouldve got cover. Therefore, I cant 
say that the business should be responsible for any cover Mr G mightve got elsewhere.  
For the record, I dont think the business was wrong to decline cover on the basis of the 
information it received from Mr Gs GP. I note the business says that there are some 
questions that shouldve been answered differently, in the circumstances Im unable to 
disagree. 
I note that although Mr G answered that he wasnt a smoker, it was noted by the investigator 
from his medical notes that in March 2010 and November 2011 that he was smoking 20 a 
day. The business maintains that this alone is a reason to decline cover. Mr G also 
answered no to the question asking him if he ever had cancer, tumour, Hodgkins disease, 
lymphoma or leukaemia, but the business says he shouldve answered yes, as his GP notes 
mention Lymphoma NOS from October 2007. 
Even if I was to consider making a small payment for any distress and inconvenience 
caused by the business not writing to Mr G directly, this wouldve been payable him, and he 
is sadly not with us. I dont think Mrs G, as the representative of his estate, is eligible for any 
compensation in this instance as she is not the complainant.  
I appreciate Mrs G will be very unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. Furthermore, I realise my decision isnt what she wants to hear. Whilst I 
appreciate her frustration, in the circumstances Im unable to uphold this complaint and give 
her what she wants. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint and I make and award.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr G 
to accept or reject my decision before 19 November 2020.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman