DRN-2516598
The complaint
Mrs C complains about the quality of the car supplied to her by Ald Automotive Limited 
trading as Lombard Vehicle Solutions (AAL) under a finance agreement.
 
What happened
In November 2018 Mrs C entered into what AAL calls a credit sale agreement for a car. The 
car was brand-new when supplied.
 
Mrs C tells us the car started to have problems from December 2019. She also tells us that 
between December 2019 and March 2020 she was back and forth to the dealership, on ten 
separate occasions taking the car for various repairs. In particular, some of the repairs were 
repeat repairs to the Diesel Particulate Filter (DPF). Moreover, she had two visits from 
specialist technicians too, in this same period of time. 
All the problems that occurred during this time were fixed under warranty, however Mrs C 
indicates she has lost all faith in the car. Moreover, she thinks some of the problems are 
likely to reoccur again, so any fix for these issues will only be temporary. As a result, she 
wants to hand the car back and walk away.
 
In addition, on a regular basis, Mrs C drives long distances by herself for work. This 
commute takes her onto isolated roads. The worry that she might break down in a lowly 
populated area, as a lone female, causes her concerns. Moreover, Mrs Cs very specific 
family circumstances also mean that she needs access to a dependable private vehicle in 
order to support the needs of her family. For all of these reasons it is particularly important to 
Mrs C that she has a reliable car.
In any event, Mrs C indicates that when the problems first started to crop up she wanted to 
reject the car outright. However, the dealership and or AAL suggested she could not take 
this option, it was only on this basis that she continued down the repair route.
AALs stance is that the car did have some issues, but they have now been resolved. Its 
understanding was that Mrs C was equally happy with a repair or rejection. Since the car has 
now been repaired and is running fine and likely to remain that way (in its opinion) it has 
nothing further to do. However, since Mrs C asked it for a settlement figure to end her 
agreement early it provided her with one. It did agree though, to refund one months 
repayment, but it appears this was a goodwill gesture rather than any acknowledgment of 
being at fault.
Dissatisfied with this response Mrs C came to our service.
Once Mrs Cs complaint was with us, she let us know that a problem with the DPF that had 
been repaired before, had re-appeared again, this despite the original DPF having been 
replaced.
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Cs complaint. Our investigator did not think AAL 
had acted as it should have done, and as a result she recommended upholding Mrs Cs 
complaint. In summary, our investigators view was that the car was not of satisfactory 
quality when supplied by AAL to Mrs C. Further, AAL had to take responsibility for this. On 
this basis our investigator recommended that AAL should end the agreement and accept the 
rejection of the car and collect it, at no cost to Mrs C. Our investigator also recommended 
that AAL refund Mrs Cs deposit. Further she recommended a refund of some of the 
repayments Mrs C made during one period of time, and a percentage of her repayments 
made during a different period of time. Plus, our investigator recommended AAL pay interest 
on these refunds. Finally, our investigator recommended that AAL pay Mrs C £250 for 
distress and inconvenience and remove any negative information it might have asked to be 
registered on Mrs Cs credit file.
Mrs C accepted our investigators recommendation, but, AAL did not. In short AAL, rejected 
our recommendation on the basis that the consumer used the car for the first 15 months 
without problem. It suggested when the problems arose the dealership sorted it all out via 
the warranty, which is what it, AAL would expect the dealership to do. It reiterated its stance 
that the car is performing just fine now so it is all done and dusted. It didnt agree that the 
refunds were proportionate. It pointed out that any car can develop problems and in its 
opinion by the time Mrs C complained she had already lost her statutory rights to reject the 
car.
AAL asked that an ombudsman take a fresh look at Mrs Cs complaint.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
AAL both provided finance to Mrs C and supplied her with a car. The finance agreement that 
AAL used is a regulated finance agreement and this service is therefore able to look at this 
agreement. Moreover, AAL supplied the car in the course of its business to a consumer, AAL 
has obligations towards Mrs C under relevant consumer regulation, in particular the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA).
One of the core obligations that AAL has is to provide a car that is of satisfactory quality. In 
particular the CRA says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory considering any description of the 
goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. That being so it seems likely that in a 
case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age of the car, at the time of supply and the vehicles history.
Mrs Cs car was brand-new as I have already mentioned, it had a cash price of around 
£30,000 and had no previous owners. In these circumstances, a reasonable person might 
have expected the car to run without any problems for a considerable period of time. I say 
this all the more so when I take on board that durability can also be an aspect of satisfactory 
quality, I mention this because AAL seems to suggest that in these circumstances Mrs C 
was unreasonable to expect that her car would remain fault free after 15 months. I disagree. 
It would not be reasonable to expect components of the car to continue forever, but after 
only 15 months, I would not expect key components of a brand-new relatively expensive car, 
such as the DPF to malfunction and continue to fail even after repairs. Im persuaded the car 
experienced these issues because it was not of satisfactory quality.In any event, it does not appear that AAL is disputing any of the problems that Mrs C had 
variously with the DPF, the balance shaft, the EGR cooler, and the engine management light 
coming on and oil depletion. Nor is it denying these were manufacturing faults. Nor is it 
saying that the same faults did not keep on coming up, in particular with the DPF. Rather, it 
merely suggests that such faults were par for the course and something that should be dealt 
with under warranty. But that is not what the law says, it says the car should be of 
satisfactory quality, it does not say, that if there are inherent faults with a car that thereby 
make the car not of satisfactory quality, it is good enough that the consumer can rely on a 
warranty to get the problem fixed. For these reasons also, I think it is both fair and 
reasonable that AAL be required to take responsibility for the quality of the car it supplied.
With regard to the several DPF malfunctions, I note that Mrs C was driving her car in the 
manner that ought to have avoided some of these issues. Which is in the manner that the 
manufacturer recommends.  In so far as she was taking the car of frequent long drives at 
high speed. Yet she still had the sort of problems that typically arise where the car does 
short, low speed, city drives. This also supports my finding that the car was not of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied by AAL to Mrs C
 
However, just because the car was not of satisfactory quality when supplied does not mean 
that Mrs C automatically has the right to reject the car in all the circumstances. So, Ive gone 
on to look at what I think it is fair or reasonable to ask AAL to do in order to put things right.
AAL says Mrs C had lost her right to reject the car by the time she asked to do this, I think 
AALs take on this point is incorrect. I believe that AAL may be referring to the short-term 
right to reject under the CRA, which lasts for six months after supply. But the law is clear, 
where the supplier has had at least one chance to repair and that repair has failed which it 
did here, then Mrs C can reject.
 
Further, I dont agree that Mrs C was equally happy to accept repair or rejection which is 
what AAL has suggested. I can see that Mrs C kept on bringing the car back for repairs, but 
that was not her choice. Rather, she wanted to reject the car but was obliged to keep on 
bringing the car back time and time again because her rejection of the car was not accepted. 
But that is not all the same as Mrs C accepting repair as a remedy.
Moreover, given the repeated nature of the faults that Mrs C has experienced with the DPF, I 
can well understand why she worries that the car might experience the same fault again and 
again. Indeed, Mrs C has provided information to show that the car has broken down again 
since the complaint was with us and after the repairs under warranty. And I am satisfied with 
what Mrs C says about this new fault being linked to previous faults with the DPF. Moreover, 
I also take on board that once the warranty runs out Mrs C is, in all likelihood, going to be 
stuck paying for the repairs herself. Which I dont think is fair and reasonable because none 
of this has been caused by her on balance.
For all of these reasons, since I am satisfied that the car AAL supplied to Mrs C was not of 
satisfactory quality when supplied and that the repairs have failed I find it is fair and 
reasonable that AAL needs to put things right by ending the agreement and allowing Mrs C 
to reject the car. AAL should also refund Mrs Cs refund.
Further, I think that Mrs C ought to have been allowed to reject the car much earlier. I dont 
think it was fair or reasonable to keep on making her return the car for the repeat repairs to 
the DPF. Looking at the history of the various repairs, I think July 2020 when repeat work 
was done on the DPF was the point at which Mrs C should have been allowed to reject the 
car.
Mrs C and AAL seem to agree that she has had at least ten trips to the garage back and 
forth with various faults with car. And I have already found that these faults were sufficient to make the car of not of satisfactory quality. I have no doubt this impaired her usage and she 
should be compensated for that. 
Moreover, Mrs C has a mileage allowance of 15,000 miles per year. She used that in the first 
year but thereafter, judging by the mileage figures she has provided. her use of the car 
greatly decreased. I found what Mrs C said about this persuasive. Specifically, Mrs C has 
explained why as a lone female driver she had worries about getting stranded on the remote 
roads she needed to use to get to work. And I think it is easy understand her worry.
 
Mrs C has also explained why due to the specific and particular needs of her family 
members it was important to have a reliable car.  I am persuaded about what she has said 
about this too given what she has told us about the health conditions of her family members.
Im satisfied that AAL caused Mrs C to experience unnecessary and avoidable distress and 
inconvenience and find that £250 is fair award for this.
  
My final decision
 My final decision is that Ald Automotive Limited trading as Lombard Vehicle Solutions must.
End the agreement with nothing further to pay;
collect the car (if this has not been done already) at no further cost to Mrs C at a time 
that is mutually convenient;
refund Mrs Cs deposit paid under the agreement the agreement shows that this was 
£4,000;
refund any repayments made to the agreement by Mrs C since July 2020;
refund 15% of repayments made from December 2019 and June 2020 to reflect Mrs Cs 
impaired usage of the car.
pay interest on the refunds above at the rate of 8% simple per year. The interest to run 
from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
pay £250 for distress and inconvenience.
ask the credit reference agencies to remove any negative information it may have asked 
them to register about the agreement on Mrs Cs credit file.
AAL must pay the total compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mrs C 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the £250 from 
the date of the final decision until the date of payment at the rate of 8% simple per year.
If it considers it is legally required to deduct income tax from that interest, it must send a tax 
deduction certificate with the payment (if it is able to) so that Mrs C can reclaim the tax if she 
is able to.
Mrs C should refer back to AAL if she is unsure of the approach it has taken, and both 
parties should contact HM Revenue & Customs if they want to know more about the tax 
treatment of this portion of the compensation.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2021.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman