DRN-4031262
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that AWP P&C SA didnt provide them with enough information 
about the evidence theyd need to make a successful claim on a travel insurance policy.
As Mr S brought the complaint, for ease, Ive referred mainly to him.
What happened
In January 2022, Mr and Mrs S upgraded their bank account to a packaged account, which 
included travel insurance as a benefit.
In March 2022, Mr and Mrs S travelled abroad to a country Ill call F. Theyd planned to travel 
on to another country. Unfortunately, Mr S tested positive for Covid-19 and he therefore 
contacted AWP to look into making a claim. But AWP couldnt trace any record of Mr S 
policy. So he got in touch with his bank. Mr S says the bank told him that the policy didnt 
provide cover for Covid-19. On that basis, Mr S said he decided to mitigate his costs as 
much as he could. He extended his stay in F and returned home directly from there, without 
travelling on. He returned to the UK on 24 March 2022.
On the following day, AWP got back in touch with Mr S, as it had been able to validate his 
policy. It provided Mr S with a claim form and asked him to provide evidence of a positive 
PCR test, amongst other evidence.
But Mr S hadnt had a PCR test. He said hed taken lateral flow tests and once hed 
understood the claim wouldnt be covered, he hadnt undergone a PCR test. AWP didnt 
think Mr S had shown he had a valid claim on the policy and it turned it down.
Mr S was unhappy with AWPs position. He felt that as AWP hadnt been able to locate his 
policy while he was abroad, hed been left in a position where hed been unable to obtain the 
PCR test hed needed to make a successful claim. AWP offered to pay Mr S £25 
compensation for delays in assessing his claim, but it maintained its decline of the claim. 
Remaining unhappy with AWPs position, Mr S asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think it had been unfair for AWP to conclude that Mr S claim wasnt 
covered. She didnt think AWP was responsible for any misinformation he may have been 
given by his bank. And she felt the policy terms made it clear that Mr S would need to 
provide medical evidence in support of his claim. In this case, she didnt think Mr S had 
provided enough evidence to show he had a valid claim on the policy. 
The investigator didnt think AWP had handled Mr S claim as well as it shouldve done 
though. And so she recommended that AWP should pay Mr S an additional £50 
compensation, on top of the £25 it had already offered.
AWP accepted the investigators recommendations.
Mr S didnt accept the investigators view. He felt that as AWP had told him it couldnt locate 
a policy; hed felt it wasnt necessary for him to obtain a test. And this was the reason he 
hadnt been able to obtain the medical evidence hed needed to make a successful claim.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im very sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs S, I think a total 
compensation award of £75 is a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint and Ill 
explain why.
First, its important I make it clear that this decision will only consider AWPs actions and 
whether anything AWP did caused Mr S to lose out. I understand Mr S has made a separate 
complaint about his bank and the information he says it gave him to our service, which has 
been assessed separately.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of Mr S policy and the circumstances, to decide whether AWP treated Mr S fairly.
Did AWP fail to provide Mr S with enough information to allow him to make a valid claim?
Its clear how strongly Mr S feels that AWPs inability to locate his policy when he first called 
on 21 March 2022 prejudiced his position. I understand he considers that had AWP found 
his policy when he initially called, hed have been in a position to obtain a confirmatory PCR 
test while he was still abroad. Had he done so, its possible AWP wouldve concluded that Mr 
S had made a valid claim.
I asked AWP for more information about what had taken place when Mr S policy was 
upgraded. His insurance records do indicate that at the point Mr S initially called it, Mr S 
details hadnt been transferred to AWP, which was why it couldnt find a policy. Its records 
show that AWP got in touch with the bank directly and promptly to validate Mr S details and 
to ensure they were uploaded on to AWPs systems. I think this was a fair response from 
AWP. The upload took place on 25 March 2022  the day after Mr S had returned to the UK. 
AWPs claims handler called Mr S on 25 March 2022 to let him know that the policy had 
been validated and to set-up a claim.
On the evidence before me, I dont think AWP acted unreasonably or made an error when it 
told Mr S it couldnt locate a policy for him. It appears that it simply didnt have Mr S details. 
So I dont think there was much more that AWP couldve done at that point. When it did 
become aware of Mr S policy, it got in touch with him very promptly to set-up the claim. 
Unfortunately, by that time, Mr S had already returned to the UK and therefore, wasnt in a 
position to obtain a PCR test.
Im mindful too that Mr S indicated that after AWP had told him it couldnt find a policy, he 
contacted his bank, which he says told him he didnt have Covid-19 cover. It appears to me 
that it was a combination of these factors which meant he hadnt taken a PCR test while he 
was away. I cant fairly hold AWP liable for any information the bank may have given Mr S 
about his cover. And as I dont think AWP made an error when it told Mr S it couldnt find a 
policy at the time of his first call, I dont think it could reasonably have explained to him what 
information AWP might consider necessary for a medical claim to be met. I dont think it 
would be fair for me to hold it responsible for his decision not to obtain a confirmatory PCR 
test.Mr S told us that hed received a copy of the policy terms and conditions. This clearly sets 
out the requirement to provide medical evidence in the event of a claim. So it was open to Mr 
S to check the policy wording once hed tested positive on the lateral flow test he carried out 
and to obtain a PCR test  or to register the test hed carried out with the NHS. He could 
also have taken a photograph of a positive lateral flow test, as potential evidence that hed 
contracted the virus. I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to hold AWP 
responsible for Mr S decision not to do so, although I understand why he didnt think he 
needed to. 
Based on what Ive seen, I dont think AWP made any errors which caused Mr S to lose out 
or led to his being unable to make a successful claim. So Im not directing it to pay 
compensation to the value of Mr S claim costs.
Did AWP handle Mr S claim fairly?
Mr S hasnt complained about AWPs application of the policy terms to turn down the claim, 
and he hasnt suggested that he considers its contractual interpretation was unfair. He 
appears to accept that the claim wasnt covered by the policy terms. So I havent considered 
that point in detail here. I would add though that it was Mr S responsibility to show that he 
had a valid claim on the policy. And in the absence of any photographic or documentary 
evidence, including of the lateral flow test he took, to demonstrate his trip was impacted due 
to Covid-19, I dont think it was unreasonable for AWP to conclude that Mr S hasnt provided 
enough information to show that his claim should be covered.
AWP accepts it didnt handle Mr S claim as well as it should and that there were delays in 
responding to Mr S and in assessing his claim. I dont doubt that this caused Mr S 
unnecessary trouble and frustration, on top of his understandable upset at the claims 
decision which was made. So I think its right that AWP should pay Mr S compensation to 
reflect the impact its claims handling errors had on him. AWP has now agreed to pay Mr S a 
total of £75 compensation (inclusive of the £25 it had already offered). And in my view, this is 
a fair and reasonable sum to recognise the trouble and frustration I think Mr S was likely 
caused. So Ive decided that AWP must pay Mr S a total of £75 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that AWP didnt handle Mr and Mrs S 
claim fairly.
I direct AWP P&C SA to pay Mr and Mrs S total compensation of £75 (less any 
compensatory amount its already paid if applicable).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 May 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman