DRN-3405790
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S have complained to Openwork Limited (Openwork) about mortgage advice 
they were given in 2012 by one of its appointed representatives (AR).  They say that the 
adviser recommended an unsuitable mortgage which generated funds to facilitate an 
unsuitable investment.
What happened
In late 2012 Mr and Mrs S were introduced to the idea of investing in an overseas off-plan 
property development (El Cupey) which was operated by an investment group called 
Sanctuary International Resorts Ltd (Sanctuary). 
Mr and Mrs S responded to an advert which offered the opportunity to sell their timeshare 
and met with a company called Eco Resorts. They were told that if they made the new 
investment in El Cupey a buyer could be arranged for their timeshare, and if they funded the 
investment by raising funds from a mortgage, Sanctuary would service the monthly 
mortgage repayments until the development was completed.
Openwork was not involved, and is not responsible, for the promotion or arrangement of the 
investment Mr and Mrs S made in El Cupey.  But to raise funds for the investment, Mr and 
Mrs S were introduced to an adviser who was an AR of Openwork for mortgage advice.  
Mr and Mrs S had an unencumbered property and took out a mortgage for £63,000 which 
was then used to pay the deposit for the El Cupey investment January 2013.  The monthly 
mortgage payments were initially serviced by contributions from Sanctuary, but over time 
they became inconsistent in value and frequency  leaving Mr and Mrs S responsible for 
ensuring the mortgage payments were maintained.
In June 2013 Sanctuary asked Mr and Mrs S for further funds to complete the purchase of 
their investment property  and they made a payment from part of the proceeds of their time 
share.  Ultimately the property development didnt complete and all payments from 
Sanctuary stopped entirely in February 2019.
In February 2016 Mr and Mrs S took out a lifetime mortgage and used some of those 
proceeds to redeem their initial mortgage.
Mr and Mrs S are represented by a claims management company (CMC) which made 
several points of complaint to Openwork:
The mortgage recommended by Openworks AR was unsuitable and facilitated an 
unsuitable investment without discussing the risks.
The AR didnt gather sufficient information to assess the suitability of the mortgage 
and didnt take reasonable steps to ensure Mr and Mrs S fully understood everything.
The AR failed to protect the interests of Mr and Mrs S and could have refused their 
mortgage business had he thought it not in their best interests.
The claimed the mortgage was taken on an interest-only basis without a suitable 
repayment vehicle, but subsequently retracted this assertion when Openwork 
evidence the mortgage to have been taken on a capital repayment basis.
Openwork didnt uphold the complaint and responded stating:
The mortgage recommendation had been for a capital repayment mortgage  not 
interest-only.
The AR was not permitted to give investment advice, and Openwork would not be 
responsible for any such advice if he had given it.
There is no evidence to suggest the mortgage was intended to be repaid by, or relied 
upon the success of, the El Cupey development.
Openwork does not have any relationship with either Eco Resorts or Sanctuary.
Unhappy with Openworks response, the CMC referred Mr and Mrs S complaint to our 
service for consideration.
Openwork explained why it didnt believe our Service had jurisdiction to consider the Mr and 
Mrs S complaint.  In summary it said, the complaint had been made outside of the required 
time limits, and as its AR was not permitted to give investment advice, so if it did, then 
Openwork is not responsible and the complaint should not be directed against it.
One of our investigators fully considered everything  first reviewing the points Openwork 
had made about jurisdiction.  In summary, she concluded that there was nothing to suggest 
the AR had given any advice about the investment in El Cupey, and highlighted she was 
considering the complaint about mortgage suitability.  However, she did explain why she felt 
the complaint had been made within the time limits set out in the rules which govern us.
Having concluded the complaint fell within our jurisdiction to look at, the investigator also 
considered the merits of Mr and Mrs S complaint. She explained that the AR had assessed 
Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances and she was satisfied the mortgage was suitable. So, the 
investigator recommended the complaint should not be upheld.
Openwork acknowledged the view and reiterated that it considered the complaint to be 
outside of our jurisdiction  but made no other comments.
No response was received from Mr and Mrs S, or the CMC representing them.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a fresh review 
and decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, Ive reached much the same conclusions as the investigator  
and for much the same reasons.
JurisdictionI understand that Openwork has contended whether our Service has jurisdiction to consider 
the issued Mr and Mrs S have complained about. It says their complaint has been made too 
late, and that Openwork is not responsible for any investment advice which may have been 
given to Mr and Mrs S.
Ive not seen any evidence to suggest Openworks AR gave any advice about the investment 
at in. In fact, Im satisfied Mr and Mrs S were already sold on the idea of the investment 
before getting in contact with the AR for mortgage advice.  But this complaint principally 
stems from the mortgage advice given to Mr and Mrs S and Openwork is responsible for 
that.
The rules about time limits and whether our Service can look into the merits of a complaint 
are set out in DISP 2.8.2R. It says:
The ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service:

(2) more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought 
reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint;
unless the complainant referred the complaint to the respondent or to the ombudsman 
within that period and has a written acknowledgement or some other record of the 
complaint having been received.
In this case, the mortgage advice was given in November 2012. The complaint was referred 
to Openwork in November 2019 and so is clearly out of time for the purposes of the six-year 
part of the rule.
The issue for me to decide is whether the complaint is also out of time for the purposes of
DISP 2.8.2(2)(b) which sets out the three-year rule. There are two parts to this rule  when
Mr and Mrs S actually became aware they had cause to complain, and when they ought
reasonably to have become aware.
Openwork noted that Mr and Mrs S redeemed their mortgage in 2016 they ought to have 
reasonably been aware of problems at that point in time  and that when the three years 
started for the purposes of 2.8.2(2)(b).  I dont agree  and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs S didnt have to find the funds to clear their mortgage in 2016 or clear the debt. 
Instead they took out a lifetime mortgage and paid off the original mortgage using proceeds 
from that transaction.  So effectively they just re-mortgaged and still had the liability and had 
been managing to service the mortgage up until that point.
Ive also considered whether the erratic nature of the payments Mr and Mrs S received from 
Sanctuary ought to have given them cause for complaint. But those problems are with the 
investment (which Openwork is not responsible for), and I dont think they would have 
necessarily raised concerns about the mortgage advice.
So, Im not persuaded there was a particular trigger point at which the three years started 
running  and certainly not before November 2016.  On that basis Im satisfied that Mr and 
Mrs S complaint is one I can look into.Suitability of mortgage advice
When deciding the merits of a complaint I am required to determine was is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. That includes taking account of the law, rules, 
regulations, good practice and the individual circumstances of a complaint.
Im aware the CMC has suggested that the AR should have considered and warned Mr and 
Mrs S about the risks associated with the investment  but I disagree.  The AR was giving 
mortgage advice, and I cant be confident he promoted or had significant knowledge of the 
features of the investment at all.  So, Im not persuaded he could give investment advice or 
particular risk warnings about El Cupey.
If Mr and Mrs S were taking out an interest-only mortgage and relying on the investment to 
be the repayment vehicle the situation may be different.  As under the Mortgage of Conduct 
Sourcebook (MCOB) a mortgage adviser is required to consider how a mortgage will be 
repaid  and the credibility of that repayment vehicle.  But in this case Mr and Mrs S were 
recommended a repayment mortgage which would reduce over the mortgage term  and 
didnt reply upon the disposal of an investment to clear the debt.
That is not to say the AR was not under other obligations when giving advice. Ive 
considered the affordability of the mortgage for Mr and Mrs S in line with MCOB 4.7.2R.  The 
CMC has highlighted that both Mr and Mrs S were in retirement and reliant upon pension 
income when the mortgage was taken out.  
I note the AR carried out a fact find exercise and Mr and Mrs S had a combined pension 
income of just over £2,000 per month, with modest other debts recorded as outstanding.  But 
Im aware that a mortgage payment of nearly £1,000 would have a significant impact.
Mr and Mrs S were expecting additional income from their investment.  As explained above 
the intention was for Sanctuary to service the mortgage payments whilst the property was 
being developed, and once completed a return would be received from the investment in the 
form of rental income.  
MCOB 4.7.8G states that a firm may generally rely upon the information provided by a 
customer unless taking a common-sense approach it had reason to doubt it.  Given that the 
AR was not involved in the investment advice process and likely had limited knowledge of 
the specific workings of El Cupey, Im satisfied it was reasonable for him to rely upon what 
Mr and Mrs S were telling him about that income.
So overall, Im satisfied it was fair and reasonable for the AR to conclude the mortgage was 
affordable as they could service the payments, and being a repayment mortgage, there 
would be no capital outstanding to repay at the end of the mortgage term.
I realise Mr and Mrs S are likely to be disappointed with my conclusions, and I dont 
underestimate the difficulty of the position they have found themselves in.  Ultimately, they 
were let down by the investment, but I cant reasonably say there was anything unsuitable 
about the mortgage advice.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs S complaint against Openwork Limited.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Ross Hammond
Ombudsman