DRN-2327906
The complaint
Mr P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard declined a payment for 
his car insurance. He says Barclaycard has breached its own terms and conditions. 
What happened
In October 2019 Mr Ps car insurance provider tried to take his premium from his 
Barclaycard. The transaction was declined. The insurer tried again on two more occasions 
over the next few days, but these were also declined. Mr Ps insurer contacted him and he 
got in touch with Barclaycard.
Mr P complained to Barclaycard. Barclaycard explained that a previous transaction had 
triggered a security alert suggesting there may be a problem with either the magnetic strip or 
the chip on Mr Ps card. This meant a marker was put on his account meaning any 
transaction not involving the physical card, such as an internet payment, wouldnt be 
authorised. So Barclaycard said this was why his payment for car insurance online didnt go 
through.
Barclaycard did accept that its communication and level of customer service shouldve been 
better and offered Mr P £75 compensation for this. Mr P didnt accept Barclaycards offer. He 
said the transaction he was making didnt involve the chip or magnetic strip. So, he didnt 
accept the explanation hed been given. He said Barclaycard shouldve contacted him about 
this and by not doing so had breached its own terms and conditions. Mr P referred the 
complaint to us.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He thought Barclaycard had acted within 
its terms and conditions and that the £75 offered for the customer service failings was fair. 
He also noted Barclaycard sent a new card to Mr P within four days of him getting in touch 
and he thought this was reasonable. 
Mr P didnt agree. He remained unhappy that Barclaycard hadnt provided him with the 
specific details of why a restriction was put on his card in the first place. And he maintained 
that Barclaycard had breached its terms and conditions. So, the complaint has been passed 
to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P has raised a number of points and provided a lot of detail when making his complaint, 
to both Barclaycard and us. Our service is an informal alternative to the courts. This means 
that my role is to focus on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint  in this case the 
payments being declined and the subsequent customer service from Barclaycard. I want to 
assure Mr P Ive read and considered everything he has sent us. However, I dont intend to 
respond to each point individually, or possibly in the level of detail Mr P would like. I hope he 
realises I mean no disrespect by this, but it simply reflects the informal nature of our service.
In his response to our investigators view, Mr P asked us to investigate further how this had 
happened and establish when the fault on his card was detected. Hes said that he never 
had problems with using the card when it was in his presence. Unfortunately, because of the 
passage of time, Barclaycard cant tell us the specific reasons for the card having certain 
types of transactions declined. But I dont think this is necessary for me to make a decision 
on this case. Our role is to look into whether a mistake has been made and if so how to put 
things right. We arent always able to say why a problem has occurred.
Barclaycard has explained that it had identified a potential error with his magnetic strip which 
meant that transactions where Mr P was present to authorise them with his PIN would still be 
accepted. But it was remote transactions, where the card wasnt present, which would be 
restricted. This is likely due to the chip present and Mr P having to enter is his PIN would 
reduce the risk of transactions being fraudulent. Whereas remote transactions, without the 
card being present, would be riskier. This seems reasonable in the circumstances. Im 
satisfied Barclaycard was taking steps to try to protect Mr P from fraud and was entitled to 
decline the transaction.
What is also disputed by Mr P is whether Barclaycard shouldve got in touch with him when 
his transaction was declined or whether it was correct to wait for him to get in touch. He 
thinks Barclaycard didnt follow its terms and conditions. I do understand why he says this. 
He has referred to the section titled Restricting the use of your account. But I think hes 
relying on the wrong part of the terms and conditions. But this is in relation to blocking the 
account completely. The relevant section here is under When we may refuse transactions 
which is what happened here. This section says that if a transaction is refused the customer 
can get in touch to find out why. And once Mr P got in touch about the declined transaction, 
the problem was rectified quickly. It mayve been helpful if Barclaycard had contacted him 
about this. But Im satisfied it wasnt required to.
Mr P has explained what couldve potentially happened had he been without car insurance. 
And whilst he paints a very stressful situation, thankfully, none of this did occur. Its not for 
me to make an award for what couldve happened, instead I need to consider what did 
happen and any impact it mayve had. Barclaycard did arrange for a new card to be sent 
very quickly after Mr P got in touch. And Ive not been provided with evidence that Mr P was 
without insurance at any point. And as Ive already explained, I think Barclaycard was within 
its rights to not allow this transaction. So I dont think compensation is warranted for this. 
I can see there were times when Barclaycard couldve provided better customer service. It 
didnt send a letter it said it would and it didnt always respond correctly to Mr Ps 
communication with it. Barclaycard has offer £75 compensation for this, and I think this is fair 
in the circumstances.
Mr P has said that as part of the resolution of this complaint he wants Barclaycard to be 
penalised to ensure this doesnt happen to other people. But thats the role of the industry 
regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority. Our role is to look into whether a mistake has 
been made, and, if it has, to put things right. However, as Ive explained, I dont think a 
mistake has been made in relation to declining this transaction. So, Im not going to ask 
Barclaycard to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. I leave it to Mr P to decide whether he 
wishes to accept the £75 compensation Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard has 
offered. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2020.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman