DRN-2557606
The complaint
Ms F complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold her a pension in 1997. She 
says that the value of the pension is now zero and Santander didnt explain how the charges 
worked when she first took the plan out. She says she made Santander aware that she 
would only be contributing for a short while until she joined her employers group personal 
pension scheme (GPP). 
What happened
In February 1997 Ms F met with Abbey National Life (now part of Santander) and agreed to 
take out a personal pension. For ease Ill refer to the business here as Santander throughout 
this decision. Ms F agreed to pay a gross monthly premium of £34.50 (including waiver of 
premium insurance) split equally between the with-profit and managed funds  up to a 
selected retirement age of 55. The first premium was paid in June 1997.
In July 1998 Ms F stopped her contributions in order to join her employers new GPP. She 
had paid a total of £486.40 into the plan. However, Ms F has provided a statement from the 
provider of the GPP which showed that she didnt begin paying in until 1 January 1999. 
In August 2019 Ms F contacted Santander to complain about her pension. She said shed 
recently received a statement to show the value of her plan was zero and had discovered 
that a monthly charge had continued to be taken from the plan after she stopped 
contributions. She thought the plan had been mis-sold to her. She also said she stopped 
paying into her pension to join her employers GPP and that she made Santander aware of 
that likelihood at the time of the advice. 
Santander confirmed that the annual management charge for the plan was 1%. So it said 
that, without the addition of further premiums, the net effect of that charge would have been 
to reduce the price of the units. In Ms Fs case the allocation of premiums was 0% for the 
first twelve months which meant that the plan had accrued little value over the 14 months 
shed paid into it. But Santander said that the administration of the plan and application of 
charges was the responsibility of a different pension provider, so it forwarded that part of the 
complaint to that provider. 
However, it said it didnt support Ms Fs claim that she hadnt been made aware of the 
charges, as it said this information would have been documented in the key features 
brochure that was provided. Santander said it was satisfied with the advice it gave Ms F and 
had no evidence to show she wasnt made aware of the charges and long-term nature of the 
plan  or that she made it aware of joining an employers pension scheme in the near future.
But Ms F wasnt happy with that outcome, so she brought her complaint to us where one of 
our investigators looked into the matter and said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
He said there was no evidence that Santander was made aware of Ms Fs short term need 
for a pension until she was able to join her companys GPP and, although he couldnt be 
sure that charges were discussed at the time, hed seen references to charges being applied 
in general in the key features document. He said there was no suggestion that these 
charges would stop if contributions to the plan were ceased. So he didnt think Santander 
had acted unfairly by recommending the pension plan. 
Ms F didnt agree. She said the investigator had referred to a fact sheet which said charges 
had been mentioned on one of the pages, but if that was the case she wouldnt have gone 
ahead with the plan. She said that document wasnt signed by her so had little relevance in 
proving that she was made aware of the charges. She said the only document Santander 
had been able to provide that she had signed didnt mention charges at all.
Santander believed that the complaint may have been brought outside of the time limits 
allowed because it said Ms F ought to have known that the value of her plan was zero at 
least three years before she complained. But the investigator said there was no evidence 
that Ms F had been furnished with any correspondence to demonstrate this fact or that she 
was aware through any other means. Santander accepted the investigators view and 
consented to us deciding on the merits of the complaint.
So as no resolution could be found, the complaints been passed to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the investigator and for largely the same reasons. I have some 
sympathy for Ms Fs position here in that shes seen the value of the personal pension she 
paid into lose its value. But that doesnt mean that Santander did anything wrong here, which 
I know is an outcome that will disappoint Ms F  so Ill explain my reasons.
Theres little evidence available to confirm the discussion that took place and the documents 
that Ms F might have been provided with at the time of the advice. Ms F says she told 
Santander that she was going to join her employers pension scheme in the near future and 
wanted something to pay into up that point. She says she wouldnt have paid into something 
which would have been eroded to nothing by ongoing charges. On the other hand, 
Santander said it would have given Ms F documents which outlined both the long-term 
nature of the pension and the charges that applied. It said she didnt make it aware of the 
possibility of joining a GPP. 
But, although I dont dispute either version of events, I cant confirm that either happened. So 
I have to make my decision based on the balance of probability, in other words what I think 
was most likely to have happened.
 
Joining the company pension scheme
Ms F has provided further information about her situation at the time of the advice. Shes 
said that she joined her employer, a start-up company, in either 1994 or 1995. She said the 
auditor set up a company pension scheme to start from January 1999 and as the accountant 
at the company she was involved in setting it up. So, while I can understand how the idea 
might have been mooted by her company, it was some way from being finalised when she 
spoke with Santander in February 1997. 
Indeed, I dont think Ms F would have known much about what the scheme would look like in 
1997 or even if it might go ahead. Her new company would have only been around two 
years old at that point. So, although I dont doubt Ms F may have mentioned the possibility of 
an employers pension scheme, the details would have sketchy at best and there wouldnt have been any clear idea of when it might begin, who might be eligible or even if existing 
plans could be used into which the employer could contribute. 
So Im not persuaded that Ms F would have been able to tell Santander, with any great 
certainty, that she would be joining an employers pension scheme in the near future. 
 
But in any case, even if Santander had a discussion with Ms F about what was known about 
the GPP, I dont think it wouldnt have been unreasonable to have still recommended that 
she began a personal pension  to ensure she didnt miss the chance to begin making some 
provision for her retirement. I also note the declaration that was part of the application form 
that Ms F signed said, I undertake to notify Abbey National Life immediately of any change 
of employmentor if I become a member of a relevant superannuation scheme within 30 
days. So there was a responsibility on Ms F to let Santander know about the new GPP 
when she joined, which might have allowed Santander the opportunity to discuss the longer-
term nature of the plan again as well as the effect of the ongoing charges. 
But with the possibility of joining a GPP on the horizon, I would have expected Santander to 
make Ms F aware of the implications of paying into a scheme and not maintaining 
contributions  particularly with respect to the charges.
.
Did Santander make Ms F aware of the ongoing charges within the pension plan?
Ms F says Santander didnt make her aware of all the plans charges and, more importantly, 
how any charges might affect the money shed paid into her plan. She says she doesnt 
have any documents that would have given her this information  and as Ms F has told us 
separately that she no longer holds any personal documents regarding her employer from 
1994, its not unreasonable to expect that she no longer retains any documents relating to 
her personal pension. 
 
But equally I think its likely that Santander would have issued Ms F with some 
documentation about the pension plan. I think if it hadnt given Ms F anything relating to the 
plan then she would have queried why there was no paperwork for her to look at or refer to 
afterwards. And it follows that, although I cant be sure the documents would have been 
explained thoroughly to her, I do think she was provided with access to the information that 
would have made her aware how the pension worked, such as its long-term nature and its 
flexibility  as well as its charges. 
The personal pension, saving for retirement document that was relevant at the time set out 
some of that information. But crucially the section headed cessation of contributions stated 
that if contributions are ceased within the first plan year, the plan will lapse without value. 
After the first plan year, the transfer value or paid up plan value is the bid value of units held 
by the plan. So, I think that statement confirms that Ms F could expect her plan to have no 
value after paying charges for the first year and therefore in her case, only two premiums 
would have been invested in the plan to represent its paid-up plan value going forward. So I 
think Ms F was made aware of how the charges would work, particularly if contributions were 
stopped. 
The same document also confirmed the charges that would be applied to personal pension 
plans. The management charges were 1% of the fund value and the administration 
charge was met by cancelling units and was deducted each month. 
And looking at the section on charges as a whole, theres no mention of the fact that charges 
would be suspended or cancelled if premiums were stopped in the future. In addition, the 
documents referred to benefits available at retirement (age 50 in this case), which would 
suggest that Santander expected both premiums and charges to continue up to that point. Its unfortunate that for the length of time that Ms F paid contributions she accrued little or no 
value in her pension. But I think the pension plans charges have been applied in line with 
how the appropriate documentation said they would be, and Im satisfied that Ms F was 
made aware of that. I know Ms F says that theres no evidence that she signed to agree to 
the charges and the only document she signed didnt have any information about the 
charges within it. But in my experience consumers werent usually asked to sign to confirm 
receipt of literature and brochures around that time and I wouldnt have expected her to be 
asked to sign anything apart from an application form. Im not aware it was a requirement of 
the regulator at the time. 
But, even if I am wrong about her being provided with the documents, she did sign the 
application form which stated that copies of the scheme rules and the completed forms are 
available on request. So Im satisfied that Ms F at least had the opportunity to access the 
documents that the information about charges was contained within.
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I dont uphold Ms Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 March 2021.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman