DRN-4136451
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Lloyds Bank PLC failed to refund transactions she didnt recognise.
What happened
What Mrs B says
Mrs B noticed her credit card was missing and notified Lloyds about it. She explained that it 
went missing some days earlier but couldnt be confident how she lost it due to her personal 
situation at the time.
Mrs B thought that the card and personal identification number (PIN) were lost together but 
couldnt be sure. Mrs B registered the loss of her card with the police. Lloyds later declined 
to refund the disputed transactions (over £3,000).
Mrs B complained about the situation and later registered her personal circumstances with 
Lloyds. Lloyds maintained their position and declined to refund Mrs B. She then brought her 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent review.
What Lloyds say
Lloyds received notification of the unrecognised transactions from Mrs B and asked her what 
had happened. They believed that Mrs Bs version of events changed throughout the 
complaint. The believed Mrs B was responsible for the disputed transactions based on the 
comment that shed written her PIN down (which enabled a number of the disputed 
transactions to be made) and additional factors including:
the disputed transactions took place locally and some in shops used by Mrs B before.
The transactions stopped before the credit limit was reached.
There were no declined transactions, indicating the credit limit was known.
The police didnt add any new information.
The investigation so far
An investigator was assigned to look into the complaint and gathered information from both 
parties. Mrs B explained what had happened and how her personal circumstances had 
complicated the situation at the time. She also didnt think that Lloyds had treated her fairly.
Lloyds provided details of the transactions disputed by Mrs B and their conclusions based on 
the information available about the payments. 
After considering the information, the investigator thought that by writing the PIN down and 
keeping it with the card, Mrs B was grossly negligent. This meant that Lloyds shouldnt be 
required to refund the payments. But, some of the disputed transactions were made using 
the contactless feature of the card that didnt require the PIN and recommended these be 
refunded. 
Lloyds accepted the investigators outcome, but Mrs B did not and wished a further review of 
her complaint which has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Taking into account Mrs Bs personal difficulties at the time of the loss of her card, its 
difficult to be confident what actually happened to it. She has no real memory of that time, 
but thinks she lost the card with the PIN.
The card holders obligations regarding the safekeeping of security credentials (including the 
PIN) are contained in the Payment Service Regulations 2017 - S.72 refers. The terms of the 
account also spell out the obligations of an account holder in relation to the security of items 
used to access and make payments from the account.
Where the PIN was written down and (which was easily interpreted) kept with the card, this 
would generally be considered in breach of the account terms, so called gross negligence. 
It follows that Lloyds wouldnt be liable for these transactions that used the PIN.
The contactless transactions could be made by anyone who came across the card (the 
gross negligence argument isnt as relevant in these particular circumstances), so I agree 
with the investigators view that they should be refunded. Lloyds also accepted this.
Ive also considered the alternative possibility that Mrs B didnt lose the PIN with the card  
because she couldnt be sure about this. If this was the case, the user of the card must have 
acquired the PIN to be able to make some of the disputed transactions. Either they obtained 
it from Mrs B with her knowledge, found it written down in her belongings or saw her enter it 
at a cash machine or other payment terminal. The history of the cards usage seems to rule 
out the observation of the PIN at a terminal. 
If Mrs B gave it to someone  for example to purchase items for her  shed generally be 
liable for its use by that person as she would have given them apparent authority to use it 
until she ended that arrangement. Alternatively, someone could have found the PIN and 
taken her card, but the cards usage doesnt support that option. I say that because the 
credit limit on the card wasnt reached, nor were the daily limit on cash withdrawals used. 
Both are indications of fraudulent usage of the card. A thief wouldnt likely know the credit 
limit or when the card would be blocked so would tend to use it until it was stopped. 
As Ive already mentioned, its difficult to be sure what actually happened to the card. I think 
the most likely scenario is that Mrs B lost the card and PIN together, resulting in the 
fraudulent use of her card by persons unknown. Lloyds wouldnt be held liable for these 
transactions, apart from the contactless ones theyve already agreed to repay. 
I understand Mrs B felt that Lloyds hadnt treated her fairly during their enquiry. Having 
looked at the evidence and notes supplied, I havent seen anything to support that view. But, 
I do understand shes been impacted by the additional debt burden caused by the loss of her 
card when she was trying to manage her finances. I understand that Lloyds have offered to 
look at a repayment plan and I hope that Mrs B is able to come to a suitable arrangement 
with them about this that takes her situation into account.Overall, Im sorry that Mrs B has ended up with more debt, but the evidence that Ive been 
able to assess doesnt allow me to remove the obligation for Mrs B to repay the money spent 
on her credit card. Thats because of how the transactions were allowed to be carried out by 
writing the PIN down and keeping it with the card. I do uphold the portion of contactless 
payments made on her card, although I appreciate this will be of little comfort to Mrs B.
Putting things right
If not already completed, Lloyds are to refund the contactless payments which I understand 
amounts to £72.13.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC in respect of the 
refund of the contactless payments. Theyre instructed to settle the complaint as outlined 
above unless theyve already refunded them.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman