DRN-3473549
The complaint
Mr C has complained that NewDay Ltd trading as Marbles and Aqua irresponsibly lent to 
him.
What happened
Mr C opened a credit card account with NewDay (trading as Aqua) in October 2015. His 
credit limit was initially £300. In July 2016 his credit limit was increased to £700. In January 
2017 Mr C opened another credit card with NewDay (this time trading as Marbles). That 
credit card had a limit of £300, making his effective credit limit across both NewDay accounts 
£1,000. 
Mr C, through his representative, says that NewDay shouldnt have allowed him to open an 
account and it shouldnt have increased his credit limit once it had.  Mr C says he was 
struggling to meet his repayments and had a lot of credit elsewhere, too. He says if NewDay 
had done adequate checks on his situation it would have seen that he wouldnt be able to 
repay his balance in a reasonable length of time. 
NewDay says it didnt lend irresponsibly to Mr C and that it did all the necessary checks 
before it lent to Mr C  and when it increased his credit limit and provided him with a further 
credit card account.
 
Our adjudicator thought that Mr Cs complaint should be partially upheld. They thought that 
the initial credit given to Mr C was acceptable, but that by July 2017 when NewDay 
increased Mr Cs credit limit for the first time, that reasonable and proportionate checks 
would have shown that Mr Cs finances were overextended and that he couldnt afford to 
sustainably meet the repayments on more credit. 
Our adjudicator said that NewDay should not have allowed Mr C further credit on his Aqua 
account and shouldnt have allowed him to open the Marbles account. The adjudicator 
thought that any interest and charges applied over his original £300 limit should be removed 
and his account re-worked.
 
NewDay disagreed. It said it had done sufficient checks and there were no indications of any 
financial strain.
As NewDay disagreed the case has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when I have considered Mr Cs complaint.
NewDay needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr C
could afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the
repayment amounts and Mr Cs income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and
proportionate.
Certain factors might point to the fact that Marbles should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr C. These factors include things like 
understanding Mr Cs income, the total amount Mr C borrowed, and the length of time Mr C 
had been indebted. There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of 
lending itself clearly demonstrates that that the lending was unsustainable. 
When Mr C opened his account NewDay conducted a credit check. NewDay told us there 
were no signs of financial difficulties based on the checks it did. Mr C only had one other 
credit card and had only around £800 of active external unsecured debt. He had no accounts 
in arrears, no defaults and no payday loans. This is consistent with the information on the 
credit report Mr C has supplied separately.
Having reviewed the information, I dont think there is anything to suggest that it would have 
been unreasonable for NewDay to have approved the account. I think this suggests that the 
original limit of £300 was manageable for Mr C. There were no signs of financial distress and 
he had relatively low levels of debt, even when taking into account his relatively low income. 
So I dont think NewDay did anything wrong with its original lending decision.
However, I think that when NewDay made the decision to increase Mr Cs credit limit to £700 
in July 2016 things were rather different for Mr C. While NewDay says there was some 
adverse data when it did its check, such as regular cash transactions (albeit low value), 
some late payments and some months when Mr C had exceeded his credit limit (which had 
resulted in late fee and over limit fee charges), it considered that it was not unfair to increase 
Mr Cs limit. 
 
I disagree. In the eight billing cycles between the account opening and the credit limit 
increase, Mr C was charged for exceeding his credit limit on four occasions, had late 
payment fees on two occasions and withdrew cash on six occasions. I think these data were 
significant and should have caused NewDay to do further checks. 
Mr C, through his representative, has supplied information to show that at that point he was 
regularly borrowing from high cost lenders, including payday loans. This ought to have 
indicated that it was likely Mr C was overly reliant on borrowing and that further credit may 
not have been sustainable.
 
For these reasons, I agree with our adjudicator that based on what NewDay knew at the time 
of the increase in his credit limit to £700, it should have realised that further borrowing would 
not have been sustainable. I think Mr C lost out as a result of NewDay did wrong. 
Putting things right
As I dont think NewDay should have increased Mr Cs credit limit from £300 (or opened the 
Marbles account which increased his overall limit further), I dont think its fair for it to charge 
any interest or charges on any balances which exceeded that limit.However, Mr C has had the benefit of all the money he spent on the accounts, so I think
he should pay this back. Therefore, NewDay should:
Rework the account removing all interest and charges that have been applied to
balances above £300 in total on both accounts from 19 July 2016.
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mr C along
with 8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to
the date of settlement. NewDay should also remove all adverse information recorded
after 19 July 2016 regarding this account from Mr Cs credit file.
Or, if after the rework the outstanding balance still exceeds £300, NewDay should
arrange an affordable repayment plan with Mr C for the remaining amount. Once
Mr C has cleared the outstanding balance, any adverse information recorded
after 19 July 2016 in relation to the account should be removed from his credit
file.
If NewDay has sold the debt to a third party, it should arrange to either buy back the 
debt from the third party or liaise with them to ensure the redress set out above is 
carried out promptly.

*HM Revenue & Customs requires NewDay to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must give Mr C a 
certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one. If it intends to apply the refund to reduce 
an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting tax.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Cs complaint in part and direct NewDay Ltd, trading as Marbles and Aqua, to 
put things right in the way Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman