DRN-4391743
The complaint
Mr H complains that Ageas Insurance Limited mishandled a claim on his motorcycle 
insurance policy. 
What happened
In mid-May 2020, Mr H had a motorcycle insured with Ageas. He was riding the motorcycle 
when, unfortunately, he was involved in an incident with a third partys car on a roundabout.
About a week later, the third party or their insurer made Ageas aware of the incident. 
On 22 May 2020, Ageas contacted Mr H. He said that the third party had stopped in front of 
him, causing him to brake sharply and go over the handlebars. Mr H said there was no 
damage to the car. He didnt want to claim for the damage to his bike.
On the same day, Mr H sent an email with his evidence to Ageas. That included dashcam 
footage from a witness. 
Ageas arranged repair of the third partys car in mid-June 2020.
In March 2023, Mr H complained to Ageas that it had settled the third partys claim  without 
telling him. By a final response dated 23 March 2023, Ageas turned down the complaint.
Mr H brought his complaint to us in early May 2023.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. She didnt 
recommend that the complaint about liability should be upheld. She recommended that the 
complaint about service should be upheld. She thought that here had been a clear fall-down 
in communication from Ageas. She recommended that Ageas should pay Mr H £150.00 
compensation.
Ageas disagreed with the investigators opinion. It asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. It says, in summary, that:
Unfortunately it didnt receive the email in May 2020. 
Based on the dashcam footage, the third party had good reason to apply their 
brakes.
Their claim was settled based upon the information available at the time. Its repairing 
garage found damage on the third party vehicle.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Most motor insurance policies contain a term to the effect that - on  a question of how best to 
deal with a claim from a third party  the insurers view will prevail over the policyholders  
view. 
The Financial Ombudsman Service will look at complaints about the application of such a 
policy term. Unlike a court, we dont hear evidence from each of the parties to decide the 
extent to which any of them is responsible for causing injury or damage.
Mr H was to the rear of the third partys vehicle. Mr Hs bike suffered damage from being 
dropped. But he didnt want to make a claim on his policy or against the third party. So I think 
that he and Ageas knew that it was highly unlikely that the third party would be held at fault 
for braking to a halt.
From a copy, Ive accepted that Mr H sent an email with his evidence to Ageas on 22 May 
2020. That included dashcam footage from a witness. Ageas didnt receive that email, but 
there isnt enough evidence to show the reason for that, or that Ageas was at fault.
In any event, photographs and dashcam footage arent the best evidence of an absence of 
damage  or an absence of damage due to the reported incident. A physical inspection of a 
vehicle provides better evidence.
And Ageas got its repairer to inspect the third partys car. The repairer found damage 
consistent with the reported incident. 
Ageas decided that  rather than incur the cost and risk of possible court proceedings  it 
would pay for the repairs. I consider that Ageas made a  reasonable decision. Therefore I 
dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Ageas to change the way it recorded the claim 
against Mr H.
However, Ageas shouldve told Mr H that it was settling the third partys claim and recording 
a fault claim against him. Its failure to do so spared Mr H some upset in 2020 but caused him 
upset and inconvenience when he found out in 2023. 
His inconvenience included having to locate the email from 2020. His upset included an 
understandable -but in my view mistaken - view that the outcome wouldve been different if 
Ageas had received the dashcam footage and other evidence from him in 2020. 
Putting things right
Overall, I agree with the investigator that its fair and reasonable to direct Ageas to pay Mr H 
£150.00 compensation for such distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Ageas Insurance Limited to pay Mr H £150.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2023. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman