DRN-3471096
The complaint
Mr C complains that Revolut Ltd blocked and closed his account without giving a reason. He 
didnt have access to his funds for 3 months. He would like his account reactivated, a reason 
and compensation.
What happened
Mr C had an account with Revolut.
Revolut carried out a review of Mr Cs account on 28 January 2021.Revolut asked Mr C to 
provide documents showing proof of entitlement of funds. Mr C provided some documents to 
Revolut.
Revolut blocked the account on 29 March 2021.It later closed the account on 13 April 2021.
Mr C says due to the block he didnt have access to his funds for three months.
Revolut told Mr C he could withdraw the balance on his account. Mr C transferred most of 
his funds on 14 April 2021. There is less than £2 remaining in the account.
Before we investigated the case Revolut offered Mr C £20 to resolve the case, but he 
declined this.
Mr C complained to Revolut. They said they were complying with their legal and regulatory 
obligations when they reviewed Mr Cs account and asked for source of funds proof. They 
were not obliged to provide reasons for the review. In Mr Cs second complaint to Revolut  
Mr C said he wasnt happy to provide the information requested by Revolut.
Mr C was unhappy and complained to our service. He said Revolut hadnt been able to 
explain why the documents he had provided to them werent enough to verify the source of 
his income. He also didnt want to give extra sensitive information on a chat with Revolut 
employees based outside the UK.
Mr C complained to our service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He 
thought Revolut had acted fairly when they reviewed and blocked Mr Cs account. He said 
he couldnt ask Revolut to change its processes for verifying customers via the App as this 
was an internal matter for Revolut. He said as Revolut had acted fairly and hadnt caused 
any unnecessary delays he wasnt going to ask them to pay further compensation than the 
£20 offered.
Mr C was unhappy with the investigators view. He didnt think £20 was enough. He said he 
was unhappy that the documents he was asked to provide had to be submitted through the 
chat function. He didnt think this was secure. Mr C says this aspect of the complaint hasnt 
been addressed by Revolut and they have closed his account because he raised a serious 
issue about how Revolut handle personal data. Mr C said he was looking for the reactivation 
of his account, an alternative way to provide the information Revolut requested and 
compensation of £520 for not being able to access his savings for three months.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Review and block of account
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Mr Cs account. UK legislation places 
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial institutions must establish 
the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and there 
may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. These 
obligations override all other obligations. I am satisfied Revolut were complying with these 
obligations when they reviewed Mr Cs account. 
I can see that in blocking the account Revolut were following an internal process which they 
carried out in order to comply with their legal and regulatory obligations. This was a 
legitimate exercise so I cant say Revolut was unfair. 
In addition, Clause 23 of Revolut terms and conditions allow Revolut to review an account. 
So, Im satisfied Revolut acted fairly when it reviewed and blocked the account.
Account closure
Its generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to 
provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless theres a good reason to do so, 
this service wont usually say that a bank must keep a customer or require it to compensate 
a customer who has had their account closed.
Ive considered whether Revolut acted fairly in closing Mr Cs account. Ive looked at the 
terms and conditions of his account and Im satisfied they did. The terms and conditions 
outline that Revolut can close a customers account with two months notice, and in certain 
circumstances they can close an account immediately. In this case Revolut closed Mr Cs 
account without notice. For Revolut to act fairly here they needed to meet the criteria to 
apply their terms for immediate closure  and having looked at these terms and all the 
evidence Im satisfied that the bank has applied the terms fairly. And it was entitled to close 
the accounts as its already done. 
I know Mr C thinks Revolut closed his account because he raised issued about how they 
handle personal data. I havent seen any evidence of this Having looked at the evidence 
Because I think Revolut have acted fairly when they closed the account, I wont be asking 
them to reinstate Mr Cs account. 
Reasons
Mr C has said he wants to know the reasons why Revolut blocked and closed his account. 
Whilst he may have expected to be given the reasons for the closure, Revolut isnt required 
to give him a specific reason for closing the account. So, I cant say Revolut has done 
anything wrong by not giving Mr C this information  as much as hed like to know.
Proof of entitlement documentsMr C is unhappy that he was asked to upload sensitive documents onto the App. He said he 
wasnt going to do this. He doesnt think Revolut have given him an explanation why he has 
to do this or reassurances about the safety of this method.
I am sorry that Mr C is unhappy with Revoluts processes. The investigator has said we cant 
comment on how Revolut choses to communicate with its customers. This is a matter for 
Revolut. And I agree with this analysis. If Mr C continues to be unhappy with the way 
Revolut choses to require its customers to upload documents, then I suggest he takes this 
up with the Information Commissioners Office (ICO).
Funds remaining in the account
Mr C withdrew most of the funds in his account on 14 April 2021. However there seems to 
be £1 and 0.09 ZAR left in his account. If Mr C hasnt already claimed these funds, he 
should liaise with Revolut to retrieve his remaining funds.
Compensation
Mr C has asked that Revolut pay him compensation for the three months he had no access 
to his funds. I have already said that Revolut didnt do anything wrong when they blocked 
Mr Cs account so I cant award compensation for the impact of the block.
I understand that Revolut have offered Mr C £20 and I understand this is still available to 
Mr C if he would like to accept it. I leave it to Mr C to contact Revolut if he does.
In Summary, I know Mr C will be disappointed with my decision but for the reasons I have 
mentioned above I dont think Revolut have acted unfairly when they reviewed, blocked and 
closed Mr Cs account. And I wont be asking them to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2022.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman