DRN-3163845
The complaint
Ms P complained that Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) lent to her 
irresponsibly and provided her with a loan that was unaffordable.
What happened
Everyday Loans provided a loan to Ms P as follows: 
Loan 
takenLoan 
amountTerm Monthly repayments Total amount 
payable
02/12/2019 £2,500 18 
months£267.87 £4,821.66
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint. He didnt think Everyday Loans should 
have provided Ms P with the loan and he asked Everyday Loans to pay redress for this. 
Everyday Loans didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment. It mainly said that whilst our 
adjudicator said Ms P was spending more than her earnings, this included a large amount of 
discretionary spending seen on her bank statements. Everyday Loans said this indicated 
that she did have disposable income. 
It also said that it had allowed for Ms P having to pay all her housing costs (even though 
another person shared this cost) and this would have effectively boosted her monthly 
disposable income if it had taken this contribution into account. So Everyday Loans still felt 
that the loan was affordable for Ms P.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Everyday Loans needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Ms P 
irresponsibly. The lender was required to carry out an affordability check. The checks had 
to be borrower focussed  so Everyday Loans had to think about whether repaying the loan 
sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Ms P.
Everyday Loans had to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Ms P would be able repay her loan sustainably. 
There was no set list of checks that Everyday Loans had to do, but it could consider a 
number of different things such as the loan amount, the length of the loan term, the 
repayment amounts and the borrowers overall financial circumstances.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to 
make repayments for an extended period).
Everyday Loans was required to establish whether Ms P could sustainably repay her loan  
not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an 
indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically 
follow this is the case.
This is because the regulations define sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in 
particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Ps complaint. 
Everyday Loans verified Ms Ps employment and pay by looking at a payslip and checking 
her bank statements. 
It recorded information that showed Ms Ps monthly income was £2,980.66.
Everyday Loans carried out credit checks to see what Ms P was paying to service her 
existing debts and noted her creditor repayments were around £906. Everyday Loans relied 
on statistical information to assess what someone in Ms Ps particular situation would be 
likely to spend each month and allowed a figure of £956 for her spending on general living 
costs  which seems broadly reasonable to me. 
Everyday Loans allowed for the fact that Ms P had recently taken out a loan with another 
high cost lender which she planned to consolidate (in other words, repay in full) using around 
£1,063 out of this loan from Everyday Loans.
The debt Ms P was consolidating would have cost her approximately £218 per month  so it 
didnt include this amount when doing its own affordability calculations. On this basis, 
Everyday Loans calculated that Ms P would most likely have around £94 spare cash each 
month after taking out the loan with Everyday Loans. 
I think the checks that Everyday Loans did were, broadly speaking, reasonable and 
proportionate. But, whilst I've thought carefully about what Everyday Loans has said, I dont 
think that Everyday Loans made a fair lending decision on this occasion.
It is unclear to me exactly how Everyday Loans reached the Total Monthly Income figure it 
relied on when assessing the affordability of this loan for Ms P. It looks like it did a 
calculation based on what it saw on her November 2019 payslip to work out a typical monthly figure for her net pay, but that it may have recorded this incorrectly when assessing 
affordability. Possibly it also included other regular income Ms P received each month  but 
that was specifically intended to help with other costs and couldnt reasonably have been 
assumed to be available for debt repayment. 
Im mindful that Everyday Loans saw on Ms Ps October 2019 bank statement that her 
employer had paid her approximately £2,927 that month. But the payslip it saw showed her 
net monthly pay the next month was around £2,547. I cant see that the reasons for 
variations in her net pay were particularly discussed with Ms P. 
So I think its fair to say that Everyday Loans wasnt able to be certain that Ms Ps monthly 
earnings were as much as it assumed when it did its affordability calculations. And Ive seen 
further information showing that Ms P was actually paid £2,546 in December 2019  some 
£434 less than Everyday Loans had allowed for. 
And I dont think Everyday Loans thought carefully enough about what the information it saw 
revealed about Ms Ps overall financial situation and her use of credit.
It was evident that shed had some money problems in the past and I can see from Everyday 
Loans notes that she explained this was due to her circumstances then and that things were 
now different.
But I dont think that anything Ms P told Everyday Loans was enough to rebut or explain the 
information it could see that she was still in serious financial difficulty. Ill explain why I say 
this.
As our adjudicator mentioned in his view letter, the information Everyday Loans saw on 
Ms Ps bank statements suggested she was stuck in persistent overdraft and paying bank 
charges for this. On 8 October 2019, the opening balance was overdrawn by £696.29 and on 
31 October 2019 she was £776.93 overdrawn. I think Everyday Loans couldve seen that on 
20 November 2019 (which looks like it mightve been the most up to date information it saw 
before agreeing to provide this loan) Ms P was now overdrawn by some £1,656. As far as 
I can see, she had in fact been overdrawn on her account since 28 October 2019  and 
mostly by a four figure amount.
As well as this, Everyday Loans was aware that Ms P had a number of other outstanding 
high cost loans when this loan taken - it asked about these and Ms P explained they had 
been for particular one-off expenses. But this didnt explain the long history of reliance on 
short-term loans and high cost credit that Everyday Loans could see on its credit checks. 
Everyday Loans was also able to see that Ms P was close to approaching the £950 credit 
limit on one of her credit cards and on another one she had been over its £3,500 limit for 
almost a year. This account was shown on her credit report as having been marked 
delinquent within the last couple of months.
I think all this information painted a picture of someone struggling to manage money 
problems effectively and it included clear warning signs that Ms P might be experiencing 
financial difficulty. 
Whilst I've thought carefully about what Everyday Loans has said, I dont think that Everyday 
Loans made a fair lending decision on this occasion. 
The new monthly repayments for its loan cost more than the repayments on the debt being 
consolidated. So its unclear how this would be sustainably affordable when there were signs 
that showed Ms P was already struggling financially. I acknowledge the point made by Everyday Loans that it saw some discretionary spending 
on Ms Ps bank statements. But I think its fair to say this doesnt affect the outcome. I think 
Everyday Loans was able to see that Ms Ps credit report showed that she had an 
established track record of extensive reliance on expensive credit. I think Everyday Loans 
couldve seen that Ms P was living beyond her means and supplementing her income with 
credit to fund her day to day spending. 
And even allowing for this spending on non-essentials, the overall picture was of someone 
persistently reliant on expensive credit and unable to afford the cost of her debt. So I think 
that Everyday Loans shouldve realised that having to pay around £49 more each month for 
a loan with higher monthly repayments didnt look like the loan would be sustainably 
affordable.  
And I think our adjudicator was right to say that there was a further reason to think that this 
loan likely wouldnt be sustainably affordable. The cost of Ms Ps non-consolidated lending 
plus the new monthly repayment for this loan, which Everyday Loans understood would add 
up to at least £834, was almost a third of her take home pay. I think that this was such a 
significant proportion of Ms Ps monthly income Everyday Loans couldnt reasonably say that 
it was likely that she would be able to repay its loan in a sustainable way  especially 
bearing in mind the 18 months loan term. 
So, for all these reasons, to my mind, it was reasonably foreseeable that its loan wouldnt be 
sustainably affordable for Ms P and Everyday Loans ought reasonably to have been aware 
that taking further, costly lending was unlikely to help Ms P and serve only to increase her 
indebtedness over the longer term. So I am planning on upholding Ms Ps complaint that she 
should not have been given the loan.
I havent seen anything to make me think that Everyday Loans acted unfairly or 
unreasonably some other way. So Im not planning to award any additional redress over and 
above what I've set out below. But as Ms P has been further indebted with an expensive 
loan that she shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that she has lost out as a 
result of what Everyday Loans did wrong. So, as things stand, I think Everyday Loans needs 
to put things right.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
I have heard nothing further from either party and the deadline for responses has now 
passed so I think its reasonable for me to proceed with my review of this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
Having done so, and as no further comments have been received in response to my 
provisional decision that change what I think about this case, I still think its fair to uphold this 
complaint for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Ms P to repay the capital amount that she borrowed, 
because she had the benefit of that lending. But she has paid extra for lending that should not have been provided to her. In line with this Services approach, Ms P shouldnt repay 
more than the capital amount she borrowed. 
If Everyday Loans has sold any outstanding debt it should buy this back if able to do so and 
then take the following steps. Otherwise, Everyday Loans should liaise with the new debt 
owner to achieve the results outlined below and do the following:
add up the total amount of money Ms P received as a result of having been given the 
loan. The repayments Ms P made should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in Ms P having paid more than she received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Everyday Loans should attempt to 
arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Ms P.
Remove any negative information recorded on Ms Ps credit file regarding the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to deduct tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans should give Ms P a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if 
she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) to 
take the steps I've set out above to put things right for Ms P. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman