DRN-3447905
The complaint
Mr L complains that Next Retail Limited (Next Retail) irresponsibly gave him a running 
account credit facility that he couldnt afford.
What happened
In October 2010, Mr L applied for a credit account with Next Retail. He was given an initial 
credit limit of £300. The credit limit was reduced once and increased five times by March 
2013 to £5000. There were four decreases in credit thereafter until it was £300 by March 
2019.
In 2021, Mr L complained to Next Retail to say that the account shouldnt have been 
opened for him because it wasnt affordable and that Next Retail ought to have made a 
better effort to understand his financial circumstances before increasing his credit limits.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr L didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
Next Retail will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Our adjudicators assessment provided a detailed account of all the increases and 
decreases of credit, and they are summarised above. Neither party has called the 
specifics into question, so, I dont intend to cover them off here. 
Mr Ls complaint is that Next Retail made credit available that was unaffordable. It is not 
straightforward trying to determine affordability because Mr L has not been able to provide 
any bank statements from the times in question. Next Retail has explained that it carried out 
a credit check using a credit agency and it observed the management of the account by Mr 
L to determine the amount of credit it was able to offer. Its possible that Next Retail failed to 
make adequate checks before providing Mr L with credit or for the credit increases. But 
even if thats true, I dont think better enquiries would have caused Next Retail to think the 
initial credit limit or the credit increases were unaffordable. 
I say this because the initial credit limit was modest and the maximum monthly payments 
for that credit would have been relatively modest. And subsequently through all of the 
credit increases the account was well managed, the payments were not missed and Mr L 
was not using the full credit limit available to him initially and through the credit increases. 
I have also noted all the submissions made in this case by Mr L. I can see that Mr L had 
some financial difficulties prior to taking out this credit or the increases. But the evidence 
isnt sufficient for me to think it would have put Next Retail off providing credit to Mr L had 
it been aware of it. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, and in the absence of any 
extra evidence from Mr L to the contrary, I have seen insufficient evidence to think that a 
more thorough affordability check would have led Next Retail to think that the credit it 
provided Mr L was unreasonable. Further, Im not persuaded that the way Mr L was 
managing his account or what Next Retail could see of his management of other credit 
ought to have prompted it to have acted differently than it did. 
I know that Mr L will be disappointed with my decision. But I want Mr L to know that I noted 
all the submissions made in this case. Having done so, I have not found sufficient evidence 
to uphold this complaint.
I note that Next Retail has said it would make a payment to reduce Mr Ls debt in respect of 
what it considers was a failing in not having offered Mr L a long term repayment plan, when 
he had told them he was in financial difficulties. That offer was made before the case came 
to us and does not seem unfair. I leave Next Retail and Mr L to arrange that between 
themselves. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman