Complaint  
Mr and Mrs C complain that Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) mis -sold payment protection  
insurance (PPI) to them alongside a mortgage in 1992.  
I know that when PPI was sold to Mr and Mrs C, BOS was trading as Halifax. However, BOS  
is responsible for complaints like this. To keep things simple, Ill refer to BOS for the rest of  
this decision.  
Background  
Mr and Mrs C took out a joint mortgage and at the same time they took out a PPI policy. This  
policy covered Mr C only (not Mrs C) in case of an accident, sickness or if he lost his job.  
The policy cost around £20 per month and on a successful claim would have paid out the  
monthly benefit of £400 for at least up to 12 months per claim.  
Mr and Mrs C say that they did not need the PPI as they had sufficient funds and do not  
believe they received any information prior to signing for the PPI. They have also told us that  
they were told they might not get a mortgage without taking out the policy. And although they  
cant precisely remember the questions they were asked at the meeting, when taking out the  
policy, they say they were pressured and bullied into buying the cover.  
Our adjudicator looked at the matter and said she didnt think this was a complaint we would  
uphold. Unhappy  with this view Mr and Mrs C asked that the complaint be passed to an  
ombudsman for a final decision. In reply, they told us that the savings they had could have  
been used to make the mortgage repayments and therefore they didnt require the PPI.  
My findi ngs 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and  
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to  
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into accou nt in deciding  
this case.  
I am sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs C, but I havent upheld this complaint. Ill explain why  
below.  
Not all the original paperwork is available and I cant know what was said to them at the time  
of the sale. Thats not unusual a nd isnt surprising as businesses arent required to keep its  
records indefinitely. Where there is inconsistent or incomplete information, I will make my  
decision based on whats more likely to have happened. To help me decide, I will take into  
account the  evidence available, as well as what the parties have told me. I will also think  
about what we know about these types of sales at the time.  
Mr and Mrs C say they felt pressured into buying the policy, and they also say they were told  
DRN-1082554without having the PP I they might not get their mortgage.  
Ive thought about what theyve told me but I note that the policy was only in Mr Cs name.  
To me this indicates Mr and Mrs C were more likely given a choice about who they wanted  
to cover. And pressure is a subjective matter. What one person feels is pressure another  
person may not agree. Looking at what theyve told me in their questionnaire to this service I  
dont have enough to say that they were pressured into buying the PPI. Taking everything  
the parties  have told me, I think it was more likely they chose the policy to cover Mr C only  
and knew they could refuse it if they didnt want it.  
Mr and Mrs C took out their PPI during a meeting. Both parties agree the PPI was  
recommended to them. As a recommended  sale, BOS had to make sure the cover was  
suitable for Mr and Mrs Cs needs. To help me decide whether the cover was suitable, Ive  
looked at the terms and conditions of the cover. And Ive also thought about what  
Mr and Mrs C told us about their personal circumstances at the time. They have said they  
didnt need the cover as they had enough other means to cover themselves.  
Mr C has said he would have had sick pay from his employer of up to six months. Ive  
thought about what Mr and Mrs C have told me. But  this policy would have paid out in  
addition to and for likely longer than Mr Cs sick pay would have lasted, so I still think the  
policy could have come in useful if he had to take extended time off work.  
Mr and Mrs C have sent in a copy of their account  passbook from 1993  so this is from  
around a year after they had taken out their mortgage, showing they had savings of around  
£10,000. They have told us they had around £20,000 from an inheritance when they took out  
the policy. Whilst I accept they had s avings and probably had these savings at the time they  
took out the PPI, I cant say the policy was unsuitable. I say that because I can see they  
didnt want to reduce their mortgage by using their savings at the time. That leads me to  
think Mr and Mrs C m ore likely wanted to keep them intact. And it wouldnt have taken long  
for these savings to have been used if Mr C couldnt work for any length of time or lost his  
job. Insurance is usually taken out to protect an expected event and its important to note  
that the PPI protected their monthly mortgage repayments for up to 12 months if  
Mr and Mrs C fell into difficulty. The consequence of being unable to repay their mortgage  
was serious and the PPI would have meant they could keep their savings or use them for  
other important household expenses and essential living costs if things went wrong.  
Theres nothing to make me think Mr C wasnt eligible for the PPI. Mr C told us that he was  
in good health at the time the PPI was sold. So I dont think hed hav e been affected by any  
of the policys exclusions about medical conditions. And he didnt have any unusual  
employment circumstances, so I dont think he would have been affected by any limitations  
in the policy about employment circumstances. I havent see n anything unusual about his  
circumstances that would have stopped him from being able to make a successful claim if he  
needed to. Taking account of all the evidence, Im satisfied that the PPI was suitable for Mr  
and Mrs Cs needs.  
BOS still had to make sure it gave Mr and Mrs C enough clear information about the PPI, so  
they could decide for themselves whether it was a good fit for their needs. Its possible that  
not all the information was as clear as it should have been. But as I have explained I think  
they chose the PPI even if its understandable if they cant remember doing so after so many  
years. And I still think the PPI could have been useful if Mr C couldnt work or lost his job. So  
taking all of this into account, I dont think theyd have acted  differently if BOS had told them  
everything it should have done.  
I am sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs C. But it follows that for the reasons set out above, I  
havent upheld their complaint.  Final decision  
I dont uphold this complaint about Bank of Scot land plc.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to  
accept or reject my decision before 18 December 2019.  
Nicola Woolf  
Ombudsman  