DRN-4151008
The complaint
Mr A says Skyfire Insurance Company Limited wrongly decided to avoid his motor insurance 
policy (to treat it as though it had never existed) and not to deal with his claim. 
What happened
Mr As car was damaged in an accident that wasnt his fault. In investigating the claim, 
Skyfire noted that there were modifications to the car that he hadnt told it about. The 
windscreen had been tinted and a splitter had been added to the front bumper. Skyfire said 
had it known about the changes it wouldnt have offered a policy to Mr A. 
Mr A said he bought the car from a relative and didnt know it had been modified. Later, he 
said hed told Skyfire about the modifications and it had said they were acceptable. And at 
one point, Mr As brother told Skyfire that hed fitted the modifications shortly before the 
accident and that he could remove them. Mr A said he had no idea what his brother was 
talking about. He said Skyfire had treated him unfairly and that it had acted in a racist way. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr As complaint. She said Skyfire had followed the 
relevant law  the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations ) Act 2012 
(CIDRA).  She referred to the images of Mr As car and a standard model, which showed 
the difference the modifications made. She thought Mr A knew the car was modified. The 
investigator noted that Skyfire had decided the misrepresentation was careless, as opposed 
to reckless or deliberate, and had returned Mr As premiums. She thought it had treated him 
fairly. Mr A said hed be sending us further information, but he hasnt done so.
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Was there a misrepresentation?
Mr A said the car wasnt modified, but that wasnt correct, so there was a misrepresentation 
of the facts. The question is whether Mr A took reasonable care to avoid making a 
misrepresentation, and the standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. I think the 
blue-tinted windscreen and the attachment to the bumper are obvious, so the car looks 
different to the standard model. Mr A says no changes were made to the car after he bought 
it (despite his brothers comments). That means the changes had been made and were there 
to be seen (or queried) when he purchased it. Mr A says he didnt ask the seller if the car 
had been modified, so when he answered No to the question asked about modifications 
when he bought the policy, he didnt know whether that was accurate or not. 
When Mr A got the policy documents, there were several clear warnings about taking care to 
ensure that all the information provided was correct. The warnings said the policy may be 
cancelled or avoided if inaccurate details had been given to Skyfire. At the top of the 
Statement of Fact  theres a paragraph pointing out that the details set out in it were provided 
by Mr A. It says they should be checked carefully and if anything is incorrect, he should 
contact Skyfire immediately, otherwise, the policy may be invalidated, and any claim made 
on it not paid. Below the details provided by Mr A (under the heading Important Information) 
is another warning about ensuring that the details set out are correct. So Mr A had another 
chance to check whether there were any modifications to the car, but he didnt do so.
Theres no evidence that Mr A told Skyfire about the modifications, and his assertion that he 
did so conflicts with what he said about not knowing about the modifications. Taking 
everything into account, I think it was reasonable for Skyfire to decide that Mr A didnt take 
reasonable care to avoid making a misrepresentation to it. 
Was there a qualifying misrepresentation? 
Under CIDRA, an insurer must show not only that there was a misrepresentation, but also 
that it made a difference to the insurer. It has to show that it wouldnt have offered cover to 
the consumer or would only have done so on different terms. In this case, I think Skyfire has 
shown that had it known the true facts, its underwriting criteria would have prevented it from 
offering cover to Mr A at all. The underwriting rules allow for some modifications, and the 
tinted windscreen may have been acceptable to Skyfire. As it wasnt made aware of the 
tinting, it couldnt be assessed. And in any event, a splitter isnt an acceptable modification to 
Skyfire, so cover would have been declined based on that alone. 
Was the policy avoidance fair and reasonable?
CIDRA provides that if an insurer can show that there was a qualifying misrepresentation, 
and it wouldnt have offered cover to a consumer, it has the right to avoid the policy. I think 
Skyfire has shown there was a qualifying misrepresentation in this case, and that it wouldnt 
have offered cover had it known the facts. So I think it acted reasonably, and in line with 
CIDRA, by avoiding the policy. That meant any claim on it wasnt covered. 
If an insurer decides to avoid a policy, under CIDRA it must decide whether it thinks the 
misrepresentation was careless, as opposed to reckless or deliberate. Skyfire decided that 
Mr As misrepresentation was careless, so it returned his premium. Had it decided he acted 
recklessly or deliberately, it would have been entitled to retain the premium. 
Did Skyfire act unreasonably in any other way?
Mr A has told us he just wanted to be treated fairly by Skyfire. I think in dealing with the 
misrepresentation, Skyfire followed the rules set out by CIDRA and treated Mr A fairly, and in 
the way it would have treated any other consumer in similar circumstances. 
Mr A says Skyfires advisors had acted in a racist way and discriminated against him. He 
thinks they treated him less favourably than they would have treated others, on racial 
grounds. It isnt our role to decide if an insurer has acted unlawfully (which would mean 
deciding whether it had breached the Equality Act 2010) as thats the role of the courts. 
Instead, we look at whether an  insurer seems to have acted fairly and reasonably, taking 
into account the relevant law.
Mr A didnt provide us with any specific examples of less favourable treatment when he 
made his complaint to us, although the claims notes show that he told one advisor shed 
acted in a racist way by pronouncing his name incorrectly. I think errors in pronunciation are 
fairly common, and that they happen with names across all racial groups. So although Mr A 
was offended by it , I dont think it shows he was treated less favourably by the advisor on 
racial grounds  and Mr A didnt tell us he thought it did. To clarify the issue, we asked Mr A why he thought hed been discriminated against, and whether there were any specific 
examples of racist treatment that he wanted to raise. Mr A didnt respond to our query. 
We also asked Skyfire how it had dealt with Mr As concerns. It seems he didnt make a 
formal complaint about being treated less favourably on racial grounds. But Skyfire provided 
a call recording in which he told an advisor that he was being racist and that he had 
discriminated against Mr A.  The advisor disputed it strongly and asked Mr A why he had 
made those accusations. Mr A said it was because the advisor had refused to allow him to 
speak to the policy validations team and had refused to put him through to a manager. 
In fact, the advisor had explained several times to Mr A that the policy validations team no 
longer had any reason to discuss anything with Mr A (and had said they would not speak 
with him) as the decision had been made to avoid his policy. The advisor said the complaints 
team would be in touch instead, but Mr A wouldnt accept what the advisor was telling him. 
In my opinion, the call became difficult, mostly because Mr A continually spoke over the 
advisor and raised his voice. When he asked to speak to a manager, the advisor agreed to 
transfer him, but he said the manager would only repeat what he had been saying. Whilst I 
can see that Mr A may have been frustrated that Skyfire wasnt giving him the answers he 
wanted, I cant agree that means it was treating him unfairly. I dont think theres anything to 
show that the advisor would have treated another consumer with different racial 
characteristics differently. 
When Mr A was put through to a manager, he didnt mention anything about racism or 
having been discriminated against. But that conversation also became difficult, as the 
manager had to ask Mr A to stop interrupting him constantly and to stop shouting. Mr A then 
asked to speak to a more senior manager, but there wasnt a customer-facing more senior 
manager available. Mr A continued shouting and the call ended. I think Mr A thought the 
advisors had acted unreasonably by resisting his arguments. He may have assumed that 
was based on racial grounds, but when differing viewpoints are being debated, 
conversations are often difficult. I dont think theres any evidence that Mr A was treated less 
favourably than he otherwise would have been by Skyfires advisors.
Although I know Mr A is very unhappy with the way his claim was handled, and suspects it 
was on racial grounds, I hope it will assist him to know that someone independent and 
impartial has reviewed his concerns carefully before deciding not to uphold his complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the Financial Ombudsman 
Services rules, I must ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 6 October 2023. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman