DRN-2510065
The complaint
 Mrs T, acting in her capacity as trustee of T, complains about Quilter Financial Services Ltd.
She says Quilter failed to accurately disclose medical information provided by her late
husband, Mr B, to the insurer when setting up his life cover. Because of this, the insurer only
paid out a proportion of the sum assured upon Mr Bs passing.
Mrs T is represented by a firm Ill refer to as K.
Where I refer to Quilter Financial Services Ltd, this includes their appointed representatives. 
What happened
 The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
In June 2018 Mr B was advised by Quilter to set up a life insurance policy that provided 
£160,000 of cover for a monthly premium of £20.10. The policy was set up under trust, with 
Mrs T as a trustee and the beneficiary.
Mr B sadly passed away on 14 January 2019.
The insurer considered the claim made on Mr Bs policy but they only paid £34,322. They 
explained that a non-cancerous skin lesion disclosed in the application was actually a 
malignant melanoma. And, had they known this, then they wouldve charged a higher 
premium of £93.70 per month for the cover. Because of this, the insurer only paid 21.451% 
of the sum assured  that being the same proportion of premiums Mr B paid.
Mrs T complained to Quilter about the reduction in payment. Quilter didnt uphold the
complaint as they considered the life cover recommended was suitable for the recorded
needs of Mr B at the time. They also said a summary of the personal and medical
information submitted to the insurer was provided to Mr B, giving him the opportunity to
ensure it was accurate before the policy was issued. Further, Mr B had the option of
cancelling the policy within the 30-day cooling off period if he wasnt happy with the 
protection it provided.
K referred the matter to our service. They considered Mr B had clearly informed the
adviser in a telephone conversation that hed had a melanoma removed. And so, K thought
the adviser had acted negligently by failing to disclose the melanoma in the application to the 
insurer. K therefore deemed Quilter responsible for the £125,678 difference in payment.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but she didnt think Quilter had to do
anything further. She explained that although Mr B had referred to having a melanoma, hed
confirmed to the adviser on several occasions that it was non-cancerous and that theyd
finished all the check-ups. And so, she thought it was reasonable for the adviser to have
relied upon this information when submitting the application to the insurer.
K, and Mrs T, disagreed and so the matter was referred to me to decide. I issued a 
provisional decision on 8 December 2020 explaining that I was minded to uphold the 
complaint. In the provisional decision, I said:
In Mr Bs application to the insurer, the following question was asked:
Have you ever had:

Cancer, Hodgkins disease, lymphoma, leukaemia, melanoma, or a cyst 
or tumour of the brain or spine?
This was answered no. The application also asked Mr B whether hed ever had:
A lump, growth, polyp or tumour of any kind, or a mole or freckle that 
has bled, itched, become painful, changed colour or increased in size, 
regardless of whether or not you have consulted a doctor?
This was answered yes. And, when asked to select from the list which problem hed 
had, it was recorded as a skin lesion removed. There were also, among others, two 
follow up questions asked:
Was there any cancer or malignancy?
Other than to remove stitches or check wound healing, are any follow 
up-checks or treatment required for this or any previous episodes of 
this condition?
Both of these were answered no.
The insurer, when considering the claim, found that the lesion removed in June 
2014 was histologically confirmed to be a malignant melanoma. And that while Mr B 
initially had reviews scheduled every three months, theyd changed to six monthly 
reviews since October 2017.
Im not looking at the actions of the insurer here. That said, it doesnt seem to be in 
dispute there was a misrepresentation in respect of Mr Bs condition. Ive therefore 
considered the advisers role in the application and whether Quilter is responsible for 
this misrepresentation and the claim being proportionality paid.
Mr B completed his application with Quilter over the phone. Ive been provided with a
transcript of a call between Mr B and the adviser. The transcript shows the following
exchange between Mr B (bold) and the adviser:
do you currently have, or have you ever had any of the following
Spinal tumour
Any form of cancer including a lump, cyst, tumour in the brain or spine, 
Hodgkins or non-Hodgkins, lymphoma, leukaemia, cancer in situ or 
melanoma
No, Sorry Melanoma yesSo, you have had Melanoma
Yes, it was a non-malignant and it was removed let me think when it 
was. It was on my arm and they removed it and they checked all the 
lymph nodes and everything and I finished the check ups they were 
doing every sort of 3 months I think it was November 2014
Ok so they removed it, they did all the checks
Yes, so they have done all the checks and it was non-cancerous
And it was non-cancerous  yes
It was non-cancerous yes
The information Mr B provided the adviser is conflicting. This is because while Mr B 
clearly confirmed he had a melanoma, he said it was non-cancerous. A melanoma 
however, by definition, is cancerous. It therefore seems most likely to me that Mr B 
didnt fully understand his condition or what he had removed. Its generally 
reasonable for the adviser to rely upon the information provided to him. But, while the 
adviser isnt a medical professional, I think he ought reasonably to have a greater 
familiarity of medical terms than a lay person given he was selling critical illness 
insurance. And, more importantly, he shouldve understood the importance of 
submitting accurate information to the insurer to avoid a non-disclosure.
Following the conversation with Mr B, the adviser spoke with the insurer prior to 
submitting the application. Ive listened to this call and I think its important to note 
that the adviser tells the insurers agent that he isnt 100% sure about the disclosure 
made. The adviser then goes on to explain that his client had a non-malignant 
melanoma  confirming it was removed, non-cancerous, checked and that Mr B had 
been fully discharged.
The agent explained to the adviser that generally benign would be fine  so the 
policy would be priced on standard rates  but also pointed out that they dont tend to 
refer to it as a melanoma if it is benign. He later went on to advise, when asked what 
the condition should be called, that it would be ideal if the confirmed diagnosis was 
obtained. This is because the difference between the disclosures is that a melanoma 
is actually cancer[ous]  so the agent recommended the adviser clarify the actual 
disclosure, to see if anything more could be added, before applying.
It seems the adviser was reassured by the agent  having been told by Mr B the 
melanoma was non-cancerous  of the importance that the disclosure was indeed 
benign and so proceeded with the application on this basis. But I think the agent 
made it clear that a melanoma is cancerous and so it would be best for a confirmed 
diagnosis of the condition to be obtained. Taking this in to account, I think it wouldve 
been appropriate for the adviser to have contacted Mr B to ask for him to obtain 
further information about his diagnosis, explaining that hed been told a melanoma is 
cancerous, before applying. This wouldve ensured there was no doubt about Mr Bs 
condition and so prevented the non-disclosure occurring
Furthermore, I also think it is relevant that the adviser chose to answer the first 
question  as to whether Mr B had ever had a melanoma  no even though Mr B 
confirmed this was what hed had. And so, although it seems there was some 
confusion around whether it was cancerous or not, I dont consider it was appropriate 
for the adviser to select no when hed clearly been told differently. I think the adviser ought reasonably to have checked this with Mr B before answering the question in 
this way.
Had the adviser asked Mr B to obtain further information about his diagnosis, then I 
consider it most likely that the application wouldve accurately included the details 
about his melanoma. The insurer would therefore have considered this disclosure 
and offered the revised terms of cover.
Quilter has pointed out that Mr B was provided a summary of the personal and 
medical information submitted to the insurer and therefore had an opportunity to 
check its accuracy before the policy was set up. While that may be true, I dont think 
this removes the advisers responsibility for ensuring the policy was appropriate for 
Mr Bs circumstances. I consider it reasonable for Mr B to have relied on the 
professional advice he was provided, and for which the adviser was being 
remunerated for, on the understanding the adviser would be acting in his best 
interests. If follows that I think Quilter is responsible for the non-disclosure in Mr Bs 
application for life cover. Ive therefore considered what Quilter should do to put 
things right.
The insurer has confirmed that, had the melanoma been disclosed, Mr B ought to 
have paid monthly premiums of £93.70 for £160,000 of cover. Both Mrs T and K say 
Mr B wouldve paid the increased premiums as cover was important to him due to 
expecting his first child. Ive taken this into consideration but I cant be entirely sure 
what action Mr B wouldve taken in this situation. And so, Ive looked at what I think is 
most likely in the circumstances.
The need for cover identified by the adviser was to ensure Mr Bs family was 
adequately protected in the event of his death. Mr B was initially quoted monthly 
premiums of £11.80 for £80,000 of cover. This was later increased to £160,000 after 
Mr B asked how much £150,000 would cost. The adviser recommended the sum 
assured of £160,000 as that was the equivalent of four years salary for Mr B.
Considering the request to increase the sum assured, Im satisfied Mr B wanted to 
make sure his family would be sufficiently looked after if he passed away. That said, 
its difficult for me to say with any level of certainty how much Mr B wouldve been 
prepared to pay. I think cost wouldve also been a consideration for Mr B and an 
increase of £73.60 per month is significant. So, while I think its reasonable to 
conclude Mr B wouldve been willing to pay more than £20.10 per month, Im not 
persuaded he wouldve necessarily chosen to pay £93.70.
On balance, I think its most likely he wouldve chosen a level of cover with premium 
costs in between these amounts. And so, although this may not be the actual 
decision that Mr B wouldve made, I think a fair level of compensation here would be 
to calculate the loss on the basis hed had opted for £80,000 of life cover. I think this 
would be a reasonable sum assured to reflect Mr Bs intentions at that time  in line 
with the initial quote  but also offset against the increased premium cost.
The insurer has confirmed Mr B wouldve paid £48.60 per month for £80,000 of cover 
had the melanoma been disclosed in the application. Based on Mr Bs salary and the 
expenditure recorded by the adviser in the fact find, along with supporting information 
provided by Mrs T, it seems this wouldve been affordable to Mr B at the time.
Mr B paid five months of premiums, totalling £100.50. It follows, that I think Quilter 
should pay the £45,678 less the increased cost in premiums that wouldve been paid 
(£142.50). This works out to be £45,535.50. I also consider Quilter should pay 8% simple interest from the date the claim was settled, 30 May 2019, to the date of 
settlement for loss of use of money during this time.
In response to my provisional decision, Quilter emphasised their frustration that the call 
recording of the conversation between Mr B and the adviser couldnt be converted by our 
service into a playable format. They considered this call crucial to understanding the 
complaint in its entirety. 
Mrs T made the following additional points:
Mr B was providing generous support to her, supported by bank statements, in 
addition to covering his own living expenses. This demonstrates that he had a high 
level of disposable income. And Mr Bs disposable income increased further when 
working as he spent long periods of time at sea  during which his living expenses 
were paid.
Shed spoken to Mr B about the level of life cover in advance of it being arranged and 
mentioned that she had about £160,000 of cover. Mr B told her he would intend to 
seek a similar level of cover. So, she whole heartedly believes that Mr B wanted 
£160,000 of life cover and wouldve been willing to pay for this. 
Further, and by way of comparison, she pays about £85 per month for life insurance 
and about £35 per month for car insurance. She feels Mr B wouldve likewise felt the 
same as her in that insuring your life, or the event of a critical illness, to ensure his 
family would be provided for would be worthy of a higher premium than paying for 
insuring your car. 
Now that both parties have had the opportunity to respond to my provisional decision, I can
proceed to making my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not persuaded to depart from the findings in my provisional decision. Ill 
explain why.
Quilter has emphasised the importance of listening to the call between Mr B and the adviser, 
rather than relying on the transcript, in order to understand the complaint in its entirety. I 
agree that, ideally, I wouldve been able to listen to this call but unfortunately it hasnt been 
possible due to IT issues. That said, while Ive noted Quilters concerns, it hasnt been 
suggested that the transcript is an inaccurate reflection of the conversation. So, I think its 
reasonable for me to rely on the transcript.
In any event, I have listened to the call between the adviser and the insurers agent. And I 
think it is this call that is most relevant here. This is because the adviser tells the insurers 
agent that he isnt 100% sure about the disclosure Mr B made. Im therefore satisfied the 
adviser was uncertain of Mr Bs condition, and how it should be recorded in the application, 
as a result of their conversation. The insurers agent then goes on to explain that a 
melanoma is cancerous and so recommends to the adviser that he clarify the actual 
diagnosis (disclosure), to see if anything more could be added, before applying. The adviser 
didnt do this and proceeded with the application on the assumption Mr Bs melanoma wasnt 
cancerous, even though he was told this was likely incorrect. I therefore remain of the view 
that the adviser ought to have asked Mr B to obtain further information about his diagnosis before applying. Had this happened, there wouldve been no doubt regarding Mr Bs 
condition and so the non-disclosure of the melanoma wouldnt have occurred. It therefore 
follows that I consider Quilter is responsible for the non-disclosure, and therefore mis-
representation, in Mr Bs application for life cover.
To put things right, I proposed Quilter pay T £45,353.50 plus 8% simple interest. That being 
the difference between the £34,322 the insurer paid and £80,000  which is the level of 
cover I thought Mr T wouldve likely opted for had the melanoma been disclosed in the 
application and revised terms offered by the insurer (less the additional premium costs). 
Mrs T however argues that her husband wouldve been willing to pay the higher premiums of 
£93.70 for £160,000 worth cover and that this was affordable to him. So, she doesnt think 
the compensation should be limited to the sum assured of £80,000. 
Ive carefully considered the additional points raised by Mrs T. And Id like to firstly reassure 
her that Im not questioning Mr Bs intention to financially protect his family in the event of his 
passing. Im satisfied there was a need for life cover when the policy was sold and that Mr B 
wanted such cover in place. That said, there is limited documentary evidence to show how 
much Mr T was willing to pay for cover. The only reference Ive seen is Mr Ts enquiry about 
how much £150,000 of cover would cost after being given the initial premium quote of 
£11.80 for a sum assured of £80,000.
From this, I think its reasonable to conclude that Mr B was interested in increasing the sum 
assured due to the low premium cost. This is because if Mr B wanted a specific level of 
cover, such as £150,000, then I wouldve expected the first quote to have been for this 
amount instead. I therefore think cost was likely a deciding factor for Mr B at the time. So, 
while Mr B may have had the disposable income to afford monthly premiums of £93.70, I 
dont necessarily consider this is what he wouldve opted for. I think its more likely than not 
that Mr B wouldve taken a balanced approach between the need for cover and cost. So, 
given the significant premium hike, I think its probable that he wouldve proceeded with a 
level of cover costing somewhere between the two quotes he received. 
I cant be sure what Mr B wouldve been prepared to pay for life cover. And so, while I 
understand this may not have been the decision Mr B wouldve made, I remain of the view 
that a fair level of compensation in these circumstances would be to calculate the loss on the 
basis hed opted for £80,000 of life cover. I therefore wont be increasing it further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
I direct Quilter Financial Services Ltd to pay T £45,535.50, plus 8% simple interest from 
30 May 2019 to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2021.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman