DRN-2783972
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) has 
over-charged them. They say that Prudential wont provide them with a full breakdown of the 
fees charged, or how theyve been calculated.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G say that, in September 2016, it was agreed that they would receive a discount 
on the 1.25% annual management charge (AMC). Prudential told them the discount would 
be 0.5% on their May 2013 investment and 0.525% on their September 2015 investment.
But when they received their annual statement in May 2019, it showed the AMC and other 
chargeable expenses of 1.40% and 1.44% with a discount of 0.52%.
Prudential said that from May 2018, it was reporting its fees differently and that the 
percentages include other chargeable expenses (OCEs) which have always been 
charged, but not set out in its statements. Rather than what they were told in 2016, Mr and 
Mrs G receive a discount of 0.525% on the annual management charge of 1.25% across 
their entire investment. Its statements only show the discount to two decimal places. 
Prudential provided further information to explain how the charges are calculated and 
charged and provided reassurance that Mr and Mrs G have not been over-charged.
It apologised that Mr and Mrs G were given wrong information in September 2016 and sent a 
cheque for £100 by way of compensation. And it apologised for any misunderstanding 
caused during the phone call on 19 July 2019 and sent a cheque for £75 by way of 
compensation.
Mr and Mrs G were not reassured by the information provided and referred their complaint to 
this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She concluded that 
the balance of evidence didnt support that Prudential had over-charged Mr and Mrs G and 
that it wasnt reasonable to ask Prudential to provide any further breakdowns of the charges.
Mr and Mrs G didnt agree. Mr G said, in summary, that:
The discount in 2016 has not been fully applied.
Mr and Mrs G invested further significant sums because of the agreed discount.
Mr G had repeatedly asked whether the charges were based on the fund value including 
or excluding the final bonus and this has only been clarified since our investigator set this 
out in her view of the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the information Prudential has provided to us and to Mr and Mrs G. And Im 
satisfied that the annual management charges have been charged as agreed. The annual 
management charge is 1.25% and Mr and Mrs G receive a discount of 0.525.%. This has 
been applied across Mr and Mrs Gs entire investment  so I dont find its not been fully 
applied as suggested by Mr G.
The discount is printed as 0.52% on Mr and Mrs Gs statements but Prudential has 
explained this is because its systems will only print the discount to two decimal places.
The fee percentage showing on Mr and Mrs Gs statements is higher than 1.25% because it 
now includes OCEs, which have always been charged, but not previously reported in this 
way.
Prudential made a mistake in 2016 when it gave Mr and Mrs G information about its fee and 
discount. But the actual fee, taking the discount in to account, was less than what it said in 
its letter. So I dont find this mistake has negatively impacted Mr and Mrs G.
Looking at all the evidence, Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs G have been over-charged.
The annual charge is integrated into the unit prices and a proportion is deducted on a daily 
basis. So Prudential cant provide Mr and Mrs G with the full breakdown theyve requested. 
The ombudsman service isnt the regulator. We cant tell a business what information they 
should report to their customers. However, Ive looked at whether Prudential has given 
Mr and Mrs G clear enough information about the charges on their account. And I think the 
statements sent to Mr and Mrs G provide them with sufficiently clear information about its 
charges. They also include the same level of information that Prudential provides to its other 
customers.
I accept Prudential doesnt provide the information about charges in the format that Mr and 
Mrs G would like. But I cant say Prudential has failed to do what it should, or treated Mr and 
Mrs G unfairly.
Prudential has accepted that it did give Mr and Mrs G wrong information in 2016 and that the 
information given in its phone call in July 2019 could have been clearer. It recognised this 
would have caused Mr and Mrs G some distress and inconvenience and paid them £175 
compensation. I consider this to be fair and reasonable, and I dont find it needs to do 
anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 June 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman