DRN-3282080
The complaint
Ms W complains Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold a Level Term Assurance policy (LTA). 
This is because she understood she would receive a cash lump sum at the end of the policy 
term or cover would continue until she died leaving a cash payment for her beneficiaries.
What happened
In February and March 2006 Ms W met with Lloyds and discussed life cover. Lloyds 
recommended a LTA for a term of 17 years and a sum assured of approximately £120,000. 
She chose not to take out critical illness cover and decided to reduce the sum assured (to 
approximately £62,000) to keep the cost of the premiums down to £20 per month. The policy 
started on 27 March 2006. 
Ms W complained to Lloyds when she became aware that she wouldnt be receiving a lump 
sum at the end of the cover period. Lloyds responded to the complaint in May 2021. They 
didnt uphold the complaint and said Ms W had been concerned about her partners financial 
situation in the event of her death. They said the LTA was recommended and met the need 
identified by the advisor. Also, they said the documents sent at the time reflected that this 
was an insurance and not an investment policy and was for a specified term. 
Ms W remained unhappy and asked us to investigate. She explained it was not true that she 
knew the policy would pay nothing past a certain age. The Investigator issued her view 
explaining why she felt the complaint shouldnt be upheld. She felt the policy met the need 
identified by the advisor when it was sold in 2006, also that Lloyds provided clear and 
accurate information about the policy. 
Ms W didnt agree with the Investigators view. She explained she was told by three people 
that there would be a cash sum paid out at the end of the period. Ms W said she only paid 
the premiums because she understood this. Lloyds responded and confirmed they had 
nothing to add. 
As Ms W didnt agree with the Investigators findings, the case has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms W has explained she was told there would be a cash lump sum paid out at the end of the 
period and this is the reason she took out the policy. I wasnt privy to the meetings between 
Ms W and the advisor so its not possible for me to determine with certainty exactly what was 
discussed. Instead, I must consider the evidence which is available and decide what, on 
balance, is most likely to have happened. 
Suitability of the LTA
The personal fact find provides a record of the information the advisor recorded at the time 
the policy was sold. The advisor confirmed Ms W was concerned her partner would suffer 
financially in the event of her death and she wished to ensure his present standard of living. 
The advisor also recorded their personal and financial circumstances. This included their 
income and expenditure. Having reviewed this document, I can see the advisor obtained 
sufficient information about Ms Ws circumstances and objectives in order to make a 
recommendation.
I can see the advisor summarised the meetings in the personal summary and 
recommendation report sent in March 2006. He recommended the LTA for a term of 17 
years with a sum assured of approximately £120,000. He explained this would help to meet 
Ms Ws objective because it would provide valuable reassurance in the event of death. He 
explained it would replace the income that she brought into the household and ensure that 
her partner would not suffer financial hardship.
Im content this explanation is reasonable and reflects the intended purposes of a LTA  to 
pay out a specified amount should the policy holder die within the term of the policy. Also, 
the term meant cover would be provided up until Ms W retired. Again, this was reasonable 
because the LTA seems to have been intended to replace Ms Ws income and this income 
would have reduced when she retired. Therefore, the plan recommended seems to have 
been suitable for Ms Ws needs and circumstances.
I understand Ms W decided not to take the critical illness element and reduce the sum 
assured in order to keep the premiums down. The advisor confirmed this in the suitability 
letter. He explained this would still provide a sufficient level of cover, although it would not 
cover all of the shortfall. Again, this was reasonable as it reflected Ms Ws wishes to balance 
her objective to obtain suitable cover for protection and pay less in premiums.
Therefore, Im not persuaded Lloyds did anything wrong when recommending the LTA.
Lump sum
Having reviewed the personal fact find and suitability letter as outlined above, Ive seen no 
mention of a lump sum being paid at the end of the period. The documents also made it 
clear that this was a term policy, so would not provide cover for the whole of Ms Ws life.
Additionally, Ive reviewed the policy schedule sent when the policy was taken out. I can see 
it stated the type of policy was LTA and the last payment was due in February 2023. There is 
no reference to a cash payment being made at the end of the term and Ms W could 
understand the policy only provided cover for the specified period.
A cash lump sum is usually paid out in respect of some savings policies which are paid into 
over a specific period. Where a savings policy is taken out, the provider will usually include 
an illustration or estimate of what might be paid out if premiums are paid. This isnt included 
in any of the documents here. Also, it seems saving for the future may have been discussed 
with the advisor because he noted in the suitability letter that Ms W didnt want any further 
advice about saving for retirement at the time.
Ive also reviewed the key features document and brochure for the LTA. The documents 
explained that if life insurance cover only was selected then this would pay out a cash sum in 
the event of death before the plan ended. There was also a risk factors page and I can see it 
stated that there would be no cash-in value at any time. Additionally, there is a section which 
explained when the plan would pay out.
The brochure also explained that if Ms W reached the end of the term and a cash sum had 
not been paid out, then the plan would end, and she would get nothing back. Therefore, Lloyds made it reasonably clear this was a term policy providing cover for a specified period 
and in what circumstances the sum assured would be paid. In light of this evidence, I 
consider it unlikely the advisor explained she would receive a lump sum at the end of the 
cover period or that it would extend beyond the term and pay out to the beneficiaries in the 
event of death. And, even if there was a misunderstanding, the point of sale documents 
clearly set out the features of the LTA.
I would assure Ms W that I do understand how strongly she feels about her complaint and 
Ive thought carefully about what she has said in respect of receiving a lump sum at the end 
of the policy. However, I do have to balance this with the evidence Ive seen. Having done 
so, Im content Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably. The recommendation for the LTA suited 
Ms Ws needs and objectives as understood by the advisor at the time. Also, the 
documentation provided was clear about what the policy included, and no reference was 
made to paying out a lump sum at the end of the period or that it would provide cover for life.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman