DRN-3482444
The complaint
Miss M complains that Astrenska Insurance Limited has turned down a cancellation claim 
she made on a travel insurance policy.
What happened
Miss M took out an annual travel insurance policy through a broker, which provided her with 
cover between 2 February 2020 and 1 February 2021. The policy was underwritten by 
Astrenska. In August 2020, Miss M booked a trip to a country Ill call C and was planning to 
travel between 13 and 20 September 2020.
At that point, C was exempt from Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) 
advice against all but essential travel which had been put in place because of Covid-19. But 
Cs government required UK nationals to provide proof of a negative Covid-19 test which 
had been taken no earlier than 72 hours ahead of travel. Private testing companies were 
routinely offering fit-to-fly Covid-19 tests for travel purposes.
On 9 September 2020, Miss M said her partner began to suffer from symptoms of Covid-19. 
So they booked a standard PCR test through the NHS for 11 September 2020. Due to a 
system glitch, the test couldnt go ahead and Miss M said that if the test was rescheduled, it 
was possible the results wouldnt be received in time. On this basis, Miss M cancelled her 
holiday and made a claim on her travel insurance policy.
Astrenska turned down the claim. While the cancellation section of the policy covered 
government directives against travel to a policyholders destination, there were no such 
directives in place at the point Miss M had cancelled her trip. It said that failure to get a 
negative Covid-19 test in time to travel wasnt covered by the policy terms.
Miss M was unhappy with Astrenskas decision and she asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator ultimately concluded that Astrenska had treated Miss M fairly. He felt that if 
Miss M could show that her partner had tested positive for Covid-19, then Astrenska should 
cover her cancellation claim  and Astrenska agreed. However, while Miss M provided 
evidence of the original test booking which had been cancelled, she didnt provide anything 
to show that her travelling partner had subsequently been diagnosed with Covid-19 or that 
shed tried to arrange an earlier private test in order to comply with Cs entry requirements. 
And failure to obtain a negative Covid-19 test wasnt something covered by the policy terms. 
So the investigator didnt think Astrenska had acted unfairly when it concluded that Miss Ms 
claim wasnt covered.
Miss M disagreed. She asked us to consider the complaint which shed originally submitted  
that she hadnt been able to fly due to exceptional circumstances.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Miss M, I think it was fair for Astrenska to turn 
down her claim and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Miss Ms policy and the circumstances of her claim, to decide whether Astrenska 
treated her fairly. 
First, its important I make it clear that no insurance policy covers every eventuality and 
insurers are entitled to decide what level of risk they wish to accept in return for the premium 
paid for a policy. Therefore, Astrenskas obligations under its contract with Miss M are limited 
by the terms, conditions and exclusions which are set out in the policy. 
Miss Ms policy says that Astrenska covers a policyholders cancellation for the following 
listed, specific reasons:
1.the death or disablement by bodily injury, illness or being subject to quarantine of: you; or 
b. an immediate relative of yours, or c. a travelling companion; or d. any person you are 
intending to travel to or stay with; or e. a close business associate of yours; or
2. you or a travelling companion discovering that you/they are pregnant after the date of 
issue of this policy or the date the trip was booked (whichever was the later), if the booked 
return date is within 12 weeks (16 weeks for a multiple birth) of the expected date of delivery, 
or complications of pregnancy; or
3. you or a travelling companion being called for jury service or as a witness (but not as an 
expert witness or where your employment would normally require you to attend court) ina 
court of law; or
4. you being made redundant and you qualify for redundancy payment under the current 
legislation; or
5. your home being made uninhabitable or place of business being made unusable 
(including if your presence is required by the policy in connection with such events), up to 7 
days before the commencement of your trip; or
6. your passport, or the passport of your travelling companion being stolen during the seven 
days before your departure date; or
7. a government directive prohibiting all travel to the country or area you were planning to 
visit, as a result of a natural disaster (e.g. earthquake, fire, flood, hurricane or epidemic).
In this case, Miss M told us that the trip had to be cancelled because she and her travelling 
partner didnt have the negative Covid-19 test results Cs government required in order for 
them to be allowed entry to the country. She said this was due to the failure of the NHS 
testing system and that she believed theyd have been able to board their flight were it not 
for Cs governments testing restrictions. This isnt something which is covered by the 
cancellation section of the policy. 
And Id add that fit-to-fly Covid-19 tests were generally being carried out by private companies, at a travellers own cost. These had to be arranged privately at approved clinics 
ahead of travel and were specifically set up to offer Covid-19 testing facilities for people 
planning to travel abroad, who needed to provide evidence to their destination country that 
they didnt have the virus. Covid-19 testing for the purpose of international travel wasnt 
available on the NHS. It was also widely publicised that NHS Covid-19 tests werent suitable 
for international travel. I havent seen any evidence in this case that Miss M did arrange such 
a fit-to-fly test privately, ahead of her partner developing symptoms, at which point, she 
arranged NHS testing two days before departure. So it seems unlikely, in the absence of a 
fit-to-fly test, that Miss M wouldve been able to travel to C in any event.
The policy does cover government directives which prohibit travel to a policyholders 
destination. However, at the point Miss M cancelled her trip, neither the FCDO nor C had 
prohibited travel to her destination. C was exempt from the FCDO advice against travel and 
Cs government was allowing UK nationals entry to the country  it simply required evidence 
of a negative Covid-19 test. This means I dont think Astrenska acted unfairly when it 
concluded that Miss Ms claim didnt fall within the scope of this part of the cover.
It's clear that the policy does cover cancellation due to the illness of a policyholders 
travelling companion. Astrenska agreed that if Miss Ms travelling partner had been 
diagnosed with Covid-19 at the point she was due to travel, then it would reconsider her 
claim. But despite our investigator asking Miss M for evidence which demonstrates that her 
travelling partner did ultimately undergo a Covid-19 test in September 2020 when he had 
symptoms and which showed he had a positive result; she hasnt provided us with such 
information. On this basis, I dont think it was unfair for Astrenska to conclude that Miss Ms 
claim wasnt covered by this policy term either.
However, if Miss M is able to provide Astrenska with evidence that her partner was 
diagnosed with Covid-19 around 13 September 2020, then its open to her to send this 
evidence on to Astrenska for it to further consider.
On the evidence before me though, despite my natural sympathy with Miss Ms position, as I 
appreciate shes been left out of pocket, I dont think Astrenska treated her unfairly when it 
turned down her claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman