DRN-2369991
The complaint
Mr D complains that Lloyds Bank PLC recorded a CIFAS marker against a limited company, 
where he is a director, but using his personal information. He says this led to difficulties in 
obtaining a mortgage and losing the house that he and his wife wanted to buy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and were set out in detail by our 
investigator. So I wont repeat them all here. Mr D didnt agree with our investigators 
recommendation that Lloyds should pay him £300 and wanted considerably more for the 
distress he said hed been caused. The complaint was referred to me to consider. I set out 
my conclusions in a provisional decision, giving both parties a final opportunity to provide 
any further evidence or information. I said:
Mr D had a personal account with Lloyds. He is also director of a company that had a 
business account with Lloyds. If the company has a complaint about anything Lloyds 
did or didnt do, it will need to bring its complaint separately.
Lloyds recorded a CIFAS marker using Mr Ds personal details in May 2019. In 
November 2019 it realised it shouldnt have done this and arranged for it to be 
removed. It had also wrongly frozen Mr Ds account. It accepted a default had been 
wrongly recorded on Mr Ds credit file and it removed this. Lloyds has apologised to 
Mr D and has written him a letter which should help to explain to any third parties that 
these markers were wrongly recorded.
Lloyds has accepted it made mistakes, its put them right, and its apologised. I need 
to decide whether its mistakes led to any financial loss for Mr D and how much he 
should be compensated for any distress and inconvenience this has caused him.
After Mr D referred his complaint to us, and on further reviewing what happened 
here, Lloyds accepted Mr D was more likely to have been the victim of fraud, than to 
have had any involvement in fraudulent activities. The CIFAS marker was on Mr Ds 
records for around six months and the default was on Mr Ds credit file for around 
eight months, having only recently been removed. So, through no fault of his own, Mr 
D has wrongly had adverse information recorded against this name from May 2019 
until August 2020.
Whilst Mr Ds account was frozen, he missed some credit card payments and late 
payments were recorded by those two providers on his credit file. I invite Mr D to 
provide evidence of any interest or charges he incurred as a result of those late 
payments, and I would expect Lloyds to reimburse him, if the credit card companies 
havent refunded them in response to Mr Ds complaints to them.
During this period, Mr D and his wife were trying to move home. Mr D says they had 
more than one mortgage application refused. Mr D told us they lost the opportunity to 
buy a house that they wanted, and they feared they and their very young family 
would be homeless because theyd sold their home but couldnt get a mortgage for a 
new home and would be unlikely to be accepted for rental.
Mr and Mrs D made a joint mortgage application which was unsuccessful. There are 
a number of factors that a lender takes into account when deciding whether to lend or 
not. I havent been given any direct evidence which leads me to conclude that the 
mortgage was declined because of the information Lloyds had recorded against Mr 
D. It follows that I cant order Lloyds to compensate Mr D for any financial loss 
incurred as a result of the unsuccessful application.
Mrs D made a mortgage application in her own name and Mr D thought it was 
rejected because she was linked to him and the information recorded against his 
name. But I cant comment on that here; Mrs D will need to complain about this 
separately.
This has clearly been a very distressing experience for Mr D. And hes had the 
inconvenience of not having access to his bank account, not being able to pay bills, 
leading to missed payments being recorded, and not being able to clear the 
overdrawn balance on his bank account. And this distress and inconvenience has 
been for a period of many months. I think Lloyds took too long to identify that the 
information had been wrongly recorded and it took too long to remove the default. 
Taking all this into account, Im minded to conclude that £1,000 compensation is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances.
Lloyds told us it had written off the overdrawn balance on the business account. But 
the business is a separate legal entity, so this doesnt affect my conclusion about the 
level of compensation Lloyds needs to pay Mr D.
Lloyds hasnt told us what has happened about Mr Ds personal account. Mr D was 
still unable to use it recently when he tried to pay in cash to repay the overdraft. I 
think it would be fair and reasonable for Lloyds to write off the overdrawn balance, if it 
hasnt already done so.
Lloyds agreed with my provisional decision. It said Mr D had paid the remaining balance on 
his account of £105.71 in January 2020, but that it would refund this.
Mr D didnt agree with my conclusions. He said:
He is still being impacted by Lloyds mistake  for example, having to make sure his 
credit card companies have removed the adverse information they recorded on his credit 
file. And that £10,000 compensation would better reflect the distress hes been caused.
The default is still showing on his credit file.
He and his wife have had another mortgage application declined because of a marker 
recorded on another one of the UKs fraud prevention services.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen a recent copy of Mr Ds credit file and Im satisfied that Lloyds has removed the 
default. Im sorry to hear that Mr D and his wife have had another mortgage application declined. 
Lloyds has provided assurance that it has removed the CIFAS marker that was recorded 
against Mr Ds name. And his credit file also shows theres no data recorded for CIFAS. Ive 
not seen any evidence to show that theres a marker recorded with another fraud prevention 
service by Lloyds against Mr Ds name.
Ive re-considered the level of compensation that should be awarded here in the light of 
Mr Ds response to my provisional decision. I dont doubt the distress Lloyds mistake made. 
But, as I set out in my provisional decision, I cant say that Mr Ds mortgage applications 
were unsuccessful solely because of the information Lloyds recorded. I am satisfied that 
£1,000 fairly compensates Mr D for the trouble Lloyds caused him.
Lloyds said Mr D had paid the remaining balance on his account, but that it will refund him, 
which I think is fair.
Mr D has provided copies of his credit card statements which show he incurred £120 in 
interest and charges as a result of payments missed when his Lloyds account was frozen. 
So this is the amount Lloyds need to reimburse to him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC should:
1. Pay Mr D £1,000 compensation.
2. Pay Mr D £105.71 to reimburse him for the sum he paid to his account in January 2020.
3. Pay Mr D £120 to reimburse him for the interest and charges incurred on his credit card 
accounts.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2020.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman