DRN-3751230
The complaint
Mr E complains that Capital One (Europe) plc acted irresponsibly when they offered him a 
credit card as he had only just finished repaying a debt to them.
What happened
Mr E first took out a credit card with Capital One in 2013. In 2016 Mr E got into difficulties 
paying back what he had borrowed and a repayment plan was set up. Mr E didnt make the 
agreed repayments and the account was defaulted in December 2016. Capital One 
continued to chase Mr E to settle the debt and between December 2016 and January 2021 
sporadic payments were made to the outstanding balance. In June 2020 Mr E offered a 
partial settlement of £235 of the £470 which was rejected by Capital One. Mr E made a few 
more small payments to reduce the balance. In January 2021 Mr E offered to pay £205 
which was half of the outstanding balance of £410 which was accepted by Capital One and 
the account was closed.
In May 2021 Mr E says he was invited to apply for a credit card with Capital One. His 
application was approved and his account was opened with a credit limit of £750. Mr E got 
into difficulties very soon after the account was opened and says that Capital One should 
never have offered him another card when he had only just finished paying off his debt to 
them. He says he wasnt working and in receipt of benefits and basic checks would have 
revealed this.
Capital One said that it reviewed a number of things when assessing Mr Es application. 
Although it was aware of the default, this had happened in 2016 and there was nothing in Mr 
Es credit file that suggested he was struggling with his existing credit. It took at face value 
Mr Es declared income. It considered that Mr Es difficulties had passed and it wasnt wrong 
to lend to him.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. They thought that Capital Ones 
checks didnt show that Mr E was in difficulty, that his previous debt had been paid and that 
the default happened in 2016 which was a long time before he applied for the new card.
Mr E didnt agree and replied to say in summary that it wasnt right that Capital One could 
offer him a new card so soon after her had repaid the old debt. He asked for the complaint to 
be passed to an ombudsman to decide.
I asked for some further information about the partial settlement in 2021. Mr E stated that 
Capital One agreed to half of the outstanding balance and he paid this out of his benefits.
On 9 September 2022 I made a provisional decision setting out why I was minded to uphold 
Mr Es complaint.
Mr E and Capital One responded to confirm that they accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional decision stated as follows,
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Capital One have provided the details that Mr E set out on in his application. He stated he 
was self-employed earning £30,000 a year and living with parents. Although Mr E had 
previously told Capital One in October 2020 he was in receipt of benefit.
Looking at the information on Mr Es credit file I currently agree with the business and the 
investigator that there was nothing to suggest that Mr E was having difficulty managing his 
existing credit commitments. There were no missed repayments or other difficulties and no 
suggestion that Mr E was heavily reliant on credit.
However, Capital One did know that Mr E had not been able to repay the debt to them for a 
period of years. Capital One arranged a number of repayment plans with Mr E to repay the 
previous debt and he was not able to consistently repay even a small amount towards the 
debt. Between December 2016 and January 2021 Mr E had reduced the debt by only £150 
despite a number of arrangements to pay. Although he offered lump sum payments on two 
occasions, these were not for the full amount of the debt.
In January 2021 Mr E offered to repay half of the outstanding debt in a lump sum. I cant see 
that Capital One asked Mr E for any detail about this repayment or how he could afford it 
given his previous difficulties. I cant see that it asked why he wasnt able to afford the full 
amount. 
I currently think that approving Mr E for a credit card with a limit of £750 only four months 
later without further checks about his income and outgoings was irresponsible. At this point 
Capital One were aware that Mr E had been struggling to repay a much smaller debt to them 
for over five years. I dont currently think enough time had passed for Capital One to 
consider that Mr Es difficulties were over given the reduced settlement accepted in January 
2021 following another failed repayment plan. 
Capital One was not a new lender and had a relationship with Mr E which continued beyond 
the default in 2016. I think it would have been reasonable and proportionate for the 
information about his ability to repay that debt to have been considered. 
I currently think that Capital One failed to properly consider Mr Es income and outgoings 
given the information it held and further checks would have revealed that Mr E was not 
currently working and in receipt of benefits. In these circumstances I dont think Capital One 
would have agreed to lend.
In the circumstances as both parties have agreed with my decision I see no reason to depart 
from my original conclusions as set out above.
Putting things right
As I dont currently think Capital One ought to have opened the account, I dont think its fair 
for it to be able to charge any interest or charges under the credit agreement. But I do think Mr E should pay back the amounts he has borrowed. I dont think it is fair for the balance to 
be written off as Mr E would like as he has had the benefit of the money. 
Therefore, Capital One should:
Rework the account removing all interest, fees, charges and insurances (which have 
not already been refunded) that have been applied. 
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mr E along with 
8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the 
date of settlement. Capital One should also remove all adverse information regarding 
this account from Mr Es credit file. 
Or, if after the rework there is still an outstanding balance, Capital One should 
arrange an affordable repayment plan with Mr E for the remaining amount. Once Mr 
E has cleared the balance, any adverse information in relation to the account should 
be removed from their credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Capital One to deduct tax from any award of interest. 
It must give Mr E a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one. If 
it intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting 
the tax.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Capital One (Europe) plc should put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2022.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman