DRN-1747319
The complaint
Mrs M has complained about ReAssure Limited. She is unhappy because she was provided 
with incorrect information about her pension.  
What happened
In November 2018 Mrs M wrote to ReAssure to query information in her pension statement 
for October 2018. She then received a retirement options pack in January 2019 which 
included different pension figures. This led to Mrs M making a complaint. ReAssure provided 
a final response in July 2019 and accepted that errors had been made. It offered £100 for 
any inconvenience caused.
Mrs M wasnt satisfied that matters had been completely resolved and in August 2019 she 
was sent a new retirement pack, but this included different figures to the ones she expected. 
She had further discussions with a complaints handler at ReAssure and then received a 
further final response dated 29 August 2019. This letter confirmed that the figures discussed 
matched Mrs Ms expectations and that a final quote would be sent to her. Mrs M then 
received further pension quotes dated 28 August and 10 September 2019, but these quotes 
differed and didnt match what she expected.
Mrs M referred her complaint to this service. She also wrote to ReAssure on 17 October 
2019 asking for annuity quotes. She received quotes dated 28 and 29 October 2019, but 
again, these quotes were different. She phoned ReAssure and was told the 29 October 
quote was correct and so she accepted that by completing the relevant paperwork.
In December 2019 Mrs M called ReAssure to check when she would receive payments, but 
she was told two different dates in two calls. Then on 22 January 2020, ReAssure wrote and 
told her that the policies had been set up incorrectly with a spouse pension included on the 
GMP annuity by mistake. ReAssure confirmed that it would honour this at no detriment to 
Mrs M, but it didnt offer any further payment for the inconvenience caused.
The complaint was considered by an investigator at this service. She decided that it should 
be upheld and that it would be fair if ReAssure paid a further £100 for the additional distress 
and inconvenience caused. The investigator explained that the £100 offered in July 2019 
was in recognition of mistakes in information provided between October 2018 and July 2019. 
But it was clear that there had been further confusion after that. After having the correct 
figures confirmed on 28 August 2019, the quote of 10 September 2019 didnt match. It was 
only by 29 October 2019 that Mrs M was provided with figures which matched what she had 
been led to expect. Once the forms were signed and completed Mrs M still had to make calls 
to chase her annuity payments. And whilst ReAssure have agreed to honour the spouse 
pension despite error in how it was set up, this error was only realised because Mrs M 
herself had questioned it. 
ReAssure didnt agree. It said that Mrs M had benefitted from the additional spouse pension 
included in error that it had agreed to honour, and it wasnt willing to make an increased 
payment over the £100 already offered.
Mrs M accepted the view although she explained that £200 in no way compensated her for 
the time and effort involved in resolving the issues. She added that the error in the spouse 
pension had only been identified after she pointed it out to ReAssure on two occasions. And 
she said that this was unlikely to be of any real benefit to her as her husband was over four 
years older than she was.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigator, I uphold this complaint. I think it is fair if ReAssure pay Mrs M 
£100 in addition to the offer it made in July 2019.
Mrs M has clearly been provided with incorrect and inconsistent information about her 
pension entitlement on a number of occasions. This didnt stop after her first complaint was 
resolved with an offer of £100.
Mrs M has been inconvenienced by having to make repeated calls to ReAssure, and even 
when the pension was agreed and accepted there was a delay in payment. ReAssure then 
made an error when it set up the annuity and included an element of spouse pension that 
had not been requested. Whilst its true that this error can only possibly benefit Mrs M (or her 
husband) its not easy to quantify any potential benefit and it would only be a benefit if her 
husband were to predecease her which, as she says, may not be statistically likely given he 
is some years older.
Even taking into account the spouse pension that Mrs M may have the advantage of, Im 
satisfied that she has suffered additional distress and inconvenience since July 2019 that 
justifies a further award. To put this in context, there was a wide difference in the pension 
values she was provided with during the course of her enquiries. At some points the 
discrepancy was around 20 per cent of the annual pension value, and she was also told 
different things about the spouse pension, both that here was and there wasnt an 
entitlement. 
I think its important to acknowledge that Mrs M was making significant choices based on the 
information she was provided with. It was a big decision, as she is likely to rely on this 
income for the rest of her life. Therefore, its clearly essential that the figures provided are 
correct, and that she should have confidence in the process. Receiving inconsistent 
information would no doubt be very unsettling. I think Mrs Ms distress and inconvenience 
has to be considered in that context, and even if there were to be an unintended benefit 
through the spouse pension in the future, which may be unlikely, Im satisfied that some 
immediate award is justified. I think an additional £100 is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances taking into account the original offer of £100.
Putting things right
I uphold this complaint, to put things right ReAssure should pay Mrs M £100 in addition to 
the £100 it offered in July 2019.
 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint about ReAssure Limited. It must pay redress as set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2021.
 
Keith Taylor
Ombudsman