DRN-3453964
The complaint
Mr K complains about how Haven Insurance Company Limited settled a claim on his 
commercial vehicle insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr K was performing a three-point turn in his taxi when he was hit by another car. Mr K didnt 
think he was at fault for the accident and decided to us the services of an accident 
management company (AMC). He also let his insurer, Haven, know about the incident. 
Haven reviewed the details Mr K had given it and said that from his own explanation of the 
accident they thought he would be held fully liable for it. So, Haven told Mr K this and asked 
him to let the AMC know they would be admitting liability. The next day the third partys 
insurer contacted Haven to let them know the third party held Mr K at fault for the accident 
and so asked for admission of liability from Haven. Haven gave this and settled the third 
partys claim.  
Mr K didnt think this was fair and complained. He said the other driver was speeding and on 
the phone at the time so hadnt seen him. He didnt think it was fair to be held responsible for 
the accident and said Haven had prejudiced his claim through the AMC. Mr K also provided 
recordings of himself and the third party at the time of the accident. 
Haven reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it. They said as Mr K was doing a three-
point turn in the road it was his responsibility to ensure it was safe to do so. Because of this 
Haven didnt think this was a claim it could defend and stood by its position to admit liability. 
Mr K didnt agree and referred his complaint here. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt recommend it was upheld. He found that 
Haven had considered Mr Ks version of events and based its outcome on those. And as the 
policy gives Haven the right to take over and settle claims on Mr Ks behalf, he didnt think 
Haven had done anything wrong. Mr K didnt agree and asked for an Ombudsmans 
decision.
As Mr K didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ks policy, like most policies we see, give Haven the right to 
take over the defence or settlement of any claim, as it sees fit. That means it might make a
decision Mr K disagrees with and not try to recover its outlay or settle a claim from the third
party or their insurer. But wed look at whether Haven made a reasonable decision in doing
this based on the evidence it had and the circumstances of the case.
Haven said it settled the third partys claim on Mr Ks policy on the basis of Mr Ks testimony 
of the accident. Haven said that as Mr K was making a manoeuvre it was his responsibility to 
ensure it was safe to do so. Mr K said the third party was driving too fast and he thinks the 
third party failed to see him as the third party was on his phone. However, without evidence 
of this Haven didnt think this was a claim it could win. 
Ive also noted that the day after Haven told Mr K it would settle his claim in the third partys 
favour. Haven was sent a letter from the third partys insurer which held Mr K at fault, 
although the third partys version of events differs from Mr Ks. However, as both parties 
version of what happened means that Mr K would be liable for the accident, Im not 
persuaded Haven did anything wrong by settling the claim as it did. Ive also listened to the 
call recordings Mr K made at the time of the accident between him and the third party. But 
Im not persuaded they show Haven did anything wrong. I say this because the calls dont 
provide anything which would mean this was a claim Haven could defend. 
Ive considered Mr Ks points that by Haven settling the claim its prevented him taking his 
own legal action against the third party and meant the AMC would no longer deal with his 
claim. However, as Im satisfied Haven settled the claim fairly and reasonably in line with the 
policys terms and conditions. Im not going to tell Haven to do anything else.  
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman