DRN-4412013
The complaint
Ms B is unhappy that Assurant General Insurance Limited (Assurant) has declined to repair 
her laptop under her gadget insurance policy.
Where Ive referred to Assurant, this also includes any actions carried out by agents acting 
on behalf of Assurant.
What happened
Ms B has a packaged bank account which comes with gadget insurance underwritten by 
Assurant.
In May 2023 Ms Bs laptop developed an issue and a claim was made to Assurant. Repairs 
were carried out and the laptop was returned to Ms B.
The following month, Ms B contacted Assurant to say her laptop again wasnt working. 
Assurant inspected the laptop to consider whether the previous repairs had failed and 
whether they were covered under the repair warranty.
Assurant determined that there was water damage to the laptop, so there wasnt a failed 
repair covered by the repair warranty. Instead, they said a new claim would need to be made 
for the damage. However, as Ms B had already had two claims in the previous 12 months, 
Assurant declined to provide any further assistance or repairs.
Ms B was unhappy with Assurant and approached this service.
One of our investigators looked into things but he didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think 
Assurant had acted unfairly by saying it would be a new claim rather than failed repair. And 
as Ms B had already had two claims in the last 12 months, he didnt think Assurant had 
acted unfairly by declining to do anything further.
Ms B didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and whilst I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Ms B, Ive 
reached the same outcome as our investigator.
Following a claim being made in May 2023, Ms Bs laptop was repaired, checked to be 
working and returned to her. In June 2023, Ms B reported further issues with her laptop.
Assurant inspected the laptop to see if the previous repair had failed, and whether it would 
be covered under the repair warranty. However, they detected water damage to the laptop. 
This wasnt identified during May 2023 when the laptop was repaired and returned to Ms B, 
so it was determined to be a new issue, and not a failed repair.
I dont think Assurant acted unfairly by not considering this under the failed repair warranty. 
This is because it was a new separate issue, unrelated to the previous claim and repair. 
Whilst I recognise Ms B says she isnt sure how it could have been water damaged, it isnt 
for Assurant to determine how it happened. Instead, they considered whether the issue was 
related to the previous claim and repair, and as it wasnt, they didnt cover it as a failed 
repair.
Assurant said Ms B would need to make a separate claim for this. And that isnt 
unreasonable if it wasnt a failed repair or covered under the repair warranty.
However, Ms Bs policy terms advise:
There is a limit to the number of successful claims that can be made on this policy in 
any 12-month period. This amount is:
2 claims for mobile phones
AND
2 claims for any gadgets
Each of these limits are separate. This means you can have 2 successful claims on 
mobiles phones and 2 successful claims on other devices in any 12-month period.
Once youve made 2 claims in any 12-month period, you cant make any more claims for 
either mobile phone or gadgets, depending on which limit you reached. This means any 
more incidents that happen within that 12-month period before the anniversary of the first 
claim cant be claimed for.
For example, you make a successful claim on a mobile phone on 1st March, and a 
second successful claim on 1st June. You now cant make any more mobile phone claims 
against this policy for incidents that happen before 1st March. You would still be able to 
make claims for any gadgets in that 12-month period.
Before the May 2023 claim, Ms B also had a successful claim for her laptop in 
November 2022. So, Ms B had already had two claims in the previous 12 months. As the 
policy only covers two claims in a 12-month period, and Ms B had already had this, I dont 
think Assurant acted unfairly by declining to provide any further repairs or assistance.My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman