DRN-3640098
The complaint
Mr M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) failed to refund money he lost as a result 
of a scam.
What happened
Mr M wanted to rent a property and saw a suitable one via a social media platform. He 
believed the property was advertised via another legitimate property rental website and they 
were using the social media platform to communicate with prospective clients.
The owner of the property told Mr M that he was required to pay a refundable deposit. Mr 
M arranged to make a bank transfer for the deposit and was given account details of a bank 
overseas. Mr M later said he believed the property owner was living abroad.
Mr M made the payment - £1,154.00 and later visited the property where he met the genuine 
owner. They knew nothing about the rental and Mr M realised hed been scammed. Mr M 
contacted HSBC about the scam and they attempted to retrieve the funds by sending a 
request to the bank that had received his funds. The receiving bank were unable to retrieve 
the funds.
Mr M complained about his loss to HSBC who, after investigating, declined to refund him. 
HSBC explained the code they used to deal with persons whod been scammed called the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) couldnt be used because the payment was sent 
to another country and international payments werent covered by the code. HSBC didnt 
think theyd made any error when they sent the payment on Mr Ms behalf. HSBC did 
recognise that theyd let Mr M down with their customer service after he reported the loss 
and awarded him £100.
Mr M remained unhappy with how HSBC had handled his situation and brought his 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent review. It was looked into 
by an investigator who didnt think that HSBC should make a refund to Mr M. The 
investigator reasoned that the payment Mr M made wouldnt have stood out to HSBC due to 
the way the account was normally operated.
Mr M disagreed and asked for a further review of his complaint which has now been passed 
to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear of Mr Ms loss and the impact this scam has had on him. The first matter I
need to address is the authorisation of the payment. Its common ground that Mr M sent the
payment from his HSBC account to an international account. So, even though he didnt 
intend to pay a fraudster, the payment was authorised under the Payment Services 
Regulations.
HSBC had an obligation to follow Mr Ms payment instruction, and Mr M is presumed
liable for his loss in the first instance. But thats not the end of the story.
Whilst HSBC couldnt use the (CRM) to assess the scam (because of the international 
nature of the payment), they have to be on the lookout for, and help to prevent, payments 
that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. What that means in practice is that HSBC 
should be monitoring the account for unusual payments or other events that indicate the 
account is vulnerable to compromise. 
Although, there has to be a balance struck between HSBC identifying payments that may 
indicate a customer is potentially at risk of financial harm and then responding appropriately 
to those concerns  and ensuring minimal disruption to legitimate payments.
Should HSBC have prevented the payment from being made?
As Ive explained above, I consider that as a matter of good practice HSBC should have
been on the lookout for unusual or uncharacteristic transactions. So, Ive considered
whether the payment request Mr M made was unusual or uncharacteristic. Having
considered Mr Ms account activity in the months before the scam I dont think that HSBC 
should have been concerned about the payment, and thats because:
The account had other outgoing payments of a similar size.
The payment was relatively small in banking terms.
The payment didnt empty the account.
The only unusual feature of this payment was that it was sent to an international account. 
But, on its own, I dont think this was enough for HSBC to identify that Mr M was at risk of 
being scammed. Combined with the relatively (in banking terms) small size of the payment 
and that the account was left with funds in it, I think that it was reasonable that HSBC 
processed the payment based on Mr Ms instruction.
It's understandable that Mr M wants the return of his funds as they were effectively stolen 
from him, but here I dont think its the responsibility of HSBC to refund him based on the 
explanations Ive set out above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman