DRN-3683694
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt paid a cancellation claim they
made on a travel insurance policy.
What happened
In December 2019, Mr and Mrs K booked a two-stage trip abroad. They were due to travel to
one country Ill call N on 1 May 2020 and then onto another country before returning to the
UK on 16 May 2020. They had a safari trip booked in each country. On 24 February 2020,
they took out an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy through a broker.
However, on 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a
pandemic. On 15 March 2020, the government of one of the countries Mr and Mrs K were
due to travel to declared Covid-19 to be a national emergency and announced travel
restrictions. On 17 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO)
advised UK nationals against all but essential travel abroad. And on the same day, a State of
Emergency was declared by the government of Mr and Mrs Ks other destination and it
announced the closure of borders.
As a result, Mr and Mrs Ks flights were cancelled and therefore, they werent able to travel
abroad as planned. They made a claim on 20 March 2020 for the cost of their safari trips, as
theyd been able to recover their flight costs.
Great Lakes initially turned down the claim because it said it wasnt covered by the
cancellation section of the policy and because the policy specifically excluded cancellation
due to the prohibitive actions of any government. Upon review, it said that Mr and Mrs K
were covered for cancellation due to the FCDO advising against all but essential travel and
so it decided to reconsider the claim. However, it didnt think that Mr and Mrs K had
demonstrated that they couldnt recover their costs through the safari operators and so it
said it couldnt settle the claim until it had this evidence.
Mr and Mrs K were unhappy with Great Lakes handling of their claim and they asked us to
look into their complaint.
Our investigator thought Mr and Mrs Ks complaint should be upheld. Overall, he felt that Mr
and Mrs K had provided enough evidence to show that their safari costs were irrecoverable.
So he felt it would be fair for Great Lakes to treat Mr and Mrs Ks claim as covered under the
cancellation section of the policy. And he thought Great Lakes should pay Mr and Mrs K a
total of £100 compensation to recognise the impact its handling of the claim had had on
them.
Great Lakes disagreed. It said that it had made a commercial decision to cover cancellation
claims caused by FCDO advice against travel in certain, defined circumstances. It didnt
think Mr and Mrs Ks claim met those criteria. And it maintained that the claim was
specifically excluded because the claim was down to the prohibitive regulations of any
government.
I issued a provisional decision on 4 August 2022. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I thought Great Lakes should settle Mr and Mrs Ks claim. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the
terms of Mr and Mrs Ks policy and the circumstances of their claim, to decide whether Great
Lakes treated them fairly.
Is the claim covered?
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ks policy, as these form the
basis of their contract with Great Lakes. Its common ground that the cancellation section of
the policy doesnt include cancellation due to changes to FCDO advice. Its also not in
dispute that the cancellation section of the policy specifically excludes claims which arise as
a result of the prohibitive regulations of any government. So I acknowledge that the standard
contract doesnt cover Mr and Mrs Ks situation.
But as I set out above, following review by its complaints team, Great Lakes determined that
Mr and Mrs Ks circumstances were covered and therefore, the claim was passed back to be
reconsidered. Great Lakes has told us that a decision was made to offer additional
cancellation cover to policyholders in the following circumstances:
Where policies were taken out between 24 February and 17 March 2020;
The date of purchase was before the FCDO advised against all but essential travel;
The FCDO had advised against all but essential travel to a policyholders destination;
Claims within 48 hours of the trip start date as cover only applied if FCDO advice
against travel remained in place.
It seems that Great Lakes has now taken the view that Mr and Mrs Ks circumstances
werent covered by its commercial decision to add FCDO cover. It says that there was no
FCDO advice against all but essential travel when Mr and Mrs Ks flights were cancelled. In
response to our investigator, it later restated its position in regard to the lack of cover
provided by the cancellation section of the policy and relied once more on the prohibitive
regulations exclusion. Thats because it said Mr and Mrs K were prevented from travelling by
the UK lockdown.
Ive thought carefully about what Great Lakes has said. Ive looked closely at the additional
cover criteria Great Lakes sent us. Mr and Mrs Ks policy was taken out on 24 February
2020  therefore, it fell within the relevant timeframe. This date preceded the change in
FCDO advice by around three weeks. And the FCDO had advised against all but essential
travel abroad to all destinations. While I appreciate Mr and Mrs Ks flights were cancelled
more than 48 hours before they were due to travel, the FCDO advice against travel
remained in place on 1 May 2020  the date they were due to depart and for the duration of
their trip. The evidence suggests that the trip had to be cancelled on 20 March 2020  which
was three days after the FCDO advice against travel was issued. Lockdown wasnt imposed
by the UK government until 23 March 2020  three days after the trip had been cancelled.
So I dont think its fair or accurate to say that lockdown was the reason why Mr and Mrs K
had to cancel their trip.
On that basis then, I think that its fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to treat Mr and Mrs
Ks claim as covered by the additional cover it decided to offer. And I agree with the
conclusions drawn by Great Lakes initial complaints handler on this point.Is it fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to pay the claim?
The contract terms say that Great Lakes wont cover any costs which can be recovered from
another source. This is a common exclusion in travel insurance policies and in my view, it
isnt inherently unreasonable and unfair. Thats because I think an insurer is generally
entitled to be satisfied that a policyholder has suffered an actual financial loss which cant be
got back from elsewhere before it agrees to settle a claim.
When Mr and Mrs Ks claim was passed back for reconsideration, Great Lakes concluded
that it didnt have enough evidence to demonstrate that Mr and Mrs K couldnt recover their
cancellation costs from either of the safari operators. It was on this basis that Mr and Mrs K
brought their complaint to us.
As Ive explained, I dont think as a general principle, that its unfair for an insurer to require a
policyholder to show theyve suffered an irrecoverable loss. But in this case, I think Mr and
Mrs K have provided enough evidence to demonstrate that their losses from the tour
operators are irrecoverable. Mr and Mrs K have provided an email from one of the tour
operators which clearly says:
It is with great regret to inform you that the deposit you paid us is non refundable and non
transferable.
Theyve also provided a booking invoice from the other tour operator which includes its
cancellation conditions. This says:
In the event of a Safari cancellation for any reason be it health related, travel related,
personal or pandemic related, the deposit is not refundable at any time and the hunt will
not be transferable.
I can see from Great Lakes notes that its also tried to contact both operators to check
whether Mr and Mrs K were entitled to a refund, but with little success. So it seems to me
that Mr and Mrs K have made reasonable attempts to demonstrate that their losses are
irrecoverable, and the tours couldnt be transferred. Therefore, Im satisfied theyve shown
that theres little prospect of them getting their money back from either tour operator.
Great Lakes appears to consider that Mr and Mrs K may legally be entitled to a refund from
the providers, regardless of the booking terms and conditions. However, in my view, the fact
that Mr and Mrs K may potentially be entitled to a refund isnt the same as actually obtaining
one.
Ive noted that in October 2020, the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)
issued guidance to insurers in dealing with policyholders who havent been able to obtain a
refund from their travel provider. This guidance is called Finalised guidance: Cancellations
and refunds: helping consumers with rights and routes to refunds. The guidance was
extended in April 2021 and is effective until revoked or until the exceptional circumstances
regarding Covid-19 have ended. The FCA guidance acknowledges that insurance claims are
governed by the policy terms and then goes on to provide an indication of how the FCA
expects the terms of travel insurance policies to be interpreted.
In particular, theres relevant guidance relating to the interpretation of policy terms which
require policyholders to mitigate their loss set out in sections 3.5 and 3.6 of the April 2021
document. These say:
3.5 Any potential claim on an insurance policy will depend on the terms of the policy.However, where an insurance provider requires policyholders to demonstrate or take
reasonable steps to mitigate a financial loss under the terms of the policy, consumers should
not have to go to unreasonable lengths to do this. For example, where a travel provider is
resisting a refund, and the consumer is unlikely to have a valid section 75 claim, a consumer
should not be expected to take more than reasonable steps to pursue the refund. What is
reasonable will depend on the circumstances in each case.
3.6 For example, a consumer might be seeking a refund after a hotel has cancelled their
booking. We think it could be reasonable to expect a consumer to have pursued a claim up
to a point where it appears from the correspondence (including the absence of replies) that a
refund is unlikely to be forthcoming, or there is insufficient indication of when it may be
expected so as to give rise to sufficient uncertainty as to whether there may be a refund.
This will depend on the facts and circumstances  but where customer can demonstrate that
they have made several unsuccessful attempts to obtain refund from the hotel, it might be
unreasonable to expect them to do more. We would generally view it as unreasonable to
expect that a consumer would need to go to court to recover their money.
So it seems to me that the FCA has given a clear indication that insurers shouldnt require
policyholders to go to unreasonable lengths to mitigate their losses. And in this case, given
the tour operators have specifically stated that they will not refund Mr and Mrs Ks costs, I
think it would be unreasonable to expect them to take further action to recover their losses.
Ive also noted that the policy says:
We are entitled to take over Your rights in the defence or settlement of a claim, or to take
proceedings in Your name for Our own benefit against another party and We shall have full
discretion in such matters who may have liability for the cost.
It seems to me then that if Great Lakes considers theres a good legal chance of recovering
a refund from the tour operators, the terms of the policy mean its open to Great Lakes to
attempt legal recovery itself, to recover the monies it will have paid out to Mr and Mrs K in
settlement of this claim.
Overall then, in these circumstances, I currently think that Mr and Mrs K have shown that
they havent been able to recover the monies they paid for their safaris. And I dont think its
fair for Great Lakes to require Mr and Mrs K to pursue the tour operators any further. So Im
planning to find that Great Lakes didnt treat Mr K and Mrs K fairly when it decided not to
settle their claim. Im intending to direct Great Lakes to pay Mr and Mrs Ks claim for their
safari deposit costs, together with interest at an annual rate of 8% simple.
Customer service
Great Lakes accepted that it hadnt handled Mr and Mrs Ks claim as well as it couldve done
and paid them £50 compensation. Like the investigator, I dont think this goes far enough to
recognise the inconvenience and upset theyve been put to as a result of Great Lakes
handling of their claim. Theyve been given unclear and confusing information; different
reasons for declining their claim and theyve repeatedly been asked to provide information
from the tour operators which I think is unlikely to be available. On this basis, I also think
total compensation of £100 (less any amount already paid) is a fair award.
I asked both parties to send me any additional evidence or comments they wanted me to 
consider.
Both parties confirmed they had nothing more to add.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, as neither party has provided any further evidence or comments for me to 
consider, I see no reason to change my provisional findings.
So my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
intend to uphold this complaint.
I direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to:
Settle Mr and Mrs Ks claim for their safari deposit costs, in line with the 
remaining policy terms and conditions, together with interest on the settlement at 
an annual rate of 8% simple from the date of claim until the date of settlement.
Pay Mr and Mrs K total compensation of £100.
If Great Lakes considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs K how much it has taken off. It should also give 
Mr and Mrs K a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman