DRN-2764488
The complaint
Mrs L is unhappy with actions Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) have proposed 
under her home insurance policy, to repair damage to her property caused by subsidence. 
What happened
Mrs L has explained that around 30 years ago subsidence damage was found at her 
property. She didnt own the building at the time  but knowing the person who did, she 
explained she was aware the subsidence damage was to the rear extension. And, that 
following a claim, some apple trees in the neighbouring garden were thought to be the cause 
of the problem. So, these were removed, and cosmetic repairs were completed.
In 1999 it is explained that a further incidence of subsidence damage occurred  in the same 
place as the last time. Mrs L has said damaged bricks were stitched at this point, and around 
£30,000 was paid by RSA to repair the damage to the home. 
It appears there were no further incidences of subsidence, until Mrs L noticed a problem in 
2018. At this point she owned the property, and on moving a sofa in the house, saw some 
cracking on the wall. This was again in the same area as before  the rear extension.
So, Mrs L made a claim under her home insurance policy. And RSA appointed a loss 
adjuster to validate and assist with the claim. It completed monitoring to the property to look 
into what sort of movement the extension was experiencing. It dug a trial pit next to the 
damaged part of the building so it could see the foundation depth, and a bore hole within this 
to review the soil around those foundations. The loss adjuster reported that from the 
monitoring results, and the evidence of roots they had found from digging, they were 
satisfied the cause of the subsidence was root-induced clay shrinkage. 
An arborist report was then commissioned. And it said that the roots found and tested and 
were Pomoideae gp roots at the same level of the foundations (which come from vegetation 
such as Apple, Pear Cotoneaster, Hawthorn), and Sambucus ssp. (Elder) roots at 1.5m 
below ground level (deeper than the foundations). 
The Arborist said they thought it was likely the roots were from the hedge in the 
neighbouring garden (Elder and Hawthorn) and that other roots were likely present as well 
given the level of vegetation. They recommended removal of the hedge, as well as the 
removal of a number of other trees and plants, both in Mrs Ls garden, and the neighbouring 
gardens. It noted some of these suggestions were to stop the problem happening again in 
the future.
Mrs L didnt think the above suggestion was a reasonable way to solve the problem here. 
She highlighted that this is the third incidence of subsidence at the property  and felt RSA 
should have gone down the route of removing all vegetation in the past if this was what the 
problem was.
Mrs L also provided evidence from her own experts, to show what she (and they) considered 
to be a reasonable way forward in terms of the repairs.
The experts Mrs L appointed said that the property should be underpinned to avoid 
subsidence occurring again in the future. This expert acknowledged root induced clay 
shrinkage being present  but said there were other factors not considered when thinking 
about the proposed repairs. In summary of this, they said that the foundations the extension 
was built may be considered inadequate  although there werent building standards 
relevant to this at the time the extension was constructed. And, they said that future climate 
change was important to consider too. In addition to this, they noted that the ground 
surrounding the property wasnt level, and at one-point part of it had been built up  meaning 
that the higher ground on Mrs Ls property was suffer from drying out.
Mrs L raised a complaint with RSA. And in its final response it said it didnt feel underpinning 
the property was necessary here. It considered this to be preventative measure, rather than 
something needed to deal with this incidence of subsidence. It was satisfied with the removal 
of the vegetation (internal repairs already been complete), and said it was contacting the 
neighbour about removal of the hedge  and it would be willing to consider the cost of this 
removal to help the claim move forward. Only if the neighbour objecting to the removal, or 
wasnt responding, would it look at other possible repair methods.
Mrs L remained dissatisfied with RSAs position. So, she referred her complaint to this 
service for an independent review.
Our investigator looked into this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He thought 
RSA had identified the cause of the problem and had suggested a fair and reasonable way 
to remedy the issue. Our investigator also said that whilst RSA needed to make sure an 
effective and lasting repair was completed to fix the subsidence damage claimed for, it 
wasnt for RSA to undertake work to stop any potential subsidence happening in the future. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know this will be disappointing 
for Mrs L  and I can appreciate why. Id like to reassure her, and RSA, that I have 
considered all evidence provided to me, when arriving at this conclusion. But Ive only 
referred to that which I consider necessary to explain my reasoning. 
Ive looked at Mrs Ls policy documents  to see what cover her insurance provided her with. 
And, I can see that the policy does cover the cost of repairing damage caused by 
subsidence. That means the cost of putting right the damage caused in 2018 and returning 
Mrs L to the position she was in prior to this damage.
I consider it fair and reasonable for the repair to be effective and lasting. To achieve that, 
RSA will need to ensure that the building (so the moving extension) is stabilised. 
Ive reviewed the reports provided by both parties into the damage and its cause. RSA has 
said the subsidence was caused by root-induced clay shrinkage. This being caused by 
vegetation, at different parts of the year, saturating and then desiccating the soil. Its initial 
report noted vegetation being near the rear extension, and the soil as being clay  which is 
susceptible to this type of subsidence. And following this, a trial pit and bore hole were dug, 
which confirmed these concerns, by showing roots from nearby vegetation being present in 
desiccated soil. An Arborist, an expert in vegetation, reviewed the information from the trial pit and bore hole 
and said that based on the technical reports currently available, engineering opinion and our 
own site assessment we conclude the damage appears consistent with shrinkage of the clay 
subsoil related to moisture abstraction by vegetation. And it noted the type of roots that 
were found to be causing a problem. Based on this, it recommended removal of various 
vegetation, including the neighbouring hedge.
From looking at this, Im satisfied RSA has taken the opinion of experts  who I think have 
provided persuasive evidence (including reports and evidence of roots around and below the 
foundations) that vegetation is likely to be causing the damage present. So, Im satisfied 
RSA has acted fairly and reasonably in looking to remove this vegetation in the first instance, 
with the aim of stopping the movement, to provide an effective and lasting repair.
RSA has said it has contacted the neighbour in reference to the removal of the hedge. And, 
if that doesnt prove successful, it will explore other repair solutions. Im satisfied this is fair 
because RSA will need to ensure that if it cant complete an effective and lasting repair by 
hedge removal, it does so in another way. But it hasnt got to this stage as yet. The removal 
of the vegetation, along with repairs to the property that have already been carried out, may 
solve the problem.
Mrs L has highlighted that vegetation was removed previously, but subsidence occurred 
again. And she feels the repair method back in 1999 wasnt sufficient to stop the problem. I 
dont know what happened with the previous claims  the property wasnt Mrs Ls at the 
time. But my understanding is that following the second claim there was no further 
movement noticed for 19 years. So, I dont think there is sufficient evidence for me to say 
this claim has arisen because of inadequate work under a previous claim.
I understand Mrs L doesnt feel dealing with the vegetation goes far enough, and that the 
property should be underpinned. And I have reviewed the report and commentary provided 
by her experts. But Im not persuaded these show that RSA has diagnosed the problem 
incorrectly, or that it has suggested an unreasonable way to complete an effective and 
lasting repair.
I say this because whilst Mrs Ls expert has discussed changing ground levels at the 
property, future climate change and inadequate foundations, it hasnt shown any firm 
evidence any or all of these issues caused the subsidence in 2018. Rather, I think it 
suggests possible issues, alongside the vegetation, that could cause problems. Mrs Ls 
policy doesnt cover her to ensure subsidence doesnt occurs again in the future. Its purpose 
isnt to undertake preventative action. Rather, as above, the policy is there to remedy the 
damage caused by the movement in 2018. And I think that at this stage RSA has taken fair 
and reasonable action to address this.
Mrs L has provided evidence to show that with the property having suffered from 
subsidence, and there being an ongoing claim, this would likely affect the value of the 
property  reducing it by up to £50,000. I dont dispute the information Mrs L has provided 
here. But I dont consider this changes the outcome of this complaint. 
As above, Mrs Ls policy covers the cost of putting right the subsidence damage. Once its 
done that, Mrs L is back in the position before, in terms of the building being stable. Any loss 
of value associated with subsidence is an unfortunate consequence of the insured event  
not something covered by the policy or caused by RSA.
If RSA is unable to stabilise the building by the vegetation removal, it will need to consider 
other options to settle the claim fairly  which could include paying any reduction in market 
value. But thats something to be considered only if the vegetation removal doesnt work.  Mrs L has said RSA should reimburse her for the cost of the expert report she got into the 
matter. But I dont agree. Mrs L is of course entitled to obtain her own report. But it was her 
choice to do this. And Im not convinced the report has added anything to show RSAs work 
on the claim was incorrect, or that it wasnt acting in line with the terms and conditions of her 
insurance policy. 
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) to do anything more in relation to it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2021.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman