DRN-1466784
The complaint
Miss Ms complaint is about the information she was provided by PSA Finance UK Limited 
regarding the outstanding balance after returning her car.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Miss M was struggling to manage her payments due under the hire purchase 
agreement with PSA Finance. She contacted it to ask about her options. PSA 
Finance provided information about both voluntary surrender and voluntary 
termination. I find this reasonable.
The information provided by PSA Finance set out the costs of each option (including 
that under a voluntary surrender any shortfall after the sale of the car would be Miss 
Ms liability. It explained the impact each option would have on her credit file. PSA 
Finance then sent Miss M a quote for the cost of voluntary termination. I find the 
information provided was sufficient to allow Miss M to make an informed decision and 
had she had further questions she could have contacted PSA Finance about these.
On 21 January 2019, Miss M contacted PSA Finance and said she wanted to 
voluntarily surrender her car. She was sent an email setting out the process and 
once again confirming that after the sale of the car the proceeds would be applied to 
her account and she would be liable for any shortfall. Miss M said she was told she 
would have nothing further to pay after returning the car. Unfortunately, a call 
recording isnt available but given the information provided both following her initial 
information request and after saying she wished to voluntarily surrender the car, I find 
that Miss M should have been reasonably aware that she would be liable for a 
shortfall if the sale proceeds werent enough to cover her outstanding balance. 
Miss M said that PSA Finance said the car would be collected but then this didnt 
happen for three months meaning arrears accumulated on her account. I can see 
that Miss M was in contact with PSA Finance during February 2019 about the 
collection of her car and it appears that she had thought the collection was arranged 
when this wasnt the case. However, having looked through PSA finances contact 
notes it sent the collection instructions to the agent at end of February shortly after 
receipt of the voluntary surrender form. It terminated her agreement and the car was 
collected and sold at auction in April 2019. While I understand Miss Ms concerns, I 
do not find that PSA Finance caused any undue delay in the process or that Miss M 
was financially disadvantaged.
PSA Finance did offer, as a gesture of goodwill, to reduce the amount outstanding by 
£100 and Miss M should discuss this directly with it.
Miss M has said that she isnt able to pay the outstanding balance on the account. In 
such circumstances we would expect PSA Finance to treat Miss M positively and 
sympathetically. This doesn't mean that it should write off the remaining balance on 
the account, but it should work with Miss M and discuss possible suitable repayment 
arrangements.
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about PSA Finance UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 September 2020.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman