DRN-3686083
The complaint
Mr P complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) has unfairly 
invoiced him for end of contract charges when he returned a car at the end of a Personal 
Contract Plan (PCP) agreement.
What happened
In September 2018 Mr P entered into a three-year PCP agreement with MBFS for a new car. 
At the end of the agreement Mr P could choose whether to keep the car and pay the balance 
or return it. Mr P decided to hand the car back when the agreement reached its term.
In September 2021 arrangements were made by MBFS for the car to be inspected at Mr Ps 
home by a third-party company and for it then to be collected the following day.
On the day of the inspection the weather was wet. The agent found damage to the alloy 
wheels which was pointed out to Mr P. The car was collected two days later.
Mr P says he was shocked to then receive an end of contract charge invoice for £993.50 
from MBFS. It was reported that damage had been found to the cars bonnet, two of the alloy 
wheels and the front bumper. It was also reported that the two sets of headphones that had 
been supplied with the car were damaged, the compressor and tyre sealant was missing as 
were the chrome mouldings from the front bumper.
Mr P complained to MBFS who reviewed the charges. It partially upheld Mr Ps complaint 
and removed the charges for the missing chrome mouldings, the tyre sealant and 
compressor. But MBFS said there was clear evidence that the earphones had both been 
damaged as had the front bumper. It also said that the damage to the bonnet was due to 
birdlime which had penetrated and stained the paint work. MBFS said the damage from the 
birdlime would have taken time and so it was satisfied this wasnt something that had 
happened after the car had been collected from Mr P.
MBFS apologised about the charges for the missing items and said this had arisen by error 
as the third-party company had removed items before the inspection had taken place.
MBFS also said that it was set out in the Vehicle Return Standards that if the weather was 
poor when the car was first inspected then a second one would be undertaken once the car 
had been collected.
Mr P was unhappy at MBFSs response and complained to this service. He said the car 
headphones had been in perfect condition when the car had been collected. Mr P also said 
that the photo showing the headphones condition had been taken with them on a grey seat 
when his cars seats had been black. He said he didnt think the earphones came from his 
car.
Mr P said MBFS had incorrectly stated that items were missing when they werent, and this 
cast a doubt on the evidence of the other damage. He said there hadnt been a dent on the 
cars front bumper and he didnt think it was a birdlime stain on the paintwork but rather a 
mark from dried water calcium scum. 
Mr P said he agreed the charges for the damage to the two alloy wheels.
Our investigator didnt recommend Mr Ps complaint should be upheld. He said that looking 
at the evidence in the form of videos and photos, he was satisfied the damages that were 
being charged for were appropriate as being beyond fair wear and tear. Our investigator said 
that the Vehicle Return Standards had set out that two inspections would be conducted if 
there was poor weather during the first, so MBFS hadnt acted unfairly in taking account of 
the later inspection.
Mr P disagrees with the view of our investigator. In regard to the headphones, Mr P says the 
car wasnt used very much due to the pandemic and it wasnt possible that the headphones 
could have been damaged through wear and tear. He also queries why the seats they were 
photographed sitting on were a different colour to those in his car. He says the headphones 
have been swapped with another pair.
Mr P also disagrees that the mark on the bonnets paintwork was caused by birdlime. He 
says the car was stored in garage and regularly washed so this damage couldnt have 
happened. He says its a water stain. He also disputes the damage to the bumper as this 
didnt appear in the photos and video and he took of the car prior to its collection.
Mr P says that he believes the third-party company has acted fraudulently and MBFS should 
have been present at the second inspection. He says it is unfair that MBFS have accepted 
the evidence of the third-party company rather than himself who has been a loyal customer.
As the parties have been unable to reach an agreement the complaint has been passed to 
me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In reaching my decision Ive looked at the photos and videos taken at both of the inspections 
of the car by the third-party company and also the photos and videos provided by Mr P.
Mr P has said he thinks MBFS should have been present at the second inspection and 
queries the motives of the third-party company. But looking at the Vehicle Return Standards 
this sets out the process for the cars inspection as well as what is and isnt acceptable in 
respect of any damage found.  Im satisfied that MBFS has acted in accordance with this 
process. 
The Vehicle Return Standards set out in the PCP agreement states that the inspection will 
be carried out by a trained technicians at the nominated Defleet Centre. I dont think there is 
any requirement for MBFS to attend the inspection and I also think MBFS is entitled to rely 
on reports on the condition of the car provided by those it has nominated to carry out these 
investigations on its behalf.
I think that due to the weather a second inspection was reasonable. Looking at the photos 
and videos taken at the first inspection, I can see that it is raining, and that car was wet 
meaning that issues with the paintwork may not have been noticeable.
Ive seen that Mr P agrees the damage reported to the two alloys was correct but disputes 
the remaining charges for the damaged headphones, the bonnet paintwork and the front 
bumper dent. While I appreciate that Mr P feels that the charges which were removed for the missing items leads to doubt about the veracity of the other charges, Im afraid I disagree. 
Ive seen from the video that was taken at the second inspection that the chrome mouldings 
were missing from the bumper so I can understand why charges for those items were raised. 
However, it appears it is accepted that the inspection company removed them along with the 
other missing items that Mr P was charged for. I think BMFS acted reasonably in removing 
these items from the end of contract charges when they reviewed the invoice following Mr 
Ps complaint. I dont think I can reasonably say that this error means that all the other 
charges have been falsely raised. I still need to assess the evidence that has been provided 
before I can make a decision as to whether or not those charges are reasonable.
Looking at the headphones, Mr P says he doesnt think these are the ones that were in his 
car as they wouldnt have been subjected to enough use to damage them through wear and 
tear. He also says the car seat they were photographed on isnt the same as those in his car, 
as his seats were a different colour. However, I dont think the damage shown was 
necessarily due to wear and tear and I cant say how they have come to be in the condition 
shown. And Ive also seen that the seat colour shown in the photo is the same colour as the 
seats shown in the two inspection videos and the other interior photos of the car both at Mr 
Ps home and later at the centre. I dont know if the lighting has caused the seats to appear 
grey but on the evidence Ive seen, I cant say the seat the headphones were photographed 
on wasnt one in Mr Ps car.
Ive also dont think the headphones were looked at during the first inspection. The report 
simply says, Not applicable against that box, whereas for other items such as spare key 
or literature pack the entry is Present. So, I cant reasonably say that the headphones 
were in an appropriate condition when the car was inspected for the first time.
In light of the evidence Ive seen, I am satisfied that the charges for the headphones are fair. 
They had been damaged beyond what would have been expected from usual wear and tear 
and Im not asking BMFS to remove that amount from the end of contract charges.
In regard to the birdlime stain on the paintwork, I disagree this is a calcified water stain. 
Looking at the photo I think this shows the paint has been contaminated and the staining is 
clear. The staining also appears to be present in the photo supplied by Mr P of the car. 
The British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA) has produced guidelines 
which are industry approved as to what is and isnt fair wear and tear when considering if a 
charge is fair for the condition of the car handed back at the end of a credit agreement. 
Looking at these guidelines they state that contamination of the paintwork which requires 
repair is not acceptable. Im satisfied on the evidence I have seen that this charge is 
reasonable and Im not asking BMFS to remove it.
Finally, looking at the third disputed charge for the damage to the bonnet, I think the photos 
supplied by BMFS clearly show a dent of around 15mm together with additional chips to the 
paintwork which have gone through to the base coat. This damage is considered 
unacceptable under the BVRLA guidelines. Mr P disagrees that he was responsible for this 
damage but looking at the photos and videos of the car he has provided I cant see this area 
clearly enough to be able to say this dent wasnt present. And due to the wet conditions, I 
also cant say it wasnt there when the first inspection of the car occurred.
I think its more likely than not that this dent occurred when Mr P had use of the car as it 
doesnt look particularly new. I also think its reasonable to take into account the length of 
time and amount of use Mr P had of the car rather than the third-party company that 
collected it. I think this charge is fair and Im not going to ask BMFS to remove it.So, for the reasons given I find that the end of contract charges amounting to £803.50 for the 
damage found to the headphones, bonnet, front bumper and alloy wheels are fair. Im not 
upholding Mr Ps complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and although I appreciate this will be of disappointment to Mr 
P Im not upholding his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman