DRN-2135589
The complaint
Mrs P is unhappy about AXA PPP Healthcare Limiteds decision to decline funding for 
treatment under the terms of her private medical insurance policy.  Because cover was 
declined, Mrs P considers the policy was mis-sold to her. But AXA isnt responsible for the 
sale of the policy, so I wont be considering that aspect of Mrs P complaint here. My decision 
will only consider AXAs decision about the treatment Mrs P wants it to fund and the service 
it offered her.
Reference to Mrs P includes her family member who sometimes contacts AXA on Mrs Ps 
behalf.
What happened
In 2016 Mrs P transferred her private medical insurance cover to AXA PPP Healthcare 
Limited. Shed been suffering from a rare condition, for which shed surgery in 2015 under 
her previous policy with a different insurer.
Sadly, Mrs Ps condition deteriorated and reached the point where her treatment options had 
fallen away. Her treating consultant was aware of a trial of a new treatment being conducted 
through two NHS centres and thought Mrs P may benefit from taking part. The trial involved 
treatment using a system under the name of Delcath.
Unfortunately, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Mrs P says the trials were stopped. So Mrs P 
approached AXA to cover the cost of the treatment under her private medical insurance.
After investigation, AXA declined. It said the treatment Mrs P wanted was considered 
unproven and excluded by the terms of her policy. AXA went on to say it was prepared to 
contribute to the cost of the trial treatment, up to the amount it would have paid for an 
equivalent conventional treatment.  
But when it realised there was no equivalent conventional treatment available to Mrs P, AXA 
said it was still willing to make the payment to Mrs P, recognising the confusion it had 
caused.  
Mrs P remains unhappy with AXAs decision and is also unhappy about the service she 
received. 
She said a promised call back from one of AXAs specialist nurses didnt happen within the 
timescale promised. Shes also unhappy that when she wrote to AXAs Chief Executive, she 
didnt receive a response.
AXA agreed to pay Mrs P £1000 for the trouble and upset shed experienced when the 
promised call back didnt happen within the agreed time frame. AXA said it understood the 
impact of this delay on Mrs P given her specific circumstances.
AXA also provided information to show that when Mrs P wrote to the Chief Executive, her 
emails were passed to a complaint handler for response on the Chief Executives behalf.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. He though 
AXA had declined to cover the cost of the treatment fairly. He was satisfied the treatment 
Mrs P wanted was unproven. He also thought the compensation offered by AXA  both for 
the confusion caused and for the failed call back, was sufficient.
Mrs P disagreed with our investigators findings, so the case has been passed to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on everything Ive seen, I agree with our investigator and for largely the same 
reasons. I know Mrs P will be desperately disappointed by my decision, so Id like to explain 
why Ive reached this outcome. 
Firstly, Id like to say how sorry I am that Mrs P finds herself in this situation. I can 
understand why she wants to pursue any treatment that might offer some benefit, but I think 
the decision made by AXA to decline cover is reasonable, given the nature of the treatment 
and terms and conditions of her policy.
Ive considered the specific terms of Mrs Ps policy with AXA. Ive also considered the 
requirements placed on AXA by the regulator to deal with claims promptly and fairly, and to 
not unreasonably declined a claim.
Unproven treatment 
Private medical insurance policies dont cover all medical conditions or all treatments. Its for 
the insurer to decide which risks it wants to cover. The terms and conditions of Mrs Ps 
policy set out the terms of the contract between Mrs P and AXA.
Mrs Ps policy has some specific terms relating to unproven treatment.  The policy terms 
say:
The cover for unproven treatment is more restrictive than conventional treatments. 
Unproven treatment must:
be authorised by us before it takes place
takes place in the UK
be agreed by us, as a suitable equivalent to conventional treatment
If there is no suitable equivalent conventional treatment, there wont be any cover for 
the unproven treatment.
Based on everything Ive seen, Im satisfied the treatment Mrs P wanted falls within the 
policy terms on unproven treatment. I say that because:
The treatment, through a US company, is in a phase 3 trial. A phase 3 trial seeks to 
establish the safety and efficacy of the treatment by studying different populations 
and different doses (of drugs) and by using the drug in combination with other drugs.  A phase 3 trial involves a limited number of participants and in the UK, two NHS 
centres were taking part.
Based on the information Ive seen, its only once a treatment reaches phase 4, that 
the US Food and Drugs Administration has approved its use.
The treatment is not currently approved by NICE (the National Institute for Health and 
Care Excellence) pending the outcome of a review which is expected in January 
2021.
Whilst the drug used in the Delcath treatment system is licenced, its not licenced 
currently for use with Delcath, so its use in these circumstances isnt covered under 
the policy terms which state: 
if the treatment is a drug, the drug must be:
Licenced for use by the European Medicines Agency or the Medicines and 
Healthcare products Regulatory Agency; and
Used according to that licence
Based on information available to me, Im satisfied the decision by AXA to consider the 
treatment unproven is reasonable.
Funding up to the equivalent conventional treatment costs
AXA made a mistake. From the information available to it, it thought there was a 
conventional treatment available for Mrs P and in line with the policy terms, offered to fund 
the unproven treatment up to the same cost. In Mrs Ps case it said it would contribute 
£4377.36. When AXA realised its mistake it agreed to honour the funding commitment it had 
made.
Based on the information Ive seen, including information from Mrs Ps treating consultant, 
Im satisfied Mrs P didnt have an effective conventional treatment available to her. So 
although AXA didnt need to pay the equivalent cost, Im satisfied in offering to do so, its put 
right the confusion it caused.
Customer service and delay
AXA has accepted the service it offered Mrs P wasnt good enough. Mrs P was promised a 
call back from one of AXAs specialist nurses within 48 hours but that didnt happen. Mrs P 
chased AXA for the call back and escalated her concerns to a manager. Although Mrs P was 
contacted by a senior nurse case manager just outside of the 48-hour window, and a new 
nurse case manager was appointed, its easy to understand why Mrs P was so anxious to 
speak to someone about the possibility of covering her treatment. But Im satisfied the 
compensation AXAs offered sufficiently recognises the impact this delay had on her.
Ive also considered Mrs Ps complaint about the Chief Executive not responding to her 
emails. Mrs P emailed the Chief Executive on 7 July 2020 and on 13 July 2020  having 
been told on 10 July, that complaints could take up to 8 weeks to be responded to. This 8-
week timescale is in line with the timescales set out by the regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority. But I can understand why Mrs P wanted an answer more quickly. Im pleased to 
see that Mrs Ps complaint was investigated as a priority.
On 13 July 2020, a complaint handler called Mrs P to discuss her concerns. In that call, the 
complaint handler explained that Mrs Ps emails had been passed to her to investigate, on 
behalf of the Chief Executive. I appreciate why Mrs P wanted her concerns considered at the highest level, but I dont think its unreasonable for her concerns to be investigated by 
someone within AXA whos been appointed to address complaints.
There are two further calls from AXA regarding Mrs Ps complaint, both on 15 July 2020 with 
a final response letter issued on 16 July 2020, confirming AXAs position on the Delcath 
treatment. Based on everything Ive seen, Im satisfied AXA responded quickly to Mrs Ps 
complaint.
In summary, its clear things didnt go as well as they could have when Mrs P contacted AXA 
about cover for the treatment she wanted. But having considered everything provided to me, 
Im satisfied AXA decision to decline funding for the Delcath treatment was reasonable.  
Im also satisfied AXA recognised the short-comings in the service it provided and as a 
response, agreed to pay Mr P £1000 for trouble and upset shed been caused by the 
delayed call back and the £4377.36 it incorrectly suggested as a contribution against 
conventional treatment.  
If it hasnt already done so, AXA should make those payment to Mrs P  a total of £5377.36.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and wont be asking AXA to do anything 
more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2020.
 
Sian Brightey
Ombudsman