DRN-4053942
The complaint
Miss A has complained about a mortgage she holds with Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax. The complaint can be summarised under two broad complaint points:
How Halifax has managed Miss As account whilst it has been in arrears. 
Halifax wouldnt change Miss As name on the mortgage account.
What happened
I wont set out the full background to this complaint as it is extensive and goes back many 
years, but I can confirm that I have read and understood everything that has been said and 
provided. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, and as Miss A didnt agree it has been passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust Miss A wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed her complaint in the way that 
I have. Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I 
think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered 
it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
Miss A has made some far-reaching allegations that arent specific to her individual 
mortgage account complaint. 
Our remit is to deal with individual disputes; in this case that is a complaint brought by Miss 
A about Halifax in respect of her individual mortgage account. Were not the regulator, that is 
the role of the Financial Conduct Authority, and Ive no power under our terms of reference 
to comment on, or otherwise determine, how financial businesses operate in general terms. 
I have to consider this complaint by reference to Miss As particular situation. When I do that, 
Im satisfied this complaint shouldnt be upheld. Ill explain why.
Ive carefully considered what both Miss A and Halifax have said about what happened when 
Miss A asked about a new fixed interest rate. Miss A wasnt eligible for one because she 
was in arrears. I dont think thats unreasonable  a fixed rate comes with an early 
repayment charge (ERC). And where a borrower is in arrears, theres a risk that the 
mortgage will be unsustainable. If the property is sold, or repossessed, adding an ERC 
would increase the amount that has to be repaid. Im satisfied Miss A was most likely told 
that she wasnt eligible for a rate while in arrears. 
Halifax sent some letters to Miss A which said it may be able to capitalise the arrears. This 
would then have meant she could take a new fixed interest rate. The letters said she would 
need to phone the number on the letter so it could be discussed, and a full assessment be 
made about whether it was affordable. 
Theres no record of Miss A phoning the number to go through that process at the time in 
question. Miss A has told us about various calls / branch visits, but the discussion about 
potentially capitalising the arrears would have required a call to that specific number, all the 
information Halifax needed to have been provided in that call, and for Miss A to not miss any 
monthly payments in the six month period running up to the capitalisation.
Halifax couldnt undertake the capitalisation without that conversation with Miss A and, 
having considered everything, Im satisfied  on balance  that Miss A didnt have the 
conversation that was required at a time she was eligible for consolidation. And because she 
didnt consolidate her arrears, and there were still arrears outstanding, she wasnt eligible to 
switch to a new fixed interest rate.
From there I turn to whether or not Halifax acted unfairly when it wouldnt change Miss As 
name on the mortgage account.
Halifax is entitled to set its own policy on what documents it is willing to accept to evidence a 
name change on the account. What I need to consider is if that policy is fair and, if I think it 
is, whether Halifax implemented it correctly.
All UK financial institutions are required to verify their customers identity. The Financial 
Conduct Authority sets the rules for how businesses need to verify their customers  but it 
doesnt provide a prescriptive list of acceptable documents that businesses can use. Thats 
for each individual business to decide. 
Halifax has provided me with a copy of its internal guidance and this shows what documents 
it accepts for different name / title changes. Halifax has also provided a list of acceptable 
documents to Miss A at various times over the years. Having considered the list and 
explanation very carefully, Im satisfied that Halifaxs policy isnt unfair.
In this case, Halifax has explained what documents it needs and, whilst Miss A has provided 
some documents, none of them are acceptable for the change of name that Miss A has 
requested. Having considered everything Im also satisfied that Halifax implemented its 
policy correctly.
Im very sorry to disappoint Miss A but as the documents she provided didnt comply with 
Halifaxs requirements for the name change she requested, Im satisfied it acted fairly by 
declining her request. 
Having considered everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold any part of 
Miss As complaint about Halifax.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 June 2023.
 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman