DRN-3348608
The complaint
Mr H complains about U K Insurance Limited (UKI) saying his claim was being terminated 
without repairs having been done. Hes also unhappy with being misadvised in relation to the 
excess and with the progress of his claim up until that point.
What happened
I think it is helpful for me to begin by saying that Im aware Mr H has made a series of at 
least three complaints to UKI, all relating to the same claim, which he says began in
May 2021. The claim was made on his property owners insurance policy which he has for a 
property he lets out.
Because of this, we have looked at his complaints separately. Mr H has had a decision on 
the most recent portion, the part spanning from 8 October 2021 onwards. This case relates 
to the issues immediately prior to then, those addressed in UKIs final response letter of the 
day before.
The third case, which has yet to be decided will deal with the issues which arose earlier still.
I dont intend to go into huge detail as to what happened throughout Mr Hs claim, and that is 
because I consider the portion Ive reviewed to be fairly limited and specific. That isnt to say 
I havent been mindful of the overall backdrop though.
Mr H complained to UKI that his communications werent being responded to by them and 
that he was told his claim would be terminated  even though hed asked them to initiate the 
repairs. Mr H also complained about the general management of the claim.
Mr H said that UKI had offered him the services of one repairer but had subsequently been 
told they couldnt assist. And only later did they offer the services of an alternative repairer. 
Mr H said he was twice told that his excess was £500, yet it is only £350.
UKI responded to Mr Hs complaints. They said they were sorry for the level of service 
provided, and they offered Mr H £350 by way of compensation. Mr H didnt accept the offer 
as he didnt think it was sufficient, so he brought the matter to our service.
An investigator here looked into Mr Hs complaint. He acknowledged that things had been 
handled poorly by UKI, but he felt the offer of £350 compensation was suitable.
Mr H still didnt think it was sufficient, so the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
During this portion of Mr Hs complaints, I can see that at the end of July 2021 hed agreed 
to provide some quotes to help with the claim process. But I note that Mr H lives in a 
different country from the one this property is in, and he explained that this was causing 
difficulties.
UKI chased Mr H for the quotes in August 2021 and as none were received, they wrote to 
him the following month to say they would terminate the claim if they remained outstanding.
Mr H wasnt happy about that. He explained that hed been unable to obtain the quotes and 
that UKI ought to arrange this for him. UKI agreed to appoint a repairer and it was agreed 
they would have to arrange a visit via the letting agent. At this point Mr H queried the excess 
as he thought it was £350, not the £500 hed been advised.
The following day, UKI apologised and clarified that the correct excess was £350. They also 
confirmed the new repairer had been appointed and would be in touch.
Mr H complained, and thats when UKI agreed to the compensation of £350.
While I appreciate Mr Hs complaints span a much greater period than that which Ive looked 
at Ive had to focus on the period set out here. Thats because his other complaint points are 
being, or have been, looked at separately.
I appreciate that UKI could likely have offered to use their repairers at the end of July 2021, 
especially as Mr H had already informed them of his circumstances, and the difficulties they 
caused. And so, UKI could have avoided causing the frustration that their notice of claim 
termination led to  along with reducing some of the time it took to handle the claim during 
this period.
But this is a fairly limited period of time and I think £350 compensation for these issues is 
reasonable.
I know Mr H feels that the overall claim handling was a contributing factor in his tenants 
choosing not to sign a new tenancy agreement. And that the outstanding repairs meant he 
wasnt able to increase their rent  even though they had appeared happy to pay more.
I note my ombudsman colleague has addressed issues around compensating the tenants in 
another decision, so I dont intend to do so again here. And while I appreciate there may 
have been a contributing factor overall, Ive not seen enough to make me think I can fairly 
say UKI should take responsibility for any such losses. Not least because I think their offer of 
compensation already made is fair  and because Ive only looked at a limited period of time 
which hasnt, in my view, been the main cause of delays in the claim.
Putting things right
If they have not already done so, UKI need to pay Mr H the £350 compensation previously 
offered.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I uphold this complaint. I require U K Insurance Limited to pay
Mr H £350.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 Will Weston
Ombudsman