DRN-4202028
Complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt reimburse him after he fell victim to a 
scam.
Background
In April 2021, Mr B made several transfers to an individual who Ill refer to as Mr F. Mr F 
contacted Mr B on a messaging platform and asked to borrow money to purchase 
cryptocurrency. Mr B believed Mr F was his friends boyfriend. He made four payments to 
the value of £9,001
Shortly afterwards, Mr F sent a screenshot to Mr B to show that he had repaid him. The 
screenshot showed that he had sent €40,000 to an account Mr B holds with a French bank. 
This was significantly more than hed loaned to Mr F, but Mr F reassured him that he could 
just pay him back in instalments in the coming days. He made three further payments to Mr 
F to the value of £20,000.
It was only after that point that Mr B checked the balance on his French account and realised 
that Mr F hadnt transferred €40,000 to him at all. He searched online for the name of the 
person he was in contact with and found an abundance of evidence suggesting that he was 
a conman who had defrauded multiple victims.
He complained to Barclays that hed fallen victim to fraud. It investigated but initially said that 
this was a private civil dispute between the two parties. It later changed its position and 
agreed to refund 50% of the money Mr B had lost. It didnt think it should be expected to 
refund his losses in full because it considered hed made the payments without a reasonable 
basis for believing that the request was genuine.
The case was looked at by an Investigator who didnt uphold it. He agreed that Mr B didnt 
have a reasonable basis for believing this was a legitimate request. He considered that 
Barclays had done more than it would be expected to under the relevant rules by refunding 
50% of his losses. 
Mr B disagreed with the Investigators opinion. He said that Barclays shouldve intervened or 
called him when he was making the payment to check it wasnt a scam. He also says that 
during a phone call with B, a Barclays employee told him that hed be reimbursed in full. Mr 
B made a Subject Access Request (SAR) to Barclays but it didnt successfully retrieve that 
call, which he says is suspicious. 
As Mr B disagreed with the Investigators view, the complaint has been passed to me to 
consider and come to a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point under the relevant regulations and the terms of his account is that Mr B is 
liable for payments hes authorised. However, taking into account the law, regulators rules 
and guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, Barclays was also expected to be on the lookout for unusual or out of 
character payments or account activity that might have been indicative of a fraud risk.
It is also a signatory to the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
code (the CRM code). That Code requires firms to reimburse customers who are victims of 
scams like this one, except in circumstances that are set out on in the code. Barclays has 
relied on a specific exception which says it isnt expected to reimburse the customer if in all 
the circumstances at the time of the payment, in particular the characteristics of the 
Customer and the complexity and sophistication of the APP scam, the Customer made the 
payment without a reasonable basis for believing that  the person or business with whom 
they transacted was legitimate.
Ive considered the facts of the case carefully and Im agree that its fair and reasonable for 
Barclays to rely on this exception. In other words, Im persuaded that Mr B made these 
payments without a reasonable basis for believing the recipient was legitimate. I say that 
because there were several clear indicators that ought to have put him on notice that this 
request was unlikely to be a genuine one.
For example, although Mr B believed he was in contact with his friends boyfriend, hed 
never met them before. I find it strange that he wouldnt find it unusual for someone who hed 
never met to message him and ask to borrow a large sum of money. In addition to that, his 
reasons for needing the loan dont make a great deal of sense. He told Mr B that he wanted 
to buy cryptocurrency but that his own account had been blocked. Its not clear to me why Mr 
B sending him funds would enable to get around the problems with his own bank account.
Similarly, Mr B didnt question why Mr F was apparently able to send €40,000 to him from an 
account that hed previously been told had been blocked by his bank. I think he ought to 
have been concerned by these inconsistencies, asked further questions and proceeded with 
great caution. 
I agree with Mr B that Barclays shouldve done more to protect him than it did. These were 
payments of a significant size and it ought to have been concerned about the risk of fraud. It 
has accepted that it shouldve done more, and it was on that basis that it offered to refund 
half of the money Mr B lost.
I recognised that Mr B thinks that, if Barclays was in any way at fault it ought to reimburse 
him in full, but the CRM Code specifically provides for a way of dividing up responsibility for 
a fraud loss where a customer has acted carelessly. And in any event, even if I were to 
consider the case without applying the CRM Code, Id still make a finding that Mr B ought to 
be considered partially responsible for his losses. Im satisfied that he was and so I think its 
fair and reasonable for Barclays to make a deduction from any redress due on that basis.
Mr B argues that, during a phone call he had with Barclays, an employee of the bank told 
him that hed be reimbursed in full. It hasnt been able to provide a recording of this phone 
call, so Ive taken into account Mr Bs recollections of how that call went. However, Ive also 
listened to another recording of a call Mr B had with Barclays that he supplied. He told us 
that the employee of the bank told him that hed be refunded in full if Barclays was at fault. 
However, I think Mr B has misinterpreted the contents of that call  the Barclays employee 
actually told him If Barclays are at fault, Barclays could be liable for the whole amount.  I 
cant rule out the possibility that hes misremembered the contents of the other phone call 
and that it was more ambiguous than hes suggested. For completeness, I also looked at whether Barclays did everything it needed to after Mr B 
informed it hed fallen victim to a scam. I can see that it made prompt efforts to contact the 
fraudsters bank. Unfortunately, Mr Bs money had already been removed from the receiving 
account.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2023.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman