DRN-1483768
 
The complaint
Ms B complains that AXA Insurance Plc (AXA) have not fairly settled her claim on her 
contents insurance policy following damage caused by a leaking roof following heavy rain.
What happened
Ms B was having some repairs to the roof over her bedroom carried out. Ms B says she was 
also storing lots of items in her bedroom during redecorations. In early June 2019 heavy rain 
overwhelmed the temporary roof covering and water entered damaging many items in 
several rooms. Ms B says this included kitchen appliances and dining furniture.
Ms Bs contents cover was with AXA. Her buildings insurance was through another 
company. Ms B contacted AXA and it instructed a loss adjuster (Ill call them A) and a 
specialist restoration contractor (Ill call them X). X arranged to attend around a week after 
the leak occurred but say Ms B postponed this until ten days later as she had visitors. 
Having attended, X prepared report for AXA dated 24 June 2019.  
X reported that the roof was still not water tight more than two weeks after the initial damage 
and the property was very damp and mouldy. It noted that Ms B wont have windows left on 
the latch due to local crime activities. It said the delay had made the situation worse and 
that urgent repairs and drying were required to prevent further damage. It advised Ms B to 
take photographs of any items like rugs and floor coverings she planned to remove before 
she did so.  
X created a salvage list and took photographs. It removed a number of items for storage 
and appraisal by A. Ms B countersigned the lists. Ms B says a large number of other items 
were removed which werent included on these lists. X says this is not the case. Ms B told X 
some items placed outside her home to dry had gone missing and must have been stolen. 
And that other items inside her home also couldnt be found and may have been stolen or 
inadvertently thrown out in the clean up, including a valuable piece of jewellery. These loses 
werent reported to the police. 
A appraised Ms Bs possessions and raised queries about several items at a meeting in July 
2019. Ms B had asked for the claim to be cash settled rather than have items replaced or 
repaired, partly because of a concern about having linen and clothing professionally cleaned 
due to allergies. Ms B said she had made her own list of missing items but had left it at her 
friends house and she said would send it to A, but didnt do so. 
A said it would need to see evidence of ownership for any items not on Xs schedule in order 
to consider them. Ms B had wanted to claim for some items of high value. Having discussed 
this with A, she decided to remove them from her claim because she had no records of 
ownership. She said some items had been owned for many years and she had disposed of 
lots of paper records immediately after the leak. And that her digital camera, which might 
have photographs of some possessions, was one of the missing items. 
There was also disagreement over the value of certain items and after some delay A 
proposed a settlement figure of approximately £23,000 on a without prejudice basis. Ms B 
complained to AXA that the settlement was too low. She said it should be more like £80,000 
to include items not included in Xs schedule, to reflect the true value of other items and 
including items she had previously said she didnt wish to claim for. Ms B now provided a list 
of what she considered to be missing from Xs schedule.  She also said A had made her feel 
like a criminal when it had interviewed her about her possessions. 
AXA accepted the complaint in part due to delays and offered Ms B £100 in compensation 
for this. It said A would write to her with a detailed explanation of the figure offered, which it 
did on 31 October 2019. A rejected Ms Bs figures, saying some items which Ms B said 
werent on Xs schedule were in fact on it and had been accounted for in the settlement. 
A said that the values of many items that were listed were being significantly overstated by 
Ms B. She was also claiming the full value of furniture items that werent badly damaged 
where repair costs had been offered. A said Ms B had provided inadequate and inconsistent 
information about missing belongings and their value. It said that as there was no evidence 
of missing items they couldnt be covered and may not have been owned by her at all. 
Ms B disagreed and referred her complaint to our service and our investigator looked into it. 
She didnt uphold the complaint. She said there wasnt evidence of ownership or damage to 
items to support what Ms B was trying to claim in addition to what AXA had already offered. 
Without evidence it wasnt reasonable to expect AXA to pay a claim. 
Ms B didnt agree. She provided some additional information about her kitchen appliances 
and mahogany furniture. This included photographs and a statement from a friend that the 
appliances had been in good working order prior to the water leak. Ms B said that these had 
been damaged by damp conditions over many months because AXA hadnt stored them. 
Our investigator raised these issues with AXA. It said there was no evidence of damage to 
the kitchen appliances when the property was inspected after the incident. It agreed any 
damage had probably occurred due to prolonged damp conditions. And this most likely 
caused by the failure to repair the roof and dry the property out promptly, which was matter 
for the building insurer not AXA.  
In respect of damage to mahogany furniture AXA said these could be repaired. And the sum 
already offered for expert repair was fair. It also said had Ms B not wanted a cash settlement 
it would have arranged these repairs for her. Our investigator didnt change her view and 
didnt uphold the complaint.
As Ms B doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I do not uphold the complaint. I know my decision will disappoint Ms B as 
she feels she has been harshly treated by AXA. There was clearly much damage to both her 
home and her possessions and this is obviously going to be very distressing and 
inconvenient. 
Ms B has raised a number of other issues about the impact this and resolving the claim has 
had on her and I have considered everything she has said. However, I need to focus 
specifically on AXAs actions in handling the claim in respect of the contents of her home. So 
I am not considering any aspect in respect of the building insurance element of the situation 
which is subject to a separate complaint with our service.
 I dont think AXA has treated Ms B unfairly or unreasonably in the settlement offered to her. 
Ms B has said that her policy offered unlimited cover. She is correct that the policy had an 
unlimited maximum claim limit. However the policy sets out the terms of the contract and 
there are various conditions in respect of claims. And its reasonable for an insurer to want to 
see evidence of loss, damage and value before accepting and paying a claim. 
These requirements are clearly set out in the policy:
You must not:
Throw away, get rid of or destroy any items that are damaged until we say so;
Insurers will want to see evidence of ownership if items cant be examined if, for example, 
they have been lost or stolen. The policy says:
If you make a claim, we may ask for evidence that you own
the item you are claiming for.
The policy provides for a fair and reasonable valuation on items regardless of the maximum 
cover limit. The policy says:
 
Where we can offer repair or replacement through a preferred supplier but we agree to 
pay a cash settlement, then payment will not exceed the discounted replacement price 
we would normally pay.
Insurers also require the policyholder to take reasonable steps to minimise losses or 
damage, the policy says:
Precautions
You must take reasonable care to:
    keep your home in a good state of repair; and
    avoid or limit any loss, damage or injury.
I have quoted these sections from the policy as they all impact what has happened in this 
case and often overlap with each other. Ill explain further.
Evidence of Loss or Damage
I think Ms Bs decision to dispose of all her records (she says by burning them) immediately 
after the incident made it difficult for AXA to deal with the claim. X also advised Ms B to 
photograph anything she was considering removing before doing so. Ms B says a large 
number of items were unaccounted for compared to the schedules completed by X, which 
she had countersigned. 
But Ms B wasnt able to offer any evidence of ownership of these items. X took photographs 
of the contents and damage when it attended but these dont support the discrepancies 
either. I dont think it is likely that so many items could have been omitted from both Xs 
schedule and photographs. 
Evidence like receipts or other proof of purchase, instruction books and packaging, 
photographs of the items and so on would have supported Ms Bs claim. But none were 
available. Items of significant value, such as the jewellery piece, hadnt been mentioned to 
AXA before and specifically noted under the policy, which I think is unusual. 
I also think it is unusual that Ms B didnt report items she feels were stolen from her garden 
and possibly from within her home, to the police. Especially so as she told X that she didnt 
want to leave windows ajar to aid drying as she was concerned about crime in the area.  Considering these various factors along with the lack of any evidence to support ownership I 
dont think it is unreasonable for AXA to reject Ms Bs claim for such items.
Valuation
Ms B valued the items accepted by A at over £7,000. But As validated replacement costs 
from well known retailers was under £3,500, it says, for generally superior specification 
items. 
A says it considered various valuable furniture pieces to be professionally repairable (and 
could arrange and guarantee the work) whereas Ms B considered them beyond repair and 
sought her estimate of the replacement cost. Ms B hasnt provided any evidence that As 
assessment here was wrong.  
Ms B also lists items she says were damaged during her own initial clean up. A says these 
must have been in poor condition to be damaged in the manner described. Such as ripping a 
rug she valued at £4,500 by moving a chair. A say other items, such as thirty pairs of 
spectacle frames valued at £5,100 by Ms B, didnt appear to be damaged at all. There are 
numerous other examples in As letter.
So I am satisfied that As appraisal of the value of items it did accept is fair and reasonable.
Limiting Losses
I think Ms B decision to postpone Xs attendance soon after the incident made the damage 
to her contents worse. As noted the policy contains common provisions requiring a 
policyholder to avoid or limit any loss. In this case that would be taking action to make the 
property water tight and begin drying it out reasonably promptly and it appears this was 
delayed for sometime.
I dont doubt the evidence from Ms Bs witness, which was that the kitchen appliances were 
working before the incident. And AXA doesnt dispute this either, it argues they werent 
damaged in the incident but by prolonged exposure to damp conditions. And that wooden 
furniture was similarly affected. 
I think this is likely to be the case. And damage occurring gradually over a period of time is 
specifically excluded under Ms B policy. And AXA wasnt responsible for any aspect of the 
necessary repairs to the property itself. So it wouldnt be reasonable to ask AXA to cover 
these items.
In summary, based on the evidence I have seen I dont think AXA have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in settling the claim as outlined in As letter of 31 October 2019. AXA did 
accept there were delays in offering settlement, although I feel that some responsibility for 
this also lies with Ms B. AXA has paid £100 in compensation for delay which I think is fair 
and reasonable. 
As I dont think AXA have done anything wrong in respect of the claim I wont be asking 
them to do anything more than this.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2020.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman