DRN-1600431
 
The complaint
Miss B and Mr T say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
Miss B and Mr T took out a mortgage with Nationwide in 1992 and PPI was added to their 
account at the same time.
The policy, for which Miss B and Mr T paid a monthly amount, wouldve paid them a monthly 
joint benefit for up to 24 months for each successful accident, sickness or unemployment 
claim they made.
Miss B and Mr T say the PPI was added without their knowledge or consent. They say they 
were self-employed and so dont think the PPI wouldve been suitable for them. And they say 
its cost and benefits werent explained to them.
The adjudicator who looked at Miss B and Mr Ts complaint didnt uphold it. They disagree 
and so their complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know this will disappoint Miss B 
and Mr T  who feel strongly about this  but I hope the reasons Im about to give help them 
to understand why Ive reached this conclusion.
Nationwide needed to make it clear to Miss B and Mr T they had a choice about PPI and get 
their agreement to it. Nationwide says Miss B and Mr T wouldve chosen to buy the cover. It 
doesnt, however, have any paperwork from the time to show this. But I dont think thats 
surprising, given how long ago the sale was. Miss B and Mr T say they would never have 
agreed to PPI. They say that, being self-employed, they were always careful about 
insurance products. And they say that, when Miss B took some time off work to have a child 
a couple of years later, she didnt make a claim because she didnt know she had PPI.
To uphold Miss B and Mr Ts complaint on this point, Id have to think it was more likely than 
not Nationwide added the PPI to their account without their knowledge or consent. The 
information Ive got on this complaint  which is very limited  isnt strong or clear enough for 
me to think this would be a fair and reasonable conclusion. While its possible PPI was 
added to their account without their knowledge or consent, I think its more likely  particularly bearing in mind what we know generally about how Nationwide sold these 
policies with mortgages at around this time  they agreed to it knowing they didnt have to. 
I know this isnt how Miss B and Mr T remember things. But I also have to bear in mind that 
peoples memories can fade over time  and this sale was more than a quarter of a century 
ago. The policy Miss B and Mr T bought didnt make it harder for the self-employed to make 
a claim  so I cant say that Miss B and Mr Ts self-employment substantiates their claim that 
they didnt know they had PPI. And most PPI policies wouldnt allow maternity claims so this 
also isnt a reason for upholding Miss B and Mr Ts complaint.
Nationwide says it didnt recommend the PPI to Miss B and Mr T. Again, from what we know 
generally about how Nationwide sold PPI with mortgages around this time, I think thats 
probably right. That means it didnt need to make sure the PPI was suitable for Miss B and 
Mr T. But it did need to give them enough clear information about the PPI for them to be able 
to make that decision themselves in an informed way.
Its possible Nationwide didnt give Miss B and Mr T all the clear information it shouldve 
about the PPI. But that doesnt mean I should automatically uphold the complaint. Instead I 
must think about whether  if everything had been made as clear to them as it shouldve 
been  this wouldve stopped them from going ahead with it. From what Miss B and Mr T say 
of their circumstances at the time and from the policy details Ive got, I dont think it wouldve 
changed their decision. I say this because:
I think they were both eligible for the PPI and I havent seen anything to make me 
think they couldnt have made a successful claim if theyd needed to. As Ive 
mentioned, this PPI policy didnt make it difficult for self-employed people to claim 
unemployment benefit. 
Being self-employed, and therefore not being entitled to sick pay, I think Miss B and 
Mr T couldve found the PPI useful if they were unable to work  giving them as it did, 
unemployment cover for up to 24 months (and the same cover for accident and 
sickness). I say this especially bearing in mind that their mortgage was a significant 
and long-term financial commitment, secured on their home  which was at risk if 
they fell behind on their mortgage repayments. Miss B and Mr T say they also had 
some savings but having PPI wouldve meant they didnt need to use these  which 
they mightve needed for other living expenses or future needs  to make their 
mortgage repayments.
I dont know if the cost of the PPI was made clear to Miss B and Mr T but it was 
apparently affordable. 
Overall, I dont think Miss B and Mr T have lost out because of anything Nationwide may 
have done wrong and so I dont think it needs to do anything to put things right. 
My final decision
For the reasons I've given, I don't uphold Miss B and Mr T's complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 May 2020.
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman