DRN-4437757
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain Campbell & Associates Independent Financial Advice Ltd 
(Campbell) failed to invest a total of £51,400 they transferred to it as ISA contributions. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs G each held ISAs on a platform Ill refer to as Platform A. Within their ISAs, 
they paid regular monthly contributions towards a model portfolio product Platform A offered, 
called ISA 6 Active Managed Portfolio. Historically, theyd taken advice on their 
investments from an advisor at Campbell. 
Mr and Mrs G recall making a number of one-off payments to Campbell, with the expectation 
that their advisor would arrange for the money to be credited to their investments with 
Platform A. The payments Mr and Mrs G have identified are as follows: 
£10,000 on 15 December 2014
£10,000 on 18 August 2015 
£6,000 on 22 February 2016
£5,000 on 6 October 2016
£10,000 on 1 February 2017
£6,000 on 2 November 2017 
£4,400 on 11 December 2018 
Mr and Mrs G understood these payments had been credited to their ISAs thanks to an 
update they received from their advisor at Campbell. They say the update appears to show 
the balance of their Platform A ISAs, including the various payments theyd made towards it. 
But they had cause to doubt this in February 2023 when they became aware their advisor 
was being investigated by the FCA. 
After checking with Platform A, they came to understand that the money theyd paid to 
Campbell hadnt been invested as theyd been led to understand. It wasnt clear where the 
money was. When they challenged their advisor, they were told the money was being held 
separately and would shortly be transferred to them. But no payments were ever received. 
Mr and Mrs G complained to Campbell about this in March and April of 2023, but they never 
received a response. To continue their complaint, they referred the matter to our service. 
Our investigator made efforts to contact Campbell and obtain its response to Mr and Mrs Gs 
complaint. One of our investigators spoke to a solicitor working on behalf of the advisor. The 
solicitor confirmed Campbell and its advisor were aware of the complaints made against it. In 
the absence of any formal response from Campbell, our investigator upheld Mr and Mrs Gs 
complaint. They felt the couple should be compensated for their financial losses, and for the 
distress and inconvenience theyd suffered due to Campbells actions. 
To date, our service has received no explanation for, or defence of the issues Mr and Mrs G 
have raised in their complaint against Campbell. Because of this, the matter has been 
passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset, Id observe that given the subject matter and implications of Mr and Mrs Gs 
complaint, its quite extraordinary that Campbell has failed to respond to it in any meaningful 
way. Im satisfied however that its appropriate for me to proceed with my decision on this 
complaint. 
Our rules, outlined in DISP 3.5.9 R explain that I may reach a decision on the basis of what 
has been supplied and take account of the failure by a party to provide information 
requested. And that is what I intend to do in Mr and Mrs Gs case.  
As a regulated firm, when dealing with its customers, Campbell is required at all times to 
uphold a series of high-level principles set by the FCA. Amongst other things, the principles 
outlined in PRIN 2.1.1 R require that: 
A firm must conduct its business with integrity A firm must conduct its business 
with due skill, care and diligence... A firm must observe proper standards of market 
conduct A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
Where investments are concerned, these principles are further bolstered by the rule in 
COBS 2.1.1 R, which requires that: 
A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client. 
Mr and Mrs G have evidenced that they made payments totalling £51,400 to Campbell. And 
their recollection was that these payments were intended to be credited to their ISAs and 
invested into Platform As ISA 6 Active Managed Portfolio. Ive seen documents which 
confirm the couple each held this investment, and that Campbell was appointed on both 
ISAs as being the advising agent. 
The couple have also provided our service with the investment update they were given by 
their advisor at Campbell which gives a balance of each of their ISAs. As per the information 
provided by Platform A for our investigation, this balance appears to be incorrect. Platform A 
has provided a list of all of the contributions ever made to Mr and Mrs Gs ISAs. And it does 
not seem as though the payments Mr and Mrs G made to Campbell were ever credited to 
their ISAs.
It remains unclear what Campbell did with the money Mr and Mrs G paid to it. But theres no 
evidence Ive seen that would suggest it was ever invested on the couples behalf, as per 
their expectations. 
   
I have seen no evidence that would give me pause to doubt Mr and Mrs Gs submissions on 
these points. 
In my opinion, if Campbell and its advisor had accepted the couples money in the course of 
legitimate business, it would be relatively straightforward for it to refute their complaint. As a 
firm thats authorised to give advice and arrange investments for its customers, I would 
reasonably expect Campbell to provide evidence of: Arrangements and recommendations for any investments its sold. 
Paperwork substantiating the appropriateness or suitability of those investments.  
Diary notes or phone calls recording occasions those investments were discussed. 
The fact Campbell has failed to provide any such evidence is extremely concerning. As is 
the fact that according to the FCA register, Campbell doesnt appear to have ever been 
authorised to hold client money. Mindful of this, and in the absence of any counter-narrative 
defending itself, Im persuaded that Campbell has failed to invest Mr and Mrs Gs money as 
it should have. And by doing so, its failed to uphold the principles and requirements I 
referenced earlier in my decision. Im satisfied that Campbell has failed to treat Mr and Mrs 
G fairly. 
It remains for me to fairly and reasonably decide what Campbell must do to address the 
impact its actions have had on the couple. 
Putting things right
As Ive understood it, it was Mr and Mrs Gs expectation that the £51,400 theyd paid to 
Campbell was to be invested via their ISAs into Platform As ISA 6 Active Managed 
Portfolio. But this did not happen. Campbell has declined to say what it did with the money it 
accepted from them. And by not investing the money as it should have, Campbell has 
caused Mr and Mrs G to miss out on the growth Platform As ISA 6 Active Managed Portfolio 
has made over the years. This loss flows from Campbells failure to treat the couple fairly, 
and so Im satisfied it should compensate them accordingly. 
Firstly, I direct that Campbell must pay Mr and Mrs G the sum of £51,400. 
Next, I direct that Campbell must calculate the growth Mr and Mrs Gs various deposits 
would have made, had they all been promptly invested in Platform As ISA 6 Active Managed 
Portfolio. For the purposes of this calculation, I think its fair and reasonable to expect that 
Campbell ought to have invested these deposits the same day they were received. So on 15 
December 2014, 18 August 2015, 22 February 2016, 6 October 2016, 1 February 2017, 2 
November 2017, and 11 December 2018 respectively. Campbell should calculate growth on 
these investments up until the date it settles this complaint. Completing this calculation will 
leave Campbell with a monetary figure Ill refer to as Figure X. Campbell must provide a 
breakdown of its calculations for Mr and Mrs G in a clear and simple format. 
Once it has completed this calculation, I direct that Campbell must pay Figure X to Mr and 
Mrs G. 
Finally, Ive considered what Campbell must fairly and reasonably do to compensate Mr and 
Mrs G for the significant trouble and upset the events of their complaint have caused them. 
From the historic correspondence available to me, the couple appear to have enjoyed a 
relatively informal relationship with Campbells advisor. I have no doubt that the realisation 
theyd been deceived by the advisor as to the whereabouts of their money, combined with 
the anxiety of not knowing what had happened to those funds will have had a significant 
impact on them.  
Through their submissions, Mr and Mrs G have painted a picture of the distress and 
inconvenience these events have caused them. And its clear theyve spent a great deal of 
time compiling information for this service and the FCAs investigation into Campbells 
actions here. All the while, theyve not known whether their money, a not insignificant sum, 
would ever be returned to them. And I have no doubt that this will have caused the couple 
significant distress and inconvenience. Because of this, I direct that Campbell must pay Mr and Mrs G the sum of £750 in 
recognition of the impact its actions have had on them. 
My final decision
My final decision is that for the reasons given above I uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. I 
direct that Campbell & Associates Independent Financial Advice Ltd must now: 
Pay £51,400 to Mr and Mrs G
Calculate Figure X (as directed above) 
Give Mr and Mrs G a breakdown of its calculations in a clear and simple format
Pay Figure X to Mr and Mrs G 
Pay Mr and Mrs G £750
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Marcus Moore
Ombudsman