DRN-4423102
The complaint
Mr H has complained about how Wakam dealt with a claim under a home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H contacted Wakam when water entered his home causing damage. He later complained 
as he said Wakam took an unacceptable amount of time for it respond to his claim in what 
was an emergency situation.
When Wakam replied to the complaint, it didnt uphold the complaint. It said Mr H had told 
Wakams claims department the repairs had been carried out and it therefore cancelled its 
instruction on the claim.
So, Mr H complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said 
Wakam had closed the claim because Mr H had the repair carried out. Wakam told Mr H he 
could re-open the claim if he wanted to, but Mr H didnt reply.
As Mr H didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 17 October 2023. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I wasnt planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
Although Wakam provided this service with records related to the claim, I also asked it to 
confirm whether it had registered the claim as buildings and contents claim or a home 
emergency claim, but it didnt provide this information. So, Ive considered the information 
currently available to me from both parties in order to reach a decision.
Mr Hs policy provided buildings, contents and home emergency cover. Mr H thought 
Wakam had deliberately acted slowly in response to his claim and that he had then had to 
carry out an immediate repair to prevent further damage. He said this meant Wakams 
services were no longer required, despite this type of cover being available under the policy.
Mr H initially spoke to Wakam on the phone. Mr H has provided the phone number he called. 
Looking at the policy booklet, it gave a phone number for regular claims which was the one 
Mr H phoned. But it gave a different phone number for home emergency claims. I think the 
phrase regular claims is unusual and isnt the clearest wording. But, I think the policy did 
explain what to do if emergency assistance was required, which was to call the phone 
number for the home emergency part of the policy. From what I can see, Mr H called the 
number to register a buildings and contents claim.
Following this phone call, Wakam sent Mr H an email to explain the details it needed and 
said: I will then forward them over to the claims department, so a new claim can be added 
for this new incident. I note Wakams email only referred to a claim and didnt describe 
what type of claim it was referring to. But reading the questions Wakam asked, these 
seemed to request the type of information I would expect for a buildings and contents claim, 
rather than under the home emergency part of the policy.
Mr H replied to the email and said the lights had tripped in his property and water had 
dripped through a ceiling void. He said he hadnt yet investigated the damage to the roof but, 
as it might be urgent, he had arranged for scaffolding to be erected to facilitate the roof 
investigation. He said he didnt know how much the repair would cost but gave the cost of 
the scaffolding. He also provided photos. So, from what I can see, Mr H described how he 
was dealing with the immediate situation and didnt ask Wakam to provide an urgent 
response to the incident, such as by sending someone under the home emergency part of 
the policy.
Mr H has said he didnt hear anything further from Wakam about how to proceed and that 
Wakam didnt attempt to investigate the incident for over three weeks. He said he was then 
sent an email saying a contractor would contact him soon. However, looking at the records, 
Ive seen an email Wakam sent to Mr H two weeks after his initial contact that asked him to 
provide information such as detailed photos of the affected area, detailed repair estimates 
and a written report to confirm the cause of damage to the roof and why it was leaking. It 
also said an excess would apply if the claim was accepted. Again, these are the types of 
questions I would expect an insurer to ask as part of a buildings and contents claim.
Ive also seen the email Wakam sent about a week later that said a contractor would be in 
touch. Its my understanding that Mr H contacted Wakam the same day to say he had 
completed the work himself and to close the claim. The claim was then closed.
Based on what Ive currently seen, I think there was a mismatch in understanding about the 
type of claim that was being made and in the expectation about how it would be dealt with. 
Its my understanding that Mr H was expecting an emergency response from Wakam, 
potentially under the home emergency part of the policy. But Mr H didnt phone the home 
emergency number, he called the regular claims number. So, I currently think it was 
reasonable that Wakam seemed to deal with this as a buildings and contents claim.
For a claim under the buildings and contents part of the policy, I wouldnt necessarily expect 
an insurer to offer or suggest assistance under the home emergency part of the policy. In 
this instance, Mr H already seemed to be dealing with the immediate situation and I havent 
currently seen evidence that he requested emergency assistance from Wakam at the time. I 
also note that when Mr H closed the claim Wakam emailed him in case he wanted to re-
open it. So, Im not currently persuaded that Wakams response to Mr H registering a claim 
was unreasonable or that it was trying to avoid dealing with his claim.
Ive also taken into account that Mr H might not have been familiar with making an insurance 
claim and might not have made a claim involving Wakam before. Im also aware that Wakam 
seemed to be trialling a new claims procedure via email at the time. In addition, I accept that 
Wakams questions might well not have caused Mr H to have similar thoughts to me about 
the claim. But to be clear, what Im doing is considering whether Wakam acted reasonably in 
how it dealt with the claim in the circumstances. Having thought about this, I think Wakam 
registered the claim based on how it was contacted and what was described and followed up 
on it in the way I would have expected given the information provided.
So, having thought about all of the above, I dont currently intend to uphold this complaint or 
to require Wakam to do anything further in relation to it.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 14 November 2023. 
Wakam didnt reply. Mr H replied and, in summary, said he was disappointed that his 
complaint wasnt likely to be upheld. He said he was at fault with his initial contact by not 
contacting the home emergency number. He said he had been concerned about the potential damage and was expressly concerned that the incident be viewed as urgent and 
had mentioned this concern in his initial phone call to Wakam and in subsequent emails. He 
said he would have expected Wakam to have a professional awareness and a realisation of 
the seriousness of the situation without him having to say so.
Mr H said water was leaking through a ceiling and causing the electricity to cut out. He 
thought this should reasonably have caused concerns with Wakam as the professional and 
that the situation should immediately have been logged as a home emergency issue and it 
was negligent not to do so. This negligence caused the delay and inadequate action by 
Wakam. Mr H asked that I reconsider my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint and for the reasons given in my provisional 
decision. As part of that, Ive looked again at my provisional decision. Ive also considered 
Mr Hs comments, but these dont change my view. 
I can understand Mr H was concerned by the situation he was dealing with. However, I 
havent seen anything that persuades me Wakams buildings and contents team would be 
expected to automatically refer him to the home emergency team or that it was required to 
do so. Mr H also seemed to be proactively dealing with the immediate issue, including 
arranging scaffolding. Wakam did seem to do what I would have expected for a buildings 
and contents claim and I am not persuaded that Wakam would have realised Mr H wanted 
home emergency assistance and should have directed him to that team.
From what Ive seen, Mr H contacted the buildings and contents team and Wakam dealt with 
the claim on the basis that it was a buildings and contents claim. I think that was reasonable 
in the circumstances.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman