DRN-2282753
The complaint
Miss M complains that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) accepted liability and settled a 
claim against her motor insurance policy when it shouldnt have.
What happened
In September 2019 a third party reported a claim to Ageas, saying Miss M had hit their 
vehicle whilst driving her car. Ageas contacted Miss M, who disputed this and said she 
wasnt in the area of the incident at the time. 
Ageas received more information from the third party that supported their version of events, 
but didnt receive a response to any requests for information from Miss M. After considering 
all the available evidence, it decided to settle the third partys claim. This meant the claim 
was recorded as fault against Miss M. 
Miss M got back in touch with Ageas in mid-2020 to provide additional information to show 
she couldnt have caused the damage. Ageas engineer inspected Miss Ms vehicle and 
found damage. And while Miss M gave an account for this the engineer didnt think the 
damage was such that Miss M couldnt have been involved in a collision with the third party. 
Despite this, Ageas agreed to carry out further enquiries with the third party. 
Miss M didnt think it was fair for Ageas to settle the claim. Ageas said it had tried to contact 
her on several occasions and given the level of evidence from the third party, it took a 
commercial decision to accept the claim. Miss M didnt think this was fair, so asked us to 
investigate. 
Our investigator didnt think Ageas had done anything wrong. She thought it had acted 
reasonably based on the information it had available. 
Miss M didnt agree and said shed provided enough evidence to show she wasnt at the 
location of the accident when it occurred. The complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not my role to decide on a legal basis who is liable for the accident, this is something that 
is more suited to a court. However, I can look at how Ageas handled the claim and whether it 
acted fairly. If I think Ageas handled the claim poorly, I can make a direction on what I think it 
needs to do to put things right, which includes a making a money award and paying 
compensation.  
The policy booklet sets out the terms and conditions of the agreement between Miss M and 
Ageas. Under the dealing with claims it says Ageas may; 
Carry out the defence or settlement of any claim and choose the solicitor who will act 
for you in any legal action.
Every car insurance policy Ive seen includes a term like this, so its not an unusual one. 
Essentially this means the insurer will have the final say on how claims are handled and 
whether they are defended or settled. An insurer has a duty to handle a claim promptly and 
fairly. So, before settling a claim, Id expect Ageas to consider all the available evidence and 
the likelihood of success if the claim had to go before a court. 
The notification Ageas received from the third party in September 2019 contained Miss Ms 
personal information and vehicle details. And the location was one Miss M attended 
frequently. It was said Miss M had hit the TP whilst it was unattended and provided her 
details at the scene. Ageas contacted Miss M to try and gather her side of the story and to 
arrange an inspection of her vehicle. But there was little or no engagement from Miss M.
I think Ageas did enough to try contacting Miss M by different methods, and in the absence 
of a response Ageas finally wrote asking her to make contact within seven days, otherwise it 
would have to settle the claim. At this point Ageas had a detailed statement from the third-
party and there was also mention of a witness available. 
As per the terms of the policy, Ageas was entitled to settle the claim as it saw fit. Im satisfied 
that given circumstances Ageas acted within the policy terms and its decision was fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. Without evidence from Miss M, despite asking, Ageas 
thought it unlikely it could defend the claim in court, due the level of evidence against her. 
When communications re-started in mid-2020, Ageas asked an engineer to examine 
Miss Ms car. Damage was present which it was thought couldnt be ruled out as relating to 
the claim incident. It was thought paint marks matching Miss Ms vehicle colour were present 
on the third partys vehicle. 
Having carefully thought about everything, Im satisfied Ageas treated Miss M fairly and in 
line with the policy terms. The lack of contact from her left Ageas with little option and the 
decision to settle the claim was, in my view, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 December 2020.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman