DRN-1778538
 
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with the replacement phone he was given by Great Lakes Insurance SE 
(Great Lakes) following a claim under his mobile phone insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M lost his iPhone and made a claim to Great Lakes, the provider of his mobile phone 
insurance policy. The claim was accepted, and Mr M was sent a replacement iPhone. 
Two months later, Mr M contacted Great Lakes to complain about the phone. He said the 
phone had software and screen issues. Mr M also said Apple told him this could be because 
it was a refurbished handset and the parts used to refurbish it could have been inferior to the 
original Apple parts, which could cause it to overheat and bend.
Great Lakes engineers inspected the phone. They agreed it was warped, but said there were 
no signs of it overheating, or that it had overheated because inferior parts had been used. 
They said it could have been damaged, so they didnt agree to replace it.
Mr M was unhappy and made a complaint to Great Lakes, but their decision remained the 
same.
Mr M was unhappy with this and approached the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our 
investigator looked into everything but didnt uphold the complaint. He said there wasnt any 
evidence to show that inferior parts had been used, or that this is what caused the phone to 
overheat or bend.
Mr M didnt agree and said he would try and obtain some further information from the 
manufacturer. He initially provided a report from Apple, who agreed the phone was bent. But 
this didnt say why, so our investigators view remained.
As Mr M hasnt provided any further evidence in support of his complaint, and didnt agree 
with our investigators view, the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
the complaint and Ill explain why.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ms mobile phone insurance policy say that in the event of a 
claim, Great Lakes will provide a refurbished phone, and thats what theyve done here. So 
in principle, I dont think theyve acted unfairly by providing a refurbished phone.
But having said that, if that refurbished phone does have inferior parts which cause the 
phone to stop working correctly (or overheat and warp as Mr M says happened to his) shortly after delivery, then that is not a reasonable replacement phone or claim settlement 
under Mr Ms policy.
However, there hasnt been any evidence to demonstrate thats what happened here. I dont 
think the phone was delivered to Mr M in a warped condition, as Mr M would most likely 
have noticed this  given he reported issues with the screen and software. And this wasnt 
until two months after Mr M took receipt of the phone, which would indicate the issue 
developed further down the line after delivery.
Great Lakes engineer inspected the phone and said the battery was in perfect condition, the 
case had never been opened, and there were no signs of it overheating. They also said the 
case itself can withstand extreme heat, so this wouldnt make the phone bend. So whilst they 
agreed it was bent, they didnt conclude overheating caused this, or that inferior parts had 
been used.
Apple also looked at the phone, and whilst they agreed it was bent too, they didnt carry out 
an internal inspection as it would have caused further damage. And they didnt give any 
further reasons around why it was bent, overheating, inferior parts or otherwise. 
So there isnt any evidence for me to be able to conclude that inferior parts led to the phone 
overheating, and that is what caused Mr Ms phone to warp. It could have happened for 
many different reasons, including being damaged.
I can see our investigator said that if Mr M could obtain any information to support his 
position on what caused his actual phone to warp, rather than things which might, he should 
submit this for consideration. But as no further evidence has been provided, I must base my 
decision on everything that has been. And as outlined, there isnt anything to show Mr Ms 
phone overheated and warped because inferior parts had been used in refurbishment, so I 
cant say Great Lakes need to do anything else. 
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2020.
Callum Milne
Ombudsman