DRN-3921261
The complaint
Miss K complains that Metro Bank PLC opened an account with no authorisation.
What happened
Miss K says that she opened a Young Savers account with Metro Bank in February 2019 but 
did not receive any details about it and her father was not added to the account as 
requested. Due to personal circumstances, and the assumption the money was sat earning 
interest, Miss K next enquired about the account in branch in May 2022. She says she was 
issued with a card, but when she checked her balance at an ATM it showed just £85. Miss K 
says the branch staff told her all the money had been transferred to a fixed term account in 
December 2020, about which she knew nothing. Miss K said she complained in branch and 
was told someone would get back to her. When nothing happened Miss K called Metro Bank 
on 31 May 2022 and raised a further complaint. She says she cannot access the fixed term 
account, the money is locked away until December 2023 and its earning a lower interest 
rate than it would have done in a Young Savers account.
Miss Ks mum (Mrs K) wrote further to clarify that:
The £85 was interest from the fixed term account which had been transferred to a 
cash account automatically  she says this is something theyd never have set up as 
theyd have wanted the interest to remain in the account accruing further interest;
They could not have opened the fixed term account as they have never had the 
information to be able to access her daughters original account;
They would not have opened an account with a lower interest rate and with no 
access to the money for three years;
The branch never escalated the complaint, and they want the funds released, back 
interest paid and compensation for the hours spent, and stress caused;
Metro Bank says the fixed term account was opened by Miss K online on 18 December 2020 
and its unable to release the funds early, except in the case of severe hardship. It 
acknowledges that Miss K said she did not receive any details about the original account but 
confirms that it has located a call from Miss Ks father (Mr K) on 8 April 2019 where he reads 
out the 12-digit customer number for online banking. Metro Bank says this 12-digit number 
was used to sign in online and open the fixed term deposit account in December 2020. 
However, it paid Miss K £20 for the poor customer service it provided.
Our investigator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. She said she was 
satisfied that the account was correctly opened online using information to which only Miss K 
and Mr K had access.
Mrs K, on behalf of Miss K, responded to say, in summary, that no-one had access to Miss 
Ks account until they went into branch in May 2022. It was only after this that either Miss K 
or Mr K could access the original account online and therefore no-one in their family opened 
the account in December 2020.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen evidence to show Miss K opened both a Young Savers account and a Cash 
account when she went into branch with her father in February 2019. I can see both she and 
her father were set up on the accounts and a Magic Word was issued with which internet 
banking could be set up.
No transactions were ever made on the Young Savers account, but on 5 April 2019 £8,500 
was transferred into Miss Ks Cash account which Mrs K says was a gift from Miss Ks 
grandmother. Mr K then called Metro Bank on 8 April 2019 as he was unable to access Miss 
Ks account online. I have listened to the call and, although Mr K is able to quote the internet 
banking ID for Miss Ks account, it becomes evident during the call that the necessary 
security number and password have not been set up. Metro Bank agrees to send another 
Magic Word by post so that internet banking can then be set up on the account.
Mr K then calls Metro Bank again on 11 April 2019 and explains that when he logs in using 
Miss Ks details, his own accounts are also visible when, in fact, it should be the other way 
round. Mr K is advised on the call that he will need to go into the branch that set up the 
account for this to be remedied.
A further £8,500 is transferred to Miss Ks Cash account on 10 May 2019, taking the balance 
to £17,000. It is this £17,000 that is then transferred to a three-year Fixed Term Deposit 
account on 18 December 2020. I am satisfied that this transaction was carried out online 
either by Miss K, or by Mr K using Miss Ks account details because:
Mr K has already confirmed in the call on 11 April 2019 that he can access Miss Ks 
account;
Metro Bank has confirmed that the person carrying out the transaction would have 
needed Miss Ks 12-digit internet banking ID, her security number and password, and 
theres no evidence that these have been compromised;
A log of Mr Ks and Miss Ks online banking shows:
oMr K logged in at 9.38am on 18 December 2020;
oMiss K logged in at 9.42am on 18 December 2020 with the 12-digit internet ID 
and successfully entered her security number, password and out of band 
authentication.
I acknowledge Mrs K says that they would never have chosen to transfer the money from an 
account that was paying higher interest, but Im satisfied the money was moved from the 
Cash account where no interest was accruing. The terms of the Fixed Term Deposit account 
also say that interest will be paid into a nominated Metro Bank account, rather than remaining in the deposit account, so I cant conclude Metro Bank was in error when it 
transferred the £85 annual interest into Miss Ks Cash account.
Finally, I accept that Miss K was told someone would get back to her after she visited the 
branch in May 2022 and that this didnt happen. However, I consider the £20 that Metro 
Bank has already paid for this to be fair and reasonable.
In summary, I am satisfied that the evidence I have seen indicates that either Miss K, or 
Mr K, using Miss Ks internet banking details, logged onto online banking on 18 December 
2020 and opened the Fixed Term Deposit account with money from Miss Ks Cash account.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman