DRN-2495566
The complaint
Mrs M says Barclays Bank PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 1995. The policy was added to 
Mrs Ms credit card account when she applied for the card.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website, and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ms complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, I need to decide what I thinks most likely 
to have happened, based on the evidence I have.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mrs M has told us that she only took out the PPI because Barclays adviser 
recommended that she add it in order to be approved for the credit card, and she was 
made to feel it wasnt optional.
Ive seen a copy of Mrs Ms signed credit card application. It included equally prominent 
options to accept or decline the PPI. Mrs M ticked the box indicating that she wished to 
take PPI. Theres nothing on the form to suggest that doing so would improve the chance 
of the application being successful. And I cant fairly conclude that the adviser told Mrs M 
that it would, or that she had to take out PPI, based purely on her recollection of a 
conversation that took place more than 25 years ago. On balance, Im satisfied that 
Barclays made Mrs M aware that the PPI was optional and that she agreed to take it, 
knowing that she had a choice  although I can understand how she may no longer 
remember this, so many years later.
Barclays accepts that it recommended the PPI to Mrs M. This means it had a 
responsibility to check that the PPI was suitable for her. But it doesnt look as if it was 
unsuitable, based on what Ive seen of Mrs Ms circumstances at the time. 
I acknowledge that Mrs Ms told us shed have been entitled to six months full pay, 
followed by six months half pay from her employer at the time if shed been off sick. But 
if Mrs M had made a successful claim on the policy for accident or sickness, it would 
have paid out for up to 12 months. Thats longer than Mrs Ms told us shed have been 
entitled to full sick pay for. And it would have paid the same benefit if shed made a 
successful claim for unemployment. Whats more, the policy would have paid out in 
addition to any payments Mrs M received from her employer. So she could have used 
those to meet other day-to-day expenses. 
Taking everything into account, I think the PPI could have been useful for Mrs M, 
particularly as shes told us that aside from her employee benefits, she didnt have any 
other means she could have fallen back on if shed been off sick for an extended period, 
or if shed lost her job.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But Ive explained that Im satisfied that Mrs M chose to take out the 
policy. So she appears to have wanted this type of cover. Based on what shes told us 
about her circumstances at the time, she wasnt affected by any of the main things the 
policy didnt cover. The policy was competitively priced, and as Mrs M was paying for it 
monthly, she could have cancelled it at any time without further cost if her circumstances 
changed, or if she decided she no longer wanted the cover.
So taking everything into account, I think its unlikely Mrs M would have made a different 
decision if better information had been provided. On balance I think shed still have taken 
out the policy.
Ive taken account of all Mrs Ms comments, including what shes said about her job having 
been stable and the average time shed been off sick only having been a week. But I dont 
think she could have guaranteed that this would continue to be the case indefinitely. And 
insurance is designed to protect against unexpected events. So these points dont change 
my view that the PPI wasnt mis-sold.
This means that Barclays doesn't have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M. But 
Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M because:
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs M about that. Because Barclays didn't tell Mrs M, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think thats fair in this case.My final decision
The PPI policy wasn't mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) does 
not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) does have to pay back to Mrs M any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand 
its already done this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 March 2021. 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman