DRN-3713255
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund him for two transactions he says he
didnt authorise.
What happened
On 27 September 2021, Mr W transferred £30 into his current account intending to use
these funds in a supermarket. He says that he visited the supermarket but didnt make a
purchase using his card. His friend paid for the shopping.
Following his visit to the supermarket, Mr W said he couldnt find his card which he kept in
his pocket with his phone, but his phone was still in his possession. When he logged on to
his online banking, he noticed two transactions to the same supermarket he visited  one
was a card payment of £30 at the fuel station and the other was a contactless payment for
£28.56 at the supermarket. He says he didnt authorise these transactions so reported them
to Monzo.
Monzo said they couldnt refund Mr W as it wasnt possible for the transaction to have been
authorised by anyone else. They didnt believe the transactions were made by anyone else
other than Mr W or someone he provided access to. Unhappy with this, Mr W referred his
complaint to our service.
Our investigator thought it was likely that Mr W made the disputed transactions as the
genuine chip was read and the correct Personal Identification Number (PIN) was entered.
Mr W disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 25 August 2022 and I made the following findings:
Generally speaking, Monzo is responsible for any transactions that Mr W didnt 
authorise. But the relevant rules explain that in some circumstances, Mr W can still 
be held liable  for instance, if Mr W failed to keep his details secure or if he allowed 
a third party to use his card.
Monzos records show that Mr Ws genuine card and PIN was used to carry out the
transaction at the fuel station of £30. The records also show that the contactless 
payment of £28.56 took place within a few minutes of the first transaction and at the 
same location.
Based on this, I think that whoever had Mr Ws card also had his PIN and carried out 
both the transactions. Mr W has said he hasnt written down his PIN anywhere and 
hasnt shared it with anyone.
This doesnt explain how someone who found Mr Ws card wouldve known his PIN.
Ive looked at Mr Ws bank statements and in the several weeks leading up to these 
disputed transactions, he had only used his card for online payments. So, there were 
no opportunities for someone to have overseen his PIN. As a result, I cant 
reasonably conclude that Mr Ws PIN was known by anyone else.
I think this leaves only three possible explanations here  either Mr W authorised the
transactions himself, he authorised someone else to use his card or he was grossly
negligent with his PIN.
Under the terms and conditions of the account, Mr W is responsible to keep his card 
and PIN safe at all times. It also explains that Mr W wont be able to claim money 
back if, he didnt keep his PIN safe or if he gave it to someone else.
Mr W says he didnt make the transactions himself. If I were to accept this, it leaves 
the only plausible explanations that either, he authorised someone else to use his 
card by sharing his PIN thus enabling that person to make the transactions or he 
didnt take reasonable care to keep his PIN safe (for example, noting the PIN on the 
card or keeping the PIN with the card) and allowed an opportunist fraudster to use 
his card to make the transactions.
If Mr W gave his card and PIN to someone else, he has effectively authorised the
transactions from his account and is responsible for them  even if he didnt know or 
expect that this party would make these transactions.
And if Mr W failed to keep his PIN secure, I think this would be grossly negligent and 
he would still be responsible for the transactions. This is because any reasonable 
person would consider it careless as there was an obvious and foreseeable risk that 
a third party, known or unknown, could make transactions using his card and PIN.
In all of the above scenarios, which I think are the only plausible explanations here, 
Im satisfied that Monzo can fairly hold Mr W liable for these transactions. So, I wont 
be asking them to reimburse him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further submissions.
Neither Monzo nor Mr W responded to my provisional decision within the deadline given. So, 
there isnt anything else for me to consider.
Im satisfied with the findings I reached in my provisional decision and I see no reason to 
deviate from the outcome I explained. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman