DRN-2905823
The complaint
Mr M and Miss M complain that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) gave them incorrect advice, 
and that it didnt settle their claim under the curtailment section of their travel insurance 
policy.
What happened
Mr M holds a travel insurance policy through his bank account, and it covers his partner. The 
insurer is UKI.
Miss M travelled to New Zealand on 8 March 2020. She was due to return on 24 March 2020 
but the return flight was cancelled by the airline. Miss M received a refund from the airline for 
the cancelled flight.
Mr M got in touch with UKI on 27 March 2020 about the cover they held. UKI said that they 
had cover for up to £5,000 under the curtailment section of the policy.
Mr M then spoke to another department on the same day. The agent said that what Mr M 
had been told during the previous call was incorrect  in this situation they were only 
covered up to £250 for travel delay. The limit of £5,000 covered curtailment, so if Miss M had 
returned home early, which didnt happen here. But the agent also said that if Mr M had 
been given incorrect information, UKI would have to honour the higher policy limit.
Mr M and Miss M then booked a return flight for Miss M for 9 April 2020. They made a claim 
to UKI for the additional costs. This included the difference between the new return flight and 
the refund for the cancelled return flight, petrol costs for Mr M picking up Miss M from 
another city (different point of arrival to the original return flight), additional baggage costs 
and for medical costs Miss M incurred while in New Zealand.
UKI said the additional travel expenses Mr M and Miss M were claiming for werent covered 
under the curtailment section. This was because Miss M didnt cut short her trip. So, UKI 
said there was only cover up to £250, which was the limit under the travel delay section of 
the policy. UKI also offered £100 to compensate for the distress and inconvenience caused 
by the incorrect information given.
Mr M and Miss M werent happy with this. They say that had they known they werent 
covered, they may have looked at alternative solutions. This included, for example, waiting 
for repatriation or cheaper flights. And as Miss M was pregnant at the time, Mr M said there 
was also the option of Miss M staying in New Zealand with her family throughout her 
pregnancy.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She didnt think UKI had done anything wrong 
in how it had handled Mr M and Miss Ms claim. But she did say that UKI should pay a total 
of £250 to compensate for the distress and inconvenience caused by the incorrect 
information UKI gave them. UKI agreed to this.
Mr M and Miss M didnt agree with our investigators findings. As no agreement was 
reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules, and 
other industry guidance, into account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of Mr M and Miss Ms complaint. 
Ive looked through the relevant policy terms, and I dont think Mr M and Miss Ms claim is 
covered under the curtailment section of the policy. Fundamentally, this is because Miss M 
didnt cut short her trip  she stayed longer than intended. So, I dont think UKI has done 
anything wrong by saying the claim isnt covered under this section.
But the real issue here is what UKI told Mr M during two phone calls. Ive listened to both of 
those calls, and Ive looked at all the other information available. And its not in dispute that 
UKI gave Mr M incorrect information during both of those calls  that the claim would be 
covered under the curtailment section of the policy, and that if hed been given incorrect 
information about the claim, UKI would honour the higher policy limit.
In this situation, my role is to decide whats more likely to have happened, had UKI not given 
Mr M incorrect information. Having considered everything, I dont think Mr M and Miss M 
booked the return flight they did only because UKI said it would be covered. I think its more 
likely than not that even if UKI had given them correct information, they wouldve still bought 
the flight. Ill explain why.
Mr M explained during the first phone call that they had been trying to find a return flight for 
Miss M for several days but were unable to find one. He also mentioned having a booking for 
a flight but as all domestic flights in New Zealand were stopped, Miss M wasnt able to get to 
the airport where the international flight departed.
I think its clear from both phone calls that Mr M was trying to find Miss M a flight home, even 
before he spoke with UKI. He also explained hed been in touch with embassies and travel 
agents.
I know Mr M has said there was the option of Miss M continuing her pregnancy in New 
Zealand. But when he said this to UKI on the phone, he said this was an option if they 
werent able to find a flight home before a specific week in Miss Ms pregnancy. So, I think 
its more likely that they wouldve chosen to fly Miss M home, as long as there was a flight 
available.
Mr M also asked UKI about medical expenses being covered during both calls to UKI. The 
second agent explained that cover would be extended beyond the usual 31 days until the 
first available flight Miss M could use to return home. And Miss M was able to return on 
9 April 2020.Its clear that UKI gave Mr M and Miss M incorrect information. But I think Mr M and Miss M 
wouldve still bought Miss M the return flight they did, even if UKI had given them correct 
information. This is because Mr M had already been looking for return flights before he 
called UKI (and even reserved one). I also think its unlikely that Mr M and Miss M wouldve 
chosen not to buy a return flight home when UKI had explained that cover would only be 
extended until the first available return flight.
Taking everything into account, I dont think UKI has done anything wrong by not considering 
Mr M and Miss Ms claim under the curtailment section of the policy. That said, I do think UKI 
gave them incorrect information. But its now agreed to pay Mr M and Miss M £250  which 
includes its original offer of £100  to compensate for this. I think this is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of this complaint.
Putting things right
UKI should pay Mr M and Miss M a total of £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr M and Miss Ms complaint in part. I direct U K 
Insurance Limited to put things right in the way that Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Miss M 
to accept or reject my decision before 29 July 2021.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman