DRN-3227983
The complaint
Mrs M complains that British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) has failed to repair or replace her 
boiler under her home emergency policy despite multiple visits. She wants BG to replace the 
boiler.
What happened
Mrs M has been represented by her husband but for convivence I will just refer to Mrs M in 
this decision. 
Mrs M had a policy covering repairs and servicing on her central heating system and boiler. 
BG had undertaken repairs and servicing on the boiler since 2012. Between 22 March and 
23 June 2021, the boiler broke down repeatedly and BG attended 16 times. Mrs M says that 
it only replaced one part over all these visits but didnt fix the boiler. Mrs M complained to BG 
about it not being able to fix the boiler, it apologised and said another engineer was booked 
to visit a few days later. BG says Mrs M was satisfied by this, so it closed the complaint. But 
BG said the boiler couldnt be fixed because parts were no longer available, and it should be 
replaced. 
Mrs M says BG said replacing the boiler would cost £4,500 but said this could be reduced by 
£700. She says BG then said it wouldnt install a boiler for her at all and that shed paid 
another engineer £200 to try to fix the boiler but was still having problems with it.
Mrs M referred her complaint to our service, she said shed been paying around £55 per 
month for the cover but BG couldnt repair the boiler and wouldnt replace it even though the 
policy said it would if it couldnt be fixed.
Our investigator looked into it, but he didnt uphold the complaint. 
He said Mrs Ms boiler was old, having been installed in 2007, with limited parts availability, 
meaning it might not be possible to make repairs. He said BG had advised Mrs M this in the 
renewal invitations sent to her in 2020 and 2021. He said that the policy provided for a 
refund of premiums if repairs couldnt be made. And BG had already done this in repaying 
£220.43 being the premiums paid between March and July 2021. He said this was fair. He 
said the policy did provide for replacement if repair wasnt possible. But only if the boiler was 
less than seven years or possibly ten years old in some situations. As Mrs Ms boiler was 
around 14 years old the policy didnt cover replacement. He said BGs records showed it had 
advised Mrs M that the boiler needed replacing in the summer of 2018 and on several 
occasion since then.
Our investigator said BG had confirmed that the £700 it had offered was a sales discount 
rather than a contribution to a replacement boiler. But when it realised it wasnt able to install 
a boiler for Mrs M due to its location it had paid her £250 as a gesture of goodwill for the 
confusion this had caused, which he said was fair. He said BG had also offered Mrs M £50 
towards buying electric heaters whilst the boiler wasnt working.  Our investigator said BG 
had done what was required under the policy and had treated Mrs M fairly.
Mrs M said shed been paying £55 a month since 2015 but only been given £450 in 
compensation and had needed to take time of work when the engineers visited. She asked 
why BG was selling the cover if parts werent available and that the policy says the boiler will 
be replaced if it cant be fixed.
As Mrs M doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding the complaint. Ill explain why.
I understand that this would have been frustrating for Mrs M and her family, but I dont think 
BG has treated her unfairly. As there are several aspects to her complaint, I will consider 
them in turn.
Repairs 
BGs records show that it had made numerous repairs to the boiler since Mrs M first took the 
cover out in 2012, replacing many parts. It first advised the boiler needed replacement in 
August 2018 and on 13 other occasions afterwards. But it continued to make repairs and 
replace expensive parts after this. 
The renewal documents issued in 2020 and 2021 confirmed that some parts were no longer 
available and that repairs might not be possible as a result:
Important Information  parts availability
Our records show that your boiler is 
Your boilers manufacturer stopped making your particular
model of boiler a while ago. Theyre still making the most
important parts for your boiler, some other parts are becoming
difficult to source
This means we may not be able to fix your boiler if it breaks
down, but well do our best to keep it running for as long as
possible
In the unlikely event we cant fix the boiler, you may be able to
get a refund back dated to when you last had work done, or to
when you renewed your agreement  whichevers the most
recent
The renewals also asked Mrs M to check she was still happy with the cover and advised 
that she might be able to get a better price if you shop around. This gave Mrs M the 
opportunity to check that the policy provided the cover she wanted at a reasonable price. 
And, I think Mrs M had been made aware that it might not always be possible to fix the boiler 
in view of its age and potential problems obtaining parts.  
The policy also says that if repairs cant be made the policy might be cancelled and any 
premiums paid since the last renewal date or claim will be refunded. By refunding the 
premiums between March and July 2021, BG did more than was required under the policy, 
as it had carried out several repairs in this period. So, I think it treated Mrs M fairly here. 
 
Replacement of the boilerI think the policy terms and conditions (T&Cs) are clear in what the policy provides for in 
terms of a replacement boiler:
A replacement for your boiler if we cant repair it and:
-its less than seven years old, or
-its between seven and ten years old, we installed it and its been continuously covered 
by us under either a warranty or Homecare product  
On the evidence I have seen Mrs Ms boiler was too old to be covered for replacement if it 
couldnt be fixed.
The policy doesnt provide for BG to make a financial contribution towards replacing the 
boiler. So, Im satisfied that the £700 offer was a sales discount if Mrs M went ahead and 
purchased a new boiler. When BG subsequently advised it wasnt able to install a boiler in 
Mrs Ms home it paid £250 as compensation for the confusion caused. I think this was fair. 
Time off work for engineers visits
I can see that the multiple visits would be inconvenient, but BGs records show there were 
multiple faults and several visits where no fault was found. The policy says that repairs and 
visits will be carried out within a reasonable time but doesnt otherwise say when 
appointments will be available. 
I think BG made reasonable attempts to repair the boiler and keep it working. Many visits 
were required because it was worn out and needed to be replaced as BG had been advising 
since 2018. That Mrs Ms own engineer couldnt repair the boiler either would appear to 
confirm this.  So, I dont think BG has provided a poor level of service here.
Overall, I dont think BG has done anything wrong and has done more than it needed to 
under the terms of the policy and hasnt treated Mrs M unfairly. So, BG neednt do anything 
further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman