DRN-4344122
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd (C&G) unfairly 
turned down her pet insurance claim.
My references to C&G include its claim and complaint handling agent. 
What happened
In March 2023 Mrs Cs dog was unfortunately injured in a road traffic accident and required 
surgery. Mrs C made a claim to C&G for the vets treatment costs. 
Mrs C explained that it had been a freak accident, where her dog had unexpectedly been 
able to get the front door open having seen a cat on the front wall as well as Mrs Cs children 
outside. Mrs Cs husband had been unable to get hold of the dog, who chased the cat by 
jumping over the garden wall and into the road, where she was sadly hit by a car that was 
exceeding the speed limit. 
C&G turned down Mrs Cs claim, on the basis that she had failed to comply with several 
conditions of its policy. In summary, it said Mrs C had failed to prevent her dog escaping her 
property, she had been unable to control the dog and had not kept the dog in a secure and 
appropriately fenced area to prevent escape.
Mrs C disagreed, saying that it had been a sudden and freak accident. She had called 
C&G before the surgery and had received a positive response about the treatment. She said 
C&G had also changed its reasons for turning down the claim and failed to respond to her 
until she contacted it via social media. She came to us. 
Our Investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. He thought Mrs C had given a clear 
and consistent account of the accident. He concluded that C&G had not shown that it could 
fairly turn down the claim under the policy terms. It had not shown that Mrs C had been 
reckless in failing to prevent her dog from escaping, as required when suggesting a lack of 
reasonable care. Our Investigator recommended that C&G pay the claim (with interest if 
applicable) and pay Mrs C £150 in compensation. 
C&G did not agree with our Investigators conclusions. Ill refer to its arguments below.
We asked Mrs C whether she had taken a loan to repay the vets bill. Although she had been 
in process of doing so, she said that she had not taken the loan out yet. But this was only 
because her vets practice had kindly agreed to put its fees for the accident on hold pending 
the outcome of this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I uphold this complaint. I will explain my reasons. 
In turning down the claim C&G has relied on several of its General Conditions which apply 
to all sections of its policy:
You must provide proper care and attention to Your pet at all times and take all 
reasonable precautions to prevent Accidental Injury or damage, as well as arranging 
and paying for Treatment for Your pet to reduce the likelihood of Illness or Accidental 
Injury.
You must ensure that Your dog is under control at all times, and due care should be 
maintained to prevent Your dog from escaping and causing itself Accidental Injury or 
any other persons or animals. 
You must comply with all laws that relate specifically to Your pet, including but no 
limited to Section 27 of the Road Traffic Act 1988, which states that a dog that is on 
a designated road must be on a collar and lead and under control. 
You must ensure Your pet cannot escape or stray from Your property. 
You must ensure that any area in which Your Pet is kept is secure and appropriately 
fenced or otherwise secured and all reasonable steps must be taken to prevent 
escape.
When loading Your pet into or out of Your vehicle or another persons vehicle, You 
must ensure that the area is either secure or Your pet is on a lead and under Your 
control. 
The policy says Accident Injury Means a sudden, unforeseen, unintended action or event, 
with a specific time and place which results in damage to one or more parts of Your pets 
body.
Although C&G has quoted all the above conditions to Mrs C, I will focus on the specific 
conditions on which it relied in its final response letter and its comments to this service. 
C&G asked Mrs C to provide a statement about what had happened when her dog had 
escaped, to provide a video of her front door and photos of the front of the house. When she 
complained about its initial decision, C&G spoke to her and asked her to go through the 
series of events again. Mrs C also explained what had happened to her dog when she 
complained to this service. Her dog is large and weighs around 40kg. 
C&G said that having reviewed the evidence it was unable to see how Mrs Cs dog could 
have opened the door. Ive also reviewed all the evidence and Mrs Cs accounts of what 
happened. I think she has been clear and consistent in her evidence and I find it persuasive. 
Mrs C explained the inner door (with a turn handle lock) was open and the outer double-
glazed door with a lever handle was closed. The family was going out and her children were 
outside but the dog was not going with them. Her dog could see her children outside and a 
cat on the wall. Having reviewed the evidence, I think Mrs Cs consistent account of what 
happened was plausible in that the dog jumped on the door handle, pushing it down to 
release the door and nudge it open. 
C&G said that when it spoke to Mrs C she said the dog had nudged the door open with her 
nose, which she hadnt mentioned before. I dont consider that in saying this Mrs C was 
being inconsistent or that this contradicted anything shed previously said. 
C&G said that Mrs C (and her husband) had not been able to control the dog, contrary to its 
conditions and there was an opportunity to prevent escape. But I dont consider this to be a 
fair assessment of the situation. Mrs C says that she had lived in the house for two years 
and her dog had never attempted to open the front door by jumping up. I dont think that 
failing to hold on to the dog unexpectedly running out of the door reasonably means that 
Mrs C had failed to keep the dog under control or to prevent escape. C&G has commented on the height of the wall in the front garden, which the dog was able to 
jump over in pursuit of the cat. It refers to its policy terms stating that she must ensure the 
pet is kept in a secure and appropriately fenced area and take due care to prevent escape. 
Ive considered C&Gs comments. C&G has not defined in its policy what it means by due 
care, proper care and attention or all reasonable steps. As our Investigator has 
explained, the test we use is set out in the leading legal case on reasonable care  Sofi v 
Prudential Assurance (1993) 2 Lloyds rep. 559. For C&G reasonably to be able to turn down 
the claim on the basis that Mrs C failed to take reasonable care, it needs to show she acted 
in a way which amounted to recklessness. That means that C&G needs to show that Mrs C 
recognised a risk but took it anyway by taking measures she knew to be inadequate or no 
measures at all.
C&G says that Mrs C would have been aware of the risk of her front garden not being 
adequately fenced and did not adequately secure her garden, especially given the direct 
access to a road. As such, the incident had been foreseeable. It said Mrs C had believed her 
garden to be secure, but her dog had been able to clear the front wall with ease. 
But Mrs C had not kept her dog in the front garden, but rather the dog had unexpectedly 
been able to open the front door. The dog was running through the garden rather than 
escaping from the garden. I dont accept that C&G has shown that Mrs C acted in a way that 
amounted to recklessness.
I consider that what happened was a freak accident and one which Mrs C reasonably 
expected her policy would cover. In my view, C&G did not fairly decline the claim in 
circumstances where I think Mrs C showed that her dogs accidental injury was a sudden, 
unforeseen, unintended action or event, with a specific time and place which results in 
damage to one or more parts of Your pets body.
It follows that I find that C&G should pay the claim, subject to the policy limit and any 
applicable excess. Mrs C has confirmed that she has not been required to pay her vets fees, 
because the vets practice has kindly put her account on hold. As the vets fees account is 
on hold, and she has not borrowed any money to pay the bill, I do not make any additional 
award for interest. 
I consider C&Gs handling of the claim and its unfair claims decision caused Mrs C some 
material inconvenience and distress at an already difficult time. I consider £150 
compensation to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Putting things right
Within 28 days of the date on which we send it Mrs Cs acceptance of this Final Decision, 
I require Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd to:
Pay Mrs Cs claim for her dogs accidental injury subject to the policy limit and any 
applicable excess; and 
Pay Mrs C £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Casualty & General Insurance 
Company (Europe) Ltd to take the steps set out in the Putting things right section above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2023.
 
Amanda Maycock
Ombudsman