DRN-4002993
The complaint
Mrs W has complained about the way Entertainment Magpie Limited trading as Music 
Magpie dealt with a hire agreement she tells us was fraudulently taken out in her name. 
What happened
Mrs W tells us she noticed a credit search was carried out in her name in July 2022 and a 
phone was delivered to her from Music Magpie. She says she didnt order the phone  the 
agreement was set up fraudulently. Mrs W tells us she contacted Music Magpie by email and 
web form but didnt receive a response. Mrs W didnt open the phone packaging. She says 
she raised the fraud with the credit reference agencies and action fraud. 
Music Magpie wrote to Mrs W because rental payments werent being received towards the 
hire agreement. Mrs W says she spoke to Music Magpie in September 2022 to complain, 
and she was waiting for it to send her a return label. 
From what I can see, Music Magpie started to look into things in more detail for Mrs W in 
November 2022. It said its customer service team processed the matter and handled it 
incorrectly. And it corresponded with Mrs W over the next few days. Mrs W wanted Music 
Magpie to collect the phone from her and provide a complaint reference number. And she 
wanted it to give her details of who was set up as the borrower on the agreement. Music 
Magpie didnt want to disclose the payment details because Mrs W had said she wasnt the 
person who took out the agreement. Mrs W wasnt happy with Music Magpies explanation 
so raised a Subject Access Request (SAR). She wanted to make sure shed not been 
impacted in any other way. 
In summary, Mrs W complained:
Music Magpie completed a credit search without consent. 
Music Magpie fraudulently held the agreement in her name. 
Due diligence wasnt completed for a known scam. 
The email and telephone number on the application werent correct.
Music Magpie didnt respond to the complaint properly.
The return slip didnt work  she had to go to the post office to return the phone. 
The debt would remain in her name until the phone was returned. 
It had a financial impact, and it affected her credit file. 
The debt was passed to a debt collector. 
It caused distress and inconvenience. 
Another creditor reduced her credit limit from over £10,000 to £100 due to this issue. 
Mrs W sent the phone back in December 2022. The debt collector closed the account. And a 
few days later Music Magpie wrote to the credit reference agencies to remove the account 
from Mrs Ws credit file. It also responded to the SAR. 
Our investigator looked into things and thought Music Magpie ought to have handled things 
better. She didnt think Music Magpie handled things within a reasonable amount of time. But 
she didnt think there was sufficient evidence to demonstrate Mrs Ws credit limit had been 
changed solely as a result of something Music Magpie did wrong. And she didnt think there 
was sufficient evidence to recommend it pay Mrs W compensation for the impact on a 
mortgage application because there are multiple factors for lenders to consider. But she 
recommended Music Magpie pay Mrs W £200 compensation. 
Mrs W didnt think £200 went far enough to put things right. She provided further evidence 
from the creditor that reduced her credit limit. She gave details of the impact of having the 
credit limit reduced so dramatically had on her. She said she didnt owe anything on the 
credit card, but she had plans to use it in order to help a family member who was very 
unwell. She also told us the credit card company wouldnt consider increasing the credit limit 
for six months. 
Our investigator considered Mrs Ws extra points. She explained shed set out that creditors 
can change credit limits for a number of reasons. But she thought the compensation should 
be increased due to the impact on Mrs W. She thought the impact of what went wrong had 
been greater than it mightve been for another customer. And the delays and worry were 
heightened for Mrs W. So she recommended the compensation be increased to £350. 
Mrs W didnt agree. She said it was clear her credit limit was decreased as a result of Music 
Magpies actions. She says she shouldnt have lost a mortgage and credit facility as a result 
of fraud. She had to borrow money from friends and family and that everything could have 
been avoided had Music Magpie taken action promptly. She thinks £350 isnt sufficient and 
that Music Magpie is getting away lightly.  
Music Magpie accepted the investigators view but responded to say it told Mrs W to return 
the parcel to the sender when she initially got in touch. It also said Mrs W didnt use the 
return label it provided. It said it responded to the complaint raised in November 2022 within 
a reasonable amount of time and removed all record of the agreement once it received the 
goods back. 
As things couldnt be resolved, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I first want to say Im sorry to hear Mrs W has an unwell family member. And I thank Mrs W 
for taking the time to bring her complaint to our service. 
I also want to acknowledge that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend 
any discourtesy by this  it just reflects the informal nature of our service. Im required to 
decide matters quickly and with minimum formality. But I want to assure Mrs W and Music 
Magpie that Ive reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment on something, its not 
because I havent considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on what I think are the key 
issues. Our powers allow me to do this. 
Music Magpie sought rental payments from Mrs W under a regulated consumer hire 
agreement, and our service is able to consider complaints relating to these sorts of 
scenarios. 
I imagine Mrs W was very concerned to have found out about the fraud. It must have been 
worrying for her. I can understand why she would have wanted matters resolved quickly and 
any delays or failings in customer service from Music Magpie would have added to the 
stress. Music Magpie has accepted Mrs W didnt take out the agreement. And it agreed to remove 
all record of the agreement from her credit file once it received the phone. It looks like an 
applicant knew enough of Mrs Ws personal details to take out the agreement and Music 
Magpie thought it was a genuine application. I havent seen something to indicate Music 
Magpie acted unfairly by opening the account. Its fortunate that Mrs W spotted something 
was wrong and kept possession of the phone. I also dont think it was unfair of Music Magpie 
to not provide payment details for an account Mrs W told it was set up fraudulently. But I can 
understand why Mrs W wanted to make sure the fraud hadnt affected her in another way. 
Mrs W tells us she complained to Music Magpie by email and web form when she noticed 
the credit search and received the phone. But it wasnt until the phone was returned in 
December 2022 that Music Magpie agreed to remove record of the agreement on Mrs Ws 
credit file. This was a few months later. So I can understand why Mrs W was unhappy it took 
so long to resolve. Ive thought about the impact on her. 
Music Magpie has agreed to pay £350 compensation for the way things were handled. It 
also acknowledged things didnt go as they should have done. What I need to decide is if it 
needs to do more to resolve things for Mrs W. 
I think Music Magpie ought to have dealt with things better, and sooner than it did. Mrs W let 
it know about the problem straight away. It said it told her to return the phone to the sender, 
but Mrs W hasnt agreed this is what happened, and Ive not seen any evidence to back that 
up, such as notes, calls or correspondence. I also cant see why Mrs W wouldnt have sent 
the phone back straight away if thats what she was instructed to do by Music Magpie. Ive 
also not seen Music Magpie took steps to follow up on what it was told, for example by 
making a follow up call to Mrs W to check if things had been resolved. 
When Music Magpie did start to look into things in more detail it wanted Mrs W to send the 
phone back before it would remove the agreement from her credit file. And by this point it 
had also referred the agreement to debt collectors and recorded missed rental payments on 
Mrs Ws credit file. It should have been a simple matter for Music Magpie to help Mrs W get 
things resolved within a few days. I think Music Magpie ought to have been more proactive 
in providing support to Mrs W. Leaving things and having missed rental payments recorded 
would naturally likely cause further problems. Mrs W was no doubt worried about the fraud 
and frustrated Music Magpie werent responding to her promptly. Shes had correspondence 
not responded to. She had to repeat herself. And she tells us she had to go out of her way to 
send the phone back. While the problem stemmed from the fraudster, in this particular case, 
I think its fair Music Magpie pay something to Mrs W to recognise the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
Moreover, Mrs W has said the missed rental payments on her credit file affected her in other 
ways. She says it impacted her decision to make a mortgage application. And she says it 
directly led to a reduction in the credit limit on her credit card. This had a knock-on effect on 
Mrs Ws plans. So she wants this taken into account when I decide what Music Magpie 
needs to do to put things right. 
When considering the impact of a business mistake there are various things I need to think 
about. So in this case, Id need to think about whether Mrs W did what she could to minimise 
the impact of Music Magpies mistake. I also need to think about whether the impact of the 
mistake was reasonably foreseeable for Music Magpie. And whether any losses Mrs W 
incurred were directly flowing from a mistake it had made. 
In this case, Ive not seen sufficient evidence of the impact of the mistake on Mrs Ws 
mortgage application. Mrs W tells us she was told verbally by a broker that they were 
unwilling to proceed with an application with these issues outstanding. As I said above, wed expect to see Mrs W had taken steps to mitigate the impact of the problem. But without any 
sort of application having been made, its difficult to know what mightve happened had she 
done so. I do have to be mindful that mortgage lenders take in to account a whole range of 
considerations before deciding to lend. And I also have to bear in mind that she mightve 
been able to tell the potential lender there was incorrect information on her credit file. 
I also appreciate Mrs W has said the negative information on her credit file impacted her 
ability to complete works on her house, which also had a knock-on effect. Shes explained 
that her personal situation wasnt known to Music Magpie. And I can understand why she 
didnt want to explain everything to it. But I also have to consider that Music Magpie may not 
have been able to reasonably foresee all the issues Mrs W mentioned if it wasnt aware of 
them. 
Ive finally thought about the reduction in Mrs Ws credit limit on her credit card. While we 
dont know the exact reason for this. I take on board Mrs Ws comments that the creditor told 
her it was due to behaviour with another lender. Ive not seen all of Mrs Ws credit file but, on 
balance, I think its fair to assume that the reduction was linked to the negative information 
recorded by Music Magpie. However, like our investigator pointed out, I cant direct Music 
Magpie to do something about a credit limit with another financial services provider. And if 
Mrs W thinks that creditor is treating her unfairly given the circumstances, she might want to 
take it up with that creditor in the first instance. If shes unhappy with its response, it might be 
something our service is able to consider. I have, however, considered the overall impact on 
Mrs W.
All things considered, I take on board what Music Magpie seems to be implying in that 
Mrs W could have sent the phone back sooner which would have resolved things. And that I 
dont think I can fairly direct it to pay compensation for the impact on Mrs W not reasonably 
foreseeable for it, or directly flowing from its mistake. But on the other hand, I dont think its 
in dispute it should have handled things better. I think it should have done more to follow up 
on Mrs Ws initial contact. Had it done so, I dont think it should have taken so long to 
resolve. And its likely a lot of what went wrong with regards to the impact as a result of the 
missed rental payments being recorded could have been avoided. 
Ive thought about the impact on Mrs W, and what I can fairly award. While I understand why 
shes unhappy, broadly, I think the £350 compensation is fair in all the circumstances of the 
complaint. I think it recognises the mistake has caused considerable distress and worry. And 
that its taken more effort that it should have done for Mrs W to sort out. It also recognises 
the impact has lasted for a few months. I dont find I have the grounds to direct Music 
Magpie to pay more. My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Entertainment Magpie Limited 
trading as Music Magpie to pay Mrs W £350. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman