DRN-3834235
The complaint
Mr A complains about delays by Vanguard Asset Management, Ltd (Vanguard) in dealing 
with a transfer of funds to Mr As Vanguard SIPP (self invested personal pension). Mr A says 
the delays meant he was unable to invest as hed planned and he suffered a financial loss.
What happened
I dont think theres much dispute about what happened. Mr A contacted Vanguard about 
transferring the proceeds of his pension policy with Close Asset Management (CAM) to his 
Vanguard SIPP in February 2022. He wanted the transfer value invested over three selected 
funds. Vanguard told Mr A that, as the funds he was invested in with CAM werent Vanguard 
funds, theyd need to be sold and converted to cash and then transferred. The transfer was 
to be done via the Origo system  an online process aimed at streamlining transfers and 
reducing the time a transfer takes.   
Later, on 7 March 2022, Mr A told Vanguard he didnt want to go ahead with the transfer at 
that time. He said he was temporarily holding off liquidating his CAM portfolio due to market 
volatility. Vanguard cancelled the transfer.  
Mr A made a new transfer request online on 28 March 2022. A paper request was required 
and submitted on 1 April 2022. Mr A queried that on 6 April 2022 given that CAM could 
accept Origo transfers. Vanguard acknowledged that on 6 April 2022 but didnt follow it up 
until 18 April 2022. 
Vanguard received the transfer value from CAM on 16 May 2022. Vanguard confirmed to Mr 
A on 19 May 2022 that the transfer value of £43,626.31 had been received. Vanguard said, if 
Mr A hadnt provided investment instructions for the transfer, he might wish to do that by 
accessing his account online. 
But Mr A didnt actually make any investments at that stage. I understand that was because 
he was unhappy with the then pricing of the funds he wanted to invest in. He didnt invest the 
transfer proceeds until mid June 2022. The funds he selected then werent exactly the same 
as those hed chosen in February 2022. And not all of the transfer value was invested. Out of 
£43,626.31 transferred, £37,451.50 was invested. That left a balance of £6,174.81 which 
wasnt invested until 3 October 2022, along with an additional £1,280.66. 
Mr A had, on 19 May 2022, complained to Vanguard about the time taken. Vanguard said 
the transfer request wasnt submitted via Origo within the expected timeframe which had 
contributed nine working days to the delay in completing the transfer. Mr A had also had to 
chase for updates. But the transfer had been completed on 19 May 2022 which was 59 
business days. Vanguard said it would make a payment of £50 to Mr A for the trouble and 
upset caused.
 
Mr A didnt accept that. Vanguard reviewed Mr As further comments but Vanguard didnt 
change its view.  
Mr A referred his complaint to us. He said the (cash) transfer had eventually been completed 
on 19 May 2020 with Vanguard confirming receipt into his Vanguard account on 20 May 
2022. Mr A said hed been in constant contact with Vanguard to ensure he wasnt out of the 
market for any length of time. The financial markets were very volatile due to world events 
and he wanted the money to be available for immediate investment. 
Mr A said hed suffered estimated losses of between £700 and £900. That was based on the 
pricing of the funds on Friday 20 May 2022, when his funds were available to invest, some 
days after Vanguard had received them. Mr A said no explanation had been given as to 
where his funds had been in Vanguards systems in the intervening days. Hed postponed 
the trades until mid June 2022 when investment opportunities arose again at something like 
his researched pricing preferences. 
Our investigator issued his view on 14 October 2022. He said Vanguard had taken steps to 
manage Mr As expectations  Vanguard had said this type of transfer could take up to eight 
to ten weeks. The transfer hadnt taken that long but the investigator thought parts of the 
process couldve been completed quicker. And Vanguard had acknowledged some delays. 
The investigator said Vanguard shouldnt have initiated the transfer on paper  the first 
(aborted) transfer was to be completed via Origo and the follow up transfer shouldve been 
the same. 
The investigator said thered been delays totalling twelve working days, which included three 
days because the funds had unmatched expectations (meaning that Vanguard didnt hold 
instructions as to how Mr A wanted to invest) which had to be resolved before the 
transferred funds could be invested. Without the delays, Vanguard wouldve received the 
transferred funds on 3 May 2022. 
The investigator said Vanguard should calculate the value Mr A wouldve received had the 
funds arrived on 3 May 2022. Mr As loss (if any) should be calculated by obtaining the 
notional value of the transfer from CAM had it been received and applied to Mr As Vanguard 
SIPP on 3 May 2022 and subtracting the current value of the pension from this notional 
value. The investigator set out how any compensation due should be paid. He also said 
Vanguard should pay a higher amount - £100  for the distress and inconvenience Mr A had 
suffered. 
Vanguard agreed to undertake a loss calculation as suggested by the investigator. It didnt 
show that Mr A had suffered any financial loss.
But the investigator then thought again about the loss assessment. On reflection he didnt 
think backdating the transfer was the right outcome. He thought it was more about whether 
Mr A had suffered any investment losses. The investigator suggested a revised approach. 
He asked Vanguard, on the basis the transfer shouldve taken place on 3 May 2022, to carry 
out a loss assessment using Mr As expectation funds on the earliest possible date within 
Vanguard's service level agreement and for this to be compared with Mr As eventual 
investments. If there was a loss it should be unwound  so as if the investments had been 
made on that earlier date.
Vanguard pointed out that thered been no expectation funds set for the second transfer. 
And Mr A had chosen different funds. For the earlier cancelled transfer hed wanted to invest 
a total of £32,600 across three funds (two LifeStrategy funds and a FTSE 250 UCITS 
(Undertakings for Collective Investment in Transferable Securities) ETF (Electronically 
Traded) fund. Mr As investment instructions in June 2022 were different. Hed invested a 
total of £37,451.50 (out of the £43,626.31 transferred) over several funds, only one of which 
(the FTSE 250 UCITS EFT fund) had been selected originally. As noted above, the balance of £6,174.81 plus an additional £1,280.66 was invested on 3 October 2022 across three of 
the funds. 
The investigator asked Mr A why hed selected different funds. Mr A said that global events 
and their effects on the financial markets during the period of delay had led him to revise his 
investment strategy, particularly as to Vanguards lifestyle funds which were mixed equity 
and bonds. Mr A said the latter had been decimated with better value elsewhere. 
The investigator thought it was understandable that Mr A had waited until June 2022 to 
commit to investing and when he felt hed been disadvantaged by the timing of the transfer 
from CAM. The investigator explained that to Vanguard and asked Vanguard to complete a 
revised loss assessment based on the earliest available investment date after the 
transferred funds should've been received (3 May 2022) against the number of units 
purchased in Mr A's chosen funds on 17 June 2022. The investigator didnt include the 
October 2022 investments as he considered sufficient time had passed since the transfer 
and additional funds had been added. 
Vanguard did the calculation as requested but it didnt show that Mr A had suffered any 
financial loss as a result of any delay between 3 May 2022 and 17 June 2022 in investing in 
his chosen funds. The investigator shared the calculations with Mr A.
Mr A said hed never fully followed why May dates were being used when all along hed 
complained about the internal delay once Vanguard had received his funds from CAM. He 
didnt think Vanguard had adequately addressed the issue of it taking so many days to credit 
Mr As internal account in order to put him in a position to execute trades into his selected 
funds. He queried who was using his money during that delay. He said it took minutes to 
electronically transfer funds of over £40,000 from CAM to Vanguard but it then took 
Vanguard more than five working days to allow him to use them. During which period the 
prices of his chosen funds had increased based on a general market recovery and which 
was the quantification of his loss. He said what hed suspected would happen had happened 
 that Vanguard had selected criteria to suit themselves. 
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the approach taken by the investigator which Vanguard has 
accepted. Although there was delay on Vanguards part in dealing with Mr As transfer, from 
what Ive seen, I dont think Mr A suffered any financial loss in consequence. 
Looking first at the aborted transfer, Im not sure if theres any suggestion that Vanguard 
delayed in dealing with that transfer request which Mr A made on 22 February 2022. But, in 
any event, it seems Mr A had second thoughts about the timing of the transfer, given global 
events and which had led to volatility in the financial markets. Mr A decided not to go ahead 
at that stage. That was his decision. Vanguard isnt responsible for the original transfer not 
proceeding.   
Mr A instructed the second transfer on 28 March 2022 and it was completed on 16 May 
2022. Although thats within the eight to ten weeks timeframe which Vanguard had indicated 
for a cash (not in specie) transfer, Vanguard accepts there was a delay on its part. That 
arose because a paper transfer request was made, whereas the original request was to be 
processed via the Origo system. Mr A had queried why a paper transfer request had to be made but Vanguard failed to pick up on that which Vanguard accepts resulted in a delay of 
some nine working days. 
The investigator also said it seemed switching from Origo to a paper transfer meant that the 
funds when they arrived on 16 May 2022 had unmatched expectations and there was a 
further delay before the issue was solved. Im not entirely clear if that was down to not using 
the Origo system. Mr A had given investment instructions for the original transfer in February 
2022 but that transfer was cancelled. Even if the second transfer had proceeded via Origo, I 
think Mr A wouldve still need to give new, up to date, investment instructions. But as 
Vanguard hasnt raised the point and given the overall outcome, I havent looked into that 
issue further.   
Where a business accepts that it hasnt handled things as well as it shouldve done, our 
approach is to try to put the consumer in the position theyd be in, had the business dealt 
with the matter as it shouldve done. Thats the situation here  Vanguard accepts there 
were delays on its part. So any compensation will be based on what Mr As financial position 
wouldve been, but for Vanguards delays. 
Vanguard has undertaken two loss calculations using different funds but both based on what 
Mr As comparable position wouldve been if the transfer value (or most of it) had been 
invested on 3 May 2022. I think thats fair and reasonable and consistent with our usual 
approach. Neither calculation shows that Mr A has suffered a loss. 
I know Mr A remains unhappy. Mr A told the investigator on 12 October 2022 that, had the 
funds been in his Vanguard account on 16 May 2022, hed be in a better position (by some 
£700 to £900) than when he did eventually invest in mid June 2022. It seems Mr As 
dissatisfaction centres not so much on the time taken for the funds to reach Vanguard but 
that, once the money reached Vanguard, it wasnt available investment until some days 
later. 
I note all Mr A has said about how quickly funds can be transferred electronically and it being 
unclear where his funds where during the intervening period and who was using them. I 
accept what Mr A says and that, if 16 May 2022 is the applicable date, hes suffered the 
losses hes pointed to. But I dont agree that 16 May 2022 is the appropriate comparator 
date. It ignores the earlier (nine days) delay. The investigator worked out, taking into account 
that delay, Mr As funds shouldve been with Vanguard on 3 May 2022 and thats the date 
Vanguard has used for the calculations. I think thats the right date. It puts Mr A in the 
position hed be in, had there been no delays on Vanguards part. 
I think the distress and inconvenience payment is fair and reasonable too. I understand that 
Mr A was somewhat surprised that the payment was made without prior warning. I agree a 
courtesy email might have been helpful but I think the main point is that Vanguard was 
looking to put things right without delay. I think the sum paid is in line with what wed award 
for trouble and upset in a situation such as this. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. Vanguard Asset Management, Ltd should pay Mr A £100 for distress 
and inconvenience suffered as a result of delay by Vanguard Asset Management, Ltd in 
dealing with Mr As transfer. 
For the avoidance of doubt the £100 isnt in addition to any sum thats already been paid. So 
if that sum has already been paid to Mr A and hasnt been returned by him no further 
payment is due.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman