DRN-2292418
The complaint
Mr B complains about how Allianz Insurance Plcs dealt with his claim against his motor 
trader insurance policy.
Mr B has been represented for the claim and complaint by his wife Mrs B. For simplicity Ive 
referred to the actions of the representative as being those of Mr B.
What happened
In July 2019 Mr B made a claim on his Allianz motor trader policy. He said a motorhome at 
his premises had been damaged in a break in. Various interior parts had been stolen. The 
motorhome is registered in the name of Mr Bs wife  the representative for the claim and 
complaint. 
Mr B is unhappy Allianz hasnt yet settled the claim. Allianz says Mr B has failed to 
adequately cooperate with it. It says there are inconsistencies in the claim, has concerns 
over its legitimacy and isnt satisfied with the information Mr B has provided. The motorhome 
is registered as a category S write off. Because of that Allianz says it wants to see 
information to understand its condition at the time of purchase and at the time of the break 
in. It also says it hasnt seen enough to confirm ownership.
Mr B has also complained about the service provided by Allianz  including conduct of its 
engineer and one of its staff not following verification procedures for a phone call.  Allianz 
offered £50 compensation in relation to its engineer. And it apologised for its staff member 
failing to ensure they were speaking to the correct person. 
Our investigator felt the information Allianz wanted to see before settling the claim was 
reasonable. He didnt agree with Mr B that it had caused any unnecessary delay or asked for 
irrelevant information. So he didnt recommend Allianz do anything differently or pay any 
compensation. Mr B didnt accept that, so the complaint has come to me.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint. 
Allianz has explained why it hasnt settled the claim. Its says the policy requires him, in the 
event of damage to property, to provide proof and information about the claim as may be 
reasonably required. 
It feels Mr B has failed to provide information its reasonably asked for. This includes 
evidence to support the ownership of the vehicle and purchase price. It feels there are many 
inconstancies around the claim that havent been answered.
Allianz has highlighted that the vehicle was listed as a Category S not long before it was 
purchased. This category is for when a vehicle is structurally damaged but repairable. It says 
it hasnt been provided with any proof of its condition at sale  including its interior. It adds 
that it hasnt been shown what work has been carried out since purchase. And when it 
inspected the vehicle it was unable to access the vehicle fully  so it couldnt get an 
understanding of what repairs had happened since the Category S was applied. 
I accept Mr B has provided various information  including the vehicles registration 
documents, photos and a statement of what happened. But despite that I can understand 
why Allianz feels it doesnt have enough information yet. Its reasonable for it to want to 
understand the condition of the vehicle immediately before the loss claimed for. Otherwise it 
cant properly understand what damage was caused in the incident claimed for or whats 
required to put it right. So I cant say Allianz has acted unfairly or unreasonably by not paying 
the claim so far. 
Mr B has said that its not reasonable for Allianz to ask him to provide certain information as 
its not his motorhome. I accept it doesnt belong to him. But hes making a claim, against his 
policy, so I cant say its unfair that hes been to ask to show its payable. 
Mr B has raised various customer service issues. These include an unsatisfactory encounter 
with Allianzs engineer. Allianz paid £50 to recognise any inconvenience caused. I think 
thats a fair amount for that incident. Overall, I havent seen enough to make me think Allianz 
provided such a poor service that it should pay any extra compensation to Mr B. Your text 
here.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2021.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman