DRN-3839319
The complaint
Mr G has complained to Haven Insurance Company Limited (Haven) about the poor 
handling of a repairs claim he made on his Taxi Short Term insurance policy. 
What happened
Following an accident in September 2021 Mr G used the repair plus section of his taxi 
insurance policy to get his car repaired and back on the road. 
When Mr Gs vehicle was returned, he says the repairs hadnt been completed to the correct 
standard. Haven had an independent engineer review the repairs, and following a review of 
the report provided, Haven advised the vehicle would be booked in for rectification works. 
Haven advised that it would guarantee the repairs and told Mr his original warranty should 
not be affected. He was told he would receive a courtesy car when the rectification works 
were being carried out. 
However, Mr G waited six months, and nothing happened. During this time he did continue 
to use the car, as he had to work, but there were ongoing problems. He tried to engage with 
Haven but no appointment to return the car was ever made. 
As nothing had happened Mr G referred the complaint to this service. An investigator looked 
at the complaint and recommended that Haven complete the rectification work in a fair and 
reasonable timeframe and pay £250 in compensation for the inconvenience it had caused. 
Mr G doesnt think £250 is enough for the distress and inconvenience hes suffered so the 
complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it. Ill explain why.
Following our investigators view on this complaint, the original motor assessors that 
examined the car completed a further review and provided an updated report. So, this 
means new information is now available. This report confirmed that some of the issues had 
been rectified, and it recommended some further scrutiny of the issues around the offside 
front door. However, the motor assessors have identified some serious issues around the 
area of impact, the offside rear quarter panel. Theyve said the rear bumper is not aligned, 
and the quarter panel seems to be the incorrect shape in a number of places. Its pinpointed 
a number of dents and scratches, and they say the paint work is poor and has dirt in it. 
Further to this report we spoke to both Haven and Mr G. I advised Haven that in light of what 
the report said I was inclined to stick to the recommendations set out by the investigator. 
These are:
rectification work needs to be completed and needs to take place in a fair and 
reasonable timeframe. (I note that when speaking to Haven it indicated that it was 
currently reviewing the new report and it was now exploring having rectification works 
carried out by a manufacturing dealership).
a courtesy car is to be made available to Mr G throughout the repair process.
But I said that the engineers report has brought to light some serious issues with the original 
repair so I explained to Haven that our recommendation for compensation would now 
increase, given the further time delays and inconvenience this further rectification work 
would now take, and given the delays Mr G has endured up to this point.
So, having looked at everything on file Ive indicated to both parties that in addition to ding 
everything Ive set out above, Im recommending that Haven pays Mr G £500 in 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes suffered for the reasons Ive set out 
above.
I also note that Mr G has raised a concern about the effect of this repair work on his 
manufacturers warranty. I would suggest that Mr G raises this directly with his vehicle 
manufacturer. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Haven Insurance Company Limited
to:
complete the vehicle rectification work as set out above.
provide a courtesy car to Mr G throughout the repair process.
Pay £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused by poor repairs and ongoing 
delays.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman