DRN-4508500
The complaint
Mr F has complained about his car insurer AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited. He 
thinks its overlooked damage caused to his cars engine when another car rolled into his car 
from the rear.
What happened
Mr Fs car was parked when another car, left without a handbrake fully on, rolled down an 
incline and into the rear bumper of Mr Fs car. The bumper suffered cosmetic damage and 
AA took the car for repair. Mr F told AA he felt the engine of his car had been affected too. 
He said when the cars had been found, hed started his car to move it forward and the 
engine was making a distinct rumbling noise which it hadnt done before the accident. This 
was later identified as being caused by the alternator. AA wasnt minded to accept that the 
engine, situated at the front of the car, had been affected by what it thought had been a 
relatively light impact to the cars rear bumper. 
Mr F was unhappy. Both he and AA obtained expert reports on the issue. After a month with 
the car being out of use on account of the alternator, Mr F had the car fixed. AA had told 
Mr F that it felt its service had been poor, it offered £150 compensation in that respect. Mr F 
complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. He said AA was responsible for the cost 
of the repair hed undertaken and it hadnt kept promises to call him back.
Our Investigator noted that one expert report recommended that AA take responsibility for 
the engine issue. She also felt Mr Fs testimony was convincing such that she was 
persuaded the engine issue had likely been caused by the accident. AA objected, drawing 
our Investigators attention to another report, with Mr F doing similar with a report he felt was 
in his favour. Our Investigator felt AAs report was more persuasive, so she told both parties 
she no longer felt the complaint should be upheld. 
Mr F said he was unhappy. The complaint was referred for an Ombudsmans consideration.
I felt AAs answer to Mr Fs repair concerns was fair and reasonable. But also that the parties 
deserved to receive a fuller explanation as to why that was. So I issued a provisional 
decision to share my views with both parties. My provisional findings were:
As I understand it Mr Fs car was knocked into from behind by a car which had rolled down 
a short incline due to its handbrake not being fully engaged. So Mr Fs car wasnt subject to 
a high speed impact, and the car which collided was not moving at speed or with force. Ive 
seen an image taken after the accident, before Mr Fs car was moved, which shows the rear 
bumper of Mr Fs car is just in contact with the front bumper of the other car. The rear of 
Mr Fs car, including the bumper itself, was not crushed, crumpled or substantially damaged 
by the impact. I can see why AAs garage, initially without reference to an engineer, and 
even without fully understanding the cause of the noise, felt the engine noise was unlikely to 
have been caused by the accident.
I bear in mind that a bumper is fitted to a car, in part, to absorb impact and protect the rest of 
the car from damage. Knowing that, and understanding the above details about the nature of 
the accident, Im not persuaded it makes logical sense to think a part of the engine, at the 
front of Mr Fs car, was damaged by the rear impact. Im conscious that the part in question 
is the alternator. This was seemingly diagnosed by a manufacturer garage. Ive not seen a 
report from the garage but Mr F says the manufacturer said they thought the accident was 
unlikely to have damaged the alternator. Even though Ive not seen a report, I can 
understand that view. The alternator is part of the cars electrical charging system, 
responsible for providing power to the electrical systems of the car. So, again, it doesnt 
seem to be a part that might be thought logically to have suffered damage in this type of 
accident  for example, it might make sense for a stationary, parked car, forced into 
movement, to suffer damage to its handbrake. Even then though, I think the impact forces 
involved would have to be quite substantial. 
I dont doubt Mr Fs report that this problem was only noticeable for the first time immediately 
after the impact. But neither that nor the video footage provided of the car in use before and 
after the impact, shows that the impact caused the problem. And coincidental damage does 
sometimes occur. So what is really important for me in considering this complaint is the 
available expert evidence. Considering expert detail like that will help me determine if its 
most likely that AAs answer has been fairly and reasonably given.
The first report, Ill refer to as T1, was compiled in June 2023. It concluded in favour of Mr F. 
Seemingly though, AA wasnt happy with the report and asked the engineer to review their 
findings. A report T2 was then released about a week later. I can see Mr Fs frustration in 
this respect. To him it must have felt like AA was just searching for an answer that suited it. 
But, from my removed perspective, I can understand why AA didnt find T1 compelling and 
asked for it to be revised. 
The engineer in T1 was, in my view, somewhat unclear in his report. He noted the alternator 
issue and said it was extremely hard to tell if this was caused by the accident. He then 
went on to say: I assume given evidence I had that it was the parts as stated it is an easy 
part to rectify to irrigate the noise. Now that sentence in and of itself makes little sense. The 
only conclusion which can be drawn from it I think is the engineer thinks AA should take 
liability for this issue because it could be easily rectified. The engineer had been instructed 
with a view to determining whether or not the accident had most likely caused the problem  
but he didnt do that. Which means his report was incomplete. I note when AA asked for the 
report to be revised it was on the basis that the engineer offer his view in that respect.
Ive considered T2. The engineers comments are much clearer. The engineer says: its 
extremely hard to tell if the noise has occurred from the incident or not and I cannot 
categorically state whether this is related or not. However, on the bases of probability, a 
rear-end impact of this severity would not have caused the issue as described. In this case, 
I believe the issue, is coincidental not circumstance to the incident.
AA also sought a further engineers opinion in August 2023. Ill refer to this report as A1. The 
engineer in A1 says the report is made based on an understanding of Mr Fs car having 
sustained a light to moderate impact. The engineer states: we would advise this would not 
be related to the damage sustained to the rear of the vehicle and feel this is coincidence this 
part has failed. Due to the mileage covered by the vehicle and age of the vehicle we would 
advise this is down to wear and tear. 
I see that all three of these reports take into account the accident circumstances. I note that 
none of them concludes the accident likely caused the damage. With T2 and A1 both 
concluding its most unlikely that the impact/accident caused the damage.  
I know that Mr F then, in September 2023, obtained a report from his local garage. Ill refer to 
it as U1. In considering U1, I bear in mind that it does not seem to have been compiled by a motor engineer. Its not signed but, given its content it seems to have been put together by 
either a member of the service team or a mechanic. I must note that in considering 
complaints about what is most likely to have caused damage, the Financial Ombudsman 
Service usually finds reports from engineers to carry the most weight. That is because they 
are usually considered to be the most appropriately qualified persons, when compared to a 
mechanic or service team member, to offer views on that issue.
The author of U1 explains the garage has worked on Mr Fs car before. The author 
references viewing footage provided by Mr F  but does not explain what that footage 
shows. Having stated those two facts, a simple conclusion is given that it is likely the 
rumbling noise occurred as result of the rear collision. The author states that previous 
inspections of the car didnt highlight any potential issue with the alternator. Which I think is 
meant to imply its felt to be unlikely to have suffered from wear and tear. But that isnt stated 
specifically and no detail is given of when any inspections took place or what form they took. 
So in reviewing U1 it isnt clear if the author is aware of the specifics of the accident. And 
theres no real reasoning given as to why its felt the noise was likely caused by that. 
Reviewing the footage only, accepting that is footage of Mr F driving the car before and after 
the incident as has been made available to this service and AA, seeing, or hearing that the 
car wasnt making a noise but then was, doesnt show the intervening circumstance of the 
accident caused that noise/problem. I also dont find the comment, which might be read to 
imply the issue was not caused by wear and tear, to be persuasive. As Ive noted that 
comment is light on supporting detail. 
All of which leads me to conclude Im most persuaded by reports T2 and A1. They both took 
into account the accident circumstances and offered a clear expert opinion on whether or not 
the alternator had likely been damaged by the impact. Both reports found that was most 
unlikely to have happened. And I think those findings make sense in the context of what I set 
out at the start  that it doesnt seem logical for a light to moderate rear impact to the 
bumper, where no major body damage occurs, to cause damage to a part in the engine bay 
at the front of the car that, by its nature, is not likely to be affected by the car being forced to 
move whilst parked. Overall I find Im most persuaded that AA answered Mr Fs concern 
about the damaged alternator fairly and reasonably when it said it wasnt responsible for it 
because it most likely hadnt been caused by the accident. 
I can see this has been very frustrating for Mr F, I dont doubt that not receiving promised 
call backs didnt help the situation. But I also see that AA accepted its service, on this 
occasion was poor. It offered £150. I think that was reasonable of it. Im not sure if thats 
been paid to Mr F. If it hasnt, my final decision, should it remain the same, will likely require 
it to pay that sum. If its been paid, I wont make any award in that respect.
In reply AA confirmed it had sent Mr F a cheque for £150 in August 2023. Mr F said hed 
been let down by the insurance companys assessor and the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
He said labelling something as coincidental damage was just a convenient way to avoid 
paying anything. Mr F maintained that his car did not have engine noise before the incident. 
He doesnt feel it would coincidentally just randomly occur after the accident whilst not being 
related to it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note AAs payment. I wont require it to pay this again.I absolutely understand from Mr Fs point of view why he feels so strongly that the noise and 
the accident must be related. But the fact of something occurring at the same time as 
something else, does not, in itself, establish a causal link between the two things. Rather 
expert evidence has to be relied upon to determine whether or not its most likely the one 
thing caused the other. Unfortunately for Mr F, here, the balance of the expert evidence, as 
I explained provisionally, shows its not most likely the accident caused the engine noise 
(attributed to an issue with the alternator). 
Im sorry Mr F feels let down by the Financial Ombudsman Service. I appreciate it can be 
disappointing when a decision does not go in your favour. However, having reviewed the 
complaint and Mr Fs reply to my provisional findings, Ive seen no reason to change my 
view from that provisionally stated. Im satisfied by my provisional findings. They, along with 
my comments here, are now the findings of this, my final decision. 
My final decision
Im satisfied AAs answer on the alternator was fair and reasonable, as was its settlement of 
£150 for poor service. Im not requiring it to do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman