DRN-3365766
The complaint
Miss G complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) lent to her irresponsibly when they gave her 
two loans. 
What happened
Miss G took out three loans with TSB. The first was in May 2019 and was paid off. The next 
loan was taken out in October for £2,300 and another in November for £5,597.14  and part 
of this loan was used to pay off the October loan. The November loan account was then 
closed in March 2021. Miss G says around the time of the October and November loans she 
was in an arranged overdraft of £3,300 and the loan was to clear the overdraft. Miss G says 
TSB lent to her irresponsibly as she was already struggling to pay other debts at the time.  
TSB responded and said Miss G signed the loan agreements electronically which detailed 
the interest rate, term of the loan, the monthly repayments and the total amount repayable. 
TSB explained they believe Miss G was therefore satisfied with the terms they were offering. 
TSB explained they had reviewed Miss Gs bank statements from April 2019 to May 2020 
and completed retrospective affordability assessments for the loans based on the income 
and expenditure they were seeing through her account at the time. They said they had also 
considered the information provided in Miss Gs application in November. 
TSB said the online application included an affordability assessment where Miss G was 
required to inform TSB of any other borrowing she held, such as outstanding credit/store 
cards, overdraft total, monthly repayment for any existing loan and any repayments for hire 
purchase. TSB said Miss G noted she didnt have any other debts. TSB said, following their 
review of Miss Gs online application and based on the information she had provided, they 
believed the loans were affordable for her. TSB said, they believe Miss G was happy with 
the loan terms in November and they could see it was used to clear her overdraft on her 
account and also to repay her previous loan. TSB said it was Miss Gs choice to apply for the 
loans and use the funds made available to her and they wouldnt expect her to spend money 
she couldnt afford to repay.    
After considering all of the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to     
Miss G and TSB on 7 March 2022. In my provisional decision I said as follows:  
    
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website. 
TSB needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that they didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that they shouldve carried out proportionate checks to make 
sure that Miss G could repay the credit in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. 
The first point Ive addressed is whether I think TSB carried out reasonable and 
proportionate checks. Section 5 of the Consumer Credit (CONC) sourcebook, in 
place at the time, outline that the assessment that TSB needed to complete 
shouldve been dependent on, and proportionate to, a number of factors  including 
the amount and cost of the credit and the consumers borrowing history. CONC also 
provides guidance on the sources of information TSB may have wanted to consider 
as part of making a proportionate assessment. It then gives examples of factors a 
firm must consider and refers to whether the information the firm has is sufficient and 
whether to obtain additional information from the customer and any other sources of 
information to use.  
October 2019 loan   
   
TSB is free to decide how to set their lending criteria but they should complete 
proportionate checks to ensure borrowing is sustainable. Miss G is given a loan of 
£2,300 on 22 October. In this case, TSB say Miss G applied for this loan online which 
requires her to inform TSB of her income and expenditure. They say all customers 
are credit scored at the point of application and TSB check for evidence of adverse 
credit history from internal and Credit Reference Agency (CRA) data. They say 
applications are subject to an affordability assessment and with consideration of 
income, housing costs, unsecured credit costs and essential living expenditure. 
I think the checks carried out by TSB are reasonable and proportionate as they take 
into account a number of factors. And, the checks carried out are the type I would 
reasonably expect because they would help TSB to not only build a picture of Miss 
Gs financial situation, but also to assist in determining whether she could repay the 
credit in a sustainable way. 
  
The next point Ive considered is whether TSB made a fair lending decision bearing 
in mind the information gathered and what they knew about Miss Gs circumstances. 
To help decide this, Ive looked at the information shown on Miss Gs application. The 
income and expenditure assessment completed by Miss G shows she entered her 
net monthly disposable salary as £1,300 and her total monthly expenditure as £40. 
There are questions asking about other short term borrowing and Miss G hasnt 
entered any amounts. Looking at this information, it would suggest Miss G has a 
disposable monthly income of £1,260. And, given that the monthly repayments were 
£124.98, I think TSB could be satisfied from the information provided that Miss G 
would be able to afford the repayments.   
   
TSB say its Miss Gs responsibility to ensure she has provided correct information. 
They say, when a customer takes out a loan online they are prompted to TSBs 
online calculator to ensure the loan is affordable. Taking this all into account, I cant 
see any information here which I believe shouldve led TSB to identify that Miss G 
wouldnt be able to make repayments without undue difficulty and wouldnt be able to 
meet other commitments without having to borrow further. 
November 2019 loan 
Miss G applied for another loan, which again was online. This loan was taken out a 
month after the previous loan and was for £5,597.14 with a monthly repayment of 
£224.77. TSB have provided a copy of the online application completed by Miss G 
when applying for this loan. This notes Miss Gs net monthly income as £1,403.48 
and her expenditure as £40. And, the information on the application indicates no 
other borrowing. Theres a question which asks whether Miss G is aware of any changes to her circumstances that may impact her ability to make monthly loan 
repayments over the term of the loan, and shes answered No. The checks carried 
out by TSB are similar to the checks carried out when granting the loan in October. 
So, it would appear, from the income and expenditure assessment, Miss G was in a 
similar position in that she had sufficient disposable income to meet the monthly 
repayments. However, for this loan, I dont think the checks carried out by TSB are 
reasonable and proportionate in the circumstances. 
Miss G is applying for a loan only one month after the previous loan. This time its for 
over double the amount she previously requested. I think TSB should therefore have 
carried out further checks to get a better understanding of Miss Gs expenditure. And, 
given that Miss G holds a bank account with TSB which shows her income and how 
its being spent, this is what TSB shouldve looked into further.  
Given that I dont think reasonable and proportionate checks were completed in this 
case, the next point Ive considered is, if reasonable and proportionate checks had 
been completed, would they more likely than not have shown that Miss G was more 
likely than not unable to sustainably repay what she was being lent. 
To help decide this, Ive looked at Miss Gs bank statements for her Classic Plus 
account for the three months leading up to the November loan. In August, the closing 
balance is £149.48 and shows the total money in during that month as £2,223.81 and 
total money out as £2,745.33. In September, the closing balance is £192 and shows 
the total money in during the month as £3,044.72 and total money out as £2,902.72. 
And, in October the closing balance £1,668.36 overdrawn and total money in during 
that month as £6,026.24 and total money out as £6,420.82. I dont think this 
demonstrates Miss G had much disposable income left, if any, once all expenditure is 
deducted from deposits. For August it shows as a deficit of £521.52, in September 
its £142, and in October its a deficit of £394.58. For two of the three months, theres 
a deficit and one month where theres a surplus. Although, the surplus is only by a 
small amount, and importantly, its less than the minimum repayment amount of 
£224.77 for the November loan. I think this shows a completely different picture than 
the one which the income and expenditure assessment shows. In the latter, it looks 
like Miss G is left with a significant surplus after the monthly expenditure of £40 she 
notes on the application is deducted from her monthly income. But, the bank 
statements show significant spending beyond her monthly income. 
The bank statements also show Miss G transferred the October loan of £2,300 into 
her Spend and Save account and £2,100 of this is immediately transferred to her 
Easy Saver account  both of which are held with TSB. Miss G then immediately 
transfers this £2,100 to her Classic Plus account. At this point, the transfer improves 
Miss Gs balance from £1,149.61 overdrawn to a credit of £950.39 but Miss G is back 
in overdraft the following day. And, the account remains in overdraft up to the point 
TSB provide the next loan on 22 November  and at that point Miss Gs overdraft 
amount had reached £3,670 against an arranged overdraft limit of £3,700. 
I can see the November loan is used to clear the outstanding balance on the October 
loan and to reduce the overdraft on Miss Gs Classic Plus account. This shows the 
additional borrowing was to meet other debts and liabilities. In addition to this, Miss 
Gs Classic Plus account shows transfers being made on an almost daily basis 
between this account, and her other two bank accounts with TSB. I think this 
suggests Miss G was simply transferring money between these accounts to keep 
them within any overdraft limits while funding significant expenditure. This leads me 
to the reason for that significant expenditure. Miss Gs bank statements show 
payments being made on an almost daily basis to a payment platform used to make payments for goods and services. Its not clear what the purpose of that expenditure 
is but its clear from the bank statements that Miss G is spending significantly higher 
than her monthly income. Even in October, and with the deposit of £2,100 from the 
October loan, Miss Gs total spending for the month is £6,420.82. 
Having reviewed Miss Gs bank statements for the months preceding the loan 
application, it is glaringly obvious that the pattern of spending  almost exclusively on 
the payment platform  is not what most people would consider normal or 
unproblematic. In October alone, theres around 195 transactions to the same 
payment platform  and the previous two months to this show transactions with a 
similar frequency. And I think it was irresponsible of TSB to overlook this information, 
especially given that in October this was money being spent using the credit 
provided. I can see TSB refer to Miss Gs spending on the payment platform as non-
essential spending. I agree with TSBs point here and this further persuades me that 
TSB shouldve looked into Miss Gs spending habits given that significant amounts of 
money was being used for non-essential spending. And, I believe TSB shouldve 
realised, given what the three months of bank statements show, it was more likely 
than not the additional credit in November was going to be used for further non-
essential spending. While I agree the November loan was used to consolidate other 
debts, I think its important to keep in mind the credit facilities Miss G consolidated 
were used for the same non-essential spending. 
Taking this all into account, I dont think Miss Gs bank statements show she would 
be able to repay any borrowing in a sustainable manner. Its clear Miss G was using 
the loans to service other debts  in this case, to pay off another loan and to lower 
her overdraft on her bank account. And, I think its important to note that when the 
October loan is used to reduce her overdraft limit, Miss G is back in overdraft the 
following day following significant spending. And, after £3,400 from the November 
loan is paid into her account, it still doesnt bring it into credit. And, again, even when 
those loans are paid into Miss Gs bank account its not long before she spends the 
credit provided. So, I feel if TSB had carried out reasonable and proportionate checks 
it wouldve showed Miss G being in a difficult financial position and spending 
significantly more than she was earning. And, needing this loan to either meet other 
repayment liabilities or to otherwise make ends meet. This wouldve highlighted that 
Miss G wouldnt be able to repay the extra credit in a sustainable manner and without 
any undue difficulty. Taking this all into account, I think TSB have acted 
unreasonably in giving Miss G the loan in November. 
So, subject to any further comments from Miss G or TSB, my provisional decision was that I 
was minded to uphold this complaint.   
Following my provisional decision, Miss G has responded to say she accepts the decision. 
TSB have responded to say, while their view of the complaint remains unchanged, and they 
dont believe the refund or any wider award to be due, in this case they will implement the 
suggested resolution on a goodwill basis to resolve the complaint for Miss G. 
Given that both parties have responded and TSB have agreed to the redress set out in my 
provisional decision, I see no reason to delay making a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision. So, Ive decided to 
uphold the complaint for the reasons set out in my provisional decision and copied above.
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that TSB lent irresponsibly to Miss G when they gave her a loan in 
November 2019. I therefore consider this is irresponsible lending and TSB should put this 
right. I think it is fair and reasonable for Miss G to repay the principal amount that she 
borrowed, because she had the benefit of that lending. But she paid interest on the 
November loan that shouldnt have been provided to her. TSB say the November loan 
account has been closed. So, TSB should remove all interest, fees and charges accrued or 
incurred on Miss Gs November loan  this should leave just the principal amount lent. TSB 
should then treat all the payments Miss G made as payments towards the principal amount. 
 
By reworking the November loan account in this way, once the principal sum has been 
repaid, any overpayments should be refunded to Miss G with 8% simple interest calculated 
from the date of the overpayments to the date the refund is paid to Miss G. TSB should 
provide Miss G with a certificate showing any taxation deducted.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. TSB Bank plc must take the steps in 
accordance with what Ive said under Putting things right above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman