DRN-3841165
The complaint
Mr E complains about the advice given by Jewell & Petersen Ltd (JPL) to transfer the 
benefits from his two defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension schemes to a personal 
pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial 
loss.
What happened
Mr E approached JPL in early 2016 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. He was 
finding work increasingly stressful and wanted to look at taking immediate retirement. 
JPL completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Es circumstances and objectives. 
It noted the following: 
Mr E was aged 55 and married with 3 children, one of which was dependent. 
He was employed earning a basic salary of £42,500 per year along with an annual 
bonus of between £10,000-£15,000. 
Mr Es annual bonus was usually paid into his employer operated self-invested 
personal pension plan (SIPP) to ensure he remained a basic rate taxpayer.
Mrs E wasnt working. 
Mr and Mrs E had total (non-itemised) monthly commitments of £2,400 of which 
£1,000 was recorded as being more than enough to cover essentials.
Mr and Mrs Es home was valued at £380,000 and was mortgage free. They had no 
debt.
They had joint investments comprising £31,000 in an investment ISA and between 
£15,000-£20,000 in a cash ISA.
Mrs E had a personal pension with a fund value of £24,000. 
Mr E had four pensions: the two deferred DB pension schemes he was considering 
transferring (the first had a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £110,989 and 
the second had a CETV of £78,822); his occupational self-invested personal pension 
(SIPP) which had an overall value of £102,000 (of which £55,000 was accessible), 
and a further DB scheme with an undocumented CETV. 
That Mr E needed an annual income in retirement of £24,000.
JPL also carried out an assessment of Mr Es attitude to risk (ATR), which it deemed to be 
moderately cautious in terms of the investment of his underlying funds but balanced 
overall. JPL also assessed that Mr E had a moderately low capacity for loss in relation to the 
value of the two DB schemes he wanted to transfer.
On 4 May 2016, JPL issued Mr B with its suitability report and advised him to transfer the 
scheme benefits from two of his three DB schemes to a personal pension, with a provider Ill 
call M, and invest the proceeds in a moderately cautious fund. The suitability report said the 
reasons for this recommendation were, in summary:-
To be able to take early, immediate retirement; Mr E and his wife intended to 
purchase a motor home and travel abroad for around a year.
To break all ties with his ex-employer.
Control of his pension fund.
Flexible death benefits because Mr E was concerned about provision for his wife if he 
was to pass away.
To have access to 25% of his fund as tax-fee cash (TFC) immediately along with a 
monthly income of between £1,000-£2,000. 
The flexibility in retirement to vary the way benefits are paid. Specifically Mr E 
required income in the short term to fund his retirement until he reached state 
retirement age.
Mr E accepted the recommendation and signed the transfer forms on 10 May 2016. JPL 
waived its full advice fee of £9,000 instead charging Mr E just £500 for the transfer along 
with a reduced ongoing adviser fee of 0.5% of the fund value. M also made an annual 
product charge of 0.5% on the first £25,000 of the fund value, 0.35% on the value between 
£25,000 and £100,000 and 0.3% on the value of the fund over £100,000. There was also an 
annual fund manager charge of 0.32% applied. The transfer took effect shortly after and a 
total of £189,811.59 was received into the personal pension with M.
In early 2020, disappointed at the performance of his pension fund with M, Mr E transferred 
his business to another firm of independent financial advisers. 
In November 2021 Mr E complained to JPL about the suitability of the advice it had given 
him to transfer his DB scheme benefits. More specifically Mr E said:- 
He was concerned at the sharp fall in the value of his portfolio after the Covid 
pandemic and feared that the gains made in the years before that would be wiped 
out meaning his pension income would not be sustainable. 
There had been a lack of guidance and support from JPL.
That the disadvantages of transferring his DB pensions had not been explained to 
him nor had alternative options been suggested.
Using his SIPP or his other investments to fund his early retirement had not been 
considered.
Whether there were any penalties or consequences to accessing his DB schemes 
early had not been considered.
JPL had not explained that the effect of the costs and charges on such a low-risk 
portfolio meant the benefits of his DB schemes were unlikely to ever be exceeded. 
His main concerns were with the appropriateness of the advice JPL gave rather than 
the investment performance of his pension.
JPL looked into Mr Es complaint but found no evidence to suggest the advice it gave him 
was unsuitable. It said Mr Es portfolio had not experienced sharp falls but had performed 
as designed, despite the global pandemic, achieving in excess of the 3% annual return 
projected at the outset. It also said Mr E had benefitted from significantly reduced charges. 
JPL said that at no point during the 2018 and 2019 annual reviews had Mr E raised any 
concern about his pension income being unsustainable. And JPL refuted that it had failed to 
provide guidance and support, pointing out that it had provided Mr E with 28 updates in total 
since the transfer and in late February 2020 had sent a specific Covid update which gave 
him three options for his pension portfolio along with an invitation to discuss his situation. 
JPL said Mr Es primary objective had been to retire immediately which he had been able to 
do along with purchasing a motor home and travelling around Europe. JPL went on to 
explain that alternative options, and the potential negative consequences of the transfer, had 
been fully addressed at the time of the advice. It said that his SIPP had been partially invested in an illiquid investment, and utilising his ISA investments would have meant he 
would have been left with insufficient funds to cover his essential outgoings. 
Unhappy with the outcome of JPLs investigation Mr E referred his complaint to our service. 
Our Investigator looked into his complaint and recommended that it was upheld. She thought 
that the transfer wasnt in Mr Es best interests and didnt justify the guaranteed, risk-free 
benefits being given up. Our investigator recommended that Mr E be compensated in line 
with the regulators (the Financial Conduct Authority  FCA) guidance.  
JPL disagreed with our Investigators findings. It said that our Investigator hadnt placed 
enough emphasis on Mr Es primary objective to take early retirement on health grounds. It 
said that due to the deteriorating relationship between Mr E and his employer there was no 
timescale for when his share of the illiquid investment (the premises being used by the 
company) would be made available. It said the legal owner of the property was the SIPP, the 
trustees of which had to agree to any sale. So, JPL said, at the time of the advice the only 
part of the SIPP that was readily accessible was the liquid assets which totalled £55,000.
JPL went on to say that Mr E didnt have sufficient savings or a SIPP that would have 
allowed him to meet his primary objective and that the only way he was able to do so was by 
transferring his two DB schemes. 
Our Investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
What follows below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at 
the time of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of JPLs actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority, states in COBS 19.1.6G that the starting 
assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, JPL should have only 
considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Es best 
interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was.
Financial viability 
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. 
Mr E was aged 55 at the time of the advice and wanted to retire immediately. JPL carried out 
two transfer value analysis (TVAS) reports (as required by the regulator) showing how 
much investment growth (known as the critical yield) Mr Es pension funds would need to 
achieve each year in order to provide the same benefits as his DB scheme. But as Mr E was 
intending to retire immediately, the critical yield analysis is of little use because he wasnt 
going to leave all of his funds invested to a later date. Nevertheless, I do think they add 
some insight into the value of the benefits would be Mr E giving up if he transferred out of 
the scheme. 
The critical yield required to match Mr Es benefits in scheme 1 at age 55 wasnt cited in the 
TVAS but was noted by JPL to be in excess of 50% if he took a full pension. No analysis 
was included for Mr E taking TFC and a reduced pension. The critical yield required to match 
Mr Es benefits at scheme 1s normal retirement date (NRD) of 60 was 20.57%. The critical 
yield required to match Mr Es benefits in scheme 2 at age 55 wasnt cited in the TVAS. The 
critical yield required to match Mr Es benefits at scheme 2s normal retirement date (NRD) 
of 65 was 10.81%. No analysis was included for Mr E taking TFC and a reduced pension.
When the advice was given, the relevant discount rate was 3.4% for 4 years to retirement 
and 4.1% per year for 9 years to retirement. Ive kept in mind that the regulator's projection 
rates had also remained unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection rate at the 
time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Es 
moderately cautious/balanced attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would 
be little point in Mr E giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB schemes only 
to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the schemes. But here, given the 
lowest critical yields were 20.57% to age 60 and 10.81% to age 65, I think Mr E was likely to 
receive benefits of a substantially lower overall value than those provided by the DB 
schemes even if he delayed his retirement to age 60 or 65 and invested the funds until then. 
Given that Mr E intended to retire immediately, its clear to me that hed be worse off overall 
by transferring out of the scheme. 
Ive thought too about Mr Es capacity for loss. I note that the suitability report didnt 
comment conclusively about whether Mr E had any capacity for loss, merely stating that if 
his fund went down by 15% over the next 5 years he would potentially lose £28,471 which it 
had compared with [his] own capacity for loss and have lowered or increased the amount 
of risk accordingly. To my mind, this suggests the adviser understood Mr Es capacity for 
loss was quite low. The two schemes being transferred amounted to the majority of Mr Es retirement provision: 
the deferred pension at NRD for Scheme 1 cited in the TVAS was £5,464 and for Scheme 2 
was £4,905. As Ive mentioned above, almost half of the SIPP was tied up in an illiquid 
investment and it appeared to be unclear when Mr E would be able to access to it. The only 
other pension Mr E had (aside from his state pension) was another DB scheme. I dont have 
much information about that scheme save for the fact that in 2013 it was predicted to give 
Mr E an income at (an undocumented) NRD of £2,582.47 together with TFC of £7,765.82. 
Mr E has recently told us that he started to receive this pension at age 60 and it pays him 
£3,600 per year. 
So I dont think the guaranteed benefits from the two transferred DB schemes were ones 
that Mr E had the capacity to lose. If it was acting in his best interests, I think JPL should 
have made that clear to Mr E when it was advising him. 
For this reason alone a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Es best interests. Of 
course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as JPL has 
argued in this case. There might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, 
despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered this below.
Flexibility and income needs
Although JPL said Mr E wanted to transfer his pension in order to have flexibility in the way 
the benefits were paid to him, I dont think Mr E required flexibility in retirement. This is 
because based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think he had a genuine need to access his 
TFC earlier than the normal schemes retirement age, or had a strong need for variable 
income throughout his retirement. And whilst I note that Mr E needed a lump sum to 
purchase a motorhome, as Ive set out below, he had sufficient funds available to him 
without transferring his DB scheme to achieve this objective. So, I think Mr E could have left 
his DB schemes where they were and still have achieved his objective of immediate 
retirement. I should note here that I understand Mrs E received an inheritance in August 
2016 which was used to purchase the motorhome. As Ive seen no evidence that the 
inheritance was foreseen, my findings are on the basis that it was intended to purchase the 
motorhome from the assets Ive set out below.
I can see that the option of taking benefits early from the two DB schemes was discussed 
and rejected by Mr E on account of the fact they would not provide him with sufficient income 
if taken early. JPL has said that there was only one way Mr E was able to achieve his 
primary objective of immediate retirement, despite it exploring alternative options. It said that 
was to transfer two of his three DB schemes. JPL said the only alternative option to 
transferring was to continue working and put his health at serious risk. It noted that Mr and 
Mrs E needed an annual income of £24,000 for the next 10 years until Mr E reached his 
state retirement age of 66 but that they only had £51,000 in investments, along with Mrs Es 
personal pension valued at £24,000 (but inaccessible for another 3 years until Mrs E 
reached the age of 55). I cant see that there was any breakdown of what Mr E needed this 
amount of income to cover but I see that the fact-find noted that £1,000 a month more than 
covered their essentials. So, realistically, it seems that an annual income of £24,000 was the 
maximum amount Mr and Mrs E would need in retirement. 
JPL was required to act in Mr Es best interests and, in order to do so, it needed to obtain 
accurate information about his finances. Mr E has provided us with evidence to show that, at 
the time of the advice in May 2016, he and Mrs E had the following investments and assets: 
- A stocks and shares ISA valued at £20,158.24
- A stocks and shares ISA valued at £10,971.48- A cash ISA valued at £1,000
- A collective investment bond valued at £51,819.89
- A collective retirement account valued at £30,033.43
- Mrs Es personal pension plan worth £24,274.00
- Shares in the company where he worked worth £50,000
- His SIPP worth approximately £69,000
Total: - £257,257.04
Mr E left his job and retired in December 2016 at the age of 56. He has provided us with his 
final pay slip where I can see that he was paid £30,000 (net) for his shares as part of his 
severance package. I understand his SIPP valued at £69,343.72 was transferred shortly 
after.
Its not clear why JPL failed to note with accuracy the full extent of Mr Es assets and 
investments when it was completing the fact-find. But I can see from the fact-find that 
several of the investments Ive cited above have been omitted. And I see no reason why 
Mr E wouldve withheld this information; Im satisfied that if the adviser had asked Mr E for a 
comprehensive list of all of his assets, he wouldve provided it. And I think JPL needed this 
information in order to provide him with suitable advice.
Overall, its apparent to me, given the extent of Mr Es investments, that transferring his two 
DB schemes wasnt the only way for him to fund his primary objective of taking early 
retirement. I think he could have used his existing investments over the coming years to 
achieve what he wanted (including Mrs Es personal pension a few years hence had there 
been need). 
I appreciate that, at the time of the advice, the shares and the SIPP were potentially 
inaccessible. But Ive seen no evidence of any exploration by JPL of whether this was 
actually the case, nor that it suggested to Mr E that he may want to obtain information about 
his shareholding and SIPP, along with how he could realise their value, before making the 
irrevocable decision to transfer his valuable DB schemes. And given Mr E retired in 
December 2016 (having agreed the buyout of his share of the property held in the SIPP with 
his co-owner) just a few months after the transfer took place, realising his shareholding in 
the process and managing to transfer his SIPP shortly after, its not unreasonable to assume 
that both werent so inaccessible after all.  
Also, as Mr E has told us, he has been in receipt of a pension of £3,600 from his third DB 
scheme since the age of 60. And, as I mentioned above, DB scheme 1 was also forecast to 
pay him an income of £5,464 at its NRD of age 60 too. So, Mr E wouldve needed to take a 
maximum of £24,000 per year for four years from his existing investments, reducing their 
value to around £160,000 (assuming no growth above charges). But from age 60, he would 
have had an annual income of just over £9,000. Whilst this wasnt enough to meet his 
retirement income needs in full at that point, such an income would have gone a significant 
way to doing so and would have meant Mr E needed to draw a maximum of around £15,000 
per year from his investments to reach his target annual income of £24,000. This wouldve 
reduced the remaining pot by around £75,000 by the time Mr E reached age 65. From age 
65, Mr Es annual income would have increased further to approximately £14,000 when DB 
scheme 2 became payable. And once Mr Es state pension became payable at age 66, its 
clear his annual income needs wouldve been met by guaranteed income from his pensions. 
Hed also likely still have some investment funds left over, even had he had to use his funds 
to purchase a motorhome at the start of his retirement.
In summary, by age 66 Mr E would have had a guaranteed, increasing income for life not 
one that was dependent, to a large extent, on investment performance. All whilst having fulfilled his objective of taking early retirement. So Im satisfied that JPL didnt provide Mr E 
with suitable advice to transfer his two DB schemes. I am unable to agree  given the 
existence of the investments Ive listed above  that Mr E had only one option to achieve his 
objective. I think that Mr E could have achieved his primary objective of immediate 
retirement by using the assets and investments Ive listed above and, from age 60, by also 
using the income from his DB schemes to meet his annual income need of £24,000. 
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature of the transfer for Mr E. And I can 
see from the suitability report that JPL stated: This is a major concern of yours and you wish 
to safeguard maximum benefits. Immediate spouses death benefits with both schemes is 
circa £3180 per annum compared to a transfer value of £189,811 available by providing a 
flexible lump sum benefit under a personal arrangement. But I cant see that 
JPL explained to Mr E that if he lived a long life, or drew down his benefits until his plan was 
exhausted, that there would be nothing to leave to his wife. 
So whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr E might have 
thought it was a good idea to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, 
the priority here was to advise Mr E about what was best for his retirement provisions. A 
pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think JPL explored 
to what extent Mr E was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for 
higher death benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB schemes were underplayed. Mr E 
was married (and had one dependent child at the time of the advice) and so the spouses 
(and dependents pension from one of the schemes) provided by the DB schemes wouldve 
been useful to his wife and dependent child if Mr E predeceased him them. I dont think JPL 
made the value of this benefit clear enough to Mr E. This was guaranteed and it escalated  
it was not dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a 
personal pension was. And, as Ive said above, the fund may have been significantly 
depleted particularly if Mr E lived a long life. In any event, JPL should not have encouraged 
Mr E to prioritise the potential for higher death benefits through a personal pension over his 
security in retirement.
Furthermore, if Mr E genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his wife, which didnt depend on 
investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, I think JPL 
shouldve instead explored life insurance. I note that JPL said it discussed a whole of life 
policy with Mr E but I dont know if any quotations were obtained as Ive seen no illustrations. 
I acknowledge that Mr E was worried that stress was affecting his health and so appears to 
have had concerns about his life expectancy. But Mr E not reaching his life expectancy was 
only a possibility  it was also possible that he would exceed his life expectancy, in which 
case Mr E would need his pension to last longer. If Mr E transferred out of the DB scheme 
he would be relying on investment returns to ensure sufficient capital remained in the 
personal pension to provide the death benefits, whereas the spouses/dependents pension 
was guaranteed and escalated. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr E. And I dont think that 
insurance was properly explored as an alternative.
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB schemeJPL noted that Mr E wanted more control over when and how he could access his pension 
benefits and that he wanted to hold the benefits in his own name as opposed to having them 
held by the trustees of the scheme. 
But I think Mr Es desire for control over his pension benefits was overstated. Mr E was not 
an experienced investor and I cannot see that he had an interest in or the knowledge to be 
able to manage his pension funds on their own. So, I dont think that this was a genuine 
objective for Mr E  it was simply a consequence of transferring away from his DB schemes.
Suitability of investments
As Im upholding the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt 
suitable for Mr E, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment 
recommendation. This is because Mr E should have been advised to remain in the DB 
scheme and so the investment recommendation wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had 
been given.
Summary
Being able to access TFC along with the flexibility, control and potential for higher death 
benefits on offer through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to 
Mr E. But JPL wasnt there to just transact what Mr E might have thought he wanted. The 
advisers role was to really understand what Mr E needed and recommend what was in his 
best interests. 
It follows that I dont think the advice given to Mr E was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr E was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this.  Mr E shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of the 
scheme just to fund an immediate retirement that was clearly fundable by other means. And 
the potential for higher death benefits wasnt worth giving up the guarantees associated with 
his DB scheme.
So, I think JPL shouldve advised Mr E to remain in his DB schemes.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr E would've gone ahead anyway, against JPLs 
advice. Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr E wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against JPLs advice. I say this because Mr E had limited 
investment knowledge with a moderately cautious/balanced attitude to risk and the two 
pensions accounted for the majority of his retirement provision. So if JPL had provided him 
with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his 
best interests and how he could achieve his objective by other means, I think he wouldve 
accepted that advice. 
JPL has stated that Mr E was determined to transfer his pensions at all costs due to his 
health concerns. Mr E has said however that whilst he was determined to retire, there were 
alternative ways of him achieving this that didnt involve him transferring his pension. So I 
cant say that Ive seen any evidence that Mr E wouldve insisted on going against the advice 
to transfer had it been given, particularly if JPL had clearly explained how Mr E could 
achieve his objectives by other means. 
And Im not persuaded that Mr Es concerns about his health were so great that he wouldve 
insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he had sought 
out, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. If JPL had explained that Mr E could meet all of his objectives without risking his guaranteed pension, I think that wouldve 
carried significant weight. So, I dont think Mr E would have insisted on transferring out of the 
DB scheme.
In light of the above, I think JPL should compensate Mr E for the unsuitable advice, using the 
regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr E, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr E would have 
most likely remained in the occupational pension schemes if suitable advice had been given. 
JPL must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
For clarity, my understanding is that Mr E retired in December 2016 aged 56 and could have 
taken his DB pension benefits without reduction from scheme 1 at age 60 and from scheme 
2 at age 65. So if suitable advice had been given and Mr E had remained in his DB schemes 
until their NRDs, I think he would have most likely accessed them at these points. So, 
compensation for scheme 1 should be based on the schemes normal retirement age of 60 
and compensation for scheme 2 should be based on the schemes normal retirement age of 
65. 
These calculations should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Es 
acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4 JPL should:
always calculate and offer Mr E redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr E before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his DC pension.
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr E receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr E accepts JPLs offer to calculate how much of his redress could be augmented, 
request the necessary information and not charge Mr E for the calculation, even if he 
ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Es end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr E as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, JPL may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr Es likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15%/ overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Jewell & Petersen Ltd 
to pay Mr E the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Jewell & Petersen Ltd pays Mr E the balance. 
If Mr E accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Jewell & Petersen Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr E can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr E may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2023.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman