DRN-3684206
The complaint
Mr M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) made an entry about him on the CIFAS 
database in connection with a mortgage application.
What happened
Mr M applied for a buy to let (BTL) mortgage with HSBC in 2021, using a broker. HSBC 
declined the application and left a marker on fraud prevention databases, including the 
CIFAS database. The CIFAS database is a cross-industry fraud prevention database which 
allows financial services providers to share relevant information, subject to safeguards.
Mr M complained to HSBC about the markers.
HSBC said it had not done anything wrong. It told us that an altered/false bank statement 
was provided to it as part of the application process. 
Mr M says he didnt provide the altered/false bank statement to HSBC. He says the broker 
provided the information without his permission. He has reported the mater to Action Fraud 
and provided the Financial Ombudsman Service with details of the information he gave to 
the broker. He says he earned more than £150,000 in the 2020/2021 tax year, so he had 
enough money to get the mortgage without making a fraudulent application. 
After Mr M complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service our investigator considered all 
the information that had been provided to her and HSBC. She said that the broker acted as 
Mr Ms representative so she thought HSBC had sufficient evidence to apply the CIFAS 
marker. She didnt recommend that it removed the marker.
Mr M remained unhappy and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so it 
has been passed to me to decide. More information was provided to our investigator by Mr 
Ms representative after she sent her view on his complaint, but that didnt change her mind.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
When Mr M applied for the mortgage in 2021 HSBC considered the information and 
evidence it received in connection with mortgage application and carried out underwriting 
checks to try to confirm the accuracy of what it was told and to decide whether it wanted to 
lend. I think its worth saying here that there was no obligation on HSBC to lend money to 
Mr M. It wasnt obliged to give reasons for refusing to do so either. 
In this case it appears that information has been recorded about Mr M on more than one 
fraud prevention database. Each database has its own standard of proof for putting a marker 
on them. But all fraud databases require lenders to have reasonable grounds for adding a 
marker.
The standard of proof for putting a marker on the CIFAS database is that there must be 
clear, relevant and rigorous evidence of fraud, such that HSBC could confidently report the 
matter to the police or other authorities (whether or not it has actually done so). 
The standard required is therefore one of reasonable suspicion, not proof. But there must be 
evidence of fraud. There are various fraud offences, but a common feature is acting 
dishonestly for financial gain.
Having weighed up all the evidence and arguments here very carefully, I can understand 
why HSBC had concerns about the information it had been given in connection with the 
application. HSBC has explained how it thought the bank statement at the centre of this 
complaint was altered to show there was more money in Mr Ms bank account than there 
actually was. Mr M has said he didnt provide that statement to his broker or HSBC and that 
he had enough money to get the mortgage without committing fraud. But that in itself doesnt 
demonstrate that Mr M wasnt responsible for HSBC being provided with the altered bank 
statement. 
Mr Ms representative has said theres a lack of evidence in this case because the broker left 
the firm he was working for around the time of Mr Ms mortgage application, so relevant 
emails were lost. However, I can see that HSBC has considered all the evidence provided to 
us in connection with this complaint as I would expect it to do. It told us it contacted the 
business the broker used to work for and took steps to investigate the brokers actions. 
Having done so it still suspected Mr M of acting fraudulently. Ive no reason to question what 
HSBC has told us about its contact with the business the broker used to work for.
Taking this matter as a whole Im satisfied that HSBC met the standards required to put the 
markers on the fraud prevention databases. So, I cant say it would be fair and reasonable 
for me to require HSBC to remove the markers now.
I recognise that this decision is likely be disappointing for Mr M. But based on what Ive 
seen, it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require HSBC to do anything to resolve this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2023.
 
Laura Forster
Ombudsman