DRN-3468327
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Nationwide Building Society registered a marker against him at 
CIFAS, the national fraud database.
What happened
Mr M opened a number of accounts with Nationwide. He repeatedly put these accounts into 
unauthorised overdrafts using pay at pump transactions. Pay at pump transactions are 
pre-authorised using ones card and PIN before the exact amount of the payment is known. 
That means its possible to get payments approved that are larger than the balance of the 
account. In this case, there would usually only be £1 or so in the account  the minimum 
amount needed to get these transactions to go through.
For almost all of the accounts, Mr M left these unauthorised overdrafts unpaid. He confirmed 
that he was the one whod used the accounts, and said he would have paid them back but 
hed been in hospital for several months. He was unable to provide any evidence of his stay 
in hospital.
Nationwide closed Mr Ms accounts and registered a marker against him at CIFAS for 
misusing his facilities.
Our investigator looked into things independently and found that the marker was fair. Mr M 
asked for his case to be reviewed afresh, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to register this marker, Nationwide were not required to prove beyond all reasonable 
doubt that Mr M had done something wrong. They did need to have reasonable grounds to 
believe that hed misused his accounts, which went beyond a suspicion or concern, and 
which had appropriate supporting evidence. Having carefully considered everything that both 
sides have said and provided, I think Nationwide did have sufficient grounds to register this 
marker. Ill explain why.
Mr M confirmed that he was the one using these accounts, and he appears to have admitted 
that he made the payments in question. Further, the pay at pump payments would have 
been made using Mr Ms card and PIN. So I dont think anyone else did this.
It is possible for someone to accidentally go into an unauthorised overdraft by making a pay 
at pump transaction. But Mr M did this over a dozen times, across seven different accounts, 
over a relatively short period. And he repeatedly did this by putting just £1 in the account  
exactly the minimum needed to get the pay at pump transaction to work. A lot of the time, 
the account had just opened, so he definitely knew there was no more than £1 in it. Yet he 
forced these accounts into overdrafts by spending significant amounts on petrol, despite 
knowing that there were not such funds in the account.
So I am reasonably satisfied that Mr M deliberately made these transactions in this way.
In doing this, Mr M effectively forced Nationwide into paying for his petrol using their money 
instead of his own. And he used improper means to get credit that he was not authorised to 
have. He then left accounts unpaid. I appreciate that Mr M does not consider this fraud, but 
Im afraid hes mistaken. Exploiting pay at pump transactions in this way is a known type of 
fraud. And it was certainly a misuse of Mr Ms accounts. So it seems most appropriate that 
Nationwide registered a marker on the fraud database for misusing accounts.
Mr M said he was unable to repay the overdrafts because he was stuck in hospital for 
months. But hes been unable to provide any evidence at all for this hospital stay, despite the 
fact that such evidence would be easy to get  even if he eventually discharged himself. And 
the activity on his accounts shows that during those months, he was actually out and about. 
So I dont find this reason to be valid.
Lastly, Mr M argued that Nationwide were in the wrong for allowing him to open multiple 
accounts and force them into overdrafts. But the onus was on Mr M to refrain from 
defrauding Nationwide.
Taking everything into account, I think Nationwide acted fairly in registering this marker.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman