DRN-3462736
The complaint
Mr S complains that a car he acquired through a Hire Purchase Agreement with Blue Motor
Finance Ltd (BMF) wasnt fit for purpose. He would like to reject it, be refunded for the cost
of repairs and be compensated for the distress and inconvenience.
What happened
Mr S says he took out a Hire Purchase Agreement with BMF in February 2021 for a used
car. He says unfortunately the car broke down in September 2021 due to engine problems.
He says he then discovered the engine had been remapped which he understands led to
overpowering causing the drive shaft to snap.
Mr S said if he had known the car had been remapped, he wouldnt have bought it
BMF said it had no liability as it had no evidence of the faults prior to repairs being carried
out . And an independent inspection found faults seemed to be recent and were a result of
general wear and tear or driver negligence.
I issued a provisional view in which I concluded:-
Mr S had to have work carried out on his car evidenced by an invoice for  £2480.20 
which covered the  supply and fitting of a new clutch, dual mass flywheel, drive shaft 
, discs, and pads amongst other things. The issue for me to decide was whether BMF 
was responsible for issues with the car or not.
Mr S had repairs carried out on the car despite contacting BMF to advise it of a 
problem with the car. 
BMF asked for a diagnostic report from the repairing garage along with information 
such as job cards, photographs and supporting evidence of a remap. I didnt think 
this was an unreasonable request. Unfortunately, the repairing garage couldnt 
provide this so BMF organised an independent inspection which I thought was fair. 
The independent  report had some limitations as it was a visual inspection only. 
However, I was persuaded by its findings as detailed below.
It found  that  driver neglect may have contributed to the engine problem which I 
thought was a possibility.  .
It felt the problems with the clutch would be classed as routine maintenance which 
,given the fact the car was a used one with significant mileage, which Mr S had 
driven a further 11000 miles, I thought was a reasonable conclusion
Finally, the report   recommended the ECU be removed and inspected and. I 
considered if it would be appropriate for this to be done , but I decided it wasnt . I 
didnt  believe it would necessarily be able to confirm, now the settings have been put 
back to factory ones, when the car was first remapped. But also, the other 
conclusions in the independent report persuaded me that driver neglect and the age 
and mileage of the car were factors in the issues that arose.
I found the information from the repairing garage less persuasive as it was only able 
to provide the invoice for work completed., a text message confirmed that the remaps 
were put back to stock without charge along  with a record of a conversation Mr S 
supplied  of a conversation with the repairing garage in which it stated it had no way 
of knowing when the remap was first done.
Based on the repairing garages information I accepted it  did put the remaps back to 
factory settings. But as  it  couldnt confirm when the remap was first done,  I had no 
evidence this was prior to the point of sale. I thought BMF made a fair comment 
when it said it would have expected problems to have arisen sooner had that been 
the case.
For me to be persuaded that BMF had a responsibility for the issues Mr S 
experienced with the car I needed some evidence that the problems were present or 
developing at the point of sale. Unfortunately, I concluded I didnt have this. So, I 
didnt feel  I could reasonably ask BMF to allow Mr S to reject the car and be 
compensated in the way he wanted.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BMF accepted my view and made no further comments for me to consider.
Mr S didnt accept my view. He offered to provide a sworn statement that he had not had the 
car remapped but as our investigator explained to him that wasnt something, we would 
expect someone to do.
I do appreciate Mr S wasnt happy with my provisional decision and I have carefully 
considered the information he has sent in. Unfortunately, the invoice for work completed, the  
statement of a conversation with the repairing garage and with photos arent  new 
information but information that I already had and had considered in my provisional  view.
The invoice Mr S sent in confirms the work carried out to the car but thats not in dispute. 
The statement  of a conversation with the repairing garage along with some photos states 
that the  garage had no way of knowing when the car had been remapped. So, it doesnt 
give me any evidence to confirm a point of sale issue. Neither does it confirm that the remap 
was responsible for the damage to the car .But even if it did, I have no evidence to show that 
the remap occurred before Mr S got the car. 
Finally, I appreciate Mr S said he told the independent inspector fuel leaks were responsible 
for the low fluid levels but that wasnt the conclusion from the independent report.
I have carefully considered the points Mr S made. Its unfortunate Mr S went ahead with 
repairs without getting a full report himself and before BMF had the opportunity to arrange 
for an independent inspection. But based on all the information I have seen,  I have no 
evidence of a point of sale issue for which BMF is responsible. So, on that basis I cant 
reasonably ask BMF to take back the car, refund Mr Ss costs and compensate him as he 
would like.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman