DRN-2066546
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) didnt allow him into one of 
its branches when he arrived, as the branch was closed as a result of changing its opening 
hours.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them all here. 
But Ill provide a brief summary and then Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
Mr A says the he visited his local Nationwide branch to withdraw some cash from his 
account. Due to the current pandemic, Nationwides branch opening hours had changed and 
Mr A wasnt aware of this. Under its new schedule the branch closed at 14:00. Mr A says he 
arrived at the branch at this time, but Nationwide says he arrived just after. 
Mr A says the member of staff didnt allow him into the branch, even though he arrived on 
time. He also says he saw another customer enter the branch just before him. 
Nationwide says Mr A arrived at the branch after it had already closed. It says that there 
were customers in the branch completing transactions, and it says that after it found out 
which transaction Mr A wanted to carry out, it directed him to use the alternative cash 
machine outside the branch.
Mr A says he wasnt willing to use the external cash machine as there were some youths 
sitting near it. He says that due to his age, he didnt feel comfortable doing so. And he feels 
that Nationwide shouldve taken this into account and allowed him to use the cash machine 
inside the branch.
As a result of the situation, Nationwide says that Mr A was aggressive and threatening 
towards its staff  by obstructing them closing the door  which led to staff calling the police. 
Mr A acknowledges that he did try to prevent the staff member closing the door of the 
branch, but he says this was so that he could speak to the staff member. He doesnt accept 
that he swore at them, nor that he was threatening.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr A didnt agree, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator so Im not upholding 
Mr As complaint. Ill explain why.
I understand Mr A wasnt notified about the change to the opening hours of the Nationwide 
branch, as a result of the pandemic. So I can see why he believes the staff shouldve let him 
in out of courtesy, given his personal circumstances. But two of Nationwides staff members 
have stated that Mr A arrived at the branch at 14:01, at which time the branch had already 
closed. Whilst I understand this is only just after the branch closed, there needs to be a point 
at which no further customers are allowed in. Amongst other important reasons, this is to 
allow Nationwides staff to complete their duties and leave work  especially in what is likely 
a stressful and demanding time for them.
I havent been able to review CCTV footage of what happened when Mr A arrived at the 
branch, so I cant say for sure what happened. But having read witness statements of two of 
Nationwides staff members, Im satisfied that Mr A did arrive after the branch had already 
closed. And I think its more likely than not that he behaved in a way that the staff members 
felt to be threatening and aggressive. I know Mr A doesnt think it was, but I find it very 
unlikely that theyd have said Mr A acted in this way and called the police if there was no 
reason to do so.
Mr A has complained that Nationwide didnt retain CCTV footage of the event, even though 
he asked it to. Nationwide says CCTV footage is automatically deleted after 30 days. I do 
think Nationwide couldve done something to retain the footage if it had attempted to, but 
Nationwide admits this was an oversight on its part, and theres nothing it is able to do now 
the footage has been deleted. But even if Nationwide had been able to retain the CCTV 
footage, Im still satisfied that Mr A arrived at the branch after it had closed. And regardless 
of anything else that happened related to the way Mr A acted, Nationwide staff were within 
their right to refuse him entry to the branch, because it was closed. 
I know Mr A has requested to speak to a senior member of Nationwide staff, or a member of 
staff from Nationwides head office in relation to his complaint. But Nationwide has explained 
that Mr A has already exhausted its complaints process. It says that referring the complaint 
to a senior member of staff isnt part of its complaint handling process and wouldnt change 
anything. And given that Mr A has had the opportunity to refer his complaint to this service 
for an independent review, I dont think Nationwide has acted unfairly by declining Mr As 
request to refer his complaint to an alternative member of staff within the business.
Im mindful that I havent focussed much on the events that happened surrounding the 
incident between Mr A and the staff members of the Nationwide branch  although Ive 
thought about everything carefully. But the crux of this complaint is whether Nationwide 
should have allowed Mr A to enter the branch, despite it being closed. And for the reasons 
Ive explained, I dont think Nationwide acted unfairly in relation to this. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr A but for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr As complaint against Nationwide Building Society. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
 
Sam Wade
Ombudsman