DRN-4131120
The complaint
Mr V complains that Santander UK Plc has made mistakes with the interest rate applied to 
his business loan causing him financial loss.
What happened
Mr V says he understood that he took a fixed rate business loan with Santander for 10 years 
in November 2015. And that after five years he would be able to review the rate. He wasnt 
told that the rate had become variable and missed an opportunity to fix the rate before 
interest rates rose. He says that this will cost him some £10,000 over the remaining term.
Santander stated that the loan agreement included a fixed rate for five years. Mr V had 
contacted its relationship team in March 2020 about the rate. But the email exchange 
showed that he was told that the loan rate was then fixed until November 2020. It didnt have 
details of any follow up with Mr V. In error the loan didnt revert to a variable rate in 
November 2020, and this wasnt discovered until August 2022. The loan was reworked, and 
Mr V had been charged £2,323.66 too much. This was corrected to the loan and Santander 
accepted that it hadnt told Mr V about this at the time. It offered to pay him £500 for the poor 
service and communication.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. The loan documentation 
supported what Santander had said. And in contacting Santander and it seems another 
financial business earlier in 2020, Mr V appeared to understand that the fixed rate wouldnt 
continue. It had offered a reasonable amount of compensation for the error with the 
payments after November 2020.
Mr V didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He said hed been told he was 
on the best rate in 2020 but not that this was variable. He maintained that he thought the 
fixed rate would continue. And this was confirmed when the payments didnt change after 
November 2020. He wanted to keep the rate he had.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the loan documentation. Mr V had a loan agreement for 10 years. That had a 
margin of 2.55% over a base rate. He signed an agreement to fix the base rate he would 
pay at 1.90% for five years. Following that he drew down the loan. Im satisfied that the fixed 
rate period was for five years and that the loan would then move to a variable base rate 
linked it seems to Bank of England Base Rate. It may be that Mr V intended to fix the base 
rate again after that period but there is nothing about this in the documentation Ive seen. 
And I think he is fairly bound by this.
As has been set out in March 2020 Mr V contacted Santander about the rate. He said in an 
email that initially the agreement was fixed for 5 years, and the loan can stretch 10 years 
maximum if I can fixed lower rate.. thats what Im looking for. The relationship manager 
responded to say that it may not be possible to fix it before it expires but he would look into 
it. I dont have reason to doubt what Mr V says and that another member of staff called him 
and told him that there was no better rate available then.
The loan should have moved to a variable rate after five years. In error this didnt happen, 
and Mr V continued to make payments based on the fixed base rate. I appreciate he says he 
assumed that this would continue. Its clear that for the period to August 2022 he was paying 
too much interest as the variable rate was lower than the fixed rate. Santander realised that 
and corrected the position.
The variable base rate applied did increase in 2022 as the Bank of England Base Rate 
increased. Mr V was contacted with a loan invoice at an annual review of the loan in 
November 2022. And told he had then not been paying enough. He explains that his 
payments have increased further as interest rates have risen. This is affecting his business 
and causing him distress. I understand that our investigator has established for him that 
Santander doesnt now have any better rate to offer him.
I appreciate that and why hes pursuing this complaint. I need to think about whether the 
position he is now in is the result of any mistake by Santander. Im satisfied that Santander 
has now applied the terms and conditions of the loan and corrected the period when it was 
overcharging Mr V. The fixed base rate period was due to end in November 2020 and that is 
now correctly reflected. Mr V seemed to be asking about any better rate in March 2020. 
From the emails I think he was reasonably aware that his then rate shouldnt continue after 
November 2020. So, while I understand the potential for confusion when the payments didnt 
change, I cant see he followed that up with Santander or had a basis to assume that the 
fixed base rate had continued other than in error. And that as I say isnt reflected in the 
documentation. Its clear that in November 2020 the variable base rate for the loan was less 
than his previous fixed base rate. So even if I was to find that he should have been offered a 
fixed rate and which may have included fees I cant fairly know what Mr V would have done 
in November 2020 or take into account what it is now known happened to interest rates after 
that.
Santander has as I set out made an error and corrected this. It didnt tell Mr V about this at 
the time. So there has been poor service and communication and needless distress caused 
to him. It has offered to pay him £500, and I think that this is reasonable taking into account 
our published guidance about compensation. I know Mr V will be disappointed when I say 
that I wont be requiring it to do more than this.
My final decision
Santander has offered to pay Mr V £500 to resolve this complaint and I think that this is fair 
in all the circumstances. My decision is that Santander UK Plc pay Mr V £500 as it has 
offered to do.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman