DRN-1887775
The complaint
A company which Ill refer to as D complains that Ebury Partners UK Limited wrongly 
rejected a payment into its account and then closed the account without notice.
Mr G, who is a director of D, brings the complaint on Ds behalf.
What happened
In July 2019, Ebury received a payment of HKD 4,758,000 for D. The funds were held while 
Ebury reviewed the transaction.
Ebury wrote to D later that month, saying it had decided to close its account immediately. 
The HKD payment was subsequently returned to the sender.
Mr G says D hasnt been treated fairly and has suffered substantial losses, in the region of 
$400,000. In summary, he says:
The transaction was legitimate and Ebury shouldve given D the opportunity to 
evidence that. D wouldve given whatever information was necessary, but Ebury 
didnt ask pertinent questions and failed to give a reason for its concerns.
Ebury wasnt entitled to return the payment as it did. Prior to the transaction, Mr G 
met with Ebury, making it aware of the expected payment and with a view to 
providing any information necessary to clear compliance checks. It had assured him 
that the transaction could be made, and  knowing that reneging on that would cause 
detriment to D  was prevented from returning the funds.
When returning the funds, Ebury made errors that led to the senders bank rejecting 
the return and causing a delay. This cost D time and money, as it had to deal with 
both Ebury and the sender.
Ebury has defended its position. And after looking into things, our investigator didnt think it 
had done anything wrong. In short, she said:
Ebury had been entitled to withhold and review the payment in question in order to 
fulfil its legal and regulatory obligations. And it wasnt required to give details or 
reasons of this review to D.
The terms and conditions of the account allowed Ebury to reject the transaction.
The payment was returned to the senders bank on 19 August 2019 after the 
completion of the review. The senders bank had rejected this return and, in error, 
sent the payment back to Ebury, but she didnt think this was Eburys fault. Ebury had 
returned the money again to the senders bank.
Ebury closed Ds account in accordance with the terms and conditions, and provided 
appropriate notification of its decision.
Mr G didnt accept our investigators view. He was concerned that shed not required Ebury 
to justify its actions and maintained that it had not been entitled to act as it had, particularly 
in view of the assurances given prior to the transaction. So he asked that an ombudsman 
review the matter, and it was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Looking firstly at the review of the payment itself, I dont think there is any dispute that Ebury 
was entitled to review and investigate it before crediting it to Ds account. Given the nature of 
the payment I think it was reasonable for Ebury to withhold the funds and investigate, in line 
with its legal and regulatory responsibilities. 
Mr G says the payment was legitimate and that Ebury failed to ask pertinent questions to 
establish that. But from what Ive seen, I think Ebury made reasonable enquiries and had 
sufficient information upon which to base its decision to reject the payment and return it. I 
understand from Mr Gs response that he is concerned that weve not pushed Ebury to 
explain or evidence its position in our investigation of the matter. But I can assure him that 
we have  and from the information weve been given, I think its actions were reasonable. 
I appreciate Mr Gs point that D was further denied the opportunity to make its case by 
Eburys refusal to disclose its reasons for the review and return. But Ebury wasnt required to 
provide this information, so I dont think it did anything wrong here.
Mr G also believes the assurances given by Ebury prior to the transaction mean it wasnt 
entitled to return the funds to the sender, but I dont agree. I wouldnt expect Ebury to have 
completed all its compliance checks before the transaction, and I cant see that it gave any 
assurance to that effect. I understand from what Mr G has said that he knew further checks 
may be required, so it ought also to have been apparent that Ebury would need to be 
satisfied by the information received in making those checks. It wasnt  and as above, I 
think that decision was reasonable.
Mr G says that Ebury made errors in how it returned the funds, causing an undue delay. I 
can see that the first attempt to return the funds on 19 August was unsuccessful  it was 
rejected by the recipients bank and returned to Ebury on 23 August. This seems to have 
been the result of the payment appearing to the recipients bank as if from Ebury, rather than 
a return of the payment from D  leading the recipients bank to reject it. But Ebury has 
shown that in line with its usual processes, it wouldve provided the appropriate details of D 
when instructing the payment. This wasnt relayed by Eburys bank, but that wasnt 
something it knew about at the time and I understand this method hadnt posed any 
problems in the past. In any event, Ebury then took steps to resolve things by making the 
payment through an alternative method  and the payment was successfully made within 
seven working days of the return. So I dont think Ebury was responsible for any 
unreasonable delay in returning the funds.
Lastly, on the decision to close Ds account, I think this was a decision that Ebury was 
entitled to make. The terms and conditions allowed for the agreement to be terminated 
immediately and without notice, in certain circumstances. Im satisfied, from the information 
Ive seen, that its decision was justified in light of the concerns Ebury had. I understand that 
Mr G doesnt dispute Eburys right to take such action, but rather he queries the lack of information it gave D about the reason. But again, thats not something its required to 
divulge.
I appreciate Mr G feels very strongly about these issues, not least as he points to significant 
financial losses for D as the consequence. But as Ive not found that Ebury did anything 
wrong, I cant hold it responsible for any losses that D may have suffered. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2020.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman