DRN-3218745
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E say that they were unreasonably pressured into buying replacement doors and 
windows with a loan provided by Shawbrook Bank Limited. They are represented by a firm 
Ill refer to as H. 
What happened
In July 2017 Mr and Mrs entered into a contract with a company, Z, for the supply and 
installation of replacement doors and windows at their home. To finance the purchase, they 
took out a 10-year loan with Shawbrook, arranged by Z. 
In or about March 2020 H, on behalf of Mr and Mrs E, complained to Shawbrook about the 
sale of the windows and the credit agreement. In summary, H said:
Shawbrook had not disclosed that a director of Zs parent company had a criminal 
record.
The nature of Zs relationship with Shawbrook had not been disclosed. 
The sale was the result of a cold call. 
Z had offered Mr and Mrs E an unfair incentive to induce Mr and Mrs E into taking out 
the loan.
Z had since gone out of business, so Mr and Mrs E could no longer benefit from the 
warranty provided with the goods. 
H said that, to resolve the complaint, the loan should be written off and all payments 
returned. It has since modified that request to require that the loan be switched to an 
interest-free arrangement. 
Shawbrook considered what Z had alleged and wrote to say, in summary:
It was significant that Mr and Mrs E had waited as long as they had before making any 
complaint. 
Although there had been a court ruling about Zs sales conduct, it concerned a small 
number of cases and dated back to practices in 2013 and 2014. 
Z had ceased trading, and Shawbrook therefore had limited information. 
Mr and Mrs E could have exercised their right to cancel if they thought they had been 
misled or subjected to undue pressure. They were still able to repay the loan early if 
they chose to do so.
Shawbrook would consider any claim made under the warranty. 
More recently, H has said that Mr and Mrs E have had some quality issues with the doors 
and windows. Shawbrook says those have been resolved at no cost to Mr and Mrs E but 
that, in any event, they do not form part of the complaint submitted to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. 
When H referred the case to this service, one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. She was not persuaded however that Mr and Mrs E had been treated unfairly 
and did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. H did not accept her assessment and 
asked that an ombudsman consider the case.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I shall first of all  and very briefly  deal with the complaint about the quality of the goods 
and their installation. This was not part of the initial complaint and Shawbrook says that the 
issue has been resolved. I agree that this was not part of the complaint which this service 
was asked to consider and that it would not be appropriate to include it in this decision. I 
would comment only that this service may be able to consider issues around quality if Mr 
and Mrs E are not able to resolve them directly with Shawbrook. I will comment on the 
warranty issue below. 
Mr and Mrs Es complaint is that Shawbrook is responsible for the actions of Z  and in 
particular for its conduct in the sale of home improvement package and the loan agreement. 
One effect of section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is that a customer who has a claim 
for breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain 
conditions, bring that claim against a lender. Those conditions include:
that the price of goods falls within certain financial limits; 
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and 
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier. 
I am satisfied that the necessary conditions were met here.
The effect of section 56 of the same Act is that, in negotiating the sale and the loan 
agreement, Z is to be taken as acting as the agent of Shawbrook. That is, statements made 
by Z about the goods, their installation or the loan are treated as if they were statements 
made by Shawbrook. 
H has also referred to The Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations 2008. 
Those regulations prohibit certain practices in consumer contracts, including, for example: 
claiming that a deal will only be available for a limited time; refusing to leave a customers 
home when asked to do so; giving misleading advice about the price of a product; and giving 
misleading information about the trader.        
Mr and Mrs Es arguments are, to a large degree, that Z acted in breach of these 
regulations. For example, H says that they were initially given a price much higher than that 
which they paid, but were given a discount for agreeing to enter into the loan agreement. 
The salesman was asked to leave their home, following a cold call, but refused to do so. The 
conviction of an individual connected to Z was not disclosed to them. All of these matters  
and others  meant that they felt under pressure to agree to both the purchase and the 
finance agreement. 
I note however that these regulations do not give any direct rights to consumers affected by 
any breach of them of them. Rather, they give certain bodies the right to take enforcement 
action, which can lead to fines or imprisonment. I have nevertheless had regard to them in 
deciding whats fair and reasonable.As I have indicated, section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act makes Shawbrook liable for any 
claim in misrepresentation in the same way that Z would have been. A misrepresentation is, 
in very broad terms, a statement of fact which is untrue and which induces someone into a 
contract, causing loss. I am not persuaded however that Mr and Mrs E were induced into the 
purchase or the loan by untrue statements made by Z, or that they have suffered loss. They 
were told that the price would be reduced if they agreed to take out the loan, but I have no 
reason to think that was untrue. And the price that they in fact paid was set out clearly, as 
were the loan terms. 
As Shawbrook has noted, Z is no longer trading, so it is not possible to get further evidence 
about the sale itself. I think however it is quite likely that Mr and Mrs E did feel under 
pressure to agree to the purchase, possibly as a result of sharp sales practices. I do not 
believe however that I can fairly conclude they would have acted any differently if they had 
not felt under such pressure. Nor is it clear what loss they have suffered. 
Shawbrook noted that Mr and Mrs E did not seek to cancel the agreement, even though they 
had 14 days in which to do so. Nor did they raise any complaint until more than two years 
later. As H notes, they did so within relevant time limits, but the delay in my view makes the 
claims of undue pressure less credible than might otherwise be the case. 
I am not persuaded therefore that Mr and Mrs E could bring a claim in misrepresentation in 
this case.
The goods and workmanship did however come with a ten-year warranty from Z. Since Z is 
no longer trading, that guarantee is no longer of any real benefit to Mr and Mrs E. There is 
therefore a breach of contract, since Mr and Mrs E have not received all that they have paid 
for. I note however that Shawbrook has said that it will consider any warranty claim and that 
it says it has already paid for some remedial work. That is reasonable in my view, and Mr 
and Mrs E may be able to raise a further complaint if any defects arise in the future. 
In the circumstances, I do not believe that Shawbrook has acted unfairly.      
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I dont require Shawbrook Bank Limited to do 
anything more to resolve Mr and Mrs Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 March 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman