DRN-2851401
The complaint
Mr D complains that Aviva Insurance Limited declined a claim after his property was 
damaged by a storm.
What happened
Mr D has a home insurance policy with Aviva. He made a claim after the render on the 
outside of his house was damaged during a storm.
Aviva assigned the case to a loss adjustor so that they could assess the damage. But the 
case had to be returned due to a clear conflict of interest.
Aviva then carried out a desk assessment of the claim using a photograph of the damage 
provided by Mr D. They didnt send out another loss adjustor or carry out an inspection at the 
property because by then Mr D had had the damage repaired.
Aviva declined the claim. They said the damage wasnt likely to have been caused by the 
storm. In essence, they said render wouldnt be blown off a wall by a storm unless there was 
some pre-existing defect or weakness.
Mr D complained to Aviva about their decision to decline the claim. And when they 
maintained their position, he brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into it and thought Aviva should pay for the repairs to Mr Ds property 
 which cost around £500. She thought the damage could have been caused primarily by 
the storm. And she didnt think Aviva had enough evidence of any pre-existing defect to 
decline the claim on that basis.
Aviva disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
Because I disagreed with our investigator and thought Mr Ds complaint shouldnt be upheld, 
I issued a provisional decision. This allowed both Mr D and Aviva to comment on my thinking 
and/or provide further information or evidence before I make my final decision, which is this 
services last word on the matter.
My provisional decision 
In my provisional decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute between the parties here about the fact that there was a storm on 
the day in question  and that Mr Ds property suffered damage during that storm. 
The render came off a part of his outside wall.
Theres no dispute either that insurance policies such as Mr Ds provide cover where 
the main or dominant cause of the damage is a storm. But they dont provide cover 
where a storm simply serves to highlight an existing problem or issue with the 
property.
So, the key point I have to consider in making my decision is whether it was 
reasonable for Aviva to decide that the storm merely served to highlight an existing 
issue with the render on Mr Ds wall.
It wouldnt be usual for perfectly sound render to be damaged by even very high 
winds. The very purpose of the render requires that its bonded very tightly to the 
wall, with no cracks, air pockets or other defects that might allow wind to get behind it 
and separate it from the wall.
So, in my view, it would be exceptional for sound render to be damaged by even very 
high winds. The wind speeds associated with the storm in question were gusting up 
to 70-80 miles per hour according to the Meteorological Office, so this was an 
extreme weather event. But on balance, I dont believe its unreasonable to think that 
even winds of that speed are unlikely to cause damage to perfectly sound render.
The render was a few years old, so shouldnt have been defective due to ageing. 
However, I can see Aviva asked Mr D whether the render was still under warranty or 
guarantee, as it usually would be after that length of time. Its worth quoting Mr Ds 
reply precisely, I think. He said:
There is no guarantee, I had this work done by a local handyman found by 
the maintenance man who worked for my wifes company at the time.
Of course, it is entirely up to Mr D how he chose to get the rendering done in the first 
place, but the lack of a guarantee might reasonably be taken to suggest that there 
were some risks that the work might not be to the highest possible standard.
All of that might be almost entirely irrelevant if Aviva had had a loss adjustor inspect 
the damage before it was repaired. We might then know more conclusively whether 
or not the render was already defective in some way before the storm.
Without any inspection of the damage, there is only a small amount of evidence to go 
on in terms of determining whether the storm was the main cause of the damage. 
Theres the photograph provided by Mr D, the fact the work was undertaken without a 
guarantee, and the assumption that perfectly sound render wouldnt usually be 
damaged by a storm.
If I believed it was entirely Avivas fault that there had been no inspection before the 
damage was repaired, Id very likely be inclined to suggest that it wasnt fair for them 
to decline the claim on the basis of the other available evidence.
In that case, it would be their responsibility that there was such a degree of 
uncertainty about the main cause of the damage. And Id be minded to ask them to 
suffer the consequences of that and pay for Mr Ds repairs.
As things stand though, it would be very difficult for me to come to that conclusion. I 
have no doubt at all that Mr D, because of the nature of his own profession, was 
aware Aviva would want to carry out an inspection. But he had the repairs completed 
before that had happened. And he didnt speak to Aviva before he had the repairs 
carried out.In the circumstances - which are well known to both parties  I cant blame Aviva for 
the short delay in their initial handling of the case. They cant have known about the 
conflict of interest beforehand. And I dont believe Mr D brought the possibility to their 
attention when he made the claim.
So, Aviva have had no choice but to make a decision based on the evidence that is 
available. And Im satisfied their decision to decline the claim wasnt unreasonable on 
the basis of that available evidence.
Aviva have also said throughout their handling of the claim that theyll be happy to 
consider any further evidence Mr D can provide to demonstrate how the damage was 
caused. So, if he can get a statement and/or photographs from the contractor who 
carried out the repairs, for example, theyll take another look and re-consider the 
claim.
Taking all of that into account, Im minded at the moment not to uphold Mr Ds 
complaint. I dont think, on the basis of the information we currently have, I can say 
that Aviva have acted unreasonably or unfairly in the way theyve handled and 
considered Mr Ds claim.
And on that basis, I said I was minded not to require Aviva to take any further action in 
response to Mr Ds complaint.
The responses to my provisional decision 
Aviva have told us they have no further information or evidence to provide and they have no 
comments to make on the thinking set out in my provisional decision.
Mr D did provide some further comments. Im not going to quote Mr D word for word, but Ill 
try to summarise the main points. His arguments were broadly as follows.
One  the render would not have been damaged but for the storm. It was adequate before 
the storm. It was damaged afterwards. Very high winds can cause damage to elements of 
buildings which appear to be in very good order (Mr Ds own words). Therefore, the storm 
caused the damage and the claim should be paid.
Two  the lack of a guarantee for the previous work on the render is irrelevant. The work 
done by the handyman to whom Mr D previously referred was, routine repair works which 
were carried out on the other side of the gable, not the side that was storm damaged. 
Three  it was perfectly possible for Aviva to inspect the damage before it was repaired. The 
delays due to the conflict of interest werent critical and Aviva still had time to carry out an 
inspection. Mr D was indeed aware that Aviva would / should want to inspect the damage, 
but they chose not to do so when given the opportunity, before the repairs were completed.
Four  Mr D has provided proof about how the damage to his render was caused. Aviva 
didnt approach the claim with an open mind, they prejudged it on a formulaic basis. And 
they ignored the evidence he provided, including the photograph provided by his builder.
Five  my lack of knowledge of the claims process and lack of experience of claims means 
that Ive come to the wrong conclusion in this case.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked again at all of the information in our case file. And Ive carefully considered the 
arguments put forward by Mr D in response to my provisional decision. 
I know this will disappoint Mr D, but I havent changed my mind and I wont be upholding his 
complaint. Ill explain why.
The cause of the damage
Mr D says the render was adequate before the storm, but damaged afterwards. Therefore, 
the storm was the cause of the damage. But for the storm the damage would not have 
occurred.
I accept that the render wouldnt have collapsed at that point in time but for the storm. But 
thats not the test that we think its reasonable to apply here. 
As I explained in my provisional decision, we take the view that its reasonable for an insurer 
to ask whether the storm was the main or dominant cause of the damage, or whether it 
simply served to highlight existing damage or weakness. 
And in Mr Ds case  for all the reasons set out in my provisional decision  there is no 
inspection report which might have provided definitive proof on this point. 
In the absence of such evidence, I dont believe it was unreasonable for Aviva to conclude 
that the render must have been compromised in some way before the storm. Again, I set out 
in my provisional decision my reasons for coming to that conclusion, based on the evidence 
and information which is available.
The standard of work previously carried out
Mr D now says the lack of a guarantee on the work carried out by the handyman is irrelevant 
because he worked on a different area of the render, on the other side of the gable. 
Thats slightly confusing, because Mr D originally raised the work done by the handyman, in 
his discussions with Aviva, when they asked how recently the render had been put in place. 
And Aviva can only reasonably have been asking about the render which was now 
damaged, in my opinion.
I can see how this mis-communication may have occurred due to crossed wires, but if those 
earlier repairs werent to the part of the render damaged in the storm, that does somewhat 
undermine the idea that the render was in good order because it has been repaired relatively 
recently. And it left Aviva none the wiser as to when the render was in fact put in place.
I assume the handyman repaired the parts of the render which he judged were worn or no 
longer sound. Which might suggest he personally considered the other parts (including the 
part later damaged by the storm) sound at the time. 
But that was his judgement (as a handyman not a specialist). And it was some years earlier. 
And the fact that some of the render had to be repaired or replaced at that time might 
suggest it had been in place for some time and was beginning to wear.
In any case, even if that hypothesis is correct, none of that was known to Aviva, or put to 
them, at the time they decided the claim. Because they - quite reasonably, in my view - believed that when Mr D referred to the handymans repairs, he was referring to the part of 
the render damaged by the storm. And my decision is about whether Aviva acted fairly and 
reasonably given what they knew at the time.
The failure to inspect the damage
Mr D says he believes he mentioned the conflict of interest when he made his claim. But the 
records which might show that are now gone.
Its important to understand the timeline here. And Im grateful to Mr D for providing some 
further information about this, at my request, after hed responded to my provisional 
decision.
The storm was on the night of 9/10 February 2020. Mr D wasnt sure whether any claim 
would exceed the excess on the policy until his builder had a chance to assess the situation, 
so the claim wasnt made until around 27 February.
Theres an exchange between Mr D and the loss adjustor on 15 March, which suggests the 
conflict of intertest has now come to light. The loss adjustor also asks whether Mr D wants to 
proceed with the claim. There seems to be some question about this, for reasons which 
arent entirely apparent - and Mr D confirmed at that point that he did indeed wish to 
proceed.
Mr D says he cant recall the exact date when the repairs were carried out. They werent 
done on 15 March, when the exchange mentioned immediately above took place. But they 
were completed before 8 April, when Mr D had an exchange with Aviva about the claim.
In his response to my provisional decision, Mr D took exception to what he saw as my 
implying that hes purposely manipulated the situation and had the repairs carried out before 
Aviva could inspect the damage. It wasnt my intention to say  or imply  that that was the 
case. 
I fully understand why Mr D felt obliged to get the repairs done in a timely manner. As hes 
pointed out, there was the risk of further damage to the building the longer the render wasnt 
repaired. And the scaffolding outside his house was inconvenient for himself and for his 
neighbours.
My intention was only to suggest that Mr D knew the way the business worked, because of 
his own occupation, and so would know that if the repairs were completed before Aviva had 
carried out an inspection, they would have to fall back on the very little evidence which was 
available in making their decision on the claim. 
I apologise if my thinking on this point wasnt entirely clear in my provisional decision.
The important question for me here, as I said in my provisional decision, is whether Aviva 
were responsible for the delays in carrying out an inspection. If they were, I might be minded 
to ask them to suffer the consequences of that failure to gather evidence and pay the claim.
In short, I dont think Aviva were primarily responsible for any unreasonable delay here. 
There was the slight delay caused by the conflict of interest. The circumstances are very 
unusual here, as both parties are aware, and I cant reasonably blame Aviva for taking some 
time (at most two weeks) to deal with the situation and confirm the position with the loss 
adjustor and with Mr D.The repairs were carried out at some point within two or three weeks of the loss adjustor 
confirming that Mr D wished to proceed with his claim. It might be as little as a couple of 
days. It might be almost three weeks, at most. Mr D cant recall the precise date. And the 
builders invoice doesnt date the work  and was provided some months later.
I also have to take into account that the first national lockdown due to COVID began almost 
to the day at the start of that three-week period.
So, the circumstances surrounding this claim are unfortunate  and led to some delays in the 
usual process  but I dont think it would be reasonable for me to conclude that Aviva were 
responsible for those circumstances or for the short delays. 
As I say, I can see why Mr D had the repairs completed when he did. But taking that into 
account, along with the other circumstances surrounding the claim, it wasnt Avivas fault that 
this claim ultimately had to be assessed on the basis of the limited evidence available and 
without the benefit of a loss adjustors inspection of the damage.
The existing evidence
Mr D says he has proved the damage was caused by the storm. But I dont think the 
photograph provided by Mr Ds builder does that. It simply shows the damage, but its not 
unreasonable to say that the main cause cant be established from that evidence alone. 
And I point out in my provisional decision why the other evidence  limited though it is  
suggests the more likely explanation is that the render was already defective before the 
storm.
Mr D says he could ask for a report from his builder, which may help to establish the cause 
of the damage, but at present hes unwilling to do so because hes not convinced that Aviva 
will consider that evidence fairly and with an open mind.
My decision can only be about whether Aviva have acted fairly and reasonably. As I said in 
my provisional decision, theyve said theyll look at the claim again if Mr D can provide any 
further information or evidence about the cause of the damage. 
That seems to me to be entirely fair and reasonable. If Mr D cant or wont provide further 
evidence, theres not much more I can ask Aviva to do.
My lack of experience of the claims process 
This decision  and my provisional decision  set out my thinking about Mr Ds complaint in 
full. 
The purpose of my making a provisional decision was exactly so that Mr D and/or Aviva 
could engage with that thinking  and potentially point out where they thought it was flawed.
We provide an informal dispute resolution service. My reasons for coming to the conclusion I 
have  and the logic Ive used to get there  are set out in full here and should be judged on 
their own merits. 
Mr D can choose to accept my decision or not. And if he doesnt, hes free to pursue the 
matter by other means.
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr Ds 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2021.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman