DRN-2292583
The complaint
Ms K complains that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) incorrectly closed her bank account.
What happened
Ms K was temporarily working abroad (whilst maintaining a home in the UK), so she 
called Lloyds around November 2019 to ask it to update her correspondence address 
on its system. Instead of doing that, Lloyds closed the account by mistake.
Ms K called Lloyds several times from around November 2019 onwards to find out 
what happened and to complain she couldnt access her bank account. Shes also 
written to Lloyds several times about the problem.
In January 2020, Ms K spoke to Lloyds again and it said it had written to her (it sent its 
complaint response in December 2019, but Ms K hadnt received it at that point) to 
explain it had mistakenly closed her account and offered her £300 compensation for the 
inconvenience caused. In its response Lloyds also said Ms K could open a new account 
online; in branch or by phone (as an old account couldnt be reopened) and that she 
could contact our service if she wasnt happy with its response.
Ms K complained to us in February 2020. She says that, despite the advice given in 
Lloyds complaint response, shed received error messages when trying to open an 
online account. And Lloyds had since told her she couldnt open another account 
because she was still abroad. Ms K said she wants Lloyds to compensate her for the 
stress and frustration of being without her bank account for many months. And to 
reimburse the other costs and charges shed incurred as a result.
In its response to our service, Lloyds indicated the problem opening an online account 
might stem from Ms Ks residential status. However, Lloyds thought Ms K would probably 
still be considered a UK resident according to its procedures for opening an account  
particularly as she still uses her UK address on her Lloyds profile. So, it suggested Ms K 
should again try to open an online account. And if she received another error message, 
she should call Lloyds again to explain to its staff why she believes she still meets the 
definition of UK resident for account opening purposes.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and felt Lloyds hadnt acted fairly. Particularly 
as the investigator felt Lloyds contradicted the advice it had given Ms K in its complaint
response about her being able to open another account. And she didnt think it fair for 
Lloyds to say Ms K should again call its service if further attempts to open an online 
account werent successful. As she thought Lloyds should be offering more support than 
that. So, the investigator recommended Lloyds pay Ms K another £400 compensation on 
top of the £300 already paid. She also recommended Lloyds call Ms K to arrange to set up 
a new account.
Ms K accepted the investigators assessment, but Lloyds said it wasnt able to implement 
the recommendation due to current operational difficulties caused by the global 
pandemic. It also asked when Ms K was due to return to the UK, so that it could consider 
other solutions.
As Lloyds hasnt accepted the recommendation, the complaints been passed to me 
to decide.
What I provisionally decided - and why
I sent Ms K and Lloyds my provisional findings on 3 September 2020. Ive included the 
relevant extracts below.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres broad agreement between Ms K and Lloyds about what happened  and that 
Lloyds mistake caused Ms K inconvenience. So, the question for me to consider is 
whether Lloyds has done enough to recognise the impact of its mistake and whether it 
needs to do anything more.
From Ms Ks perspective, I can appreciate the frustration and inconvenience she must 
have felt when a fairly simple administrative action such as a change of address led to 
Lloyds closing her account. I say that in particular because these days many people rely 
on a bank account to help them manage their finances and everyday expenditure. 
And some have arrangements in place for the bank to manage certain regular payments 
automatically. So, when those arrangements fall down - as is the case here - because 
Lloyds closed Ms Ks account, I can appreciate the difficulties that must have caused.
As well as other direct debits, Ms K says she had other important payments such as 
National Insurance, due to leave her account. And there were other problems too such as 
her pension provider requiring her to have a UK bank account, so she hasnt been able to 
make payments into her pension fund either. She doesnt yet know the impact of that. 
Ms K also said she has two loans with Lloyds, which its been difficult to pay because she 
doesnt have a UK bank account. I appreciate the situation is likely to have been all the 
more difficult because Ms K is currently based abroad, so she cant just pop into a branch 
to speak to Lloyds.
Ive thought about all of this when deciding if Lloyds has done enough to recognise the 
effect of its mistake. And having done so, Im minded to say Im not persuaded Lloyds 
compensation payment fairly reflects the extent of the frustration; stress and 
inconvenience Ms Ks suffered due to its mistake. I say that in particular because around 
ten months after it happened, she still doesnt have a UK bank account. Unless I receive 
other evidence, Im likely to say the additional compensation of £400 recommended by our 
investigator on top of whats already been paid, fairly reflects the inconvenience caused by 
Lloyds actions. So, I intend to direct Lloyds to pay an additional £400 (making £700 in 
total).
Ms K told us shed made about seven calls and written five letters to Lloyds in relation to 
which shes incurred associated costs. Whilst Ms K hasnt been able to provide bills or 
receipts, she told me shes spent around £50 on telephone calls. This equates to around 
£7 per call and given they were made from abroad, I dont find this estimate unreasonable. 
Nor do I have any reason to doubt Ms Ks account, as the number of calls broadly accords 
with Lloyds records. Given that, I intend to say Lloyds should refund £50 to Ms K in 
respect of the telephone costs she incurred. And whilst its difficult to say exactly how 
much the postage costs were - as theyre usually calculated on weight and size - Im 
intending to say Lloyds should reimburse Ms K £10 in respect of five international letters 
she sent. I think that fairly reflects the costs shes likely to have incurred.
Finally, Ill address the fact Ms K still doesnt have access to a Lloyds current account.Its not for me to say who a bank should offer an account to. Thats an internal decision 
for a bank to make. But given Lloyds apparent willingness to offer Ms K another account, 
Ive thought about whether its response concerning opening a new account seemed 
reasonable. In thinking about this, Ive taken into account Ms K is still abroad due to 
issues arising from the global pandemic. Based on the evidence Ive seen, Im not 
currently persuaded Lloyds response is reasonable.
I say that because one of Lloyds suggestions appears to be for Ms K to go into a branch 
when she returns to the UK. Given her current circumstances, thats not likely to happen 
imminently. Lloyds also suggested Ms K again tries to open an account online and if 
prompted to do so, she calls Lloyds to explain her UK residential status. As it appears that 
was a possible factor in her previous attempts to open an online account being 
unsuccessful. I appreciate that along with many other businesses, Lloyds faces its own 
challenges at the moment. So, I accept it might be difficult for it to phone Ms K. But given 
how the problem arose, I would expect Lloyds to contact Ms K by other means  including 
email if necessary  to offer technical or other support to enable her to open an online 
account. Lloyds doesnt appear to have attempted that, so I cant fairly say its considered 
all other viable options. And I dont think its fair to Ms K for Lloyds to leave things as they 
are.
So, Im now intending to say Lloyds should contact Ms K to progress this matter. I say that 
in particular because Ms K has been a Lloyds customer for many years, and she has 
other Lloyds accounts connected to her closed current account. So, I can see why shed 
want to continue having a Lloyds current account, as opposed to opening a new one with 
another bank. For those reasons, I think Lloyds should make extra efforts to assist Ms K in 
opening a new account given its previous willingness to offer her one.
Responses to my provisional decision
Ms K accepted my provisional findings. Lloyds also agreed with what I said and explained 
its found a way to contact Ms K by phone to discuss opening a new account. 
My findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ms K and Lloyds have accepted my provisional findings, I see no reason to depart from 
what I said. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Lloyds Bank Plc to:
Reimburse £50 telephone costs and £10 postage charges to Ms K;
Pay Ms K an additional £400 in compensation (on top of the £300 already paid) 
to reflect the extent of the inconvenience she suffered when Lloyds closed her 
account by mistake;
Contact Ms K by phone (or other means including email if necessary) - to offer 
technical or other support to enable her to open an online account.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2020.
 Amanda Scott
Ombudsman