DRN-3045837
The complaint
Ms B complains that she cannot afford the loans Morses Club PLC gave her.
What happened
Morses records show that Ms B took four loans and a brief summary appears here:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Highest 
Repayment*
1 22/09/2017 09/03/2018 20 £200.00 £15.00
2 05/12/2017 25/09/2018 33 £400.00 £35.00
3 08/11/2018 20/11/2019 33 £400.00 £20.00
4 20/11/2019 Transferred to 
Lantern34 £500.00 £25.00
Ms B explained to Morses in her complaint: Took a loan out didn't know had to pay high 
interest rates and fell behind and can't afford the payments. Ms B also said: I can't afford 
the payments as I'm on the sick from work and struggling to live with the current climate
Morses responded with a final response letter in which it said it did not uphold her complaint. 
Ms B brought her complaint to this Service. One of our adjudicators thought that by loan 4, 
Morses should have appreciated that Ms B was not able to repay sustainably and thought 
that Morses should put things right for her for loan 4.
Morses disagreed and reiterated that there was a gap between loans 2 and 3 and her 
income and outgoings for loan 4 were enough to cover the repayments. It thought that four 
loans in 26 months was not excessive.
The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me for a decision. I issued a 
provisional decision on 1 September 2021 in which I explained why I was planning not to 
uphold Ms Bs complaint. Both parties were invited to respond by 15 September 2021. The 
findings in my provisional decision are set out here. 
My provisional decision findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-
term lending - including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. In practice this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms B could repay the loans 
in a sustainable manner. These checks could include several different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure.
In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer.
These factors include:
having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan repayments to 
a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a level of income);
having many loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time (reflecting the risk 
that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable);
coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also suggestive of 
the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Morses was required to establish whether Ms B could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether 
the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. The loan payments 
being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could sustainably make their 
repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is because the Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being the ability to repay without undue difficulties. The 
customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments, 
and without having to borrow to meet the repayments.
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower 
will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further in order to do that.
I have carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context and 
what this all means for Ms Bs complaint.
Ms B has not responded to our adjudicators opinion and from that it seems that Ms B does not 
disagree with it. So I am proceeding on the basis that the remaining loan in dispute is loan 4. Morses  
does not think that it needed to put things right for her on loan 4.
Our adjudicator did not address Ms Bs concerns from what she describes as lots of upsetting calls 
from Morses to ask her for the payments. I have no evidence from either party on that element about 
the correspondence and the frequency with which Ms B was asked to make payments. In the 
absence of it then I am planning not to uphold this part of her complaint.
I do not think that the fourth loan, taken sequentially after Ms B had repaid loan 3, suggests 
unsustainability. I do not agree with our adjudicators view on that.
I have seen from records that Ms B had no debt with Morses from 26 September 2018 to 7 November 
2018. This is a relatively short gap in the lending and I do not think that the overall lending relationship 
altered with such a short gap. However, that 44 day break does suggest that Ms B was not repeatedly 
taking loans from Morses. However, I do note that Ms B had been borrowing from Morses for a 
relatively long time by the time she applied for loan 4. And so more ought to have been done at that 
stage in my view.
I can see from Morses records that Loan 3 took longer than was scheduled to repay  originally 33 
weeks and it took Ms B over a year. And that ought to have prompted Morses to carry out further 
checks before approving loan 4. Ms B had been its customer for over two years and I would have 
expected that Morses was carrying out more extensive checks by then if it had not been doing 
already. It was for a larger sum than loan 3.
Morses has shown us and said in its FRL to Ms B that these figures in the table below were her 
declared income and outgoings. I think that some figures may have been taken from the Office of National Statistics (ONS). Ms B says she could not afford the loans, but has sent no evidence to 
demonstrate that. Without more financial evidence from Ms B, I have nothing to suggest that these 
figures are incorrect. And so, as this is the best evidence I have available, I am minded to assess the 
complaint using these figures.
Net weekly outgoings Amount Partner 
pays
Morses Club Loans £20.00 -
Other Credit £1.00 -
Rent £140.00 £57.00
Council Tax £20.00 -
Utilities £30.00 -
Insurance £15.00 -
Transport £65.00 £32.00
Groceries £100.00 -
Media £40.00 -
Childcare £20.00 -
Total £436.00 £89.00
Net Income £624.00
Disposable Income £282.00
I have no credit file from Ms B to demonstrate to me what other debts she may have been repaying at 
the time she applied for loan 4 in November 2019.
Reading Ms Bs complaint emails carefully I think that Ms B is saying she has found it difficult to repay 
the loan and it had become harder after it had been taken. In which case it seems that Ms B is asking 
Morses for a repayment plan to help her.
Morses has made a point that Ms B did not need any loan in September. It uses her decline to 
suggest that it showed she was not reliant. I think it is referring to September 2019. I do not think that 
Ms B turning down an offer of a fourth loan when she was still repaying loan 3 is a persuasive point to 
suggest that she was able to afford a fourth loan two months later.
As I have outlined above, I think that additional checks ought to have been carried out by Morses 
before approving loan 4, but without more detail from Ms B I do not have the evidence to contradict 
that the figures presented to it in November 2019 meant that Morses acted irresponsibly when 
approving loan 4.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
We have not received a response from either party and so in the absence of anything further 
I see no reason to alter my provisional findings. The reasoning in my provisional decision is 
repeated here and forms part of this final determination which is - I do not uphold Ms Bs 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Ms Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman