DRN-4185180
The complaint
The estate of Mr I complains about how Barclays Bank UK PLC dealt with an estate invoice.
What happened
Ms I on behalf of the estate of Mr I says Barclays failed to pay an estate invoice of over 
£3,000. She says she submitted invoices to Barclays which it paid but unknown to her it 
didnt pay a care home invoice. Ms I says she distributed the proceeds from the estate and 
there is now no money to pay the invoice that is outstanding. She says she didnt receive an 
account statement from Barclays and had no way of knowing the invoice hadnt been paid. 
Ms I questions why she is liable to pay the invoice and says its up to Barclays to pay it. She 
says she has been caused distress as a result.
Barclays accepts it made a mistake and has apologised. It says the invoice was unclear but 
accepts it didnt write to Ms I to tell her. Barclays has offered £250 compensation but says 
its not responsible for the invoice payment which is the estates responsibility.
Ms I brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought the compensation offer appropriate and explained that we couldnt award 
compensation to Ms I for her distress. The investigator thought the estate ought to have 
been aware the invoice remained unpaid.
Ms I doesnt accept that view and says this was Barclays error which its responsible for.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Barclays has made an appropriate 
compensation offer in total of £250.
I hope it helps Ms I to understand our role here. We are not Barclays regulator and so its not 
our role to punish it for the clear mistake it made. And the complainant here is not Ms I but 
the estate and so we cant order compensation for any distress or inconvenience caused to 
Ms I personally. We can order compensation be paid to an estate for inconvenience for 
example it was caused.
There is no dispute here that Barclays made a mistake. I accept the invoice for over £3,000 
may have been unclear in part although the total amount payable is clear. But Im satisfied in 
those circumstances Barclays ought to have told Ms I that and I have no doubt she would 
have provided a clearer copy. I have no reason to doubt what Ms I says that she didnt have 
a closing statement which would have told her the invoice remained unpaid. So, I accept that 
the estate has been caused inconvenience in now having to pay a debt it thought had been 
paid.
I can see that Barclays has fairly apologised for the mistake and offered £250 compensation. 
Im satisfied that offer is fair and reasonable for its mistake in not telling the estate about the 
unclear invoice.
The key issue here is about the liability for the invoice. Im satisfied the invoice was a debt 
the estate was liable for and obliged to pay. The invoice was not incurred by Barclays. Im 
also satisfied that the estate has been paid a greater amount than it would have received if 
the invoice had been paid by Barclays. So, I cant see that the estate has suffered a loss and 
was always liable for the invoice. I accept the estate will be caused inconvenience by now 
having to pay the invoice but am satisfied the compensation fairly reflects the level of that 
inconvenience.
Overall, Im satisfied the estate didnt make a mistake here and couldnt reasonably have 
realised the invoice hadnt been paid. But that doesnt mean liability for that debt now shifts 
to Barclays as clearly it didnt incur nursing home fees.
Putting things right
Barclays should pay the estate £250 as its agreed to do.
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC has made a fair compensation offer of £250 
to settle this complaint and it should pay that amount.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr I 
to accept or reject my decision before 12 July 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman