DRN-3085315
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) handled a 
legal expenses claim and its decision to decline cover. Reference to RSA includes its 
agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr and Mrs G have a home insurance policy with RSA which 
includes legal expenses cover. I understand that in August 2020, Mr and Mrs Gs 
neighbours alleged that subsidence to their property was caused by a tree in                
Mr and Mrs Gs garden. The neighbours asked Mr and Mrs G to remove the tree and 
offered to meet the reasonable costs of doing so, provided that the works were 
completed within a reasonable time. 
Mr and Mrs G asked RSA to assist in corresponding with their neighbours loss adjustor.  
RSA said that the policy doesnt cover what happened here and suggested that             
Mr and Mrs G obtain advice from an arborist. I understand that Mr and Mrs G obtained a 
report from an arborist which said that the tree didnt need to be removed. RSA 
maintained its position that what happened here isnt covered by the policy. 
During the course of their complaint, Mr and Mrs G discovered that theres an agreement 
by The Association of British Insurers (ABI) that subscribing insurers deal with claims of  
subsidence caused by the encroachment of tree roots and dont pursue recovery against 
the insurer of the party responsible for the tree. 
Mr and Mrs G wants RSA to reimburse them for the costs of the arborists report and 
their solicitors costs and to pay for the costs of felling the tree. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He didnt think RSA was at fault. 
The investigator said that there was no damage to Mr and Mrs Gs property and their 
neighbours werent claiming against them for damage to their property but had simply 
asked that the tree be removed. He thought that RSA hadnt acted unfairly in declining  
the claim. 
Mr and Mrs G didnt agree with the investigator. They said that it was extremely 
frustrating that RSA didnt tell them about the ABI agreement sooner than it did, which 
would have alleviated some of their stress. Mr and Mrs G say that RSA hasnt explained 
why it declined their claim. They asked that an ombudsman consider their complaint, so 
it was passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that RSA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
I appreciate that its very worrying to be in correspondence with neighbours about this sort of 
issue. But Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Gs complaint because I dont think that RSA 
treated them unfairly or unreasonably. I say that because:
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An 
insurer will decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the terms and 
conditions of the policy document. The onus is on the consumer to show that the 
claim falls under one of the agreed areas of cover within the policy. If the event is 
covered in principle but is declined on the basis of an exclusion set out in the 
policy, the onus shifts to the insurer to show how that exclusion applies.
RSA is right to say that what happened here isnt covered by the policy. Based on 
what Ive seen, Mr and Mrs Gs neighbours arent claiming against Mr and Mrs G in 
relation to damage to their property  they want Mr and Mrs Gs tree removed to 
prevent future damage. Thats not something thats covered either under the      
Legal liability sections of the buildings or contents cover or the Residential part 
of the legal expenses part of the policy. The policy doesnt cover legal assistance to 
help Mr and Mrs G deal with their neighbours request. 
Even if Mr and Mrs Gs neighbours were to pursue  Mr and Mrs G for damage to their 
property, theres an exclusion in the legal expenses section of the policy thats 
relevant here. It says:
What is not covered.
[]
9. Defending legal proceedings that are connected with:
[]
-the loss or destruction of or damage to any property. []
          So, the policy wouldnt cover Mr and Mrs Gs legal costs in defending such a claim. 
I dont think that RSA was obliged to tell Mr and Mrs G about the ABI agreement Ive 
referred to above any sooner than it did. That agreement doesnt mean that            
Mr and Mrs Gs neighbours cant issue legal proceedings for damage to their 
property. It means that, providing both sides insurers subscribe to the agreement,   
Mr and Mrs Gs neighbours insurer wont look to recover its costs from RSA. 
Considering everything, theres no basis on which I could fairly direct RSA to deal 
with Mr and Mrs Gs claim. 
For these reasons, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman