DRN-3009020
The complaint
Mr P complains about how he was treated by Santander Consumer (UK) Plc, after he 
arranged to settle the outstanding balance of his conditional sale agreement.
What happened
In September 2018, Mr P took out a conditional sale agreement with Santander, to get a 
used car. Around a year later, Mr Ps personal circumstances had changed, so he decided to 
sell the car. He planned to use the proceeds of the sale to pay towards his loan with 
Santander, meaning he would pay any remaining balance owed under the agreement 
himself.
Mr P advertised the car and a buyer contacted him shorty afterwards to agree a price. The 
buyer told Mr P he would make a payment to Santander directly, and that Mr P could pay 
him the difference between the settlement and the price they had agreed.
Over the following four days, Mr P and the buyer chatted about the car. The buyer asked 
Mr P for various details about the car and his agreement with Santander. The buyer also 
asked Mr P for a copy of his driving licence. The buyer then contacted Santander and made 
a payment for the settlement amount of Mr Ps loan.
After the payment had been made, Mr P made a telephone call to Santander to check that 
his agreement had been repaid. Santander confirmed that they had no further interest in the 
car, so Mr P made arrangements with the buyer, for him to collect it and take it away. Mr P 
also made a payment to the buyer for £1,993. Around this time, Santander sent a letter to 
Mr P, to say he would still be liable for the settlement amount, should the payment from the 
buyer be recalled.
In late November 2019, the buyers payment was recalled. Santander say this was because 
a stolen debit card was used in the transaction. As such, the settlement wasnt paid, and 
Santander held Mr P liable for the balance of his loan. 
Additionally, Santander recorded a marker with a fraud prevention service and updated the 
information held about Mr P with credit reference agencies. Mr P says this meant his 
bankers closed his current account and he found it difficult to open another account 
elsewhere.
Santander wrote letters to both Mr P and to a member of his family who acted as a 
guarantor, to ask for repayments towards the loan. But, Mr P complained to Santander 
because he no longer had the car and was expected to make payments for it under the 
agreement.
In their final response to Mr Ps complaint, Santander explained that during telephone calls 
about the settlement, the buyer posed as Mr P, using information which Mr P had divulged. 
They said they couldnt be held responsible for the payment made using a stolen debit card, 
being recalled.
Santander managed to get the car back from the buyer and in late January 2020 they sold it 
at auction. The price at the auction wasnt enough to settle Mr Ps loan and Santander have 
continued to hold Mr P responsible for the shortfall. Santander did acknowledge that Mr P 
had nothing to do with the stolen debit card and agreed to remove the fraud prevention 
marker recorded with credit reference agencies.
Mr P didnt accept Santanders explanation and brought his case to us. One of our 
investigators looked into Mr Ps complaint and found that Santander hadnt treated Mr P 
fairly. He said Mr P was the victim of fraud from the buyer and the information he had been 
persuaded to divulge, meant the buyer was able to get access to Mr Ps loan account. 
The investigator concluded that Santander should have given Mr P his car back, when they 
realised the buyer had impersonated Mr P. This meant hed only be responsible for the 
arrears, rather than the shortfall. The investigator also said the fraud prevention marker 
caused Mr P distress and inconvenience. He said Santander should waive the debt owed on 
the loan account, remove any adverse information from Mr Ps credit report, and pay Mr P 
£500 for the impact the fraud prevention marker had on him.
Santander didnt accept the investigators findings. They said they had a duty to report the 
fraud and had sufficient evidence to take action. Santander also said they treated Mr P fairly 
by removing the marker, when they were given further evidence from Mr P. Additionally, 
Santander said they didnt think it was fair to waive the shortfall from the loan, which they 
have asked Mr P to repay.
The investigator didnt change his findings and Mr Ps case has been passed to me to make 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The buyers contact with Mr P
Mr P has provided us with the messages from his mobile telephone, which show the 
conversation between himself and the buyer. The messages start when the buyer made their 
first enquiry with Mr P, on 23 October 2019. Over the next four days, the conversation about 
the car continues and information about the settlement of the loan, the mileage and condition 
of the car and the loan repayments are discussed.
Having considered the nature of the conversation and that Mr P was arranging for the 
repayment of the conditional sale agreement, I think it was reasonable for Mr P to have 
spoken about the various details with the buyer. Mr P also arranged to exchange driving 
licence details with the buyer, so they would be able to identify each other, when they met. 
Again, I think this was a reasonable step for Mr P to agree to, considering the arrangements 
he was making with the buyer.
Santander say Mr P divulged enough information to the buyer to allow him to pose as Mr P 
during telephone calls with them, and correctly answer security questions. I agree that the 
buyer was able to use some of the information Mr P gave him, to speak about the loan with 
Santander. But, I think it also demonstrates that Mr P was a victim of the buyers actions 
here, whereby Mr P gave the relevant information that was applicable to the sale of a car, 
where Santander still had an interest.
Overall, I think the conversation between the buyer and Mr P shows how the buyer carefully gained the information he needed, to carry out his plans to use the stolen debit card, to 
acquire the car. I think Mr P acted reasonably, given the nature of his conversation with the 
buyer and I dont think he was careless with the information he spoke to the buyer about.
The telephone calls to Santander
Ive listened to the five telephone calls made to Santander on 29 October 2019. Ive also 
listened to the calls made to Santander on the following day. Having done so, I agree with 
Santander that some of these calls were made by a third party and not Mr P. I say this 
because the third partys voice is very different to Mr Ps. Additionally, some of the actions 
carried out by the third party were only done, so the stolen debit card could be used.
After considering the calls provided by Santander, I think the third party made four calls, 
posing as Mr P, on 29 October 2019. In the first call, the third party changed Mr Ps address 
and in the second, the settlement payment is made using the stolen debit card. In the third 
call, the third party changed Mr Ps address back to what it was originally, and in the fourth, 
the third party checked the balance of the loan account.
Santander say that the settlement payment needed to have been made by a debit card 
registered at Mr Ps address. So, I agree with Santander, in that the third party made sure 
the debit card transaction could proceed, by posing as Mr P to change his address on their 
records.
The final call made to Santander on 29 October 2019, was from a family member of Mr P. In 
this call, the family member raises concerns that the buyer is pressuring Mr P to hand over 
the car, very early the following morning. The family member spoke of their worry that the 
buyer wasnt genuine and that Mr P could lose out if he hands the car over.
Ive also listened to a call Mr P made to Santander on 30 October 2019, where he asked 
about the balance of his loan. Im persuaded this call was genuine and not made by the third 
party. Within the call, Mr P explains to the adviser that a private individual, rather than a 
dealership was making the payment to his account. Santander didnt question Mr Ps plans 
and gave him their thoughts on dealing with the buyer. So, I think Mr P was given the 
impression by Santander that the buyer was able to make the settlement payment.
In all the circumstances, I think the telephone calls made by the third party posing as Mr P, 
the family member making her concerns known to Santander and Mr Ps genuine call a day 
later, show he was the victim of they buyers plan to use the stolen debit card.
The information available to Santander in late 2019
Santander have told us that they became aware on 22 November 2019, that they buyer had 
used as stolen debit card to settle Mr Ps loan. They say this is also when the settlement 
payment was recalled from the paying bank. At that point I can see from Santanders 
records, that they had access to information to show what had happened to Mr P. 
I say this because, the telephone calls where the third party posed as Mr P and the call with 
Mr Ps family member, happened almost a month beforehand. So, I think Santander were 
able to distinguish between the genuine telephone calls and those made by the third party, 
when the settlement payment was recalled. 
Additionally, I think the behaviour evidenced on Santanders contact log with Mr P shows 
unusual activity. The records show the changing of Mr Ps address and then it changing 
back again within the same day, either side of the payment of a substantial amount.Santander have also explained that they received contact from an online car buying service, 
on 4 November 2019. The purpose of the contact was because the online car buying service 
wanted to check that Santander no longer had an interest in Mr Ps car, as their customer 
was trying to sell it. It was at this time, Santander suspected fraudulent activity and applied 
the fraud prevention marker on Mr Ps records with credit reference agencies.
But, I think Santander had the information available to listen to the telephone calls made and 
consider the activity on Mr Ps loan account and personal details.
Furthermore, around a week after the payment was made, the third party changed Mr Ps 
telephone number. Again, I think in the circumstances of everything else happening on 
Mr Ps loan account, its reasonable that this may have prompted Santander to look into the 
chain of events more closely.
Having considered everything, I think Santander could have used the information available 
to them sooner, to see what had happened to Mr P. I think they would have seen that Mr P 
was a victim of the buyers actions when the stolen debit card was used. 
I think further investigation early in November 2019 and later on that month, would have 
allowed Santander to get to their eventual finding, before the fraud prevention marker was 
applied. That finding being that someone other than Mr P had used a stolen debit card, in an 
attempt to acquire Mr Ps car.
Overall, I think Santander treated Mr P unfairly by applying the fraud prevention marker, 
before they had looked at all the information available to them. I think the information Mr P 
provided to Santander later in their investigation, in February 2020, was available in 
November 2019. 
But, Santander didnt ask Mr P for the information at the time, which meant the fraud 
prevention marker remained on Mr Ps records for around three months. Ive considered the 
impact the marker had on Mr P. However, Ive looked at what happened when Santander 
sold Mr Ps car, to help me reach a finding on the overall impact Santanders actions have 
had on him.
The sale of Mr Ps car at auction
Ive concluded that in November 2019, Santander had the relevant information to decide that 
it was the buyer who used the stolen debit card to make the settlement payment to Mr Ps 
loan account. So, Ive considered if Santander treated Mr P fairly after the car was sold, and 
when they held Mr P responsible for the shortfall on his loan account.
From looking at Santanders internal records, I can see they took the car back from the 
online car buying service on 4 December 2019. I can also see the car was sold at auction by 
Santander on 28 January 2020. With these dates in mind, Ive looked at the communication 
between Mr P and Santander to see if they ought to have treated Mr P any differently.
On 6 January 2020, Santanders records show that they had decided it was the buyer who 
had used the stolen debit card. In other words, it wasnt Mr P. Around four days later, 
Santander explained this to Mr P. But, Santander didnt take any further action to remove the 
fraud prevention marker, or reunite Mr P with his car. Instead, the car was sold at the end of 
January 2020.
Santander removed the fraud prevention marker in early February 2020, when Mr P sent 
them proof he had advertised the car for sale. But, Im persuaded that Santander had 
enough information to at least pause their intention to sell the car around a month beforehand. Had they done so, I think Mr P would have had the opportunity to repay the 
arrears owed under his agreement and either take the car back, or arrange another sale. 
Having considered everything, I think Santander removed that option from Mr P and that 
they didnt treat him fairly. I think the sale of the car was premature, given the stage of 
Santanders investigation. And this has left Mr P with a shortfall of around £4,200, which 
Santander have asked him to repay.
Ive also considered the payment Mr P made directly to the buyer of £1,993. Mr P has 
provided his bank statements to show that this was paid and says hes been unsuccessful in 
getting that money back. While I accept this payment is separate to anything Santander 
could have controlled, its further evidence that Mr P was the victim of the buyers actions.
In all the circumstances, I think its fair for Santander to waive the shortfall owed under 
Mr Ps conditional sale agreement. And I think its reasonable for Santander to allow Mr P to 
exit the agreement with nothing further to pay.
Mr P hasnt provided a copy of his credit reference agency files to show what information 
remains about his conditional sale agreement. But, I can see that Santander sent him 
various letters to say they would pass on missed payment information.
Ive concluded that Santander removed the option to return the car to Mr P, by selling it. I 
think this was a very worrying time for Mr P, in that the buyer had taken his car, but had used 
a stolen debit card to do so. I can understand, in his particular set of circumstances, why he 
cancelled his direct debit and wanted to know the outcome of Santanders investigation. So, 
overall, I think its fair that any adverse information is removed from Mr Ps credit reference 
agency records.
The distress and inconvenience experienced by Mr P
In February 2020, Mr Ps former bankers wrote to him to say that his current account had 
been closed. Mr P has provided us with a copy of this letter and also says he couldnt open 
another account with a different provider. This was around a two months after Santander 
applied the fraud prevention marker to Mr Ps records.
On balance, I think its likely the fraud prevention marker, prompted Mr Ps bankers to review 
his account with them. Mr P has been consistent and credible with what hes told us. and Im 
persuaded that he encountered difficulties opening an account elsewhere. I think this added 
to what was already a difficult set of circumstances for Mr P and had a significant impact on 
his day to day life.
Additionally, Mr P has explained that experienced further distress and upset when Santander 
asked him to show that he didnt use the stolen debit card. I agree that this would have 
caused more worry to Mr P and that he experienced further inconvenience when he tried to 
sort it out with Santander. I think this was relevant, because I think Santander already had all 
the information available to them, to reach their eventual finding.
After reviewing all the evidence, Im persuaded that the impact of Santanders actions on 
Mr P has been twofold. Firstly, Santander recorded the fraud prevention marker with credit 
reference agencies. And secondly, Santander caused Mr P unnecessary worry when they 
asked him to show that he didnt use the stolen debit card.
Having considered everything, I think its fair for Santander to make a payment to Mr P for 
the distress and inconvenience hes been caused. While I acknowledge that some of the 
inconvenience stems from the buyers actions towards Mr P, I think Santander treated him unfairly in their handling of his situation 
In all the circumstances, I think the investigators recommendation is fair and reasonable. 
So, I think Santander should pay Mr P £500 for the distress and inconvenience he has 
experienced.
Putting things right
Santander has already removed the fraud prevention marker from Mr Ps records with credit 
reference agencies. This should now allow him to look for a new current account provider.
But, I agree with the investigator in that Santander must remove the adverse information, 
held with credit reference agencies about Mr Ps conditional sale agreement from October 
2019 onwards. Santander should also waive the outstanding balance owed under Mr Ps 
agreement, and pay Mr P £500 for the distress and inconvenience he has suffered.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Santander Consumer (UK) Plc to:
- waive the outstanding amount owed under Mr Ps conditional sale agreement, so 
Mr P has nothing further to pay;
- remove any adverse information about Mr Ps conditional sale agreement, from 
October 2019 onwards, from the information recorded with credit reference agencies; 
and
- pay Mr P £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Sam Wedderburn
Ombudsman