DRN-2162070
The complaint
Mr S complains about Barclays Bank UK PLC decision to close his account. Hes also 
unhappy that Barclays caused delays when transferring money from his portfolio investment. 
Mr S would like compensation.
What happened
In early September 2019, Barclays wrote to Mr S to let him know they were ending their 
relationship with him. They gave him 60 days notice but didnt tell him why.
On 25 September 2019, Mr S got in touch with Barclays and wanted to make a transfer from 
his investment funds to his daughter. Barclays couldnt make the transfer straight away  
however the transfer was made the day after, on 26 September 2019.
Mr S complained about the delay with the transfer. Barclays responded and told Mr S they 
were complying with their legal and regulatory obligations and therefore didnt uphold his 
complaint. 
The investigator who investigated things didnt think Barclays had acted unfairly. He said 
they were entitled to close his account and gave enough notice in line with their terms and 
conditions. And he thought Barclays had followed their processes when making the transfer 
and hadnt caused any unnecessary delays.
Mr S remained unhappy. He said Barclays had paid him compensation for other complaints, 
so he wanted them to pay him compensation for this.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to broadly the same conclusions as the investigator. I know this 
will come as a disappointment to Mr S  Ive explained my reasons below.
Ive considered Barclays actions when closing Mr Ss account and transferring the funds 
hed requested. Barclays, like all UK banks, are strictly regulated and must take certain 
actions in order to meet their legal and regulatory obligations. Based on what Ive seen, Im 
satisfied Barclays were acting in line with these obligations when reviewing Mr Ss payment 
request and when deciding to close his account.
Account closure
Barclays have helpfully explained to Mr S the term they relied on when closing his account. 
The term confirms;
29.2 Unless the service or Investment terms state that there is a fixed term, we may 
terminate individual services, or our entire relationship with you, by giving you 
Personal Notice at least 30 days before the effective date.
Based on this, Barclays would need to give Mr S 30 days notice before closing his account. 
Im aware Barclays sent a letter to Mr S on 9 September 2019 letting him know their decision 
to close his account. The letter confirmed the account would close around 11 November 
2019. 
Mr S got in touch with our service and said Barclays closed the account earlier in November. 
I havent seen any evidence of this, however Im still satisfied Mr S would have had more 
than 30 days notice  and thats all Barclays are required to give. Therefore, I dont think 
Barclays have acted unreasonably when closing Mr Ss account.
I understand Mr S wants to know why Barclays closed his account. He told one of our staff 
members during a phone call that he thinks its because of his previous actions which 
resulted in him going to prison. While I appreciate Mr Ss concerns, a bank isnt obliged to 
give a reason when closing an account. Just as Mr S wouldnt have to give Barclays a 
reason if he decided to move his bank elsewhere. Barclays have since explained they made 
a commercial decision when ending their relationship with Mr S and Im satisfied theyve 
acted reasonably when doing so.
Delays with the transfer
Mr S contacted Barclays on 25 September 2019 and asked to make a transfer out of his 
investment fund. He said he wanted to transfer the money to his daughter who is at 
University.
Barclays couldnt make the transfer on that day  however the transfer was made the day 
after. I understand why Mr S is frustrated by this. He wanted the transfer to be made on the 
same day he requested it. But a bank cant always guarantee funds in an account are readily 
available.
Ive seen evidence of the process Barclays must go through when making transfers such as 
the request Mr S made. And Im satisfied they followed that process correctly, and without 
any undue delays. Im pleased Mr S was able to have access to the money he wanted for his 
daughter the day after he requested it  and I dont think this is an unreasonable timeframe. 
Therefore, I wont be asking Barclays to pay Mr S compensation.
Conclusions
Overall, I understand why Mr S is disappointed that Barclays have closed his account. And I 
appreciate how frustrating it would have been to find out he had to wait a day for a transfer 
to go through. But I cant fairly say Barclays have acted unfairly in their actions.
Barclays were entitled to close Mr Ss accounts and did so with enough notice. They also 
followed their internal processes when making the transfer for Mr S and didnt cause any 
unnecessary delays.
I appreciate Mr S says Barclays have paid him compensation for other complaints  but my 
decision is only focusing on the individual circumstances of this complaint. And based on the 
evidence, Im satisfied Barclays havent done anything wrong. So, I wont be asking them to 
do anything.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman