DRN-4029321
The complaint
Mr T complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) unfairly put a default on his account. 
He would like it removed.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
As I understand it Mr Ts account fell into arrears, so Barclay issued a default notice 
on 2n June 2021. Although Mr T paid off the arrears the same day, the account fell 
back into arrears and so defaulted on 30 June 2021.Barclays applied to have the 
default reversed in December 2021. I am not clear why it did this. However, that 
didnt happen, but it seems that Mr T made no payments to the account from June 
2021.On this basis I cant say it was unreasonable of Barclays to apply a default. 
Even if the original default had been reversed I think there would have been grounds 
to apply a default in November 2021 given Mr T had made no payments to the 
account.
Mr T has told us that he thought he was on a six-month plan until December 2021and  
then expected to transfer to what he understood was a build-up loan,  but I havent 
seen any evidence that this was the case..
Mr T has also told us that he made no payments to the account as Barclays told him 
not to do so whilst his complaint was being investigated. I have no evidence this was 
the case, and I would be surprised if Barclays had suggested this. Businesses might 
put on hold recovery activities whilst complaints are being investigated but they  
usually expect consumers to carry on making payments to accounts.
Finally, Mr T told us he would have been able to make the payments. And that he 
could clear the arrears if the default were removed. But that now seems not to be the 
case. Mr Ts financial situation seems quite uncertain, so I am not persuaded he did 
have the funds to make good his account. Given the account history and lack of 
payments I think  Barclays were reasonable to apply a default to Mr Ts account and 
so I cant reasonably ask Barclays to remove it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman