DRN-3786202
The complaint
Mr C has complained about the way in which Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited 
(Admiral) settled his claim under his home insurance policy following a theft at his property.
For the avoidance of doubt, reference to Admiral in this letter includes its representatives, 
loss adjusters and contractors. Reference to Mr C includes submissions made by his 
representative on his behalf.
What happened
In June 2019, Mr Cs property was broken into. Damage was caused and certain personal 
items were stolen. Mr C reported the matter to the police and he also made a claim on his 
home insurance policy.
Admiral settled Mr Cs claim for a cash sum of under £20,000. He felt that the terms and 
conditions of the policy were unclear and misleading, that its definitions were ambiguous and 
that the settlement was therefore unfair. He felt that settlement of over £50,000 was more 
appropriate. Mr C also complained about delays in Admiral processing the claim and that 
this caused a great deal of additional stress. Admiral maintained its position and Mr C 
therefore referred his complaint to our service.
The relevant investigator didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. He didnt think the wording of the 
policy was ambiguous. He said that the policy stated that certain items needed to be listed in 
order to be covered up to their full value. He concluded that Mr C had some realisation that 
high value items needed to be listed, even if he didnt appreciate the full terms of the policy.
Mr C remains unhappy about the outcome of his complaint. The matter has therefore been 
referred to me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issues for me to determine is whether Admiral applied the terms and conditions of 
Mr Cs home insurance policy in a fair and reasonable manner and whether Admiral 
provided a fair and reasonable service to Mr C. I consider that it both cases, Admiral acted in 
a fair and reasonable way and Ill explain why Ive reached this final conclusion. 
The starting point is the specific wording of the policy documents as follows. The policy 
booklet covers the usual insurance perils which includes theft. The policy also includes 
standard conditions. It states that: 'Any high-risk item valued at more than the 'Unspecified 
item limit must be shown on your Home Policy Schedule as a specified item. We will not pay 
more than the 'Unspecified item limit for any single high-risk item not shown on  your 
Schedule. Please contact us if you need to add a specified item to your Schedule.' In 
the Specified Items section of the Policy Schedule, it specifies the category, description and 
value of three listed items. Directly under this it states Single unspecified High Risk items 
worth more than £1,000 must be specified in the table above to be covered to their full
Value. The Schedule also refers to a Total High Risk Items Limit as being £51,200.
High Risk Items are defined as; Personal belongings owned by you and your family: Any 
collectible articles which are rare or unusual; Musical instruments or audio visual, 
photographic or; sporting equipment; Computers, laptops, tablets and notebooks; Jewellery, 
watches, pearls, precious metals or stones; Pictures, prints or works of art
In the Policy Schedule, there is also a box entitled Extra Conditions (Endorsements).This 
states We will not cover loss or damage to specified items of jewellery valued at over £5,000 
unless they are inspected by a professional jeweller annually and any defects are rectified.
The maximum we will pay for any one claim arising from loss or damage by theft or 
attempted theft for a single item of jewellery, watch or item of gold is £10,000 unless the 
article is a) being worn by you, or b) in a securely fixed locked safe that has a cash rating 
suitable for the value of the items kept inside it, or c) deposited in a bank
I now turn to what each of the parties say about the matter. Firstly, Mr C felt that the policy 
wording was ambiguous and misleading. He also thought that a paragraph in the section 
entitled Extra Conditions (Endorsements) confused matters. He said that this has led to an 
unfair settlement of his claim. He also felt that the claim was dragged out and investigated 
by Admiral for no specific reason and that this led to unnecessary stress. Mr C had thought 
that he was fully covered by his policy for any eventuality. Hed purchased the policy on the 
understanding that it covered him up to a level of £150,000 for buildings and contents 
combined. Hed assessed the value of his contents a being well over £100,000, to include 
personal effects, jewellery and watches. He said that the total for high-risk items came to 
well over £50,000 and this was stated on the policy schedule. He therefore considered that 
he should be covered up to this value. 
Mr C had thought he only had to specify items that he and his wife wore on a regular basis. 
He didnt realise they had to specify everything with a value of over £1,000. Hed also 
understood that he would be reimbursed for any single item stolen up to the value of 
£10,000. In summary, Mr C he felt that Admirals settlement figure was around £36,000 less 
than it should have been. Mr C said that he thought we were purchasing a top-quality 
product from Admiral. It was labelled as 'Admiral Platinum'. This has proven to be a mistake 
on our part. They cannot offer what is deemed a Platinum product yet enforce such 
draconian limits on their clients.
As to delay, Mr A said that hed first complained in February 2020 and as a result, it 
accepted its failing and paid compensation of £150. He complained about the unbelievably 
slow, unprofessional way they and staff of their claims team deal with the claim. He 
considered Admirals recent offer of compensation of just over £130 to be derisory and 
insulting. He thought that Admiral had continued to provide poor customer service for a 
further 14 months after admitting their service was not up to standard in the initial period and 
paying us more than they are offering now. He said that calls were not returned, that 
suppliers had not been helpful and that it was unreasonable that two loss adjustors had been 
associated with the claim  In summary, he considered that the delay in the entire process, 
reflects very poorly on the insurance industry as a whole.
Admiral said it had calculated the settlement figure to include sums for jewellery, repairs to 
Mr Cs property and miscellaneous items. Admiral further referred to the wording of its policy. 
It thought it was clear that relevant items worth more than £1,000 must be specified to be 
covered to their full value. It didnt agree that the wording was ambiguous.As to delays, Admiral said that as the crime report didnt include a loss list, this caused some 
delays. It agreed however that there had been delays in the payment process and 
apologised to Mr C for any inconvenience caused and it arranged for feedback to be 
provided to its loss adjusters. It awarded compensation of just over £130 to Mr C in 
recognition of its error. This amount included interest of 8% per annum. It said it had also 
added interest to part of the settlement amount.
It didnt agree that Admirals customer service had been poor following settlement of Mr Cs 
previous delay complaint which resulted in the payment of £150. It didnt agree that its 
representatives had been unhelpful and considered theyd responded in a timely manner. 
Finally, it explained that the claim was transferred to another team after the initial loss 
adjusters site report due to the value of the claim and it said that this was normal process. It 
was unable to agree timescales had been wholly unreasonable. It thought that the loss 
adjusters were pro-active in settling the claim, although accepted there was back and forth 
as to the dispute over the £1000 limit. It accepted there was a slight delay in issuing the 
settlement payment for the jewellery and that following acceptance by Mr C of its provisional 
offer, payment should have been made sooner.
.
Admiral held certain notes of the telephone discussion on inception of Mr Cs policy. It said 
that they indicated that Mr C started the call by enquiring whether two watches and a ring 
were specified on the policy, and the agent confirmed yes. It said that Mr C would also have 
been sent his policy documents for him to review. It said that this call recording was 
unfortunately no longer available as it was made in 2018 and calls before a certain date 
would have been deleted due to Admirals interpretation of regulations.
Ive carefully considered all that Mr C and his representatives and Admiral have said and Ive 
also carefully considered all the available evidence in this matter in the light of the wording of 
Mr Cs home insurance policy. Its not the case that a policyholder will be covered for every 
eventuality and there are invariably certain limits and conditions on every insurance policy 
which need to be read carefully. In this case, I note that Mr C thought that the wording of 
Admirals policy was ambiguous and misleading. As the insurance cover is for £150,000, I 
can see why a policyholder might have thought that all items stolen up to this limit would be 
covered by the policy. The Schedule also refers to a total high-risk limit being just over 
£50,000.  Again, I can see why a policyholder might have thought that s/he could claim for all 
losses of high-risk items up to this limit.
Having said this, I consider that the wording is sufficiently clear to bring the policyholders 
attention to the need to specifically itemise all high risk or high value items. The policy clearly 
states that such items valued at more than the limit of £1,000 must be shown as a specified 
item and that if not shown on the Schedule, no more than £1,000 will be paid out for any 
such item. This makes the insurer aware of any items for which special precautions need to 
be taken and for which valuations may be required to ensure that theyre insured to their full 
value. The Extra Conditions (Endorsements) wording emphasises the extra precautions 
which high value items might attract such as the need for inspection by a professional 
jeweller over the value of £5,000.
Ive noted that Mr C was of the impression that he only had to specify items that he and his 
wife wore on a regular basis. This may have been a misunderstanding, having read the 
provision which specifies that the maximum which would be paid for a single item would be 
£10,000 unless the article was being worn, was in an appropriate safe or in a bank. This is 
not the case however, and whether worn or not, the policy required any item over the value 
of £1,000 to be specified as indeed was the case for three listed items which were not stolen 
during the incident. Im satisfied that the policy wording wouldnt have given the impression 
that Mr C only had to specify items worn on a regular basis and there is no evidence that 
Admiral advised him that this was the case.Ive noted that the telephone call of Mr Cs initial call when he set up the policy is no longer 
available, and this is unfortunate. Nevertheless, Ive no reason to doubt the telephone call 
notes that indicates that Mr C specifically asked about the three specified items at the 
beginning of the call. On the balance of probabilities, this supports the conclusion that Mr C 
appreciated the need to take care to specifically reference high value items. 
In conclusion, as to the provision in the Policy and Schedule that required single high-risk 
items worth more that £1,000 to be specified in order to be covered to their full value, I dont 
think this is unclear. A plain reading of the policy is that if an item is not specified, the 
maximum which will be paid out on a claim for such item would be £1,000, subject to 
evidence of the item being at least that value.
Its appreciated that the break-in and loss of personal items will have been an extremely 
traumatic event for Mr C and his family. However, the question I must address is around 
interpretation and clarity of Mr Cs home insurance policy. I appreciate that Mr C may not 
have entirely appreciated the consequences of the choices he made when commencing his 
policy with Admiral. Im satisfied however, that as Mr C listed and specified three high risk 
items in his Policy Schedule, he was aware of the need to take extra care in relation to high 
value items. I therefore agree with our investigator that Mr C appreciated the need to list 
such items, even if he didnt fully appreciate the impact of the wording of the policy. I also 
understand Mr As disappointment as he thought he had the benefit of a platinum or 
superior policy which he thought would cover him for most eventualities. 
Finally, I can see that Mr C and his family went through the added trauma of a long and 
complicated claims process as well as police involvement. It is however unfortunately an 
inevitable part of the process that proper checks and investigations need to be carried out to 
verify a claim. This is particularly the case for large claims of this nature. I cant say that the 
way in which Admiral handled this claim was unfair or unreasonable either. Having carefully 
checked the actions and timescales involved in the process, I cant say that Admiral was 
unreasonable in offering to pay an additional sum of just over £130 to Mr C for an 
administrative delay and this is within the range of remedies we would expect to see.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont intend to uphold Mr Cs complaint and I dont require 
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to do any more in response to his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman