DRN-2327926
The complaint
Mr I complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc offered him a credit card without carrying out 
proper affordability checks and treated him unfairly when he fell into arrears. 
What happened
In 2014, Sainsburys Bank offered Mr I a credit card with a limit of £1,800.
The credit card later exceeded its limit several times, and some payments to the account 
were returned unpaid and charges were applied. Sainsburys Bank wrote to tell Mr I the 
account had exceeded its limit, but the letters were returned undelivered. Sainsburys Bank 
sent the account to their recoveries team to trace an address for Mr I, and the address was 
changed in May 2018.
The account was brought back within its limit and from August 2018 Mr I began paying 
£50.00 per month. Sainsburys Bank have charged no interest or late payment charges after 
August 2018. 
Mr I complained to Sainsburys Bank in January 2020. In their final response in February, 
Sainsburys Bank didnt uphold the complaint but did make a payment of £30.00 to Mr Is 
account to reflect the time taken to look into his complaint. Sainsburys Bank thought they 
had carried out reasonable affordability checks before offering Mr I a credit card, and that 
they had dealt with him fairly when they contacted him to make him aware of the arrears.
 
Mr I wasnt happy with the final response from Sainsburys Bank and brought his complaint 
to our service.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr I and thought that Sainsburys Bank had fairly 
assessed his affordability at the time he applied for the card. The investigator considered 
that Sainsburys had tried to contact Mr I to discuss his arrears, including telephone calls as 
letters had been returned undelivered. And, the investigator thought Sainsburys Bank acted 
fairly by stopping charges and interest to the account after August 2018.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Affordability checks
When Mr I applied for the credit card, Sainsburys Bank needed to carry out reasonable and 
proportionate checks. There isnt a set list of checks, but the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) Handbook explains what it considers to be reasonable credit worthiness checks. It 
gives examples of factors Sainsburys Bank must consider and refers to whether the 
information is enough and whether they should obtain additional information from Mr I or any 
other sources of information. 
Sainsburys Bank says its decision to offer credit was based on information Mr I supplied on 
his application, credit history checks and its own risk strategies. However, Sainsburys Bank 
says they no longer have records of any credit checks that may have been made as they 
changed supplier and no longer have access to this information. 
Its for Sainsburys Bank to decide who it gives credit to and on what basis. What Id expect 
is for Sainsburys Bank to carry out enough checks before it does so. Mr I told them on his 
application form that his income was £19,200 pa. Mr I now says that he already had debts of 
£12,000 when he took out the card, and his average income of £150 - £350 per week didnt 
leave a lot of room for spare funds. However, Ive seen that Mr I declared his income as 
£369 per week, so I consider it reasonable for Sainsburys Bank to rely on this. 
Mr I says Sainsburys Bank shouldve requested a copy of his bank statements at the time 
as this wouldve given a clearer picture of his finances. Sainsburys Bank say they took into 
account he had been living at the same address for 22 years, and based on his age, it was 
more likely than not he was living with his parents. They say this wouldve meant the card 
payment was sustainable even with the debts Mr I says he had.
Mr I has provided a copy of a recent credit report and I can see that he had several other 
credit accounts open at the time he applied to Sainsburys Bank. However, I cant see the 
credit report highlights Mr I was in financial difficulties around the time he applied for the 
card. 
Taking all the above into account, I think it is more likely than not the credit searches 
Sainsburys Bank (or their supplier) completed wouldnt have adversely affected the 
application. And, I dont think it was unreasonable for Sainsburys Bank to consider a 
declared income of £19,200 pa would sustain payments to the card. Therefore, I think 
Sainsburys Bank carried out reasonable and proportionate affordability checks when Mr I 
applied for the card.
Financial difficulties
Mr I says that Sainsburys Bank frequently called him about his account and that these calls 
happened in the afternoon and evening, sometimes on consecutive days.
Sainsburys Bank say they wouldve adhered to Ofcom guidelines when making these calls 
and that they would normally try to contact customers who had missed payments. They say 
that they dont have any call recording prior to June 2018 as they changed supplier at this 
time.
Ive reviewed the statements Sainsburys Bank provided and I have also reviewed the letters 
they sent to Mr I throughout 2018 and 2019. These have helped me form a view on what is 
likely to have happened and what contact is likely to have taken place.
Sainsburys Bank wrote to Mr I between January and April 2018 to tell him he had exceeded 
his card limit. Although Mr I did make some payments in February and March, by April the 
card was still over its limit. Then in late April, the letter Sainsburys Bank sent in January was 
returned undelivered and the recoveries team were asked to trace Mr I. It seems more likely 
than not that this is why the Sainsburys Bank recoveries team would have been trying to 
contact Mr I. Of course, I cant say at what times they made their calls as there is no 
evidence in this regard, but in these circumstances, I dont think it was unreasonable for 
Sainsburys Bank to try and contact Mr I on the telephone. 
Sainsburys Bank obtained an address for Mr I in late May 2018, and in June Mr I brought 
the account back to within its limit.The statements show Mr I was paying £50.00 per month from August 2018, and Sainsburys 
Bank wasnt charging interest on the account. So, although it isnt well recorded, it seems 
more likely than not Mr I and Sainsburys Bank had agreed a repayment plan, and Mr I kept 
to the plan until October 2019. Therefore, I think on balance, Sainsburys Bank treated Mr I 
fairly when he was experiencing financial difficulties and I dont think they did anything wrong 
here.
Ive noted Sainsburys Bank has paid £30.00 into Mr Is account because they say they didnt 
deal with his complaint in good time. Complaint handling isnt a regulated activity, so I cant 
look into this aspect for Mr I.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I wont be asking Sainsburys Bank 
Plc to take any further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2021.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman