DRN-3997878
The complaint
Mr M is a sole trader. He complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly declined his request 
for a loan under the government-backed Recovery Loan Scheme. 
What happened
Mr M approached Barclays with a view to borrowing funds under the Recovery Loan 
Scheme, but the bank turned down his requests on the grounds that the repayments 
wouldnt be affordable for him.
Mr M complained, but Barclays maintained its position. So Mr M referred the matter to us. 
He said the bank had led him to believe that his request had been approved, and that hed 
spent hours on the phone trying to chase things up when hed not heard anything  only to 
later be told that the application had been declined.
Our investigator said, in summary, that the decision to lend ultimately rested with Barclays 
and she didnt think it had exercised its discretion unfairly in choosing to decline Mr Ms 
application. Having reviewed the basis of the decision, she thought the bank had reasonably 
concluded that the proposed loan wouldnt be affordable for Mr M. And she said Barclays 
had been clear in explaining to Mr M upfront that it was unable to proceed with his request, 
so she didnt think the bank was responsible for the time and trouble hed spent in following 
up on the matter. 
Mr M didnt accept our investigators view. He reiterated that Barclays had led him to believe 
that he was eligible for the loan he was seeking and highlighted that the purpose of the loan 
scheme to support businesses, like his, who were suffering from the unprecedented impact 
of the coronavirus pandemic. He still didnt think Barclays had treated him fairly, and traced 
things back to an earlier decision by the bank to decline his request for a Bounce Back 
Loan  as he also believed that to have been unfair, and said that he wouldve automatically 
received a Recovery Loan if hed taken out a Bounce Back Loan. 
So with no resolution, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Recovery Loan Scheme, lenders were entitled  and expected  to 
assess the viability of the lending proposition. Applications were still subject to affordability 
and creditworthiness assessments in a similar way to conventional loans, with lenders 
retaining the discretion to consider requests in line with their usual underwriting policies. So 
while I agree with Mr M that the Scheme was set up to help businesses access finance 
during the challenging times brought about by the coronavirus pandemic, that didnt absolve 
the bank of its obligations to lend responsibly and its entitlement to decline applications that 
didnt meet with its requirements.
Barclays has explained and evidenced that Mr Ms application didnt meet its affordability 
and viability requirements. Ive looked at the basis of its decision and think it was 
reasonable, based on the information it gathered. The bank also said that while Mr M held 
an existing business relationship with the bank, this was for a different business to the one 
for which Mr M was seeking the loan. That meant that the application didnt meet its own 
eligibility requirements, which included that the applicant business had a pre-existing 
relationship with Barclays for a minimum of 12 months. Each of these represented valid 
grounds on which to decline Mr Ms application.
Mr M has suggested that the decision wouldve been different if Barclays had approved his 
application for a Bounce Back Loan. That decision was the subject of a separate complaint, 
which we were unable to investigate because it wasnt referred to us in time. But even if 
Mr M had obtained a Bounce Back Loan, that wouldnt have made him automatically 
eligible for a Recovery Loan in the way he suggests. The Recovery Loan application would 
still have been subject to the same checks, and the holding of a Bounce Back Loan 
wouldnt  in and of itself  have improved his eligibility. 
Ive also considered what Mr M has said about being led to believe by Barclays that he was 
eligible for the loan, before the bank changed its position sometime later  and only after 
hed spent a lot of time on the phone pursuing the matter. But that isnt reflected in the 
banks contemporaneous notes of contact with him, which record a number of conversations 
in which the various staff members described having confirmed to Mr M that the request 
wouldnt be approved. Without recordings of each and every call that Mr M had with the bank 
it is hard for me to be sure of exactly what he was told, but the available evidence doesnt 
lead me to think he was misled or misinformed  and, even if he was, I think this was 
corrected swiftly and without impacting Mr M to the extent that any compensation is 
warranted.
Ive taken into account everything Mr M has said and provided to us, including his comments 
about the banks suggestion that he open a business account elsewhere in order to qualify 
for the Recovery Loan. I dont think it was necessarily wrong of Barclays to suggest that 
Mr M was free to approach other banks, and it was then up to him as to whether or not he 
wished to do so. 
I would also point out that the Recovery Loan Scheme remains open, so Mr M hasnt been 
deprived of the opportunity to apply again  whether to Barclays or an alternative lender  if 
he wishes to do so.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr M as I understand he feels very strongly about this matter. I hope 
that an independent assessment of the matter will, at least, offer him some comfort that his 
application wasnt handled unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2023.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman