DRN-4149463
The complaint
Mr K complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard was irresponsible in its 
lending to him.
What happened
Mr K was provided with a credit card by Barclays in December 2016. The initial credit limit 
was set at £400 and wasnt increased. Mr K says that adequate checks werent undertaken 
before the lending was provided and that had they been Barclays would have realised that 
the lending wasnt affordable.
Barclays initially said that Mr Ks complaint was out of time but then consented to the 
complaint being investigated. Barclays said that before the lending was provided it carried 
out credit worthiness and affordability checks. It said Mr K applied for an account that was 
aimed at assisting customers to improve their credit score. It said that Mr K declared an 
annual income of £15,800 and that he was living with his parents. Barclays said that based 
on its data collection regarding Mr Ks income and expenses and his credit data, a much 
higher credit limit was deemed affordable but in line with the product it decided to provide an 
initial credit limit of £400. This limit was never increased.
Our investigator didnt think that Barclays had done anything wrong by providing Mr K with 
the credit card with a £400 credit limit.
Mr K didnt agree. He didnt agree that adequate checks were carried out before the lending 
was provided and said that his income was irregular at the time as he was self-employed 
and relied on seasonal work. Mr K said he was also paying off a loan and catalogue account 
at the time and was struggling financially. He said he had had other claims for irresponsible 
lending upheld.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I note Mr Ks comments that other 
businesses have upheld his complaints, but we assess each case based on its individual 
merits. While I have taken into account the relevant laws and regulations, my decision is 
based on what I consider fair and reasonable given the unique circumstances of this 
complaint
As our investigator has explained, before providing credit, lenders need to complete 
reasonable and proportionate affordability checks. There isnt a set list of checks a lender is 
required to carry out, it just needs to ensure the checks are proportionate when considering 
things like: the type and amount of credit being provided, the size of the regular repayments, 
the total cost of the credit and the consumers circumstances. 
Mr K was provided with a credit card with a £400 credit limit. Before this, Barclays gathered 
information about his employment, income and residential status. Mr K declared an annual 
income of £15,800 and Barclays has explained that this income figure was validated with a 
credit reference agency. While I note Mr Ks comment about his income being irregular, I can 
see the amount he noted as his monthly income from the time was in line with the amount 
Barclays recorded. Given the information Barclays received and the credit limit it provided, I 
think it was reasonable that Barclays relied on this income information. 
Barclays carried out a credit check before providing the credit card. I have looked through 
the information provided by Barclays and also the credit report supplied by Mr K. As the 
credit card was provided in December 2016, Mr Ks recent credit report may not include all 
the information that would have been available at the time. But having looked at the 
information supplied I do not find that this raises concerns that meant further checks were 
required.
Mr K has said he was repaying a loan and catalogue account at the time, and I can see that 
in Barclays credit checks it shows the loan payment and an amount for a credit card. Taking 
the amounts into account that Mr K has noted I do not find that this suggests the lending was 
unaffordable.
In conclusion, noting the size of the credit limit provided, I think the checks carried out before 
the credit card was provided were proportionate. As these didnt raise concerns about the 
affordability of the lending, I do not find I can say that Barclays acted irresponsibly by 
providing this credit to Mr K.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman