DRN-2746907
The complaint
Miss H and Mr H complain that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) declined their travel insurance 
claim and about its service. My refences to UKI include its agents.
What happened
Miss H and Mr H have travel insurance through a bank account. UKI is the insurer. 
In 2019 Miss H and Mr H booked a trip abroad from 29 May 2020 until 1 June 2020. In 
March 2020 the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all but essential 
international travel due to Covid-19 and the trip was cancelled. As the hotel was booked on a 
non-refundable rate the hotel provider refused to provide a cash refund and offered a 
voucher for the amount of the cancelled booking, initially until June 2021. Miss H and Mr H 
didnt want the voucher and claimed on the policy for the hotel cost.
UKI refused the claim. It said the policy didnt cover costs that could recovered from 
elsewhere and as Miss H and Mr H had received a voucher from the hotel provider they 
didnt have a financial loss. 
Miss H and Mr H complained to us. They want UKI to pay their cancelled hotel cost in cash, 
less the policy excess, and said in return they would surrender the voucher to UKI.
Before our investigator gave her view she asked Miss H and Mr H to check if the hotel 
provider would extend the voucher, given the travel restrictions at the time. The hotel 
provider agreed to extend until 31 December 2021. 
Our investigator said UKI could fairly decline the claim as Miss H and Mr H didnt have a 
financial loss and the voucher terms werent unreasonably restrictive. 
Miss H and Mr H disagree and want an ombudsmans decision. In summary they say they 
cant use the voucher within the expiry date unless they book non-refundable flights as  
flexible flights to the relevant country arent available. They dont want to book non-
refundable flights in case there are travel restrictions at the time of the trip which the new 
terms of the policy wouldnt now cover. They suggest UKI offers them additional insurance 
coverage to cover any lost flight costs they might have.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered the relevant rules and industry guidelines which say that an insurer has 
a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt unreasonably decline a 
claim.
I dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy covers hotel costs if a trip is cancelled due to the FCO advising against all but 
essential travel in the 28 days before the trip starts. But the policy specifically excludes costs 
that are recoverable elsewhere.
The hotel providers offer of a voucher in 2020 meant that in effect Miss H and Mr H had 
recovered the hotel costs from the provider, in the form of a voucher, and they had no 
financial loss to claim. So I think UKI fairly declined the claim in 2020. The hotel providers 
extension of the voucher to the end of 2021 means Miss H and Mr H still have no financial 
loss to claim.
Ive considered the reasons, including Mr Hs personal circumstances, that Miss H and Mr H 
have given as to why they think its unreasonable for UKI to expect them to accept the 
voucher. But I dont think the terms of the voucher are so restrictive that it wouldnt be fair 
and reasonable to expect Miss H and Mr H to accept the voucher in the circumstances.
At the time of making my decision the voucher for the hotel is valid for six months and one 
can travel to the relevant country with the minimum restrictions. Even if Miss H and Mr H 
cant book flexible flight tickers at present that may change. Even if not, I still cant 
reasonably say the voucher for the hotel has no value for Miss H and Mr H. Mr H says the 
terms of his policy with UKI have changed so that a flight cancelled due to a change in FCO 
advice would no longer be covered. If thats correct that situation may also change in the 
remaining six months and there are other travel policies available which may offer cover if 
thats a concern for Miss H and Mr H. UKI doesnt need to offer Miss H and Mr H special 
arrangements for them to have cover outside the policy terms.
Overall Im satisfied that UKI can fairly decline the claim.  
As our investigator explained, if Miss H and Mr H are unable to use the voucher by its new 
expiry date, or their circumstances change, they can refer back to UKI. Id expect UKI to 
reassess the claim on the circumstances. Its fair for me to tell Miss H and Mr H that as part 
of such a reassessment we generally think it would be reasonable for a consumer to provide 
evidence to the insurer that theyve asked the voucher provider to extend the voucher and 
the provider has refused or hasnt responded to a reasonable number of requests.
Miss H and Mr H also say in their complaint form that they were unhappy with the service 
provided by UKI. Mr H says examples include that UKI closed its phone lines to existing 
claimants on two days in a week and when he called he had to wait on hold for about an 
hour and a half to be told that there was a problem and he needed to call back. Also, UKI 
told him it wasnt able to accept telephone calls but left him a voicemail. 
I understand the problems Miss H and Mr H had with UKIs service would have been 
frustrating but in the circumstances theres no basis for me to say that it would be 
reasonable for UKI to pay them compensation for their inconvenience. UKI was dealing with 
unprecedented demands on its service at that time. UKIs 20 July 2020 letter to Mr H 
apologised for the problems and said whilst it adapted to support customers it could take 
longer than usual to respond and asked for calls on urgent matters only, which I think was 
reasonable. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H and Mr H 
to accept or reject my decision before 5 July 2021.
 Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman