DRN-4093075
The complaint
Mrs L complains about the service she received in connection with the closure of her 
account by John Lewis Financial Services Limited (JLFS).
What happened
Mrs L held a credit card account with JLFS. She says that, in the Summer of 2022, she 
received an email saying that the credit provider would be changing and that further 
information would be sent about it nearer the time. She says she didnt hear any more, but 
she knew that some friends had received a further message giving them a code so that they 
could apply for an account with the new provider. Mrs L hadnt received a code, so she 
contacted JLFS in September. 
JLFS referred her to another business, which Ill call J, saying that J would be able to provide 
the code and help Mrs L further. Mrs L says she then contacted the new provider, which Ill 
call N. She says that N told her that she wasnt eligible for an account with them.
Mrs L says that, on 25 October, she received a text message telling her that her account 
would be closing and that her card would stop working on 31 October. She says that was the 
first notice she was given that her account would be closing. She says she should have been 
given at least two months written notice.
Mrs L has been a customer of JLFS for many years and says she hasnt had any problems 
until now. She is very upset about the way she has been treated and thinks that JLFS should 
compensate her for the lack of notice about closure of her account. She says that being 
without a credit card has also caused her inconvenience, particularly as she lives abroad. 
JLFS says that, in 2022, J decided to change the provider of its credit card from JLFS to N. 
This affected all customers. JLFS says it wrote to customers to tell them that their accounts 
would be closing. It says it sent this to Mrs L by email. But JLFS says that the further 
communications (providing an invitation code to apply for an account with N) were sent by J. 
So, JLFS says its not its fault if Mrs L didnt receive an invitation code or information about 
applying to N. JLFS provided contact details so that Mrs L could get in touch with J direct.
Our Investigator didnt think JLFS had done anything wrong. But Mrs L said the email she 
received only told her that there would be changes to the account, not that it would be 
closing. She asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The complaint which has been passed to me to review is about JLFS. There is another 
business, which Ive called J throughout this decision, which appears to have had some 
involvement in the events surrounding this complaint. J has a connection with JLFS, but its 
a separate entity and its not party to this complaint. So, I cant comment on the acts or 
omissions of J. 
Im only looking at what JLFS did here. Im sorry to disappoint Mrs L, but I dont think JLFS 
did anything wrong, so Im not going to ask it to do anything. My reasons are set out below. 
JLFS says that it was responsible for writing to customers to advise that their accounts 
would be closing and that they wouldnt be able to use their cards after 31 October. It says it 
did this over a six-week period beginning in mid-July 2022. From the information Ive seen, 
Im satisfied that Mrs Ls credit card agreement was with JLFS. The agreement said that 
JLFS could end it by giving Mrs L two months notice in writing. So, notice had to be given by 
the end of August if the agreement was to end on 31 October. If notice was given within the 
six weeks from mid-July, it would have met this requirement.
Mrs L says she received an email in the early Summer. She says it told her that the card was 
going to change later in the year but not that the account would close. JLFS says this was 
the email which gave Mrs L notice that her account would close. From the information 
available to me, I find that JLFS only sent one email to customers about the changes to their 
accounts. Mrs L received an email within the timeframe that JLFS was sending out these 
messages. Im satisfied that the message she received was the message from JLFS.
Mrs L no longer has the message, but JLFS has provided a copy of the mailing which it sent 
to customers. The message said that the credit provider would be changing, as Mrs L 
recalls. It also said that customers existing cards would become inactive on 31 October. 
This ties in with Mrs Ls call to JLFS in September, when she said she had received an email 
some while ago telling her that her card would no longer be usable after the end of October. 
The mailing went on to say that, after 31 October, the account would automatically be closed 
if the balance was zero or, if there was an outstanding balance, the account would 
automatically be closed when it was repaid in full. I appreciate that Mrs L may not now recall 
the full content of the message, but I find that it gave notice of the closure of her account. Im 
satisfied that Mrs L received this message more than two months before 31 October. So I 
find that JLFS gave her notice in line with the terms and conditions of her account.
Ive also seen Mrs Ls statements for September and October. They contained a message 
reminding her that the account would be closing on 31 October. Mrs L says that she 
received a text message one week before the account was due to close and this was the 
first she knew of it. I understand that she may not have appreciated until then that this would 
be the effect of the changes. But I dont think that was JLFSs fault. I think JLFS told Mrs L 
that the account would close and acted in line with its agreement with her.
JLFS says that J was responsible for contacting customers afterwards with invitation codes 
and information about applying to N. Im satisfied that was the case. I also find that the 
decision not to offer an account to Mrs L after October would have been made by J and/or N, 
not JLFS. I can understand that the situation was very unsatisfactory from Mrs Ls point of 
view. But I find that these issues fell outside JLFSs obligations and werent within its control. 
So I cant fairly ask it to do anything about them.
For these reasons, I dont think JLFS acted unfairly here. But Mrs L may wish to approach J 
separately to see if she can resolve any remaining concerns she may have.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman