DRN-2431757
The complaint
Mr B complains that TSB Bank plc gave him incorrect information about the interest rate he 
could get on his TSB credit card.
What happened
Mr B says he spoke with TSB and they told him that if he paid for his purchases of building 
materials and a holiday on his TSB credit card he could call back and get a 0% balance 
transfer rate for 18 months on this expenditure. 
Mr B purchased the materials and the holiday and rang back to apply for the promotional 
rate on his card. TSB informed him that the purchases needed to be put on another 
providers credit card and then transfer the balance from the other provider to TSB.
When Mr B complained about this, he was told by another member of TSB staff that he 
could get the promotional rate. Mr B said he urged the member of staff to double check this 
as he had been given conflicting information.
The member of staff then confirmed that the balance transfer offer was only for balances 
transferred from other providers.
TSB did not dispute Mr Bs complaint. To try and resolve matters they apologised - stop 
interest for three cycles on his card and paid him £75 compensation to reflect any distress 
and inconvenience caused.
Mr B didnt think this went far enough.  He wanted TSB to honour the 18 month 0% interest 
rate but TSB said they felt what they had done was fair. Mr B did not agree and referred his 
complaint to us.
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint but did not uphold it. While the investigator 
agreed Mr B had been given wrong information, he considered TSBs resolution was fair and 
reasonable in all of the circumstances.
The investigator had given consideration to what the likely action would have been if Mr B 
had been given the correct information. He concluded Mr B would have still made the 
purchases but paid for them by another method (for example, used his savings).  
TSB accepted the investigators view, but Mr B did not. He said it didnt matter whether (he 
had) the savings or not. He maintained TSB should honour the 18 month 0% interest rate. 
He wanted the case to be forwarded to an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TSB has accepted Mr B was given incorrect information. So thats not something I need to 
decide. What I need to consider is whether Mr B has lost out as a result and whether what 
the bank proposed was fair or it needs to do more. I understand Mr Bs comments about the 
fact that his savings shouldnt make a difference to the outcome of his complaint. But the 
terms that were discussed werent something that were ever available to him. I appreciate 
Mr B suffered a loss of expectation because of this. But I think a key consideration is, would 
Mr B still have undertaken the expenditure he did, had been given the correct information. I 
agree with the investigator, I think he would, and he would have either paid for it using his 
savings or applying for a card with similar/preferential terms elsewhere. 
I think TSB suspending interest on his card for three cycles gave Mr B the time to find 
another provider or use his savings to clear the balance. So, considering everything, I think 
this was a reasonable resolution. And the payment of £75 recognised the trouble and upset 
caused. I know Mr B will be disappointed, but it follows that I wont be asking TSB to do 
anymore.
My final decision
I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman