DRN-3019063
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as J has complained about Aviva Insurance Limiteds handling of 
its business interruption insurance claim. 
Mrs B, a director of J, has brought the complaint on Js behalf.  
For ease of reading, reference to Aviva includes anything done by its agents.   
What happened
J held a commercial insurance policy with Aviva. J claimed on its policy in 2020 after its 
business was impacted by the Governments response to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Aviva said Js claim wasnt covered under the core business interruption section of the policy 
as Covid-19 hadnt damaged property. However, Aviva said J had a valid claim under the 
extension for Prevention of Access  Public Emergency  which had a claim limit of 
£10,000 - and therefore asked J to provide further information to substantiate its losses. 
J contacted Aviva to say that in order to provide the requested information its accountant 
required the return from Aviva of 12 weeks of original receipts which had been submitted 
previously for a different claim. 
Aviva said they would accept the businesss prior accounting records in order to establish its 
previous performance. However, Mrs B said she didnt have access to any previous 
accounts as the business had only recently been bought.
On 28 August 2020 Aviva contacted J to say theyd discovered that, while the original 
receipts were unavailable due to Covid-19 restrictions, the information from them had been 
attached to a spreadsheet and therefore the information was now available on the system.
J complained to Aviva as it thought they were taking too long to deal with the claim. J also 
didnt think Aviva had paid enough under the policy as it thought other sections of the policy 
provided a greater level of cover.
Aviva said they still required information to substantiate Js loss during the period it was 
closed and as J had been purchased as a going concern Mrs B should have access to the 
accounts of the previous owners. However, Mrs B said the previous owners didnt have any 
accounts and J hadnt been taken over as a going concern. 
In response, Aviva apologised for their error and said reference to the business being a 
going concern was an error by the representative responding to the complaint and not 
something that had been taken into account on the claim. 
On 26 October 2020 Aviva agreed to consider the claim using the information they already 
had available. However, they said they didnt know when they would be able to settle the 
claim as they were considering the High Court judgment in the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
test case. 
Aviva ultimately agreed to pay a settlement of £10,000 on 5 November 2020.  
Unhappy with Avivas response, J brought its complaint to us. J said it had taken out a 
bounce back loan (BBL) in part to cover the money owed by Aviva. 
Our investigator looked into Js complaint and recommended it be upheld in part. She 
thought Aviva had considered Js claim under the only part of the policy which provided 
cover. However, she thought Aviva had taken longer to do that than they should have done, 
so she recommended Aviva pay J £350 compensation for its inconvenience. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
J has made a number of detailed points. While I have considered all of the information 
provided, Im going to focus my decision on what I see as the central issues to this 
complaint. 
The claim
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Js business. Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common 
to a business, but different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt 
covered is set out in the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this 
particular policy to see if Aviva have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy when deciding that Js policy only provided cover under the 
extension for prevention of access  public emergency.
The core business interruption section of the policy provides cover:
In the event of Damage to Property used by You at the Premises occupied by 
You for the purposes of the Business
Damage is defined in the policy as:
Material loss destruction or damage
For this part of the policy to provide cover for Js claim, its loss would need to be due to 
damage to property used at its premises. I havent seen anything to indicate that Covid-
19 caused damage to property, so Aviva was correct to say this part of the policy 
doesnt provide cover.
The cover under the policy is extended through various extensions. There is an 
extension for disease but that provides cover for a list of specified diseases which 
doesnt include Covid-19. 
Given Covid-19 wasnt in existence at the time the policy was entered into, I wouldnt expect
it to be included in the list of diseases. But there are similar policies on the market that 
provide cover in the circumstances of the pandemic, eg policies which cover all notifiable 
diseases as set out and updated on a Government-defined list. Js policy is not like this  it 
sets out a defined list of the diseases which are covered. And there is nothing in the wording 
of the policy which implies it would provide cover for any new diseases which might emerge. 
So, I dont think the policy can fairly be read as covering all and any new diseases and 
therefore this doesnt provide cover for Js claim.Aviva accepted J has cover under the extension for prevention of access  public 
emergency. Under What is not Covered it says, Any amount over £10,000. As Aviva has 
paid J £10,000 under this extension, they have paid the claim limit and therefore I dont 
require them to pay anything further to settle the claim.
Claim delays
When making a claim its for the policyholder to substantiate its loss. I think the information 
Aviva asked for was reasonable to evaluate the losses J had suffered. 
Aviva said they were unable to pay J until they had received all the required information and 
they didnt have this for some time. However, I think it became apparent by August 2020 that 
in order to provide accounts, Js accountant required the return of original till receipts that 
had been submitted for an earlier claim.
I understand that Covid-19 meant Aviva were unable to return to their offices to return the 
receipts to J. I also understand that Aviva had appointed a loss adjuster to look into Js claim 
for Covid-19 and the loss adjuster didnt have access to Avivas systems. But given J had 
previously submitted figures to Aviva, I think Aviva should have done more to find out if this 
information was available sooner. This would either have enabled Js accountant to provide 
accounts or Aviva to have decided if they could make a decision based on this information.
Aviva said that even after finding the receipts they still required further information, but I think 
they could have asked for this earlier in the process. 
I recognise that many policyholders would have had the information Aviva was requesting, 
so I dont think it was unreasonable for Aviva to ask for that information. But in this case Im 
satisfied that the delay in locating the information contained within the receipts caused J 
unnecessary inconvenience and also meant the claim wasnt paid as quickly as it should 
have been. 
I understand part of the delay in paying J was due to Aviva putting claims payments on hold. 
However, ultimately this claim was paid by Aviva and delaying the payment caused J 
inconvenience. 
Ive thought about whether interest should be awarded due to the delay, but I dont think it 
should. I say that because J took out a BBL for more than £10,000 in part to cover the 
settlement owed by Aviva. That meant instead of having the money from Aviva, J had money 
from the BBL. As no interest is payable on a BBL for the first year and Aviva paid Js 
settlement within 12 months of the claim, there was no cost to J from not having the money 
from Aviva. 
Putting things right
I think that Aviva caused J unnecessary inconvenience in the time it took to pay the claim 
and I agree with our investigator that £350 is a fair and reasonable amount for Aviva to pay J 
to compensate for this.  
 
My final decision
My final decision is that Aviva Insurance Limited should pay J £350 for the inconvenience it 
caused.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman