DRN-2585295
The complaint
Ms S complains that a car she acquired, via a hire purchase agreement with BMW 
Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS), wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In November 2019 Ms S visited a dealership and, following a test drive, decided to change 
her car. Ms S says she was impressed with the technology package that could be added to 
the car, as this came with a particular upgraded feature of one that she had in her current 
car. This was the road speed limit display, in a 3D effect, that was shown on the screen 
facing the driver. Ms S says, having had this feature before, she felt it prompted safer 
driving and gave her added confidence in unfamiliar places.
Ms S ordered the car and added the technology package, at an additional cost of 
£1,900. The car purchase was financed by a four-year hire purchase agreement and 
the car was delivered six weeks later.
Ms S collected the car, but complained the following day to the dealership that the speed 
limit display wasnt functioning. The car was taken back to the dealership to be inspected, 
and it confirmed that this function wasnt operating. The cars manufacturer was contacted, 
and it said that there was a problem with the current software, but it was working on an 
update to remedy the issue.
Ms S contacted BMWFS within seven days of acquiring the car and said she wanted to 
reject it, as it didnt have the function she had particularly wanted and paid for. BMWFS 
declined her request to reject. It said that, although it accepted this particular function was 
not available, that would be remedied within the next few months with the upgraded 
software. It said the cars quality, performance and safety were all unaffected by this issue. 
BMWFS offered to refund the cost of the technology package, and pay Ms S £100 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused. It said when the update was available Ms 
S could have this added to her car. 
Ms S was unhappy at BMWFSs response and complained to this service. Our investigator 
recommended that her complaint should be upheld, and the car rejected.
Our investigator said that, under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, there was an implied 
term that goods supplied are of a satisfactory quality. Here, it was accepted that not all 
the features of the technology pack were functioning, which meant the car had a fault. 
Further, although an upgraded software solution had been raised, this didnt appear to 
yet be available, as Ms Ss car still didnt have this particular function which was very 
important to her. He said that, in any event, Ms S had requested rejection of the car in 
the first 30 days after inception of the agreement, which meant that BWFS did not have 
a right to repair the car.
Our investigator said he thought Ms S was entitled to reject the car, be reimbursed her 
deposit together with interest and, taking into account her use of the car, be reimbursed 
75% of her monthly payments made from April 2019, with interest.
Ms S was happy with our investigators recommendation, but BMWFS disagreed. It said 
that rejection of the car was disproportionate for a minor fault. The technology pack came 
with a number of features, and it was only the speed display that wasnt working. It said it 
didnt accept that this feature was so important to Ms S. The car was still driveable and 
safe to use. And that this feature had only been unavailable for a few weeks, as the 
manufacturer had been working on upgrading the software.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint was passed to me. I issued 
a provisional decision along the following lines.
Looking at this complaint I needed to have regard to the relevant law and regulations, 
but I was not bound by them when I considered what was fair and reasonable.
As the hire purchase agreement entered into by Ms S was a regulated consumer credit 
agreement, this service was able to consider complaints relating to it. BMWFS was 
also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a 
complaint about their quality.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, there is an implied term that when goods are 
supplied "the quality of the goods is satisfactory". The relevant law says that the quality 
of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would 
consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, price and all 
other relevant circumstances.
The relevant law also says that the quality of the goods includes their general state 
and condition, and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and 
finish, freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the 
quality of the goods.
Here, the car was brand new so I thought it was reasonable to expect that it would be 
faultfree. It wasnt disputed that one feature of the technology pack wasnt working, 
namely the speed limit display, so I thought it was fair to say the car wasnt faultfree. It 
was also agreed that Ms S had asked to return the car within 30 days of acquiring it, 
so she had tried to exercise her short-term right to reject it. Generally, in these 
circumstances, the retailer wouldnt have the opportunity to repair. However, BMWFS 
said that although the car had a problem, rejecting it would be disproportionate for 
such a minor issue. Ms S said this was an important feature and was the reason why 
she had wanted the car.
Looking at the evidence, I was satisfied the car had a fault as the road speed limit 
display didnt function, due to a problem with the software. And this problem couldnt 
be fixed until the manufacturer had undertaken a softwear upgrade. I didnt have any 
evidence that this update was currently available and, if it was, it hadnt been added to 
Ms Ss car during the time she had it in her possession. So, I didnt accept BMWFSs 
view that this was only a short-term deficit.
I appreciated that it was only one of the features of the technology pack that didnt 
function, however, of the pack, this feature had been key for Ms S and the reason she 
had wanted the car. She had this feature in her previous car, and felt strongly that it 
assisted in making her a more confident and safer driver. Looking at what Ms S had 
said I accepted this feature was important to her and that, although the car was still 
driveable, she wouldnt have chosen it if shed known this feature didnt work.So, as I thought the car wasnt faultfree at the point of sale to Ms S, and that she had 
been clear she wanted to exercise her short-term right to reject it, she was entitled to 
return the car to BMWFS and for the agreement to be cancelled. I also thought she 
was entitled to be reimbursed her deposit with interest.
However, I didnt think that Ms S being reimbursed 75% of the monthly payments she 
had made since April 2020, was fair. This was because I had seen under the 
agreement Ms S had an annual mileage allowance of 10,000 and that, by the end of 
November 2020, she had driven around 9,000 miles. While I appreciated her use of 
the car wouldve been marred by not having this feature, I cant reasonably say she 
had been unable to make use of the car. I understood she had been using an available 
app to provide the road speed limit information, though it wasnt displayed as clearly 
as it would be if this feature had been working. So, although I thought this missing 
feature had caused Ms S unnecessary distress and inconvenience, I thought it was fair 
that she paid for the use she had made of the car.
Taking into account how the overall cost of the car, the amount of Ms Ss monthly 
payments and the length of time she has been without the feature she had 
particularly wanted, I thought £500 compensation was fair and reasonable in these 
circumstances. This reasonably reflected the impact the lack of this feature had had 
on Ms S, during the time she has had the car in her possession.
So, for the reasons given, I was intending to uphold Ms Ss complaint. BMWFS didnt ask me 
to look any parts of my provisional decision agian, but Ms S said she disagreed with the 
amount of compensation and felt that the investigator had recommended a fairer outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with Ms S that she raised this complaint about the fault road speed display within a 
very short time of acquiring the car, and that she is entitled to now reject the car. But I am 
afraid I dont agree she should be paid a larger sum of compensation.
I apologise that I had put the wrong year in my original paragraph regarding the number of 
miles driven by Ms S, and confirm that she received the car in December 2019, and 
payments were commenced from January 2020. The mileage, as at November 2020, was 
just short of 9,000 miles, and her agreement was for 10,000 miles per year. So, although she 
hadnt fully used the limit, I dont think I can reasonably say she that her use of the car has 
been substantially reduced from what she had intended.
I think, as the car was ordinarily driveable, its reasonable and fair for Ms S to pay for that 
use. I appreciate Ms S feels that, due to the length of time this complaint has taken, she has 
made many more payments than would have been the case if BMWFS had taken the car 
back at the start. But the handling of a complaint by a business isnt generally something I 
can consider as it isnt a regulated activity and so doesnt falI within my remit of what I can 
look at. 
However, I accept that Ms Ss use of the car has been spoiled by it not having this feature, 
and I also accept that would have caused her unnecessary distress and inconvenience. She 
had to use an app to provide the road speed limit information, and this wasnt displayed in 
the clear way the tech package, had it worked, would have done. When looking at awarding of compensation I must consider the impact the defect or fault has had on the consumer.
Here, I dont think 75% reimbursement of all payments made under the agreement since 
April 2020 is proportionate as compensation. I accept this isnt the car Ms S wanted and part 
of the remedy for that is Ms S returning the car and being reimbursed her deposit. However, 
I also think an award of compensation is fair and that £500 compensation is reasonable for 
the impact this has had on Ms S having to use a car she didnt want, and which was faulty.  
So, for the reasons given above, I am upholding Ms Ss complaint but Im not awarding her 
the amount of compensation she feels would be fair.
Putting things right
Im asking BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited to do the following:
Cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay.
Collect the car at no cost to Ms S. 
Reimburse any deposit paid by Ms S, together with interest at the yearly rate of 8% 
simple, from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Pay Ms S £500 compensation for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience of 
dealing with the faulty car. 
Remove any information about this agreement from Ms Ss credit file.
My Final decision
For the reasons set out above Im upholding Ms Ss complaint. Im asking Im 
asking BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited to do the following:
Cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay.
Collect the car at no cost to Ms S. 
Reimburse any deposit paid by Ms S, together with interest at the yearly rate of 8% 
simple, from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Pay Ms S £500 compensation for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience of 
dealing with the faulty car. 
Remove any information about this agreement from Ms Ss credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman