DRN-2215395
The complaint
Mr H, trading as A, complains that Allianz Insurance Plc unfairly declined a claim under his 
business protection insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H has the benefit of an Allianz Complete Retailer business protection insurance policy. 
He made a claim on that policy to cover his losses arising out of the closure of his business 
from 23 March 2020 due to the national government-imposed lockdown intended to control 
the spread of Covid 19.
Allianz declined the claim because it said Mr H didnt have cover for the losses it was 
claiming for. Mr H didnt agree. He said the closure had a considerable financial impact on 
him and that the policy should be interpreted more broadly to cover the closure of his 
business. He also thought the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) litigation that was brought 
to determine whether cover applied to specific business interruption insurance policies 
applied to his policy and that the outcome of the litigation should be interpreted in his favour. 
Our investigator considered Mr Hs complaint and concluded that it shouldnt be upheld. He 
said there was no cover available under the policy for the difficult situation Mr H had found 
himself in and the FCA litigation wasnt applicable to his specific policy so the matter was 
one this Service could determine in advance of those proceedings being concluded. Mr H 
doesnt agree so the matter has been put to me to decide
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact lockdown had on Mr H. But for the 
same reasons the investigator set out, I wont be upholding his complaint. Ill explain why. 
The type of cover Mr H is looking to claim on is business interruption insurance.  There are a 
range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering different risks. For 
example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, whilst others provide 
cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional add ons. The starting 
point is to consider the specific policy Mr H took out. As such Ive considered every aspect of 
the policy he holds with Allianz to determine whether there are any sections that would 
require Allianz to meet the claim like the one Mr H is making. 
I understand that Mr H closed his business on 23 March 2020 due to the government-
imposed lockdown. The nature of his business was such that it wouldnt have been allowed 
to stay open after this time.
The policy provides cover for several things, including specified illnesses, damage and 
denial of access. Ive considered each of them below.
Specified illnesses
The government-imposed lockdown was intended to control the Covid 19 pandemic. 
Because of this, the most likely section of the policy that would respond is the extension in 
relation to specified illnesses. That section covers disruption to business activities as a direct 
result of any occurrence of a Specified Illness at the Premises, or any occurrence of a 
Specified Illness within a radius of 25 miles of the Premises.
Specified Illness is defined as:
an illness sustained by any person resulting from:

b Acute Encephalitis, Acute Poliomyelitis, Anthrax, Chickenpox, Cholera, Diphtheria,
Dysentery, Leprosy, Leptospirosis, Malaria, Measles, Meningococcal Infection, Mumps,
Opthalmia Neonatorum, Paratyphoid Fever, Plague, Rabies, Rubella, Scarlet Fever,
Smallpox, Tetanus, Tuberculosis, Typhoid Fever, Viral Hepatitis, Whooping Cough or Yellow
Fever an outbreak of which the competent local authority has stipulated shall be notified to
them.
Having considered the list of illnesses set out, Im not persuaded this section of the policy 
provides Mr H with cover in the current circumstances as Covid 19 isnt one of the specified 
illnesses. When reaching this finding Im mindful that Covid 19 wasnt something Allianz 
might have known about when the policy was drafted, but I dont think that changes 
anything. Thats because, as Mr H has said, there are other policies that do provide cover for 
the present pandemic. These tend to be where they cover all notifiable diseases, which are 
set out and updated on a Government defined list. Mr Hs policy sets out a list of the 
illnesses which are covered by the policy and there is nothing in the policy which implies that 
it provides cover for other illnesses, including any new illnesses which might emerge.  I think 
the purpose and effect of the policy is to provide cover in the event of these particular 
illnesses. There are many potential illnesses that the policy does not cover, including SARS 
(another type of Coronavirus). I dont think the policy can or should fairly be read as covering 
any and all illnesses that fall outside of the defined list set out above. 
Ive also given thought to whether Covid 19 might fall under Plague which is one of the 
illnesses specified in the policy terms, but I dont think it does.  Whilst the policy does not 
define what Plague is, it does have a specific medical classification and is an infectious 
disease in its own right caused by a particular bacterium.   Plague appears as a specified 
disease in the Governments list of notifiable diseases and it is caused by the bacteria 
Yersinia Pestis.  There are three different types of Plague - bubonic, septicaemic and 
pneumonic.  In contrast Covid 19 is a viral infection. 
Having considered the position carefully I am satisfied that the capitalised term Plague used 
in the policy was intended to only cover the recognised medical illness Plague. Finally, whilst 
I appreciate its possible that Plague could be interpreted on its widest dictionary definition 
as an infectious disease, affliction or pestilence, I think that doing so would render the list 
Allianz has set out, redundant. Thats because it would cover most of the specified illnesses 
set out within it, so it would be pointless to list them as Allianz has. 
 
Overall the fact that Plague is listed separately and that Covid 19 is different in its make up 
and nature to Plague is, in my view, enough for me to determine that Covid 19 does not fall 
within the term Plague in the policy and it wouldnt be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances to treat the policy as if it did. 
The FCA LitigationMr H has said the FCA litigation that was brought to determine whether cover applied to 
specific business interruption insurance policies applied to his policy and that the outcome of 
the litigation should be interpreted in his favour.
As our investigator explained, Mr Hs policy isn't one which is impacted by the findings of 
that litigation for the reasons set out on the FCAs website; namely that the test cases isnt 
seeking to resolve coverage issues relating to clauses that have an exhaustive list of 
diseases which dont include Covid 19. Mr Hs policy does contain such a clause which Ive 
referred to more specifically above. So my decision isnt impacted by the outcome of that 
litigation and Im able to determine the outcome of Mr Hs complaint without taking it into 
account.  
Overall and for the reasons set out above, I dont think Allianz acted unfairly by turning down 
Mr Hs claim for cover. I know this decision will be disappointing for Mr H but I hope Ive 
provided him with a thorough explanation of why his policy doesnt offer cover in the 
circumstances of his claim.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint against Allianz Insurance Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2020.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman