DRN-1686042
The complaint
Mr L complains about the way Cabot Financial (Europe) Limited (Cabot) has handled a debt 
it acquired in his name. 
What happened
Mr L had a credit card with another business that was acquired by Cabot on 3 July 2017. 
The original lender terminated the credit agreement after payments werent maintained. On 
14 September 2017 the original lender sent Mr L a Notice of Assignment (NOA) confirming 
the debt had been passed to Cabot. The original lender confirmed the outstanding balance 
was £3,445.91. On 15 September 2017 Cabot sent Mr L a NOA that confirmed it had 
acquired the debt. Cabot advised Mr L would continue to deal with the third party business 
that was administering his account on its behalf. 
Mr L made payments to the third party, reducing the outstanding balance to £1,734.43 on 
15 August 2018 when the final payment was received. 
A third party acting for Mr L contacted Cabot and requested documents under Section 78 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). Cabot responded on 3 September 2018 to say it had 
been unable to obtain copies of the credit agreement from the original lender and that, as a 
result, the debt was unenforceable. Cabot explained the balance remained payable. 
Mr L complained and Cabot responded on 14 May 2019. Cabot said that whilst the debt may 
be unenforceable, it still existed. Cabot said Mr L was still responsible for repaying the 
outstanding amount. Cabot said it had correctly sent Mr L a NOA after it had acquired the 
debt and that he had acknowledged its existence by making payments totalling £1,711.48 to 
reduce the outstanding balance. Cabot referred Mr L back to the original lender to raise any 
concerns about the affordability of the credit card. Cabot said it hadnt acted aggressively in 
an attempt to persuade Mr L to make payments and pointed out it had very limited direct 
contact with him as a third party was managing the account. Cabot didnt uphold the 
complaint and Mr Ls representative referred it to our service. 
An investigator looked at what had happened and said she felt Cabot had dealt with the 
complaint fairly. Mr Ls representative asked to appeal. They said that there was only limited 
information available to demonstrate the correct balance. The representative also said Cabot 
had failed to provide a credit agreement and that attempting to collect an unenforceable debt 
was unfair in the circumstances of Mr Ls case. As the representative acting for Mr L asked 
to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The representative has said Cabot failed to send Mr L statements showing the correct 
outstanding balance owed. Ive looked at the various statements Cabot has sent to Mr L 
since it acquired the debt. The statements Ive seen accurately show the payments Mr L 
made between September 2017 and August 2018. No specific problem with the account 
statements, in terms of the amounts Mr L has paid Cabot, have been raised and Im satisfied 
the statements it sent were accurate. 
I understand the concern that the outstanding balance may not be correct. But both the 
original debt owner and Cabot wrote to Mr L with NOAs confirming, at the point of sale on 
3 July 2017, the outstanding balance was £3,445.91. I think the fact that the original lender 
confirmed the same outstanding balance as Cabot shows the correct figure was transferred. 
Cabots statements show all the payments Mr L made towards the outstanding balance. Ive 
checked the outstanding balance of £1,734.43 in August 2018, when Mr L stopped making 
payments. The reduction in the outstanding balance from £3,445.91 to £1,734.43 correctly 
reflects the payments Mr L made to Cabot. 
In its response to Mr Ls representative, Cabot said that he had acknowledged the existence 
of the debt by making repayments over the period of around a year. I think thats a 
reasonable point. If Mr L didnt think there was a legitimate debt to pay, Id have expected 
him to have initially raised concerns about it with the original lender. When the debt was 
acquired by Cabot, both it and the original lender wrote to Mr L to confirm the new 
arrangement. I think Cabot could reasonably have expected Mr L to raise concerns about 
the debt at that time, rather than making repayments over the course of around a year. 
Cabot was unable to obtain a copy of the original credit agreement and has confirmed that 
the debt is unenforceable as a result. I appreciate Mr Ls representative feels this means 
Cabots decision to continue to request payment from him is unfair. They have pointed us 
towards guidance that was previously issued by the Office of Fair Trading (OFT). Ive 
reviewed the OFT guidance and understand it says businesses need to ensure there was an 
agreement in place and monies outstanding. Ive already said above that I am satisfied there 
was an agreement in place for the original lender to provide Mr L with a credit card. Ive also 
explained why Im satisfied that there were monies outstanding and that Cabot had an 
accurate balance of what was owed. 
I note that the OFT guidance Mr Ls representative referred us to says that a debt isnt wiped 
out on the basis that it is unenforceable. The guidance says the debt owner can still ask the 
borrower to repay what they owe. Cabots actions appear to be in line with the guidance.
I havent seen anything to show Cabot ever misled Mr L over the enforceability of the debt. 
As soon as Cabot became aware it was unable to provide a copy of the original credit 
agreement it confirmed the debt was unenforceable. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr L but I havent been persuaded to uphold his complaint. I agree 
with all parties that the debt is unenforceable, but Im satisfied Cabot is still able to contact 
Mr L and request repayment. Ive considered the concerns raised about the amount Mr L 
owes. But the information Ive seen shows Cabot was working based on information 
obtained from the original lender and that the outstanding balance was correct. 
As I havent found anything to show Cabot made a mistake and Im satisfied it has dealt with 
Mr Ls complaint fairly, Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2020.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman