DRN-2431773
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that Sainsburys Bank Plc (Sainsburys) recorded a default against his 
credit file relating to his credit card account with them. He said that he tried to make 
payments, but Sainsburys wouldnt allow him to do so.
What happened
Mr R called Sainsburys in March 2020 as hed received a letter from his bank saying that his 
direct debit payment to his credit card account had been cancelled. He told Sainsburys that 
this was his error and he wanted to make a payment over the phone. Sainsburys couldnt 
provide account information or accept a payment as Mr R had previously failed to answer 
their telephone banking security questions correctly. The address he provided also differed 
to the one they had.
 
Sainsburys explained to Mr R that he needed to provide proof of identification and 
confirmation of his address so that they could give him his account details and take 
payment. They told him what documents they needed.
 
Mr R sent documents to Sainsburys, but they were not acceptable to them. So, they wrote 
back to Mr R explaining what was wrong and confirming what was needed. Mr R sent further 
documents to Sainsburys, but they were not acceptable either.
 
Sainsburys wrote to Mr R, at an address they had traced him to, in late April 2020 asking 
him to contact them. They said that a Notice of Default had been issued in respect of his 
account. So, Mr R phoned Sainsburys in early May. The agent was unable to find all of Mr 
Rs account information due to a problem with one of Sainsburys computer systems. She 
offered to arrange for someone to call him back when they were working again. Mr R 
remained unhappy as he couldnt make a payment. So, the agent agreed to raise a 
complaint.
Almost two weeks later, Mr R called Sainsburys again and explained his problem to them. 
He said that he wanted to make sure that a default wasnt recorded against him. Sainsburys 
told him that his account was in default and so the full outstanding balance was now due. Mr 
R confirmed that he wanted to repay the outstanding balance. Sainsburys told Mr R that he 
needed to wait for the outcome of his complaint before he could make a payment.
Mr R received a letter from Sainsburys dated 20 July 2020 in response to his complaint. 
They explained why the account had been placed in to default and that this had been 
registered against his personal credit file. Sainsburys apologised for the delay in responding 
to Mr Rs complaint and offered £80 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
Mr R remained unhappy that a default had been recorded so decided to contact this service 
with his complaint. One of our investigators has looked into his complaint. She didnt think 
that Sainsburys need to do anything more here. So, Mr R has asked for his case to be 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It appears that there have been ongoing problems with Mr Rs access to Sainsburys 
telephone banking dating back some time. Sainsburys records show that Mr R failed to 
correctly answer their security questions in June 2018. At the time, Sainsburys requested 
documents to allow them to identify him as the account holder and to reset his security. They 
also explained that they could not discuss or disclose any account details until this was 
completed. I can understand why Sainsburys would need this in order to meet their 
obligations. Unfortunately, no documents were received and there is no record of any further 
contact from Mr R.
At the end of December 2019, account statements sent to Mr R were returned to 
Sainsburys. So, Sainsburys updated the address status of his account to reflect this. In 
January 2020, Mr Rs direct debit payment was returned unpaid. Sainsburys then received 
an instruction from Mr Rs bank to cancel the direct debit. This meant that no further monthly 
payments were being made to his credit card account with them.
 
On 4th February 2020, Sainsburys wrote to Mr R at the last address held. As they didnt 
receive a reply, they wrote again on 14 February 2020. These letters said that Mr Rs 
account was in arrears and clearly explained what could happen and asked him to contact 
them.
 
Sainsburys completed an address trace for Mr R on 18 February 2020. This found a 
possible new address for him. So, they sent letters about the arrears to this address on 23 
February and 14 March 2020. These letters clearly explained what might happen if no 
payments were received. They told Mr R that a default would be issued which would be 
registered against his credit file. I cant see that Sainsburys could have done anything more 
here and I believe this was very clear for Mr R.
Sainsburys say that Mr R contacted them on 3 March 2020. He didnt know his account 
details so this meant he couldnt make a payment. They explained to him that they couldnt 
provide details of his account or stop any action to default, as he had failed their telephone 
banking security checks again. So, they told him what documents they needed.
 
I have looked at Sainsburys requirements which include documents for identification and to 
confirm his address. They say that they can accept clear certified copies of a passport 
(photograph page) or a driving license (front and back). It also explains who can certify them 
and how. For other documents, they can accept originals or certified copies. It says that any 
address detailed must be current. Thats broadly in line with what most banks and financial 
institutions will ask for in situations like this, so I dont think Sainsburys acted unfairly in 
insisting on having this information before they took any further action here.
Sainsburys received two documents from Mr R. His address confirmation was accepted. But 
his driving license hadnt been certified, included only the front page and detailed his old 
address. They sent a letter to Mr R on 16 March 2020 to tell him this and enclosed a leaflet 
confirming what they needed and included a reply envelope. So, Mr R sent a copy of his 
passport, but this also hadnt been certified so was rejected. Sainsburys wrote to him again 
on 26 March 2020 to tell him this. I cant find anything further to suggest that Mr R met with 
Sainsburys requirements.
Sainsburys issued a default notice to Mr R on 27 March 2020. Thats a notice that 
Sainsburys is obliged to send under the relevant rules here, so in the absence of any other information, it had to be sent to the last confirmed address they had on file. This was Mr Rs 
old address. Sainsburys didnt receive a response or payment, so wrote to Mr R at the 
address they had traced. This explained that a default had been registered and asked him to 
contact them. It also offered help and support. It seems clear that Sainsburys were willing to 
discuss and agree a way forward with Mr R.
 
Mr R called Sainsburys on 6 May 2020 as he was unhappy with the letter received at his 
new address. I have listened to this call. He said that he had been told not to worry about the 
account arrears. I cant find any record of this in the file notes, calls or letters Ive seen. Mr R 
confirmed that he couldnt access the online banking service and didnt know his account or 
card details. He said that he had sent all the identification documents that Sainsburys 
required. Sainsburys agreed to raise a complaint on his behalf. There is also a record of a 
further call on 11 May 2020, but Sainsburys were unable to provide information to him as he 
couldnt pass their security requirements.
Mr R called Sainsburys again on 20 May 2020. I have also listened to this call. He was told 
that the account was in default and the whole balance was now due. However, Sainsburys 
confirmed that Mr Rs complaint was being looked in to. They suggested he wait for the 
outcome of this before any repayment is made.
Mr R said that Sainsburys hadnt told him that his account was in default in any of the calls 
with them. He said that he only learned this from Sainsburys response to his complaint dated 
20 July 2020. But I think Sainsburys made him aware of this before then. Letters sent to his 
new address on 23 February and 14 March say that a default notice would be issued if he 
didnt clear the arrears. The letter sent on 26 April says that a default has been registered. 
Also, during the call on 20 May 2020, Sainsburys told Mr R that the account was now in 
default.
Mr R said that he was told that the account would be reopened. Again, I can find no record 
of that. Sainsburys only referred to reactivating access to his account once satisfactory 
identification and address confirmation had been received. There was no mention of this 
happening after the default notice had been issued.
Mr R said that he had provided all the required identification and address documents in 2018 
on two occasions. Sainsburys have confirmed that they can find no record of any 
documents being received before March 2020 and at this point these were rejected for the 
reasons stated above.
So overall, I can understand Mr Rs frustrations, but I think Sainsburys has treated him fairly 
here. I cant see that Mr R has ever provided Sainsburys with enough information for them 
to be able to take a payment in the way he wanted to. That meant that payments werent 
received for a number of months and, because of this, Sainsburys defaulted Mr Rs account. 
Thats in line with the relevant guidelines here  and I think recording that information 
accurately reflects the situation with the account. So, while I realise the impact this will have 
on Mr R, I wont be telling Sainsburys to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint against Sainsburys Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2021.
 
David Morgan
Ombudsman