DRN-4143208
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as H, complains that ClearBank Limited wont refund 
transactions it didnt make. 
Miss C, the sole director of H, brings the complaint on Hs behalf.
ClearBank partners with Tide to provide accounts for its customers. For ease, Ive generally 
referred to ClearBank throughout the decision as its ultimately responsible for the complaint.
 
What happened
Miss C explained she received a call from someone who claimed to be from Tide. 
She recalled they knew information about her and said Hs account had been 
compromised and a large transaction had been attempted. They said theyd cancel 
and reissue her card and asked her to delete her Tide app. 
Miss C later realised that several Apple Pay transactions had left Hs account. Miss C 
disputed making these with ClearBank. They declined to refund her because she 
must have shared a code with a third party to set up Apple Pay which is in breach of 
its terms of conditions.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), the starting position is 
that H isnt liable for payments it didnt authorise. 
To determine authorisation, Ive considered regulation 67 of the PSRs. This says that 
a payment is to be regarded as authorised if H consented to the execution of it  and 
that consent must have been given in the form, and in accordance with the 
procedure, agreed between ClearBank and H.
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions to establish the agreed form and procedure. 
These simply say that a Tide Cardholder can  authorise a transaction via Apple 
Pay. Theres no more detail, so Ive considered the practical steps someone needs 
to take to use Apple Pay. It seems that Miss C needed to have used her device, 
including the relevant security procedures, with the merchant to authorise the 
payment. 
Here, Miss C has presented evidence to show she was working that day, some 
distance from where the transactions took place. While ClearBank initially said the 
transactions were approved using Miss Cs device, it later confirmed they took place 
on another device. Taking this all into account, I think its more likely a fraudster 
made these payments after they duped Miss C into sharing a code to finish setting up 
Apple Pay on their own device. This is in keeping with other scams both ClearBank 
and our service has seen. 
In saying this, I recognise Miss C hasnt been able to consistently recall whether she 
shared this code during the call. But given its the only way Apple Pay couldve been 
set up, Im satisfied its likely she did. However, given our experience of dealing with 
similar scams, I dont find it likely she did this understanding she was setting up 
Apple Pay on someones device. Instead, I think she was tricked into sharing the 
information, having been led to believe that her account was being defrauded.
ClearBank suggest that because she must have shared the code, she consented to 
the payments. But Im not persuaded that her indirect involvement in setting up the 
means to make payments is the same as Miss C using the agreed form and 
procedure to execute a payment transaction. I think its akin to saying that activating 
a card is the same as consenting to all the payments using it, which clearly isnt the 
case. 
Nor do I think that Miss C could reasonably be described as having given someone 
permission to go through the form and procedure to make these payments, given the 
likelihood she was tricked into sharing the code under the belief she was ultimately 
keeping her account safe.  
It follows that Im not persuaded she went through the agreed form and procedure to 
consent to the payments or gave someone else permission to consent to the 
payments on her behalf. They were, therefore, unauthorised.
ClearBank can still hold H liable if it can show Miss C failed with gross negligence to 
comply with the terms of the account and keep her personalised security details safe. 
While ClearBank hasnt explicitly argued this, it seems some of their submissions 
allude to this. 
Having considered the circumstances carefully, Im not persuaded ClearBank has 
shown thats the case. Ill explain why.
Miss C received a call from someone pretending to be from Tide, who knew several 
pieces of her personal information and Hs account information. They told her Hs 
account had been compromised and theyd need to cancel and reissue her card. 
As Ive explained, I think its likely Miss C shared a code she received by text under 
the guise that she was ultimately protecting Hs account from the circumstances they 
presented. And given how the caller credibly established themselves as being 
genuine and the urgent situation they presented, I can see how Miss C wouldve 
simply focused on the code in the message and shared it, without taking in the 
context and warning in the message. 
In saying that, Im mindful that the message wouldve appeared from Tide at the time 
shed been told to expect it by the caller  likely adding further to the veil of 
legitimacy. Taking these circumstances into account, while Miss C might have been 
negligent, Im not persuaded it she acted with very significant carelessness to 
conclude she failed with gross negligence. 
I recognise Miss C subsequently referred to the call sounding dodgy. But Im mindful 
she said this after she realised it was a scam and had time to reflect on what 
happened. I dont think its enough to say that Miss C appreciated and seriously disregarded an obvious risk at the time. Instead, Miss C has consistently said she 
was panicked by the situation they presented.  
It follows that I dont think ClearBank has shown Miss C failed with gross negligence. 
So I conclude that H isnt liable for the disputed payments and ClearBank needs to 
put things right  by refunding its losses from these payments. 
If the disputed payments caused H to enter its overdraft, ClearBank must also refund 
any interest and charges associated with this, alongside removing any adverse 
information from Hs credit report. 
ClearBank ought to have refunded this much sooner. So I also award 8% simple 
interest per year to compensate H for the time its been out of pocket. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Hs complaint. ClearBank Limited must:
Pay H the total of the unauthorised payments, less any amount recovered or already 
refunded.
If the transactions caused H to enter its overdraft, ClearBank must refund any 
interest and charges associated with this, alongside removing any adverse 
information from Hs credit report. 
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of the unauthorised 
payments to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman