DRN-2062890
The complaint
Mr B complains about the Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limiteds (the businesss) 
refusal to honour his No Claims Refund Option. Hes unhappy about the business refusal 
to refund a percentage of his premiums, because he hasnt made a claim on the policy.  
What happened
The business didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, it said:
It took over administration of Mr Bs policy in November 2019. 
The (transferred) records confirm that Mr B had a policy in 1998 that was cancelled in 
1999 in favour of the current Income Protector Policy (the policy), with Critical Illness 
Cover (CIC) and Claim Indexation (CI).
Although the policy had the option to include a No Claims Refund  which is a 50% 
refund of premiums (without interest) at the expiry of the policy, if no claim is made  
the policy documentation makes no mention of the premium refund. 
In the circumstances its unable to uphold the complaint and refund a percentage of 
the premiums paid. 
However, if Mr Bs able to provide any of the original paperwork, its happy to review 
its decision.  
Unhappy with the business response Mr B referred his complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, hes unable to safely say the 1998 
policy included the No Claims Refund. 
The documentation provided in relation to the 1999 policy shows that the CI and CIC 
benefits cost an additional premium, so its unlikely the refund option wouldve been 
for free.  
As matters stand theres no obligation on the business to refund 50% of the 
premiums, even though Mr B hasnt made a claim. 
Mr B shouldnt be paying for a policy he no longer needs, but its a matter for him 
what he does. It wont make a difference to the way we deal with his complaint.   
The business confirmed that the refund of premium benefit wouldve been included at a 
modest additional cost. 
Mr B disagreed with the investigators view and asked for am ombudsmans decision. In 
short, he said:
the investigators decision is flawed, erroneous and incompetent. 
It was clear from the investigators initial oral assessment that his understanding of 
the complaint was poor. 
The investigator failed to consider that the business continued to take premiums from 
his policy post 15 January 2020, when hed made clear that he was retired and no 
longer needed the policy. 
The investigator failed to make obvious enquires and all the documents he relied on 
were dated March/April 1999, pre-dating the application form:
oPolicy specification dated 17 April 1999.
oIncome Protector Personal Example, dated 19 March 1999
oApplication for Income Protector, dated 21/4, what looks like it could be 21 
April 1999?
The policy specification document and the policy personal example, both of which 
pre-date his application, provide no evidence about the agreement he had with the 
business. 
The application forms a legally binding agreement between him and the business. 
A handwritten note on the application states Previous Policy D177979 being canx in 
favour of this new version with CIC £20K which would suggest the form was 
completed by someone from the business. It doesnt contain Mr Bs signature and 
hed like us to consider the offence of fraud. In any case, this suggests that the 
business isnt entitled to the premiums Mr B has been paying. 
The product details document, although relevant to the case, isnt in the way that the 
investigator suggests. On page two of the document theres no mention of an 
additional cost, which provides strong evidence that there was no cost for the 
premium refund option. 
How was he to know that cancelling the policy was unlikely to have had an impact on 
the complaint?
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr B says, Im unable to safely 
say that the business has done anything wrong by refusing to refund a percentage of Mr Bs 
premiums or continuing to collect premiums since January 2020.  
But before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to recognise Mr Bs 
strength of feeling about this matter. Hes provided detailed submissions to support this 
complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope he wont take the fact 
my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a 
discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mr B and the business, and reach what I think is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. In deciding whats fair and 
reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation and best industry practice, 
but Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, based on the information Ive been given, 
whats more likely than not to have happened. Its not for me to determine whether a criminal 
offence has been committed. I note Mr B says he took out a policy in 1998 with a no claims refund benefit. At some point 
early on he noticed that additional protections were missing so asked the (predecessor) 
insurer to have these included. I note in 1999, the old policy was replaced with a new one 
containing IC and CIC benefit. 
I understand that the 1998 policy had to be cancelled because the IC and CIC benefit 
couldnt be added to an existing policy. I note Mr B cancelled the 1998 policy, along with any 
benefits he may have had, in place of the new policy. So whatever arrangement Mr B had 
with the business in 1998, it was replaced by the new policy, so ceased to exist.   
Regardless of Mr Bs intentions  if the 1999 application form didnt include a request for the 
refund of premium option  and Ive seen no evidence to suggest that it did  it wouldnt 
have been included in the new policy. So, whether (or not) the refund of premium benefit 
was free, it still had to be selected, and this doesnt appear to have been done. 
The fact that the premium refund benefit mightve been part of the 1998 policy  even though 
aside from what Mr B says Ive seen no evidence that it was  doesnt mean that the 
business should still be bound by an agreement that was cancelled and ceased to exist.  
In my opinion the business is only bound by the terms of the new 1999 policy that, 
unfortunately for Mr B, doesnt include refund of premium benefit.
Although Ive not seen any correspondence relating to the basis upon which the old policy 
was cancelled, and the new policy set up, I think its likely it was on the basis of the new 
application. In the circumstances I cant say the business has done anything wrong. 
I should make clear that businesses arent required to retain information indefinitely, so I 
cant blame the business for not having more information about the 1998 policy that was 
cancelled over 20 years ago. 
I appreciate the point made by Mr B about who mightve filled out the 1999 application form, 
but despite what he says it was still up to him to make sure the policy included everything 
that he wanted. So, it wouldve been reasonable for him to have checked his policy 
documentation to make sure that it had everything he wanted.
Its possible that there was a mistake when the IC and CIC were added in 1999. If Mr B had 
the refund of premiums in 1998, the business couldve (mistakenly) swapped it for the IC and 
CIC rather than add them to the existing policy. But on the face of the evidence, and on 
balance, I simply dont have the evidence to conclude that this was the case. 
Im mindful a handwritten note on the 1999 application form simply states: Previous Policy 
D177979 being canx in favour of this new version with CIC £20K. This suggests Mr B 
wanted a new policy with CIC, theres no mention of a premium refund. So, I cant safely say 
that there was (more likely than not) a mistake, that the business is responsible for. 
I appreciate the point Mr B makes about the policy documents pre-dating his application 
form, Im not sure why this is the case because it still relates to the same product. It could be 
that the documents were supplied in advance of him taking out the policy. In any case, this 
doesnt mean the business wasnt entitled to take payment for cover that it provided, or that 
Mr B is now entitled to a refund of premiums.  
The policy specification under the heading what would your benefits be? lists all the 
benefits including expiry of the policy at age 55, and the additional benefits only mentions 
the IC and CIC benefits. Regardless of what Mr B says, the documentation makes no 
mention of the refund option. In the circumstances, Im unable to say that the business is doing anything wrong by 
continuing to collect premiums until Mr B reaches the age of 55. It seems the business is 
only doing what the policy allows it to do. And unless Mr B makes a request to cancel the 
policy, simply notifying the business that hes retired and no longer needing the policy isnt 
enough. 
I appreciate Mr B says that he didnt know cancelling the policy wouldnt affect the outcome 
of his complaint, but that doesnt mean hes entitled to a refund of premiums taken since 
January 2020. As long as the premiums are paid, in the event of a valid claim the policy will 
still pay out the sum assured.   
I note Mr B says that its inconceivable that anyone would include IC and CIC benefit on a 
policy but not the refund option at no extra cost. I also note he also says he has no need for 
the IC and CIC, now that hes retired after 30 years of work. 
Be that as it may, peoples needs, and objectives, differ and benefits still must be selected.  
So, whilst Mr B doesnt need the policy now, he did in1999.  
I understand that Mr Bs willing to take legal action if he doesnt receive a refund of 50% of 
the premiums, but its a matter for him whether (or not) he does. Its also a matter for him 
whether (or not) he continues with the policy, but he might find it beneficial to get some 
financial advice before making a decision.   
I appreciate Mr B will be thoroughly unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. I realise my decision isnt what he wants to hear. Whilst I appreciate his 
frustration, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give him what he wants.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2020.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman