DRN-3168329
The complaint
Mr P complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with Mi 
Vehicle Finance Limited, trading as Mann Island, wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
A used car was supplied to Mr P under a hire purchase agreement with Mann Island that he 
electronically signed in March 2021. He complained to the dealer about some issues with the 
car and an issue with the radio was repaired but there continued to be other faults with the 
car. The cars battery was replaced which dealt with an issue with starting the car but that 
locked the radio and a code is required to unlock it. Mr P says that he then noticed a tapping 
sound coming from the rear of the car and he complained to Mann Island. He stopped 
making the monthly payments under the hire purchase agreement, bought another car and 
said that he wanted to reject the car that Mann Island had supplied to him.
It contacted the dealer and it was agreed that the car would be inspected by an independent 
expert. The experts report identified a fault with the clutch  which was then repaired  but 
said that the knocking noise that Mr P had complained about couldnt be replicated. Mann 
Island said that the car was available for collection and that there were arrears on Mr Ps 
account. Mr P wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
Our investigator recommended that his complaint should be upheld in part. She didnt think 
that the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply but she said that the repairs 
appeared to have resolved the issues with it, other than the code for the radio. She said that 
Mr P had experienced distress and inconvenience as a result of the car not being of 
satisfactory quality. She thought that it would be fair and reasonable for Mann Island to pay 
him £150 compensation for that distress and inconvenience and that it should liaise with the 
dealer to correct the issue with the radio and provide the necessary code to Mr P. She also 
said that it should remove any adverse information from Mr Ps credit file in relation to the 
agreement.
Mann Island has accepted those recommendations and says that Mr P has only made one 
monthly payment to it for the car but has agreed to waive a monthly payment for the month 
that he wasnt able to use the car. Mr P has asked for his complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman. He says that he wants to reject the car without compensation and a refund of 
payments already made. He says that hes not seen the car since it was taken for inspection, 
the issue of the knocking/tapping sound still remains contested and £150 doesnt 
compensate for the expenses that hes incurred and the impact of the situation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with most of the conclusions reached by our investigator for these 
reasons:
Mann Island, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it was of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr P - whether or not it was of 
satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age 
and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it;
the car that was supplied to Mr P was more than ten years old, had been driven for 
95,870 miles and had a price of £5,339;
satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within 
the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long 
that time is will also depend on a number of factors;
the car was supplied to Mr P in March 2021 - but he says that he wasnt able to test- 
drive it  and he complained to Mann Island about issues with the car in May 2021;
the dealer had already repaired some issues with the car but Mr P returned the car to 
it in late June 2021 and it arranged for the car to be inspected by an independent 
expert;
the inspection took place in July 2021 and the experts report recorded the cars 
mileage as 97,143 and concluded:
There was no knocking from the rear suspension during the road test. I was 
unable to replicate the jerking that the owner was experiencing, however in 
my opinion the vehicle needs a new clutch assembly, as the pedal is low 
when changing gears. There was no noise from the steering column. There 
was no knocking or rattle from the front passenger door. In my opinion the 
vehicle is commensurate to the age and mileage, however the clutch 
assembly has limited life expectancy;
the dealer then arranged for the cars clutch operation to be checked and it was 
found that the bracket that connects the master cylinder to the pedal was broken - 
the bracket was changed which rectified the fault and the pedal was then operating 
normally;
the car was then available for collection by Mr P in late July 2021 but he hasnt 
collected it and has only made one monthly payment under the agreement;
I consider that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr P  
but its been repaired and inspected and the independent expert concluded that the 
only fault with the car related to the clutch pedal  which has now also been repaired;
the independent expert was asked to investigate a number of issues including a 
knocking noise, but he said that there was no knocking noise from the rear 
suspension, steering column or passenger door;
I consider it to be more likely than not that the issues with the car that caused it not to 
have been of satisfactory quality have now been repaired  and I consider that it was 
fair and reasonable for the issues with the car to have been repaired;
I understand that Mr P still hasnt received the code required for the radio  so I find 
that Mann Island should liaise with the dealer to ensure that the code is provided to him and, if that isnt possible, to take other actions to make the radio operate 
properly;
Mr P was able to drive the car for more than 1,200 between the date that it was 
supplied to him and the date of the independent inspection and Im not persuaded 
that it would now be fair or reasonable for me to require Mann Island to accept Mr Ps 
rejection of the car or to waive any of his outstanding payments for that period;
Mr P wasnt able to use the car between late June 2021, when it was returned to the 
dealer for repairs, and late July 2021 after the issues with the clutch pedal had been 
repaired and it was available for collection;
I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Mann Island to waive one monthly 
payment under the agreement for the time between late June and late July 2021 
when the car was with the dealer as compensation for that loss of use  and Mann 
Island has agreed to waive one monthly payment;
the car has been available for collection since late July 2021 but Mr P hasnt 
collected it  that was a choice that he made and Im not persuaded that it would be 
fair or reasonable for me to require Mann Island to waive any of the payments that 
have become due under the agreement since then - I consider that Mr P should now 
collect the car from the dealer;
I consider that Mann Island should notify Mr P of the amount of the arrears on his 
account, adjusted as described above, and then, if hes not able to pay that amount, I 
consider that it should try to agree an affordable repayment arrangement with him for 
the amount that he owes it  its required to respond to any financial difficulties that 
he's experiencing positively and sympathetically; 
I find that Mann Island should also remove any adverse information relating to the 
hire purchase agreement that it had recorded on Mr Ps credit file before the date of 
this decision; and
these events have clearly caused distress and inconvenience for Mr P and I agree 
with our investigator that it would be fair and reasonable for Mann Island to pay him 
£150 to compensate him for that distress and inconvenience  Im not persuaded that 
hes provided enough evidence to show that the expenses that hes incurred and the 
impact of the situation on him justifies a higher award of compensation.
If Mr P doesnt collect the car from the dealer and doesnt either pay the outstanding amount 
owed to Mann Island or agree a repayment arrangement with it, I consider it to be likely that 
Mann Island will take further action against Mr P (to the extent that its legally entitled to do 
do).
Putting things right
I find that its fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Mann Island to take the actions 
described above and as set out below.  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ps complaint in part and I order Mi Vehicle Finance Limited, 
trading as Mann Island, to:
1. Liaise with the dealer to ensure that the radio code is provided to Mr P and, if that 
isnt possible, to take other actions to make the radio operate properly.2. Waive the monthly payment that was due under the agreement for the time 
between late June and late July 2021 when the car was with the dealer as 
compensation for his loss of use of the car.
3. Remove any adverse information relating to the hire purchase agreement that it 
had decision is recorded on Mr Ps credit file before the date of this decision. 
4. Pay £150 to Mr P to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that hes 
been caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2021. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman