DRN-2158927
The complaint
Miss B complains that payments she was making to a store card, she had with Home Retail 
Group Card Services Limited (trading as Argos Card Services Argos), were mishandled. 
Miss B also says that Argos unfairly referred her account to a debt collection agency.
What happened
Miss B has a store card with Argos. The card could be used to purchase things from Argos, 
and also to pay for shopping in a supermarket.
Miss B says she used the card to purchase items on buy now pay later plans (BNPL). 
These plans allowed Miss B to spread the cost over a set number of months and, as long as 
the plan was fully paid off by the end of the agreed time, no interest would be charged. She 
also used the card for other items and so there was also a general credit balance. The 
general balance accrued interest which was added monthly.
Miss B says that Argos has made administrative errors on her account in the way it has 
allocated payments she was making. She also says she has found the statements unclear 
as to what payment has been deducted from which balance. Miss B says she thinks the 
balance is incorrect and interest has been added when it shouldnt have been. In particular, 
Miss B says a BNPL was wrongly allocated to her general credit balance, and when she 
reported this to Argos it had promised to reallocate payments, but there had been issues 
ever since.
Miss B also says that she was upset Argos had passed her account on to a debt collection 
agency as this was unfair and caused her unnecessary stress.
Miss B complained to Argos about its handling of her account. Argos didnt uphold her 
complaint. It provided copies of her past statements and said that, after reviewing her 
account, it was satisfied that payments had been allocated correctly in line with the terms 
and conditions of the card. It also said that payments had been directed as Miss B had 
requested during various phone calls with her.
Argos said that as Miss B was being assisted by a third party with the administration of her 
account it had been passed to the debt collection agency to liaise with her and make an 
arrangement for the outstanding balance.
Miss B was unhappy at Argos response and so complained to this service. Our investigator 
recommended that Miss Bs complaint should be partially upheld.
Our investigator said, looking at the statements that had been provided, they set out the 
information hed expect to see such as the separate BNPL details, minimum payment for the 
general credit balance and the interest that would be added if that balance wasnt cleared. 
He said hed checked the payments that had been made and couldnt see any that had been 
incorrectly applied. Payments were usually allocated in the following order; minimum 
payment due on the general credit balance, interest and then BNPL. However, Argos had 
allocated payments to different parts of Miss Bs account as and when she had requested 
this. 
Looking at the statements that had been provided our investigator said that the account had 
exceeded its credit limit on five occasions between August 2018 and March 2019. And, from 
March 2019, the minimum payment hadnt been met. He said after reviewing the evidence 
he thought Argos had acted fairly in the administration of Miss Bs account.
However, our investigator said, although he thought that Argos would have reason to pass 
Miss Bs account to a debt collection agency due to the way it had been managed, this 
wasnt the reason it had given for doing so. Argos had said it was because Miss B was being 
assisted by a third-party, but it had now reviewed this decision and had accepted it shouldnt 
have done so. Argos had recalled Miss Bs account and stopped any debt collection action. 
Argos planned to contact Miss B and discuss an affordable repayment plan. Our investigator 
said that Argos would be entitled to review the decision to recall if no arrangement was put in 
place and payments were made to clear the account.
Miss B disagreed with our investigators view. She said the outcome was unfair and she 
didnt think she owed any money. Miss B also says that she has again been contacted by a 
debt collection agency. 
As the parties were unable to agree the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In reaching my decision Ive gone through the statements provided for Miss Bs account, as 
well as the contact notes between Argos and Miss B. Ive seen that Miss B feels the errors 
have escalated from December 2018, when there was an error over one of the BNLP 
transactions being added to her general credit balance, when she had in fact paid it off. 
However, I have seen that, prior to that debt, Miss B had exceeded her credit limit requiring 
additional sums to be paid.
Looking at the statements I can see a BNPL plan, that was for an amount of £135 ended in 
November 2018, and that it was the deferred interest for that plan, amounting to £17, that 
was incorrectly added to the general credit balance. The actual £135 doesnt appear to have 
been added to the general credit balance, as this had been cleared. As Miss B had actually 
paid off this plan before the due date there should have been no deferred interest to be 
added.  Ive seen that this interest was credited back to Miss B in January 2019, following 
her raising it with Argos. So, I am satisfied, once this adjustment had been made, the 
balances showing as outstanding on her card for both the general credit and the BNPL plans 
were correct.
As stated above the card statements set out two balances. This is because Miss B uses her 
card for both BNPL, and also for other more general use, she has two balances showing on 
her statements. Interest accrues monthly on the general balance and the amount of interest 
to be added to the general credit balance, if it isnt cleared, is displayed at the start of the 
statement, as is the minimum payment thats required to be made. Miss B has a larger 
outstanding balance for general credit than under the combined BNPL plans, so is accruing 
interest regularly on that balance.
Ive seen Miss B works out the payments required to clear the BNPL plans before the 
interest is to be added but, as she also using the card at the supermarket, then the balance on the general credit often increases each month. Ive seen that the balances for the BNPL 
do decrease in line with the payments she was making towards them, and these payments 
appear to have been allocated as she requested to Argos. Payments were also shown as 
going towards the general credit balance.
So, I am satisfied that Argos has administered her account correctly and that there isnt an 
error on the balances.
I appreciate Miss B was upset that her account had been passed to a debt collecting agency 
after she sought assistance from a third-party, and Ive seen Argos accepted that was an 
error and recalled her account. So, I agree that that action was taken for the wrong reasons. 
But, looking at the statements Ive seen, there were missed payments under the account, so 
I dont think it would be unreasonable for it to have considered referring the account to a 
debt collecting agency. 
Ive also seen that Miss B has health issues and I would expect Argos to take those into 
consideration and treat her sympathetically when dealing with the outstanding balance on 
this account. However, Ive seen Miss B says she has again been contacted by a debt 
collection agency over this account. If she thinks this referral has been unfair then she 
should raise this with Argos to allow it to investigate first.  
So, for the reasons given above, Im not upholding Miss Bs complaint as to Argos handling 
of her account as I think it has acted fairly and in line with the terms and conditions. I do 
agree that Argos shouldnt have referred Miss Bs account to a debt collecting agency on the 
basis she was receiving assistance from a third-party. However, as Argos at that time took 
the account back, Im not going to ask it to do more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above Im not upholding Miss Bs complaint as to the handling of her 
account by Home Retail Group Card Services Limited. I am upholding her complaint that her 
account shouldnt have been referred to a debt collection agency on the basis she was 
receiving third-party assistance. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman