DRN-3988807
The complaint
Ms M complains that when she wanted to obtain a new fixed interest rate on her mortgage 
with Nationwide Building Society, the website didnt work. Ms M said this was Nationwides 
responsibility, and she wanted an apology and compensation for what it had done.
What happened
Ms M said on 2 August 2022 she urgently wanted to secure a new fixed interest rate for her 
mortgage with Nationwide. Her existing fixed rate deal was ending shortly, and she expected 
a rise in interest rates imminently. But she said when she went online, the application page 
wasnt working properly. It just deleted her details once they were completed. 
Ms M said she complained about this to Nationwide on the day, and it said the problem was 
with her broadband provider. Ms M said that couldnt be right, because she was using her 
internet connection that day, to work. 
Ms M tried to apply using a computer at her local library, but the problem was the same 
there. She then went into a branch, and booked an appointment with an advisor. Nationwide 
agreed to honour the rate shed seen online that day, and she changed her rate through a 
phone appointment the next day, 3 August.
Ms M said her complaint is that shes never received a satisfactory reply from Nationwide, 
and compensation for the unnecessary distress she experienced that day. She said 
Nationwide had made no effort to deal with her complaint, and she was just being fobbed off.
Nationwide said, when this complaint came to us, that it hadnt yet sent a complaint 
response to Ms M. But it said it had experienced a problem with accessing that particular 
page, for users who were using the same broadband provider as Ms M, on the same day. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said this was a fault with 
one particular broadband provider, whom Ms M unfortunately used. So the problem Ms M 
experienced wasnt a delay Nationwide could reasonably avoid. It was due to a third party. 
And Ms M was able to speak to an advisor the next day, and get the rate she wanted. Our 
investigator thought Nationwide had been fair and reasonable. 
Ms M wasnt happy. She said shed already told us there was no problem with her 
broadband provider that day, and that shed been working from home without problems. Ms 
M didnt think our service had understood her complaint.
Ms M wanted an ombudsman to consider her complaint, so the case was passed to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
When this case came to our service, Nationwide sent us the call that Ms M had with it on 2 
August, and I can hear Nationwide sought to explain what had gone wrong to Ms M. It told 
her that this was a problem particular to her broadband provider, but that didnt mean it was 
a general failure of her broadband. It was just a problem that affected this particular web 
page. That would explain why Ms M was able to log on to her work system, and work as 
usual, but wasnt able to access this particular page successfully.
I know Ms M doesnt think there could have been a problem with her broadband, because 
she was able to work online, but most broadband providers (including the one Ms M uses) 
do more than just provide a simple connection to the internet. They also provide a level of 
online security, which checks individual web pages and may stop some from being 
accessed, or stop them functioning properly.
What Nationwide has said here, makes me think that the problem Ms M was experiencing 
was a result of mistaken security action taken by this broadband providers system. And I 
agree with our investigator, that this just isnt likely to be something Nationwide caused, or 
was able to put right.
I can also hear on the call on 2 August Nationwide tried to talk Ms M through other ways of 
accessing this page. Ms M said she didnt have a smartphone, which is unfortunate, as 
Nationwide said accessing the page using a cellular provider, instead of Ms Ms home 
broadband, would have solved the problem. Nationwide offered Ms M a mortgage advisor 
appointment. It said that it couldnt do this right away, and it said on the call it would take into 
account that Ms M had tried to apply that day, on 2 August, when the appointment took 
place. And she might be able to apply online successfully within the next couple of days. 
Ms M asked whether a branch could help, and Nationwide said that it now provides 
mortgage advice through a video call, from a central point, so it doesnt have advisors in the 
branches any more. It did suggest a pc in a library might also work. 
Ms M did seek reassurance that she would be able to get the same rate that shed been 
offered that day, but Nationwide said what had gone wrong wasnt its error, so it couldnt 
guarantee that. The problem wasnt something Nationwide had caused, and wasnt 
something it could cure either. It had made the relevant broadband provider aware. I dont 
think that was an unreasonable response for Nationwide to make at the time. 
We know that Ms M did try to log in from elsewhere, and experienced the same problem. 
She hasnt told us if her local library uses the same broadband provider to connect. 
Ms M then went to branch, and the branch arranged an appointment with a mortgage 
advisor to fix a new rate for Ms M. The branch was able to guarantee that Ms M would still 
be offered the same rate, and I can also see that this appointment was expedited, so that Ms 
M had her discussion and fixed her rate the next day. 
I think its unfortunate that Nationwide didnt then manage to issue a full complaint response 
in this case. A fuller explanation of what had gone wrong might have assisted here. But I do 
think that what Nationwide did provided a fair and reasonable response to the problem Ms M 
experienced. And, because I do think its most likely that the problem wasnt Nationwides 
fault, and it was outside of Nationwides control, I dont think Nationwide has to do more to 
make up for what went wrong. I understand Ms M may be disappointed by my response, but I hope the above explanation 
assists.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman