DRN-2390431
The complaint
Mr G complains with the help of a professional representative that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) 
gave him unsuitable advice to transfer out of his Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) and 
into a Personal Pension.
What happened
In 1991 Lloyds recommended that Mr G transfer out of his OPS into a Personal Pension  
and he accepted this advice and the transfer was completed.
In 1994, the regulator at the time, the Securities and Investment Board, instructed authorised 
firms to review certain pension business, including pension transfers that had happened 
between 29th April 1988 and 30th June 1994.
Lloyds carried out a review and sent the outcome of its review to Mr G in November 1997. It 
said it was unable to re-instate him in the OPS and the review had revealed that he had lost 
out as a result of being advised to transfer but only by £15.99. Mr G accepted the result of 
the review and Lloyds sent Mr G a cheque for the amount.
More recently Mr Gs representative complained that Mr G wouldve received a significantly 
higher pension if he had not been given unsuitable advice in 1991. It requested that Lloyds 
paid Mr G compensation in line with the Financial Conduct Authority's (FCA) updated 
FG17/9 guidance.
Lloyds didnt uphold the complaint, it said it had already reviewed the sale in line with the 
regulators guidance and it wasnt obliged to review the sale again.
Our investigator issued her recommendation and said Lloyds didnt have to re-review the 
advice as it had already carried out a review in-line with the regulators guidance at the time. 
Mr Gs representatives said the review had been done incorrectly because:
A policy fee of zero had been used. And the SIB requirement was that it wasnt allowed 
for firms to reduce a loss by assuming a reduction in future charges.
There was no evidence of any attempt to determine re-instatement into the OPS 
scheme.
There was no evidence that the required steps were taken to obtain all the relevant 
scheme details.
Accordingly, the FG17/9 guidance should be used to calculate appropriate redress.
Lloyds confirmed it did account for future charges. It provided evidence that 1.1% was 
entered for charges  its annual management charge (AMC), in its calculation. But it didnt 
include a policy fee as there wasnt one applicable to the plan, so thats why it says it shows 
as 0.
It said it could confirm reinstatement of benefits wasnt allowed. And this was confirmed to 
the customer at the time  as seen in its offer letter in 1997.
The investigator added that it was clear from the evidence provided that the business had 
checked with the former scheme about reinstatement. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Is the Pension Review applicable?
Both parties agree the Pension Review process was the correct way to address this 
situation. And for the avoidance of doubt, I think it was the correct way to address the 
transfer back in 1997. The regulator intended it to be applied in these circumstances.
Under the Pension Review (both the SIB specifications and the updated FG17/9 guidance) if 
a firm has carried out a review and communicated this to the customer  it is not required to 
look at the matter again. Providing the review addressed the circumstances of the complaint 
and had been carried out in line with the relevant guidance. I think this represents a fair and 
reasonable position when considering this complaint.
Lloyds position
Lloyds position is that it has already considered Mr Gs transfer in-line with the SIB Pension 
Review guidance starting with Pension Transfers and Opt-Outs Review of Past Business  
Statement of Policy on 25 October 1994 and updated by subsequent regulators thereafter. 
And so, it has no obligation under the guidance to look at this again.
Mr Gs representatives position
Mr Gs representative says that the review in 1997 wasnt carried out correctly and the 
calculation should be re-done but instead using the updated FG17/9 review guidance.
Was there a mistake in the original review?
Mr Gs representative says that the review was done incorrectly because there was a zero 
entered for the policy fee. And that no attempt was made to re-instate Mr G into the OPS 
scheme, nor to obtain accurate details about the scheme.
In regard to the charges applied in the review, Lloyds have confirmed that there wasnt a 
policy fee that applied to the plan. And this is why there is a zero showing in the calculation 
for the policy fee. But it included future charges of 1.1% its AMC. Ive checked the 
calculation and I can see the AMC charge was accounted for in the calculation. So I see no 
reason to doubt that this figure is reasonable and as this was a Lloyds pension, it wouldve 
known the charges applicable to the plan at the time. Furthermore, Mr Gs representative 
has provided no evidence or arguments to the contrary since being informed about the 
charges applied during the review. So in conclusion, the evidence suggests Lloyds fairly 
accounted for charges in the calculation.
Lloyds says it did check with the receiving scheme regarding whether Mr G could be re-
instated. Looking at the evidence its sent us its clear that prior to the result of the review 
Lloyds had been in contact with the scheme. Its sent us evidence of correspondence with 
the scheme  and a form where it asked Mr Gs permission to contact the scheme  which Mr G signed in 1997 prior to the review. When Lloyds made its offer to Mr G it confirmed that 
re-instatement wasnt possible. So I think the balance of evidence suggests that Lloyds did 
check if re-instatement was an option. The evidence also shows that Lloyds did establish the 
details of the scheme for its calculation.
Ive seen nothing to suggest that Lloyds made a mistake in its review. We are not a checking 
service, we dont have access to an actuary. But based on what we can look at, the details 
of the calculation, the inputs and after investigating the reasons put forward by Mr Gs 
representative to say the review wasnt correct -  I think the review most likely met the 
standards applicable at the time.
Conclusions
I consider that the review has already been carried out in line with the standards applicable 
at the time and I can see no fair or reasonable reason, nor any reason under the relevant 
guidance, to say that Lloyds needs to do more here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint and make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman