DRN-2898135
The complaint
Mrs R complains about Secure Trust Bank Plc V12 Retail Finance Limiteds handling of her
fixed sum loan.
What happened
Mrs R took out a fixed sum loan agreement with V12 Retail to cover the cost of the purchase
of electrical goods in December 2018.
Mrs R says that after a direct debit was returned unpaid in July 2019 she received two phone
calls as well as text messages and emails from V12 Retail asking her to make the payment.
She says that she subsequently made the payment and was told that because she had
made the payment within ten days no charges would be applied to the account. Mrs R raised
a complaint with V12 Retail because shed felt harassed by its contact.
V12 Retail responded to Mrs Rs complaint in August 2019. It accepted that it had sent
Mrs R two text messages, two letters about charges and called her once on 3 July 2019. It
said it had done this in line with its normal procedures. It was satisfied that it had provided a
reasonable level of service.
Later that month, Mrs R says that she spoke to V12 Retail about being unable to make
another payment by the required date. She says she was told that if she cancelled her direct
debit she wouldnt receive any further failed direct debit charges or contact from V12 Retail,
and it wouldnt ask her for payment until 14 days after the due date.
Mrs R subsequently missed the required payment in September 2019 and received a
payment reminder via email from V12 Retail. She asked to raise a complaint again and said
that V12 Retail had acted illegally by applying charges in respect of failed direct debit as well
as late payment fees. She also said V12 Retail shouldnt have closed her first complaint
without her permission and she hadnt received its response.
V12 Retail sent its final response to Mrs R in October 2019. It said it listened to the call it had
with Mrs R and found that it had told her that a charge would be applied if she didnt make
the required payment within 14 days, but there was no discussion about contact. It accepted
that it told Mrs R she wouldnt be charged a returned direct debit fee now that it had been
cancelled. It reminded Mrs R that her payments were due on the first of each month, and if
that didnt fall in line with her pay cycle, she could contact the arrears team who could add a
note to pause contact about arrears. V12 Retail said that Mrs Rs previous complaint had
been closed because a final response had been issued, and it didnt require her permission.
Mrs R referred the matter to our service. She reiterated the points she had raised with V12
Retail and asked for charges to be refunded, an apology issued, as well as assurances she
wont be contacted in the same manner again.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, he said that he didnt think V12
Retails contact with Mrs R had constituted harassment and it had treated Mrs R fairly in the
circumstances.
Mrs R didnt agree. She said that we had not addressed parts of her complaint  specifically
that V12 Retail hadnt told her she had no right to have her number removed from its system
or that her first complaint was closed without permission. Mrs R also said that she had been
misinformed on a number of occasions by V12 Retail, and it had provided poor service.
Our investigator explained their position had not changed because he was satisfied V12
Retail was entitled to close Mrs Rs first complaint, removed her telephone number from its
system when she asked it to, and he hadnt seen any evidence to be satisfied that it had
misinformed Mrs R or provided poor service.
Mrs R asked for an ombudsmans decision on the case. The case was passed to me and I 
issued a provisional decision on it. In summary I said;
Mrs Rs complaint relates to a fixed sum loan agreement she was provided by V12 Retail.
Its a regulated agreement, and one which this service has the power to consider a complaint
about.
Whilst our investigator gave a perspective on many points on Mrs Rs complaint, they didnt
cover all of them. Specifically, they didnt address the point Mrs R made about the legitimacy
of the charges which V12 Retail applied. Mrs Rs said that she believes the charges were
applied illegally. Its not for this service to give a legal perspective on that, but I can decide
whether they were applied fairly taking relevant law and industry guidance into account.
V12 Retail has provided a copy of Mrs Rs fixed sum loan agreement. It sets out details of
charges which would be applied to the account in the event of a returned direct debit or
cheque. It also says that it would apply a charge for collections administration each month
the account is overdue, if the account is still in arrears after 14 days.
Im aware that Mrs R contests that she was given accurate information regarding this during
her telephone conversations about late payments with V12 Retail. V12 Retail has told us that
those calls are no longer available, but it believes that it gave accurate information based on
its records. Having reviewed those contact records, Im not persuaded that V12 misled
Mrs R or gave her inaccurate information about charges applied to her account, nor its
proposed frequency of contact.
Additionally, whilst those charges appear to have been applied accurately based on what
Ive seen, V12 Retail has told us that in addition to the specific charges Mrs R complains of,
all of the charges which had been applied during the life of the agreement, totalling £68,
were removed in September 2019 as a gesture of good will. From what Ive seen it appears
that V12 Retail applied those charges fairly and in line with Mrs Rs agreement. In any case,
even if Mrs R still disputes this, theyve already been refunded.
From what Mrs R has said, I understand that she feels strongly that V12 Retails contact in
the event of a late payment was unreasonable. Shes said it constitutes harassment. V12
Retails notes show that it sent Mrs R two text messages and made one phone call, over two
days by way of a payment reminder. It followed that contact with two letters, one of which
detailed a charge which had been applied to the account.
Ive considered the legislation and industry guidance relevant to this part of Mrs Rs
complaint, specifically the Consumer Credit sourcebook  CONC  as well as the FCA
Principles for Business  PRIN. The overarching principles of the both is that lenders should
treat their customers fairly and ensure that the action taken in the event of missed payments
is proportionate.Having regard for that, Im not satisfied that V12 Retails frequency of contact was sufficient
to constitute harassment as Mrs R has suggested. Im also satisfied that the purpose of V12
Retails contact with Mrs R was to ensure that she was aware a payment had been missed
and to give her the opportunity to make the payment. Ive also seen that V12 Retail removed
Mrs R telephone number when she asked it to, but like our investigator, I dont think there
was an obligation for V12 Retail to have taken steps to make Mrs R aware that this was an
option before she requested it. Overall, Im satisfied that V12 Retails contact was
proportionate and it treated Mrs R fairly.
Lastly, I dont consider V12 Retail treated Mrs R unfairly by closing her first complaint at the
point it issued its final response on the matter. I dont think it was unreasonable for V12
Retail to do this given it had issued its final say on the matter and given Mrs R referral rights
to this service, and I also dont think that Mrs R was disadvantaged by it as V12 Retail
subsequently considered the additional points she made and issued a further response. Ive
also seen that V12 Retails first response was sent to Mrs R, so, although I accept it possible
Mrs R may not have received it, Im nonetheless satisfied it was sent.
Overall and in conclusion, for the reasons set out above Im satisfied that V12 Retail applied
charges to Mrs Rs account in line with her agreement with it, didnt mislead her about
charges following missed payments and overall provided a reasonable level
of service.
V12 Retail didnt respond, but Mrs R did. She said that my decision had not addressed the 
level of service shed received, particularly during telephone conversations with V12 Retail. 
Mrs R said that she felt harassed when V12 Retail told her that she didnt have a right to ask 
for calls to stop, or for it to remove her contact details. Mrs R also maintained that V12 Retail 
had misled her by saying that it wouldnt apply charges if she cancelled her direct debit, and 
shed have a 14 day grace period against markers being placed on her credit file. 
The case has been passed back to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its understandable that Mrs R is frustrated that the call recordings relevant to her complaint 
arent available. However, in the absence of those calls, I need to decide what most likely 
happened based on the evidence available to me. In this case, the relevant evidence is the 
Mrs Rs testimony as well as the written records V12 Retail kept of the conversations it had 
with her.
 As my provisional decision explained, Im not persuaded that Mrs R was misled about the 
consequences of missed payments during her telephone calls with V12 Retail based on the 
evidence Ive been presented. And in any case, V12 Retail has already refunded the 
charges Mrs R complained about. So, V12 Retail has already done more than I likely 
wouldve recommended even if Id accepted Mrs R had been misled.
In respect of Mrs R specific concerns about V12 Retail not removing her phone number, I 
can see from V12 Retails contact notes that it initially told Mrs R it couldnt remove all of her 
contact numbers during a call on 3 July 2019, but it subsequently removed them the next 
day. 
Again, I can understand Mrs Rs frustration that V12 Retail didnt remove all of her contact 
numbers as soon as she asked it to. Nonetheless, V12 Retail ultimately carried out Mrs Rs request within a day of her asking and without calling Mrs R again, which I think is 
reasonable.
Overall, Mrs Rs comments havent changed my mind on the case. As a result, I find no 
reason to depart from my provisional decision, so Im still of the view that V12 Retail applied 
charges to Mrs Rs account correctly, didnt mislead her and provided a reasonable level of 
service overall. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I do no uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
Stephen Trapp
Ombudsman