DRN-3907528
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) changed his address 
and the financial adviser attached to his pension plan without his authority. 
What happened
In November 2022, Aviva received a letter of authority (LOA) from a firm Ill refer to as P. 
The LOA, which was signed by Mr M, provided authorisation for Aviva to provide P with 
information about Mr Ms plans. The covering letter from P provided Mr Ms policy numbers 
and requested pension information for Mr Ms plans. 
Aviva sent an acknowledgement to P and said that it would provide the requested 
information within the next 15 days. Aviva also noticed that the address on the LOA differed 
to the one it had on its records for Mr M so it updated the address on its system to reflect the 
new address. Confirmation of the address change was sent to Mr M at the new address. A 
letter was also issued to the address that had been previously held for Mr M. This letter 
confirmed that the address had been updated. For security reasons it said the new address 
hadnt been included in the letter and it asked Mr M to contact Aviva immediately if he hadnt 
asked for his address to be updated. 
On receipt of this letter, Mr M called Aviva as he hadnt asked for his address to be changed. 
During this call and a subsequent call a few days later, Mr M raised a number of concerns.  
He was concerned there may have been a data breach as someone had been able to 
change the address on his pension without his permission. In addition, a copy of this letter 
had been sent to his ex-wifes address and he hadnt heard of P. So Mr M requested a full 
explanation of how this had happened and confirmation that no sensitive information had 
been sent to anyone. Aviva also updated the address to the one Mr M confirmed was 
correct. 
Aviva investigated Mr Ms concerns and it issued its final response confirming that it was 
upholding the complaint. It said that it had received a LOA from P which had listed a different 
address for Mr M to the one it held on its records. Aviva explained that as per its process, it 
can update the authority on a pension. But it said that it shouldnt have updated Mr Ms 
address. It also confirmed that it had not issued any information about Mr M or his plans to 
P. In recognition of the error Aviva said it would be issuing a cheque to Mr M for £250. 
Mr M didnt feel that Aviva had adequately investigated the complaint and he felt the error 
warranted more than £250 compensation. Aviva reinvestigated matters but didnt change its 
position and it also confirmed that it was reissuing the cheque for £250 as the previous one 
hadnt been received. Mr M remained unhappy so referred the matter to our service for 
review.
During a conversation with our investigator, Mr M explained that he signed up to an app 
collating pension information but he hadnt gone ahead with it and hadnt signed the LOA. So 
he said that Aviva shouldnt have changed his address. He said he was unhappy because 
he doesnt know what information was sent to his ex-wifes address and what the 
consequences of that may be. He also said he was very unhappy that hed been told by 
several people at Aviva that a cheque would be issued but it hadnt arrived when it should 
have done and he hadnt been called back when he should have been. He also didnt think 
that a thorough investigation had been completed into the matter, no one had asked him 
about the impact the error had on him and he didnt think the £250 conveyed the 
seriousness of the error. In his view fraudulent activity had happened on his account.
Our investigator reviewed the complaint. She said there was no dispute Aviva had made an 
error. However, she felt £250 compensation was fair in the circumstances. She 
acknowledged that Mr M hadnt received the first cheque Aviva had sent but a further 
cheque had been issued to Mr M on 6 January 2023. So she didnt think Aviva needed to do 
any more to matters right. 
After receiving the investigators opinion, Mr M called our service. He confirmed to the call 
handler that he didnt accept the opinion. He said that the investigator hadnt taken his verbal 
testimony into account but he confirmed he wanted the case to be closed and said that he 
would be taking the matter to a third party. 
Mr M called a few weeks later for an update on his case. He said it was his understanding 
the matter was with an ombudsman. He said he was unhappy the investigator hadnt asked 
him about the full extent the issue had had on him and the repercussions he will have to deal 
with for the rest of his life as a result of his ex-wife receiving the letters. 
The complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset I think it is useful to explain the role of this service. This service isnt intended to 
regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. 
And while I understand that Mr M feels theres been a breach of data protection here, thats 
also not a matter for us to decide. Thats the role of the Information Commissioners Office 
(ICO). I understand Mr M was provided with details of the ICO during a call with our service 
on 17 January 2023. The ICO regulates compliance to data protection laws in the UK. It has 
a number of powers including the power to order businesses to comply with data protection 
laws and to fine them. But, unlike us, it doesnt have the power to award compensation to 
consumers whove suffered financial loss or have been caused distress and inconvenience 
by the way a financial business has handled their personal information. 
In this case, its not in dispute that Aviva made an error when it updated Mr Ms address on 
its system. Aviva accepts this and so did our investigator. So I dont need to consider 
whether something went wrong. And Im satisfied that an award of compensation is 
warranted given what happened. Aviva has already offered to compensate Mr M £250 for 
the impact its mistake had. What I need to decide is whether Aviva has done enough to put 
matters right. 
I can see from Avivas system notes that it made the initial update to Mr Ms address on 
2 November 2022 after it received the LOA from P. The address was then changed back to 
Mr Ms correct address on 9 November 2022  so for a total of six working days Aviva held 
the incorrect contact details for Mr M. During this time, two letter were issued to Mr Ms ex-
wifes address confirming that the address had been updated. Other than being addressed to Mr M at his ex-wifes address, no other details were provided; the letters didnt confirm the 
type of plan Mr M held and no policy number or plan details were included within either 
letter. 
I know Mr M has doubts as to whether this is the only information Aviva issued between 
these dates to this address. But having looked at its system notes, Im satisfied that no other 
correspondence was issued to Mr Ms ex-wifes address. 
Aviva has also provided confirmation to show that the adviser attached to Mr Ms plan didnt 
change when the LOA was received and no information about Mr Ms plan was sent to P. 
We arent here to punish businesses. Had it not already done so its final response to the 
complaint, Id have asked Aviva to apologise for what happened here. I would have also 
ordered it to pay compensation for the trouble and upset Mr M was caused. 
In thinking about whether the compensation Aviva has already offered is fair, Ive taken a 
number of things into consideration. As soon as Mr M contacted Aviva, the address was 
corrected.  I know Mr M has concerns about the way Aviva has acted. There was a delay in 
the initial cheque being issued and he wasnt called back when he should have been. But Im 
satisfied Aviva accepted responsibility for the error quickly and took action to correct it. No 
personal information relating Mr M was provided to anyone.  And I can see that when the 
initial cheque wasnt received, Aviva offered to make a payment direct into Mr Ms account. 
He declined this and a further cheque was issued on 6 January 2023. 
Im satisfied that the £250 already offered by Aviva is a reasonable amount, which is in line 
with our approach in similar scenarios and it fairly recognises the impact Avivas error had. 
I know he doesnt think the offer Aviva has made adequately reflects what he has been 
through. And I can appreciate he was worried that his ex-wife may have received 
confidential mail about his financial affairs. But as Ive said above, the letters didnt contain 
any personal or policy information. 
Mr M says the mistake will have repercussions with his ex-wife for years. But despite being 
given the opportunity, he hasnt provided further details of what these repercussions will be. 
During the initial call with our investigator he said he didnt want to go into the details. He 
was also given the opportunity to provide any further information he wanted to be taken into 
account when he was advised the matter was being referred to an ombudsman. However, 
no further details have been provided. 
While I appreciate that Mr M is, understandably, concerned by what couldve happened, we 
can only look at what did happen. Ive seen evidence that confirms Aviva has now correctly 
changed Mr Ms address. No personal data was provided in the letters to his ex-wifes 
address or to P. I can also see Aviva said it will provide feedback to the department that 
made the error. This all persuades me that it has taken reasonable steps to prevent this 
error from happening again. 
I think its important for me to recognise Mr Ms strength of feeling about this matter and I 
realise he will be disappointed with this decision. But I think the £250 Aviva offered was fair. 
So Im not asking it to do any more than it has already done. It brings to an end what we, in 
trying to resolve his dispute with Aviva informally, can do for him. Im sorry we cant help 
Mr M any further with this.
My final decision
For the reasons explained Im not upholding the complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2023. 
Lorna Goulding
Ombudsman