DRN-2980021
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Amplifi Capital (U.K.) Limited trading as My Community Finance, 
referred to as the business, refuses to delete her personal information from its records.    
What happened
I understand that Mrs P, with her husband, manages a substantial portfolio of fixed interest 
and fixed-term savings accounts. I note that in 2020 they were dealing with a maturing three-
year bond and were looking for a better rate online and thats how they came across a 
business offering a better deal subject to eligibility, which I shall refer to as the bank. 
I note on 18 August 2020, Mrs Ps husband sent an email to the business, who I understand 
were acting as a credit broker for the bank, regarding addition details about the 
product/application, but they didnt hear back. Mrs P then located the eligibility criteria on the 
banks website, which she seemed to fulfil. 
On 26 August 2020, Mrs P made an online application, and during that process gave 
consent to the business to carry out the usual eligibility and ID checks. She also submitted 
additional ID documents. 
On 27 August 2020, Mrs P received an email from the business to confirm that her 
application to open an account had been accepted, subject to her signing an account 
opening agreement. I understand that having downloaded and examined the document Mrs 
P decided not to go ahead with the account  because she wasnt happy with the agreement 
 and in due course notified the bank. She also asked it to remove her details from its 
system.    
I note that in an email dated 8 June 2020 (which the bank says should read 3 September 
2020) Mrs P was notified by the bank that it wouldnt remove her information on the grounds 
that it had already been shared with other agencies as part of the ID checks through the 
business, to which she had already consented. Furthermore, that under General Data 
Protection Regulation (GDPR) it was obliged to retain the information for a minimum of five 
years. Mrs P says a copy of the consent wasnt attached. 
I understand that in due course Mrs P complained to the business, and subsequently 
referred the complaint to our service. Im aware that the business hasnt upheld the 
complaint and has adopted a similar approach to the bank, as set out above, with regards to 
why it cant delete her information immediately. 
Mrs Ps unhappy that the business will keep her personal details on its system even though 
she decided not to go ahead with opening the account with the bank. Im aware that shes 
made a separate complaint against the bank. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
Shes only considering the complaint against the business, and not the bank, which is 
the subject of a separate complaint. 
Its not our role to decide if a business has breached data protection laws, thats the 
role of the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). 
Neither is it our role to punish a business if its done something wrong, thats the role 
of the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
Its our role to consider individual complaints between a financial institution and a 
consumer, to ensure that a fair outcome has been reached. 
The business said that it needs to keep information on its internal records, in line with 
its policy. Most financial institutions often retain some data for the purposes of 
reporting complaints to the FCA, and for training and monitoring purposes. As Mrs P 
completed the application, she agreed to the account terms and privacy notice before 
proceeding. 
In this instance the business is entitled to retain Mrs Ps information for a period of 
time. Therefore, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to ask the business to remove her 
information held on its internal records.      
Mrs P disagreed with the investigators view. In summary, she said:
The investigator had failed to consider several aspects of the complaint. 
The existence and role of the business wasnt declared by the bank. 
She declared an intention to open an account with the bank and gave the usual 
consent regarding her personal information and personal ID material. But she wasnt 
told about the existence and role of the business.  
Despite being accepted for an account, it became apparent to her that what was on 
offer wasnt the straightforward fixed-term bond she was expecting. So, she 
immediately contacted the business to say that she wouldnt be opening an account 
with the bank. 
At no stage did she enter into an agreement with the business (or the bank), and 
neither has the right to retain her information against her wishes.
On the face of the evidence, its impossible to conclude that she was treated fairly. 
Our investigator, having considered the additional points, wasnt persuaded to change her 
mind. 
I understand that Mrs P in due course confirmed that she hadnt received an email dated 8 
June 2020 from the business, but having considered the contents, she says it changes 
nothing. Shes grateful for the confirmation that the bank hasnt retained her personal data. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mrs P says, Im unable to safely 
say that the business behaved unreasonably by refusing to immediately delete her 
information held by it. Before I explain my decision, I think its important for me to recognise Mrs Ps strength of 
feeling about this matter. She has provided detailed submissions to support this complaint, 
which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope she wont take the fact my 
findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a 
discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by her and the business, and reach what I think is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. In deciding whats fair and 
reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best industry practice, but Im 
not bound by this. Its for me to decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats 
more likely than not to have happened.
On 26 August 2020, Mrs P completed an online application form  through the business  to 
open an account with the bank. In my opinion her relationship with the business arises out of 
this application process to open an account.  
In this instance, the business was acting as a credit broker for the bank, and Mrs P was 
referred to the business in order to submit the application so that it could conduct the 
relevant ID checks before an account was authorised. In other words, it seems that the bank 
outsourced its credit broking/onboarding activity to the business, which has retained Mrs Ps 
personal information. Its not clear if Mrs P couldve applied to open an account with the 
bank by any other means. 
 
By making the application through the business, and by accepting its terms and 
conditions/privacy policy, it seems Mrs P consented for it to deal with her information in a 
certain way. In this instance, based on what the business says, it seems this included 
processing, sharing and holding her personal information. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mrs P says, I dont think the 
business behaved unreasonably by refusing to immediately delete her information 
straightaway just because she subsequently changed her mind about opening an account 
with the bank.  
In other words, Mrs P  having been accepted to open an account  decided not to go ahead 
with it, because she was unhappy with what was on offer. However, shed already consented 
to her information being used by the business in a certain way, which seemed to include its 
sharing and subsequent retention for a period. 
Although having looked at the privacy policy for the business, I note it doesnt state how long 
the information might be retained. But on the face of the evidence, and on balance, I dont 
think this wouldve made a material difference to Mrs P continuing with the application 
process because she wanted to open an account at the time. I appreciate Mrs P may 
disagree with my conclusion, but I dont think its unreasonable.   
In any case, if Mrs P  during the application process through the business  was concerned 
about how her personal information would be used or stored and for how long, she couldve 
got in touch with the business to clarify any concerns she had. Despite what Mrs P says 
about the business role and existence, I note that she and or her husband initially contacted 
the business for details, and she subsequently made the online application through it. 
I note the privacy policy (available online) says that the business is: 
authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority with permission to enter into 
a regulated credit agreements as lender or to act as a credit brokerIf you have any questions about how we collect, store and use personal information, or if you 
have any other privacy-related questions, please contact us by any of the following means:
phone us at: 033 3207 9961;
e-mail us at info@mycommunityfinance.co.uk; or
write to us at Amplifi Capital
Im aware that by the time Mrs P asked the business to delete her personal information, 
some of it had already been shared with other agencies as part of the business role to 
conduct ID checks. I note the business says that Mrs P already agreed to the processing of 
her personal information during the onboarding phase, and that it had already conducted 
the Know Your Customer (KYC) checks, including Peps and Sanctions. So, in the 
circumstances the business couldnt simply immediately erase the information she provided 
or that which it had already shared.  
Im aware that the businesses may need to keep information on its internal records, in line 
with its policy and commitment to regulatory requirements, which I dont think is 
unreasonable. In this instance the business suggests thats why its retained Mrs Ps 
information. I appreciate that a lot of financial institutions often retain some data for the 
purposes of reporting complaints to the FCA, and for training and monitoring purposes. This 
isnt an uncommon practice. 
Im aware that theres no set maximum period that personal data can be stored for. Mrs P 
may be aware that six years is often a minimum recommended term (being the limitation 
period for actions for breach of contract). But data may be retained for as long as there is a 
proper reason to retain it. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, it seems the business is entitled to retain 
Mrs Ps information for a period. So, in the circumstances Im unable to say that its behaved 
unreasonably by refusing to delete it immediately. 
However, I should also make clear that my remit isnt to consider whether the business 
policy, or its interpretation is lawful  thats a matter for the FCA, or the ICO. Its not for me to 
determine whether (or not) the request qualifies under the articles of GDPR. Im only 
concerned with how he business has dealt with Mrs P individually. So, if Mrs P is still 
concerned that the business hasnt fulfilled its obligations under GDPR, she may wish to 
refer her complaint to the ICO and or the FCA.  
I appreciate Mrs P will be very unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. I realise my decision isnt what she wants to hear. Whilst I appreciate her 
frustration, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give her what she wants.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman