DRN-2729865
The complaint
Miss A has a motor insurance policy with Aviva Insurance Limited. She says it didnt pay to 
repair all the accident damage to her car and provided poor service to her in general.  
What happened
Miss As car was parked on 23 October 2020 when it was damaged by another vehicle in a 
non-fault accident. Four days later Miss A chose an approved repairer to review the damage. 
Her car was with the garage by 2 November 2020. Miss A was given a replacement hire car 
from 28 October 2020 until 12 November 2020. The garage told Miss A that the damage to a 
wheel rim wasnt accident-related, so it wouldnt be repaired. Miss A then sent photos taken 
at the scene of the accident to Aviva, but its decision didnt change. It said the repairer 
thought the damage was historical and Avivas engineer agreed with that opinion .  
One of our investigators reviewed Miss As complaint. She thought Aviva had considered all 
the evidence, including the photos, and had relied on the view of the repairer and one of its 
own engineers that the damage to the wheel rim wasnt new. Miss A had also raised some 
service issues initially, but the investigator thought Aviva had acted reasonably in collecting 
the damaged car fairly quickly and ensuring that Miss A had a replacement vehicle. 
Miss A then said that Aviva hadnt sent her a link to contact the garage initially and that the 
photos shed taken werent considered. She said her claim wasnt marked as non-fault. And 
she said she was left without a vehicle when hire was withdrawn until her car was returned 
to her on 18 November 2020.  
The investigator contacted Aviva, who said the claim had been recorded as non-fault. It said 
the repairs were completed before 12 November 2020, so the car could have been collected 
then, although the review following Miss As complaint hadnt yet been done. It said Miss As 
photos werent received by it until the evening of Friday 13 November 2020, and they 
werent seen until the following Tuesday, when the manager reviewing them returned to 
work.  He spoke to an engineer about them and called Miss A the same day. He left a 
message and called her again the next day, when the car was returned.  
As the investigator didnt change her view, the complaint was passed to me for review.      
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the evidence on the file shows that the garage looked at all the damage and that 
Avivas engineer reviewed the photos, including the ones Miss A submitted directly to it. She 
has said the photos show fresh marks where the other cars tyres came into contact with the 
wheel rim. I dont think thats visible in the photos - but the main point is that two qualified 
engineers thought the damage to the wheel rim was old damage. They thought it was 
consistent with heavy kerbing and that ingrained brake dust showed the damage wasnt 
new. I think it was reasonable for Aviva to rely on the view of the engineers. 
In terms of the service Miss A received, her car was driveable, but it was in the garage within 
five working days of the claim being reported anyway. I think that was a reasonable period in 
the circumstances. And Miss A was given a hire car from 28 October 2020, well before the 
repairs began. The policy says a car will only be provided when repairs are under way, so in 
that respect Miss A got better service than she could have expected. 
The file notes show that the garage called Miss A on 11 November 2020 to say the car was 
ready for collection (as the wheel rim wasnt going to be repaired). The garage says it left a 
voicemail message and a text message. Although it no longer has those records, given the 
time that has elapsed, I think its more likely than not that the garage tried to contact Miss A 
that day, given that it told Aviva on 12 November 2020 that it had done so. 
Aviva emailed Miss A ton 12 November 2020 to say the garage had tried to contact her the 
day before and that the car was ready for collection. Miss A still had the hire car at this point, 
but it was collected that day. Initially, Miss A simply said her own car wasnt returned to her 
for a week, although later she said she said she called the garage to get it back and was told 
it wasnt ready.  All the evidence shows that the car was ready, as all the work that was 
going to be done on it had been done. Miss A hasnt provided any evidence of her call to the 
garage, so on the evidence available to me, I cant say it was Avivas fault that she was 
without a car for several days. 
Some service issues werent raised by Miss A initially. One of these, raised with Aviva in 
March 2021, was about her claim not being recorded as non-fault. I think Aviva has shown 
that it acted in line with standard industry practice, as the claim was recorded as non-fault as 
soon as it got its outlay back from the other drivers insurer. And it explained at the time that 
her premium had risen because there was still an open claim on her record, where liability 
wasnt yet settled. 
Miss A also said she hadnt initially received the link from Aviva to allow her to submit 
images. Aviva says she used the link on 27 October 2020 and that the garage picked the 
images up and then arranged for the car to go to the garage. Although Miss A doesnt seem 
to have complained to Aviva about this initially (and it wasnt set out in her complaint to us) I 
can see that Aviva responded to her concern in March 2021.
I dont think Miss A has been able to show that Aviva acted unreasonably in relation to the 
repair of her car, or that it provided poor service to her. I know shell be disappointed by this, 
but I cant uphold her complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the Financial Ombudsman 
Services rules, I must ask Miss A to accept or reject my decision before 27 July 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman