DRN-2266837
The complaint
Mrs D and Mr D complains that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds trading at the time of sale as TSB) 
mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
What happened
Mrs D and Mr D bought a regular premium MPPI policy in 1996 alongside a mortgage in a 
meeting in one of Lloyds branches. The policy covered Mrs D and Mr D against accidents, 
sickness and unemployment. The mortgage and MPPI policy most likely ended in or before 
1999.
Mrs D and Mr D say Lloyds mis-sold the MPPI policy to them. They say Lloyds made them 
feel it was essential to take out the MPPI policy. They say they were both covered with sick 
pay and savings and so didnt need it. More recently Mrs D has also said she was not 
eligible to claim benefit. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs D and Mr Ds complaint. As Mrs D and Mr D dont agree 
with the adjudicators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to 
make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs D and Mr Ds case.
Ive looked at all of the information provided by both parties and decided not to uphold        
Mrs D and Mr Ds complaint because of the following reasons:
I first of all looked at whether Mrs D and Mr D were given a choice to have the policy. 
They have said they were made to feel it was essential they take out the MPPI policy. 
So, I have looked into this.
I looked at the sales documentation provided and considered Mrs D and Mr Ds 
recollections to help me understand what more likely happened at the time of sale. 
Lloyds has provided an application form, but it is not legible in places. So, its been 
difficult for me to consider whether Mrs D and Mr D were given a choice or not as to 
whether they should have the MPPI policy.
But Im not aware of any known issues with the way Lloyds sold these policies 
around this time. And due to the amount of years that have passed since the sale, I 
have not been able to obtain a detailed recollection of the sale either. The application 
form does show a separate section for MPPI. If MPPI was not needed this section 
could have been left blank. So, with all of this in mind, I think it is more likely Lloyds 
gave Mrs D and Mr D a choice to have MPPI and they agreed to it by signing the 
mortgage application form. I havent seen enough from the documentation provided 
by Lloyds or the additional forms provided more recently by Mrs D and Mr D, that 
would make me conclude otherwise. 
Moving on, Lloyds has said it recommended the MPPI to Mrs D and Mr D and so, as 
this puts additional responsibilities on it, I will proceed that this was the case. So, as it 
did recommend the policy to Mrs D and Mr D, it had to ensure during the sale that the 
policy was suitable for their needs. 
After reviewing all that has been provided by the parties, it doesnt look as if the 
MPPI policy was unsuitable for Mrs D and Mr D based on what Ive seen of their 
circumstances at the time. Mrs D and Mr D says they had sick pay (they have told us 
Mrs D had 6 months full and 6 months half sick pay and Mr D had 3 months full and 3 
months half sick pay along with up to 3 months savings) but the policy would also 
have paid in addition to any provisions they would have had. So, the benefit would 
have been of use to Mrs D and Mr D during a difficult time as they could have used 
their sick pay to pay for other expenses. I think, on balance, when I consider the 
benefit provided by the policy, they had a need for this cover for any extended period 
of unemployment or sickness. 
I also couldnt find any other reason such as a significant or limiting term that would 
make the policy unsuitable for Mrs D and Mr D such as a pre-existing condition. Mrs 
D mentioned that she was pregnant at the time of sale and there was an exclusion 
relating to this that meant she was not eligible to claim benefit from. I have read this 
term and can see that she was eligible at the time of sale. So, I dont think this would 
have made the policy unsuitable for her.
Lloyds has provided some information about the costs relating to the MPPI policy that 
Mrs D and Mr D took out but even though it has provided information detailing how 
much it cost and this was shown on sales documentation, I cannot be sure that these 
costs were disclosed to Mrs D and Mr D in a clear and fair way in the meeting. That 
said, even if they were disclosed clearly, I dont think Mrs D and Mr D would have 
done anything different and decided against having the policy for the reasons that I 
have already given for the policy being suitable. Its possible Lloyds didnt point out 
the main things the policy didnt cover. But its unlikely Mrs D and Mr D wouldve been 
affected by any of these.
Finally, Mrs D and Mr D say Mrs D was not eligible because she was working 15 hours a 
week. I agree with the adjudicator, that Mrs D and Mr D were both eligible at the time of sale. 
Mrs D has told our service she changed her hours at work months after this point. So, I dont 
think this would have put Mrs D and Mr D off from having the cover for the reasons I have 
given for the policy being suitable for them. 
I know it will be a disappointment to Mrs D and Mr D, but I dont think Lloyds mis-sold them 
this MPPI policy. 
My final decisionI do not uphold Mrs D and Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 May 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman