DRN-2935740
The complaint
Mr H complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, have refused to raise a 
chargeback request on disputed transactions.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr H, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The chargeback scheme is intended to help resolve disputes between the consumer and the 
merchant without the need to resort to court action.
The scheme, in this case, is operated not by Halifax but by Mastercard and the scheme 
operator sets strict rules under which claims can be made.
Whilst the scheme is voluntary and there are no automatic chargeback rights for the 
consumer we would think it good practice for a business to raise a chargeback if there were 
reasonable prospects of success.
Halifax have explained that they didnt process a chargeback because Mr H had breached 
the terms of his credit card contract. Those terms say that the card cant be used for 
business purposes and as Mr H was purchasing advertising for his business I think its clear 
there was a breach of contract.
In those circumstances I dont think it would be fair to suggest Halifax were wrong to refuse 
to process the chargeback request.
A claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) has not been made and I 
understand Mr H is in contact with Halifax to arrange that. Should he be dissatisfied with 
their response he can subsequently refer the matter to this service. But, Im afraid that with 
regard to the chargeback claim I dont think Halifax have been unreasonable and Im not 
asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman