DRN-4436494
The complaint
Ms S complains Sainsburys Bank Plc incorrectly charged her interest on her credit card 
balance and the information provided on her statements wasnt clear. 
What happened
In May 2023 Ms S used her credit card to make some purchases. One of the purchases 
seemed to attract a promotional offer of 0%. Sainsburys say Ms S didnt pay the full 
previous months purchase balance and £4.47 remained outstanding. So the following month 
she was charged £16.79 interest. Ms S says she was surprised she had been charged 
interest as the only outstanding balances she had on the credit card were the ones that 
attracted 0% promotional offers. So she complained to Sainsburys. 
Sainsburys say, in line with the terms and conditions, Ms S was liable to pay interest on the 
previous purchase balance because in her June 2023 statement she hadnt paid the 
previous purchase balance in full.  Sainsburys felt it had correctly applied the interest, but it 
did refund the interest to Ms S as a gesture of goodwill and also applied a month waiver to 
prevent Ms S incurring interest the following month. 
Ms S remained unhappy, so she referred the complaint to our service. She said the 
statement was misleading as she thought she had cleared the full purchase balance and the 
£4.47 that remained attracted no interest as set out in the statement sent to her. Ms S said 
getting charged the additional interest caused her unnecessary stress.
Our investigator looked at Ms S complaint and upheld it. They felt the statement was 
unclear and while Sainsburys had taken steps to remove the interest, they didnt think it was 
enough to compensate Ms S for the impact caused by the unclear statement. They asked 
Sainsburys to award Ms S £50 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused to her. 
Sainsburys didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review the case, so the complaint 
has been passed to me to make a final decision.           
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Sainsburys didnt uphold Ms Ss complaint, but it has refunded the interest charges and 
waived any charges for the following month as a gesture of goodwill  so Ms S hasnt lost 
out financially. 
Sainsburys didnt think it had acted unreasonably in the way it charged the interest and 
didnt agree the statement was misleading. But our investigator didnt agree and thought a 
payment of £50 more fairly reflected how unclear the statements were and the impact of this 
on Ms S. I agree with the investigators view that £50 would fairly recognise the impact on 
Ms S. 
I say this because I dont think the statement sent to Ms S are clear. I can see Ms S 
consistently cleared her previous purchase balance for many months prior to May 2023. On 
the statement the only previous purchase balance which seemed to attract an interest 
payment looks to be £609.88. The balance of £104.33 was described as Your special 
promotional rates and the rate being applied was 0.00% p.a. until 30 August 2023.
Having considered this information I can see why Ms S would have been under the 
impression that the only balance she needed to clear was the £609.88. And while she paid a 
larger payment than what was needed to clear this balance this wasnt out of line with how 
she made payments in previous months, when she would normally clear a larger balance 
than what would have been needed to clear the previous purchase balance. 
I havent been provided any evidence to show how this particular promotional offer was 
explained to Ms S and what criteria she would need to meet to be eligible for it. So Im 
satisfied that Ms S did find the statements unclear and misleading, it simply said that this 
purchase attracted a 0% promotional offer. Im persuaded had Ms S known she would have 
been charged interest for not clearing the remaining purchase balance she would have done 
so.  
So when she received the following months statement I can understand why she would 
have been surprised. She then needed to contact Sainsburys to rectify the issue. I do think 
Sainsburys acted fairly in refunding the interest charges and ensuring she didnt incur any 
interest the following month. But I also think its fair to say this caused Ms S a reasonable 
level of inconvenience, so I feel a payment of £50 more fairly reflects the level of distress 
and inconvenience caused to Ms S in the circumstances of this complaint. As a result, Im 
upholding Ms S complaint and directing Sainsburys to pay her £50 compensation.  
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above I uphold Ms S complaint and direct Sainsburys Bank Plc 
to pay Ms S £50 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman