DRN-4223409
The complaint
Mr P complained about the service provided by Barclays Bank Plc. He said Barclays did not 
transfer shares he held in an ISA, to a third party before it was delisted. He said this resulted 
in him incurring investment losses. 
What happened
In September 2021, Mr P contacted Barclays and discussed with it the demerger of one 
of his shareholdings. His holding in the original company was due to be delisted from a 
UK based exchange and instead was going to be traded through Nasdaq in the US. 
Mr P was aware that at that time, Barclays only allowed UK based investments within its 
ISA. So, on 20 September 2021, he called them to discuss what would happen. During 
the discussion, it was mentioned between the parties that the shareholding could be 
transferred to another provider that does allow for trading in the US. 
Mr P contacted Barclays on 7 October 2021 and requested it proceed as soon as 
possible to transfer the shareholding to a third party and put in a transfer request. At this 
stage the representative from Barclays said they couldnt guarantee the transfer would 
take place in time.
The transfer didnt happen before Mr Ps shares delisted and the holding remained with 
Barclays. The third party then cancelled the transfer, as it said it could see the shares 
had delisted.
Mr P said Barclays had opportunities to make the transfer happen before the shares 
delisted. He provided email exchanges from Barclays and the third party where it didnt 
respond to requests to complete the transfer. He said for a long period of time, Barclays 
held around £20,000 of stock locked in his ISA account, that he could not trade with. Mr 
P said Barclays were at fault here because it failed to respond to the third partys 
requests to complete the transfer. He complained to Barclays about this.
Barclays replied and said it could see it had made an error. It said it didnt communicate 
properly with Mr P and offered £150 payment for distress and inconvenience. It said though 
that although it missed emails from the third party, it would have made no difference on the 
stock delisting and the transfer not going ahead.
Mr P wasnt happy with Barclays response. He said Barclays should pay him compensation 
as it has caused his funds to be tied up and locked in with it. He said he has missed out on 
investment opportunities by not being able to sell the stock and reinvest. He said he also has 
lost money on the investment, that wouldnt have incurred if he had sold the stock. Mr P 
complained to our service.  
Our investigator looked into Mr Ps complaint and didnt recommend that it be upheld. She 
said she felt Barclays offer of £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience was fair. 
She said she had seen documentation from Barclays that showed even if it had responded 
to the third party in a timely way, the transfer wouldnt have gone ahead, as the stock had 
already at this stage been delisted.
Mr P didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman review and so his complaint comes to me 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do not uphold Mr Ps complaint. These are my findings that explain why:
Mr P initially called Barclays on 20 September 2021 to discuss what he should do 
about his shareholding in a company that was due to be delisted. The company 
was moving to a US based exchange, Nasdaq, and at that time Barclays did not 
support the trading of US shareholdings. The parties discussed the possibility of 
Mr P transferring the holding to a third party, that would allow for trading in the 
US. 
Mr P called Barclays on 22 September 2021 to try and make the transfer of the 
stock happen, but unfortunately the line was disconnected. The parties disagree 
about what happened after this phone call. Barclays says it tried to call Mr P on 
the same day but couldnt get hold of him. Mr P says this didnt happen.
Barclays has recently provided a screenshot that shows it tried to call Mr P twice 
after the initial call was disconnected. It said it tried both times but couldnt get 
hold of Mr P. After seeing this screenshot, I think it is more likely than not that it 
did try to contact Mr P and continue the discussion about the transfer but couldnt 
get through to him. I think at this stage it did make some effort to contact Mr P. 
After this point, Mr P completed and sent a signed transfer form. The third party 
received this on 6 October 2021.
Mr P called Barclays on 7 October 2021 and requested that it proceed with the 
transfer as soon as possible. I have been able to listen to this phone call as 
Barclays has provided a recording of it. There has been some dispute between 
the parties about what was discussed between them during this call, but having 
listened to the recording, I have been able to hear what was said. 
Mr P was concerned during this phone call about the transfer taking place as 
soon as possible. He said the stock would be delisting shortly and he needed it to 
take place quickly otherwise the delisting would create problems. The 
representative from Barclays said she couldnt promise anything and that a 
transfer can take up to 30 days to complete. So, I can hear from this recording 
that Barclays did try and manage expectations that the transfer may not happen 
in time. It also said it could take up to 30 days, the amount of time stated in 
Government guidance that it should reasonably take to carry out a transfer 
involving stock. Barclays sent a valuation over to the third party on 13 October 2021. The third 
party then sent back proposed trade and settlement dates of 18 and 20 October 
2021. Barclays has admitted that it missed the email from the third party at this 
point. 
Mr P says that Barclays missing the email at this point is the fundamental 
mistake that it made. Barclays acknowledges that it made a mistake in its 
communication to the third party and Mr P. It says though, that it wouldnt have 
mattered because by the proposed trade and settlement dates quoted by the 
third party, the stock in question had already been delisted. 
I have looked at this as, there is a dispute here between the parties. Mr P thinks 
Barclays could have still transferred the holding on the dates provided by the 
third party. Where-as Barclays says it couldnt have done this anyway. 
Barclays has provided a screenshot of Mr Ps account holdings from that time. It 
shows on this screenshot, the stock in question being removed before the 
proposed dates given by the third party. Based on what I have seen here, I am 
persuaded the shareholding had been delisted or at least couldnt have been 
transferred by Barclays anyway, on the dates provided by the third party. So, 
although I can see that it missed the email from the third party, I dont think it 
would have made a difference to it being able to transfer Mr Ps stock. 
Mr P put in a transfer request on 7 October 2021, and then shortly after this date 
the shareholding he wanted to transfer had been delisted. Mr P is unhappy with 
Barclays for not carrying out this transfer, but from what I have seen, and the 
evidence provided, it simply didnt have enough time to carry out Mr Ps request. 
Even if it had responded to the trade and settlement dates provided by the third 
party, it wouldnt have been able to carry out the transfer as the stock had 
already been delisted. So, taking this into consideration, on balance, I dont think 
Barclays are responsible for the transfer not happening before the stock in 
question was delisted.
Barclays did say it should have communicated what was happening more 
effectively. I agree with it about this. It could have told Mr P what had happened 
with the shareholding a lot sooner than it did. For this, I think it has caused Mr P 
some distress and inconvenience. 
Barclays also offered £150 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. When I consider all the circumstances in Mr Ps complaint, I think this 
offer is fair and reasonable. 
Finally, Barclays now offers trading for some US investments including Mr Ps 
shares, so as I understand it, he can now trade his shares through Barclays ISA. 
Looked at overall, Barclays has offered compensation of £150 for distress and 
inconvenience caused. I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I can see 
that it has already paid this to Mr P, so it doesnt need to do anything else. 
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Ps complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2023.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman