DRN-3064223
The complaint
Mrs M complains  that Integrated  Financial  Arrangements  Ltd (trading  as Transact)  didn't  
assess  the appropriateness  of an investment  she made  through  its platform.  She says  had 
it done  so, and alerted  her to the complex  nature  of the investment,  she wouldn't  have  held 
the investment  as long as she has. And would  have  avoided  the losses  she has since  
suffered.  Mrs M is represented  in bringing  her complaint  by her husband,  Mr M. But for ease  
I shall  refer  to Mrs M throughout.
What happened
Mrs M opened an account with Transact in 2011. She proceeded to make a number of
transactions on her portfolio, instructed through her firm of advisers which Ill call A. These
included buying units in a particular fund, X, which was an unregulated collective investment
scheme based in the Marshall Islands.
In 2012 Mrs M moved her investments away from Transact to another provider. Around the
same time, the holdings Mrs M had in X were converted from shares, into a holding in a 5-
year bond.
In 2017, Mrs M received communication in relation to her bond holding which said it wouldnt
be paying her money back at the anticipated end of the term. Mrs M complained to Transact.
She said that she now realised the complex, offshore nature of her investment in X. She said
had she understood it at the time, and the links between the firm operating the investment
and her firm of advisers, she would have changed advisers and exited the investment much
sooner. She said Transact had an obligation under the regulators rules at the time to notify
her of investments she made into complex investments and assess whether they were
appropriate for her. She argued that by failing to carry out this assessment. Transact
prevented her realising the nature of her investment sooner. She said the investment was
now effectively worthless and Transact should compensate her for her losses.
Transact didnt uphold Mrs Ms complaint. It explained that it was only required to assess
appropriateness for complex products, and the units Mrs M bought in X werent complex,
as defined by the regulator. It noted that the instruction to invest in X had come through an 
FCA authorised adviser, and it was that firm - not Transact - that was responsibie for
assessing the suitability of the investment for Mrs M.
One of our adjudicators looked into the matter, and didnt think Transact had treated Mrs M
unfairly. He also concluded the holding in X wasnt complex and said Transact therefore
wasnt obliged to assess its appropriateness for Mrs M. He said:
 Transact only had to assess appropriateness if the investment was in a non-readily
realisable security, derivative or a warrant".
 The units in X werent derivatives or warrants.
 The regulators handbook defined a non-readily realisable security as any security
that didnt meet certain criteria. One of those criteria was that it was a non-mainstream
pooled investment.
 The units in X were units in a non-mainstream pooled investment, and therefore
wouldnt be classified as a non-readily realisable security.
Mrs M didnt agree. She said that Transact and our adjudicator were using the wrong
definition of complex investments, and that in fact her shares in X ought to have triggered
an appropriateness assessment by Transact. She also said too much weight had been given
to the fact shed been advised by A to enter into the investment in X. She said the rules were
there to give a safety net" in the event the adviser didnt fully explain the implications of
investing in this type of scheme. And that despite the presence of her financial adviser.
Transact ought to have done more to alert her to the nature of her investment and establish
whether it was appropriate for her.
I issued a provisional decision on the matter, in which I said:
Mrs Ms complaint is that Transact ought to have assessed the appropriateness of the
investment in X for her, and warned her it was a complex investment. The relevant rules on
the assessment of appropriateness were at the time found in COBS 10 within the regulators
handbook.
COBS 10.1.1R says that those rules apply to a firm providing investment services in the
course of MiFID or equivalent third country business other than making a personal
recommendation and managing investments".
Investment services in the course of MiFID business includes the reception and transmission
of orders in relation to one or more financial instruments, and the execution of orders on
behalf of clients. Financial instruments" includes units in collective investment undertakings.
Here, Transact received and executed orders on behalf of Mrs M to buy units in X, a
collective investment undertaking. So Im satisfied these rules applied.
COBS 10 goes on to say that in these circumstances the firm (Transact) has an obligation to
assess whether the product or service is appropriate for the client. However, it also goes on
to give situations where an appropriateness assessment need not be done.
The nature of the investment
COBS 10.4.1 R explains that there need not be an appropriateness assessment if, amongst
other things, the investment meets certain criteria. It says:
(1) A firm is not required to ask its ciient to provide information or assess
appropriateness if:
(a) the service only consists of execution and/or the reception and transmission
of client orders, with or without ancillary services, it relates to
particular financial Instruments and Is provided at the Initiative of the client:
(b) the client has been clearly Informed (whether the warning Is given In a
standardised format or not) that In the provision of this service the firm is not
required to assess the suitability of the instrument or service provided or
offered and that therefore he does not benefit from the protection of
the rules on assessing suitability: and
(c) the firm compiles with Its obligations In relation to conflicts of Interest.
(2) The financial instruments are:
(a) shares admitted to trading on a reguiated market or an equivalent third
country market (that Is, one which Is Included In the list which Is published by
the European Commission and updated periodically): or
(b) money market Instruments, bonds or other forms of securitised debt(excluding those bonds or securitised debt that embed a derivative): or
(c) units In a scheme authorised under the UCITS directive: or
(d) other non-complex financiai instruments.
(3) A financial instrument is non-complex If It satisfies the following criteria:
(a) It Is not a derivative or other security giving the right to acquire or sell
a transferable security or giving n'se to a cash settlement determined by
reference to transferable securities, currencies, Interest rates or yields,
commodities or other Indices or measures:
(b) there are frequent opportunities to dispose of, redeem, or otherwise realise
the Instrument at prices that are publicly available to the market participants
and that are either market prices or prices made available, or validated, by
valuation systems Independent of the Issuer:
(c) It does not Involve any actual or potential liability for the client that exceeds
the cost of acquln'ng the Instrument: and
(d) adequately comprehensive Information on Its characteristics Is publicly
available and Is likely to be readily understood so as to enable the
average retail client to make an informed judgment as to whether to enter into
a transaction in that instrument.
Mrs Ms holding in X took the form of shares in a limited company, which was registered in
the Marshall Islands. These shares werent admitted to trading on a regulated market or an
equivalent third country market. To the extent these shares were units in a collective 
investment scheme, that scheme wasnt authorised under the UCITS directive. They also
clearly werent money market instruments, bonds, or other forms of securitised debt. So
were Mrs Ms shares other non-complex financial instruments"?
My understanding of the X shares is that they could be redeemed solely through the fund
operator, and at prices set by the fund operator. Im not currently persuaded that there were
frequent opportunities for Mrs M to redeem her shares at prices that were publicly available
to her or other market participants. Nor that the prices were made available or validated by
valuation systems independent of the issuer. So Im not persuaded the criteria in COBS
10.4.1R (3)(b) were met.
Ive not been provided with any of the literature relating to X or what was publicly available
regarding it. But its not in dispute that this was an unregulated collective investment
scheme, based abroad and specialising in real estate investment. Transact itself
acknowledges that there were restrictions on the promotion of this type of investment to the
public and said that the companies selling units in X required investors to be certified as
sophisticated investors'.
I find it more likely than not that this investment was sold through advisers who only
promoted it to investors with an existing reasonable level of understanding of investments
and the type of risk theyd be exposed to. On balance, therefore. Im not persuaded that
adequately comprehensive information on the characteristics of X was publicly available,
and likely to be readily understood so as to enable the average retail client to make an
informed judgment as to whether to enter into a transaction in X. It follows that I dont find
the criteria in COBS 10.4.1R (3)(d) were met.
All this means that I dont think shares in X were the sort of financial instrument that
alleviated Transacts responsibility to assess its appropriateness for Mrs M.
Reliance on others
It's of significance that Mrs M's investment was made through a regulated financial adviser. 
Mrs M has argued that this makes no difference to Transact's obligations, and that the rules were there to provide a safety net in the event her adviser fell short of what was required of 
it. I'm afraid I don't agree.
The FCA's handbook and COBS rules provide for situations where a client may enter into 
transactions with the involvement of more than one regulated firm. And it is specifically 
provided that, in certain circumstances, firms can rely on information and compliance with 
other rules that has been carried out by someone else, where that someone is themselves a 
regulated firm.
Specifically, COBS 2.4.4R says that:
(1) This rule applies if a firm (FI), in the course of performing MiFID or equivalent
third country business, receives an instruction to perform an investment or ancillary
service on behalf of a client (C) through another firm (F2), if F2 is:
(a) a MiFID investment firm or a third country investment firm: or
(b) an investment firm that is:
(i) a firm or authorised in another EEA State: and
(ii) subject to equivalent relevant requirements.
(2) F1 may rely upon:
(a) any information about C transmitted to it by F2; and
(b) any recommendations in respect of the service or transaction that have
been provided to C by F2.
(3) F2 will remain responsible for:
(a) the completeness and accuracy of any information about C transmitted by
it to F1: and
(b) the appropriateness for C of any advice or recommendations provided to
C.
(4) F1 will remain responsible for concluding the services or transaction based on
any such information or recommendations in accordance with the applicable
requirements under the regulatory system.
Im satisfied this applied here. F1 (Transact) received an instruction on behalf of C (Mrs M)
through another firm F2 (A). And A was a MiFID investment firm.
So Transact could rely on the recommendation in respect of the transaction in X that A
provided to Mrs M.
Further, the guidance at COBS 2.4.5G says:
If F1 is required to perform a suitability assessment or an appropriateness assessment
under COBS 9 or COBS 10, it may rely upon a suitability assessment performed by F2, if F2
was subject to the requirements for assessing suitability in COBS 9 (excluding the basic
advice rules) or equivalent requirements in another EEA State in performing that
assessment.
A was an FCA authorised firm of advisers. And in recommending Mrs M invest in X, it was
subject to the requirements for assessing suitability in COBS 9. So under this guidance Im
satisfied Transact could rely on As suitability assessment when considering its requirement
to assess appropriateness.
This is further endorsed by guidance within the section of COBS concerning
appropriateness. COBS 10.6.2G says:A firm may not need to assess appropriateness if it is able to rely on a recommendation
made by an investment firm (see COBS 2.4.5 G (Reliance on other investment firms: MiFID
and equivalent business).
Its important to note that the obligations when giving a recommendation (suitability) are
more rigorous and detailed than the appropriateness assessment. When assessing
appropriateness, a firm is required to establish whether the client has the necessary
experience and knowledge in order to understand the risks of the transaction he or she has
asked to be carried out.
While this is the extent of the appropriateness assessment, it forms merely one part of the
process a firm is required to go through when assessing suitability. But as it forms part of the
suitability assessment, it follows that if an investment is suitable for someone, it must also be
appropriate. Whereas the converse does not necessarily hold.
Here Transact was presented with an investor who had a regulated financial adviser, subject
to approval by the regulator and subject to the regulators rules. That adviser had
recommended investing in X as being suitable for Mrs M. I think it was reasonable, and
consistent with the regulatory rules and guidance in place at the time, for Transact to rely on
those facts and not assess the appropriateness of this transaction for Mrs M itself.
It follows that I dont find Transact responsible for any losses Mrs M has suffered as a result
of holding this investment, and I therefore dont intend to uphold this complaint.
Transact said they didnt have anything further to add after receiving my provisional 
decisions Mrs M reiterated that Transact ought to have known this was a complex 
investment and told her about it. She said she wasnt aware of the rulebook saying it didnt 
have to do anything.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as in my provisional decision, for the 
same reasons. I appreciate Mrs Ms frustration at the losses shes suffered. But whether or 
not she knew the relevant rules, for the reasons given in my provisional decision I remain 
satisfied that Transact had no regulatory obligation to inform Mrs M the investment in X was 
a complex investment, nor to carry out an appropriateness assessment. 
I find no basis to fairly and reasonably hold Transact responsible for the losses Mrs M has 
sadly suffered by virtue of making this investment.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 
Luke Gordon
Ombudsman