DRN-3018897
The complaint
Mr D raises two issues related to his Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP), provided and 
administered by IPS Pensions Limited trading as James Hay Partnership (JHP). He says:
JHP acted, in 2020, without cause and without authority by refunding part of a rent 
payment(s) to the tenant(s) of a commercial property investment held in his SIPP; 
that he/his representative self-managed the property; that JHP acted without awaiting 
rent review information that was readily available at the time; and that its actions 
caused a considerable amount of trouble, inconvenience and extra work for him/his 
representative in terms of recovering the overpaid rent refund that it issued.
JHP insisted on having responsibility for the insurance of the property. In 2020 it was 
aware of a period in which the property was vacant, but if failed to inform the insurers 
about that, as they required and as it was obliged to do. An insurance claim that 
followed was initially declined for this reason, and by the time the claim was resolved 
he had lost time (several months) and the opportunity of a new tenant  in addition to 
the trouble and stress he incurred in resolving the matter.
What happened
Following referral of the case to this service JHP queried why Mr D continued to pursue it, 
given that the rent refund matter had been resolved (with the overpayment recovered from 
the tenant and returned into the SIPP) and given that the insurance claim had also been 
resolved. In response, Mr D maintained the referral. One of our investigators looked into the 
case and concluded that it should not be upheld. In the main, he said:
As Mr D/his representative self-managed the property, under the SIPPs terms it was 
their responsibility to collect the rent and send it to JHP, to ensure rent reviews were 
carried out in accordance with the lease, and to notify the insurers and JHP as soon 
as the property became vacant (especially as such vacancy would be deemed a 
material fact by the insurers).
JHP was also obliged to return overpaid rent to the propertys tenant where it could 
not evidence that the rent increase was formally agreed. When it received 
documentary evidence of this, from Mr D, in September 2020 it requested recovery of 
the refund it had paid the tenant.
Even though JHP was not responsible for informing the insurer about the vacant 
property, it did so on 2 June 2020. It learnt about Mr Ds insurance claim in July 2020 
and assisted in challenging the insurers initial rejection of the claim. Thereafter, the 
insurers settled the claim.
Overall, there is no evidence to support Mr Ds allegations of maladministration of the 
SIPP, and misappropriation of funds in the SIPP, by JHP.
Mr D disagreed with this outcome and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He maintains 
that JHP was negligent and/or reckless in its handling of the SIPP for the reasons he already 
set out to us.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Like the investigator, I am not persuaded that the wrongdoings Mr D alleges against JHP 
have been established in this case. His strength of feeling about the case is evident in his 
submissions to us and his view that JHP misconducted itself in the two relevant matters 
appears to be sincerely held. However, neither of these automatically means JHP did 
something wrong, and the balance of available evidence supports the conclusion that it did 
not.
The property in the SIPP was self-managed, this is not in dispute. I understand the point in, 
or at least suggested within, Mr Ds argument that this created a basis on which he/his 
representative  and not JHP  led in managing rent related matters and that JHP did not 
have discretion (without prior notice to, and authority from, him) to pay the tenant the refund 
that it did. However, the context of and terms for the SIPP must first be considered. 
As an asset in the SIPP, the property was legally owned by the SIPPs Trustees and Mr D 
was its beneficial owner. Section 14.2 of the terms confirms that property investments in the 
SIPP had to be in the trustees name. JHP (as the SIPPs provider and administrator) had a 
role that existed in this context, which meant it could and did not completely defer matters 
related to the property to Mr D. It maintained an oversight role in relation to the propertys 
management. Indeed, section 14.4 permitted it to stop/disallow, with notice and reason, a 
clients self-management of a SIPPs property investment and appoint a property manager 
instead. JHP also retained discretion to decline, with notice, a property investment in the 
SIPP. I appreciate this is not directly relevant to the present complaint, but it adds to my 
illustration of the fact that JHP maintained a prominent role (as defined in the terms) in 
relation to such investments, from acquisition to management.
A document detailing a clients responsibilities in self-management of a SIPPs property 
investment has been shared with us. There is evidence in email communications between 
the parties that this was issued to and agreed by Mr D in 2018 and that it was brought to his 
attention again during discussion of the refund issue in June 2020. Read alongside the 
SIPPs terms, the broad effect was that the client was obliged to maintain the responsibilities 
that were set out, otherwise a self-management arrangement could be stopped/disallowed. 
As the investigator noted, the clients responsibilities included the need to ensure rent 
reviews had been carried out in accordance with the lease.
I have some information about the rent review/increase matter in this case. In summary, 
available evidence is that the relevant lease dated back to 2016; that the lease had no 
provision, known to JHP, for a rent review or increase; that this remained the case when the 
SIPPs Trustees were being threatened with legal action (by the tenants lawyers) about the 
rent increase applied/paid at the time; that in the absence of evidence that the increase had 
been properly agreed and executed (in the context of the lease) JHP considered that the 
litigation threat viable, so it carried out a rent reconciliation calculation and paid the tenant 
the rent refund; that, thereafter and in his pursuit of recovery (of the refund), Mr D was able 
to show JHP and the tenants lawyers a basis to justify the rent increase; and that, it appears 
to have been on that basis that the overpaid refund was eventually recovered back into the 
SIPP.
I understand Mr Ds frustration about having to go through the events that unfolded in order for the refund to be recovered. However, it was recovered, so the complaint in this respect is 
only (or mainly) about the trouble he says he faced in the associated pursuit. I also 
acknowledge the implication arising from the recovery that the rent increase appears to have 
had a form of validity all along, hence the successful recovery itself.
On balance, and in the circumstances summarised above, I do not consider that JHP was 
wrong to make the refund payment in the first instance. Its oversight role with regards to the 
property investment made it reasonable for it to take an interest in the matter, especially as 
the SIPPs Trustees were being threatened with litigation. It had a duty to safeguard the 
proper governance of the SIPP, so the SIPPs (and the Trustees) exposure to the threat of 
litigation that it reasonably considered to be viable was something it reasonably addressed 
by making the payment at the time. Furthermore, given the discretion it had to terminate the 
self-management arrangement for matters including misconducted rent reviews, the fact that 
it did this  a step(s) short of terminating the self-management arrangement  was not 
unreasonable. There appears to have been an expectation that Mr D was to keep JHP 
informed of the relevant rent review, and it was yet to have such information (and 
documentation on proper execution of the review) when it made the refund payment. 
As the investigator said, JHP considered that the increase in the rent payment was 
potentially an unjust enrichment of the SIPP, in the absence of confirmation of a valid rent 
review, and it sought to ensure the SIPP did not have funds it was not entitled to by 
refunding the tenant. This too was a reasonable consideration. I also have not seen 
evidence that it had cause to know such a step was unnecessary at the time. I do not 
suggest that Mr D/his representative misconducted the rent review. As I said above, the fact 
that the recovery happened indicates that the rent review appears to have had a form of 
validity all along. However, on balance, I do find that JHP acted reasonably in the 
uninformed position that it held at the time, and I am not persuaded that the balance of 
evidence available to me establishes it was at fault for being in that uninformed state. It 
follows from the above that I do not consider JHP can reasonably be blamed for the recovery 
pursuit.
A similar finding applies to the matter about notifying the insurers about the vacancy in the 
property. I note Mr Ds assertion that JHP insisted on undertaking the responsibility for the 
insurance of the property, but I have not seen documentary evidence of this. Instead, the 
SIPPs terms and the self-management responsibilities document, read together, make clear 
that the duty to notify insurers about a vacancy in a property held in the SIPP belonged to 
the self-manager  not to JHP. Mr D and his representatives were the self-managers and the 
responsibilities document said they were obliged in the following respects  
To notify the insurers and James Hay as soon as the property becomes vacant at which 
point [they needed] to be aware of the following;
To ensure that the property is secured at all times, including the ongoing 
maintenance of any intruder alarms etc
It is your responsibility to obtain a final meter reading from the tenant for all utility 
supplies (electricity, gas and/or water, as applicable) and notify the relevant supply 
authority. You should continue to read the meters on a regular basis and advise the 
billing authority of the readings, at least quarterly, to ensure that utility invoices 
remain accurate
The responsibility for payment of void Business Rates will fall to your SIPP to pay 
from the expiry date of the lease. You will need to notify the local Rating Authority of 
the date that the previous lease expired and that from the following date, void rates 
will be payable by James Hay Pension Trustees Limited.
Portable heaters should be permanently removed from the property.Storm water drainage and valley gutters must be inspected and cleaned as soon as 
the property becomes vacant
Unfixed combustible materials both inside the property and within the perimeter fence 
should be removed.
Tanks containing flammable liquid to be drained unless used to fuel any central 
heating system, which is being maintained during the winter period, described above.
The integrity of fences gates boundary walls must be maintained and site gates and 
entry and exit doors must be secured by good quality locks
Letter boxes must be sealed and accessible windows and roof lights regardless of 
the level at which they are installed must be secured
Internal and external inspections should be undertaken at least weekly to ensure that 
the building or unoccupied portion is secure and that no damage has occurred.
Insurers must be notified of un-occupancy as this is a material fact and they may 
wish to survey and/or require increased security.
The above is a very detailed and specific list of responsibilities, arising in the event of a SIPP 
property becoming vacant. It is unlikely that JHP would have undertaken all these 
responsibilities  given that it did not manage the property  without documentation to 
confirm so. I have not seen such documentation, so the reasonable conclusion that follows is 
that they remained Mr Ds and his representatives responsibilities. The fact that JHP 
assisted in notifying the insurers about the vacant property appears to have been somewhat 
of a bonus for Mr D, and is conduct that JHP should arguably be commended for. Given this 
conclusion, I consider treatment of the insurance claim consequences that Mr D cites to be 
redundant. For the above reasons, any such consequences related to when the insurers 
were told about the vacancy in the property were not JHPs fault. It was not its responsibility 
to inform the insurers about the vacancy.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2022.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman