DRN-3484667
Complaint
Ms M has complained about a loan AvantCredit of UK, LLC (Avant Credit) provided to her. 
She says the loan was unaffordable.
Background
Avant Credit provided Ms M with a loan for £2,500.00 in July 2016. This loan was due to be 
repaid in 36 monthly instalments of £112.32. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed Ms Ms complaint and he thought Avant Credit hadnt done 
anything wrong or treated Ms M unfairly. So he didnt think that Ms Ms complaint should be 
upheld. Ms M disagreed so the case was passed to an ombudsman.
My provisional decision of 3 May 2022
I issued a provisional decision  on 3 May 2022 - setting out why I intended to uphold          
Ms Ms complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a summary of 
my findings. 
I started by saying that weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and 
irresponsible lending on our website. And that I had used this approach to help me decide 
Ms Ms complaint. 
I went on to explain that Avant Credit needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, what this meant was that Avant Credit needed to carry out proportionate checks to 
be able to understand whether Ms M could afford to repay any credit it provided. Our website 
sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were 
proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  
in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages 
of a lending relationship.
 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
I explained that Avant Credit may have argued that the relatively low monthly payments 
meant a light touch assessment was proportionate here. But I was mindful this loan had a 
three-year term and the credit check carried out showed that Ms M was already significantly 
indebted. Indeed, I could see that she was close to her credit limit on a number of accounts 
and even over her limit on others. 
So I was persuaded by what Ms M said about already being in a difficult financial position at 
the time. And while it was possible her existing indebtedness reflected her choices rather 
than any financial difficulty, I added that my experience of these types of cases as well as   
Ms M eventually entering into a trust deed suggested this was unlikely, I was satisfied that 
further checks would more like than not have shown that Ms M wouldnt have been able to 
repay this loan without experiencing undue difficulty or borrowing further. 
All of this left me satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more like than 
not have shown Avant Credit that it shouldnt have provided this loan to Ms M. And as Avant 
Credit provided Ms M with this loan, notwithstanding this, I was minded to conclude that it 
failed to act fairly and reasonably towards her. I also thought that Ms M ended up paying 
interest, fees and charges on a loan she shouldnt have been provided with. So it was my 
intention to find that Ms M lost out because of what Avant Credit did wrong and that it 
needed to put things right.
Responses to my provisional decision
Avant Credit confirmed receiving my provisional decision. It said that it agreed with it and 
confirmed that it had nothing further to provide ahead of my final decision.
Ms M didnt provide anything further for me to think about.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision, I set out in some detail why I intended to uphold Ms Ms 
complaint. And as neither party has provided any further evidence or arguments for me to 
consider, Ive not been persuaded to alter my conclusions. So Im still upholding Ms Ms 
complaint. And I remain satisfied that Avant Credit needs to put things right. 
Fair compensation  what Avant Credit needs to do to put things right for Ms M
Having thought about everything, I think that Avant Credit should put things right for Ms M 
by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Ms M paid on her loan;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded payments from the date they 
were made by Ms M to the date of settlement
removing all adverse information it recorded about this loan from Ms Ms credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Avant Credit to take off tax from this interest. Avant 
Credit must give Ms M a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for 
one.
I understand that Ms M entered into a Trust Deed after taking out this loan. Ms M will need to 
liaise with her insolvency practitioner, who has confirmed their interest in this complaint, to 
ensure that she complies with any obligations arising out of her Trust Deed.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Ms Ms complaint. AvantCredit of UK, LLC to 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman