DRN-3749535
The complaint
Mrs G complains Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) restricted her account and 
refused to make payments she wanted.   
What happened
In March 2021, Nationwide restricted Mrs Gs account. It stopped her access to online 
banking and the use of her debit card. Nationwide also asked Mrs G for information about 
specific transactions made to certain individuals. 
Mrs G was only allowed access to her account through Nationwides branch network. Mrs G 
said the transactions all related to a religious outreach organisation, and the money was to 
help with its publications and good causes. 
Around September 2021, Mrs G complained about Nationwides actions  the restrictions 
still remined in place. In its response, and in summary, Nationwide said: 
- The restrictions had been applied as its financial crime department had concerns 
about the account activity. And theyd been applied in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account
- It had asked for evidence regarding payments to and from Mrs Gs account relating 
to the religious organisation in July and August 2021. But that information was not 
received
- It had not made an error in restricting Mrs Gs account 
Unhappy with Nationwides answer, Mrs G referred her complaint to this service. Mrs G 
closed her account with Nationwide in October 2021. 
One of our Investigators looked into the complaint. In summary they found: 
- Nationwides decision to restrict Mrs Gs account was fair and in line with its legal and 
regulatory obligations 
- Nationwide has shared its reasons for taking the actions it did  which this service 
cant share with Mrs G 
- Nationwide acted within its rights when blocking payments as part of the account 
restrictions
- Nationwide didnt act in a timely manner to get the information it required from Mrs G 
as part of its investigation. So it should compensate Mrs G for the troubles she faced 
for having her account restricted for as long as it was 
- The trouble Mrs G encountered included having to go exclusively to a branch to 
conduct her banking. Had Nationwide closed the account sooner, Mrs G could have 
shopped for a new bank account provider sooner. Mrs G could also have switched 
her account to a new provider much sooner if the restrictions werent in place 
- Because of this, our Investigator recommended Nationwide pay Mrs G £350 for the 
avoidable inconvenience it caused 
Mrs G raised separate queries with our Investigator which do not relate to this complaint. But 
in relation to this complaint, she says an award of £500 would be more appropriate given 
what shes been through. Nationwide have not sent a meaningful response. 
As Mrs G doesnt agree with what our Investigator said, the complaint has now been passed 
to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. Ill explain why. 
Banks, and building societies, in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions 
in order to meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry out 
ongoing monitoring of an existing business relationship. That sometimes means they need to 
restrict, or in some cases go as far as closing, customers accounts.
These obligations can broadly be summarised as a responsibility to protect persons from 
financial harm, and to prevent and detect financial crime. So, to comply with its obligations, 
Nationwide may need to review an account and/or restrict its customers access to accounts 
and funds held within them. 
Given the obligations Nationwide must comply with, and given the reasons it has provided, 
Im satisfied it acted fairly when restricting Mrs Gs account. So, whilst I accept Nationwides 
actions caused Mrs G trouble and upset, I dont find it treated her unfairly when it declined 
her payment requests.   
Nationwide has already told Mrs G it had concerns about payments both into, and out of her 
account that related to a religious outreach organisation. And that it needed information 
about them to helps its investigation. Mrs G has asked for a more detailed and clear 
explanation. But neither Nationwide nor I are under any obligation, which Im aware of, to do 
so. 
Mrs G says she decided to close the account in October 2021, because amongst other 
things, going into branch was very challenging and caused her inconvenience. So I now turn 
to whether I think Nationwides actions were carried out in a timely manner. The restriction 
was placed on Mrs Gs account in March 2021. It doesnt appear she was asked for 
information related to Nationwides investigation until a few months later in July and August 
2021. That is much longer than I would expect Nationwide to act. 
Nationwide say that when it did ask Mrs G for this information, she didnt provide it. So it 
maintained the restrictions on the account. Its not clear if Nationwide decided to keep the 
account open because of any vulnerabilities it felt Mrs G may suffer from. To that end, some 
of its internal notes suggest it did have concerns about her being vulnerable. 
Mrs G says the account restriction on her Nationwide account prevented her from using the 
banking switch facility which allows for a more convenient way of changing to a new bank 
account. Nationwide say an account restriction renders this process redundant. Mrs G has also said she has had to borrow money from friends and family. But Mrs G always had 
access to her account, albeit by going into a branch. So if she needed funds from her 
account, she could have received this.
However, I have no doubt that not having access to online banking or her debit card, and 
having to go into a branch to do any banking, would have caused considerable 
inconvenience and disruption to Mrs G. What then leads me to find Nationwide should pay 
Mrs G compensation is that it should have acted much more proactively than it has. 
It delayed asking Mrs G for relevant evidence pertaining to its investigation, and when this 
wasnt forthcoming it kept the account open. Mrs G found it difficult to get another account 
and couldnt take up the switching facility. This meant she had to continue travelling to a 
branch for much longer than she should have. 
So because of this, Im persuaded Nationwide should compensate Mrs G for the trouble and 
upset this caused her. Given the reasons above, Im satisfied that £350 is fair compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons above, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. I now direct Nationwide 
Building Society to pay Mrs G £350 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2022.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman