DRN-2642617
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as M, complains that HSBC Bank UK Plc declined its 
application for a new account  which meant it couldnt apply to the bank for a Bounce Back 
Loan.
Mr C is Ms director and brings the complaint on its behalf.
What happened
M was looking to apply for a loan under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme. Its banking 
services provider wasnt offering loans under the Scheme, so Mr C approached HSBC for 
one.
HSBC required customers to hold an account with the bank before it would offer them a 
Bounce Back Loan. So Mr C applied to HSBC for a feeder account. This type of account is 
used solely to draw down and transfer onward any funds borrowed under the Bounce Back 
Loan Scheme.
HSBC declined Ms application for a feeder account on 3 July. Mr C complained, but the 
bank didnt change its position. It said that the application had been processed in 
accordance with its account opening criteria, and declined in line with its policy.
Mr C then referred his complaint to us. He doesnt think it was fair for HSBC to have credit-
scored the account application, when the sole purpose of the account was to facilitate a loan 
under the government-backed Bounce Back Loan Scheme. 
One of our investigators reviewed Ms complaint but didnt think HSBC had done anything 
wrong. In summary, she said:
HSBC had the discretion to decide how it would offer Bounce Back Loans to new 
customers. 
It was reasonable for HSBC to require an account to be opened first, so that it could 
complete anti-money laundering and Know Your Customer checks in line with its 
legal and regulatory obligations and as required under the Scheme. 
HSBC was entitled to assess applications for a new account against its own criteria, 
and had explained the checks it would make within the account application form. 
HSBC had fairly assessed Ms application. Its internal records showed that the 
application hadnt met the banks criteria. And those criteria hadnt been adjusted in 
light of the pandemic. 
Mr C didnt accept our investigators view and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint  so it was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As M wasnt an existing customer of HSBC, the bank required it to open a new account  
either a business current account or a feeder account  before it could apply for a Bounce 
Back Loan. Thats in line with its standard process. And I think it was reasonable, for the 
reasons explained by our investigator. There was no obligation on HSBC to offer loans 
under the Scheme to new customers at all, and it had the discretion to decide the basis on 
which it would do so. And HSBC has explained that the account-opening process enables it 
to complete the various checks expected of it  under its legal and regulatory obligations, 
and as required by the Scheme rules.
Ive checked that HSBC hasnt increased its criteria when considering applications for an 
account from new customers seeking a Bounce Back Loan Scheme compared with its 
practice previously. And Ive confirmed that it assessed Ms application against those criteria. 
So I think it treated M fairly. And, as Ive seen from HSBCs internal records that Ms 
application didnt meet those criteria, I dont think the bank did anything wrong in declining to 
offer it an account.
HSBCs criteria include certain credit score requirements. I know Mr C doesnt think it was 
fair for the bank to apply these to feeder account applications. And I appreciate his points on 
this, particularly as lenders arent expected to decline applications for a Bounce Back Loan 
on the basis of any credit-related concerns. But the feeder account is a separate product to 
the loan and is, therefore, legitimately subject to different rules and requirements. And while 
the purpose of the feeder account is to facilitate the drawdown of a Bounce Back Loan, as 
Ive set out above HSBC had the discretion to decide the basis on which it would accept 
applications from new customers  so it could decide the eligibility criteria for the accounts it 
offered them, including its credit-scoring requirements.
Ive considered everything Mr C has said, and I recognise that this leaves M in a difficult and 
frustrating position  particularly as its own banking services provider isnt offering loans 
under the Scheme. But in light of the above, I dont think HSBC did anything wrong in how it 
handled Ms application  so Im not requiring it to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman