DRN-3200007
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J are unhappy that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) declined 
their claim for storm damage under their buildings insurance. The policy was in joint names 
but because Mrs J dealt with the claim, and for ease, Ill refer only to her throughout my 
decision.
What happened
Rain leaked into Mrs Js home during a storm, so she claimed under her policy for storm 
damage. Lloyds appointed a surveyor who initially accepted the claim for both internal and 
external damage. A short time later, after looking at historical images of the house, the 
surveyor declined the claim for the roof damage.
Mrs J complained to Lloyds, but it said that wear and tear was the main reason the rain 
leaked through the roof, which wasnt covered under the policy. However, it confirmed that 
the internal damage was covered under the policy. 
Lloyds accepted that its surveyor made a mistake by discussing the claim outcome with Mrs 
J and offered £125 by way of apology. Mrs J didnt think that went far enough and she 
wanted Lloyds to pay the full claim.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought that Lloyds declined the roof claim 
in line with the policy and its offer of compensation adequately addressed the service 
shortfall.
Mrs J didnt agree and asked for further consideration, so the complaint was passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Mrs J will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. Ill 
explain why.
The overriding issue is that Lloyds declined Mrs Js claim for storm damage to her roof. My 
remit is to look at whether Lloyds declined her claim fairly, and in line with the policy.
When looking at storm claims, I consider three questions:
1. Was there a storm?
2. Was the damage typical of that caused by a storm?
3. Was the damage caused wholly or mainly by a storm?
Theres no dispute that there was a storm, or that roof damage can be typical of that caused 
by a storm. So, Ill move onto consideration of the final question.
3. Was the damage caused wholly or mainly by a storm?
Mrs J said Lloyds surveyor told her the damage was caused by a storm and her claim would 
be covered. Theres no documented evidence of that either way, so Ill accept what Mrs J 
said as an accurate account of events. 
A couple of hours later, Lloyds surveyor told Mrs J an online street view showed that 
damage to her roof was present a few years earlier. The surveyor concluded the damage 
was caused mainly by wear and tear and declined her claim for the external damage.
Looking at the policy, Mrs J had cover for storm damage. However, under the General 
exclusions heading, it says:
This policy does not cover Any loss or damage caused by:
A gradually operating cause. This is something that happens gradually over a period 
of time
Wear and tear;
Wear and tear is damage that naturally and inevitably occurs as a result of normal 
wear or ageing
Examples of wear and tear include:
-Weathering to a roof
I can understand that Mrs J is unhappy the surveyor changed their mind after viewing online 
images of her roof, and she doubts that the view wouldve offered a clear image of her roof 
anyway. 
Looking at the storm definition, the policy confirms:
We will take into consideration the condition of your home. A storm can highlight damage 
rather than cause it and damage that happens gradually through wear and tear or due to 
the lack of maintenance is not covered.
Im satisfied that it was reasonable for the surveyor to use any means available to identify 
the condition of Mrs Js home prior to the damage. So, I cant say that it was wrong of the 
surveyor to change their mind after viewing online information. The street view is no longer 
available so I cant verify what the surveyor wouldve seen. The current image offers a view 
of the roof.
Taking into consideration the overall surveyors report, which includes photos, I cant say 
that the conclusion reached was unreasonable. Theres evidence of wear and tear, so its 
reasonable to say that contributed to the damage. That is, the storm simply highlighted or 
exacerbated the existing damage. 
Going back to Mrs Js complaint about the surveyors use of online street views, she 
explains that the roof canopy was replaced after the image was taken. Unfortunately, theres 
no evidence to support what she says. However, if Mrs J can provide evidence that she 
replaced her roof after the image was taken but before the storm date, then it would be 
reasonable for Lloyds to consider that evidence. That is a matter for Mrs J to pursue, and 
provide the evidence directly to Lloyds should she wish to.
In summary, Im satisfied that Lloyds declined Mrs Js claim for roof damage fairly and in line 
with the policy exclusion for wear and tear. I wont be asking it to do any more.
Internal damage
Lloyds accepted Mrs Js claim for repairs to her internal decoration caused by rain leaking 
through her damaged roof during the storm. It agreed that was a one-off incident caused by the storm. Lloyds offered to cash settle her claim, less her excess, but Mrs J doesnt think its 
enough.
Im satisfied that Lloyds accepted the claim in line with the policy and its offer to settle the 
claim was reasonable. While Mrs J doesnt think the offer was enough, I havent seen any 
evidence to suggest otherwise. I note that Lloyds said it would consider any invoices for the 
repairs that Mrs J provides to determine whether the settlement should be more. I think 
thats fair and the matter, again, lies with Mrs J to evidence directly to Lloyds that a higher 
cash settlement is warranted. I wont be asking Lloyds to do any more here.
Customer service
Finally, Ive thought about the overall circumstances of Mrs Js claim to see whether Lloyds 
offer of £125 for the shortfalls she experienced is fair.
Lloyds accepted it made mistakes. Specifically, it said the surveyor shouldnt have been 
handling the decisions to decline or accept Mrs Js claim, which has evidently caused her 
some dissatisfaction. That said, the roof damage claim was declined within a few hours of 
saying it would be covered, so Mrs Js expectations wouldve only been raised for a short 
time. Having considered this, the compensation Lloyds offered is in line with what I wouldve 
required under the circumstances, so I wont be asking it to increase its offer.
Conclusion
Im sorry to hear of Mrs Js personal circumstances. I can understand how this matter 
mustve caused her distress. But I cant hold Lloyds responsible for the unfortunate timing of 
events and I must look only at any additional distress or inconvenience Lloyds caused. 
Overall, Im satisfied that Lloyds made a fair offer of compensation by way of apology for its 
mistake, and declined the roof damage claim fairly, in line with the policy. Should Mrs J wish 
to pursue reimbursement of higher repair costs, shed need to provide Lloyds with further 
evidence of costs for the internal damage, or evidence that the image of her roof upon which 
the surveyor relied was outdated. In the absence of that evidence, I see no reason to require 
Lloyds to do any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman