DRN-2370542
The complaint
Mr H has complained that TFS Loans Limited lent him a guarantor loan when it shouldnt 
have done. He says he couldnt afford the loan at the time.
What happened
TFS lent Mr H a guarantor loan in March 2016. The loan was for £6,500 to be repaid over 60 
monthly instalments of £242.02. Mr H had difficulties repaying the loan but from my 
understanding, the loan has now been settled.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint and thought that TFS didnt do enough 
before agreeing to lend to Mr H and had it done enough, it would likely have found the he 
couldnt afford the loan and it wouldnt have lent.
TFS disagreed, it says it considered the affordability of the loan for Mr H and thought it had 
lent responsibly. As the complaint wasnt resolved, its been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive
referred to this when deciding Mr Hs complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions 
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Hs complaint. These two 
questions are:
1. Did TFS complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr H
would be able to repay the loan without experiencing significant adverse
consequences?
If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr H wouldve been able to do
so?
2. Did TFS act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did TFS complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr H would be 
able to repay the loan without experiencing significant adverse consequences?
TFS provided the loan while it was authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct
Authority (FCA). The rules and regulations in place required TFS to carry out a reasonable
and proportionate assessment of Mr Hs ability to make the repayments under this
agreement. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so TFS had to think about whether repaying the
loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Mr H. In practice this meant that 
TFS had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Mr H undue 
difficulty or adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for TFS to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its
money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr H. Checks also had 
to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an
extended period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances.
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
Before lending the loan, TFS asked Mr H about his income and expenses, it also appears to 
have carried out a search into Mr Hs credit file. Although I havent seen a copy of this, but it 
appears that TFS saw a copy of Mr Hs payslip and carried out an application call with Mr H.
Mr H declared that he lived with his parents, had two children but was only responsible for 
paying £8 a week towards the upkeep of one of his children. He also said he worked part 
time as a semi-professional footballer. I can see that TFS recorded his monthly income as 
£1,083 and his total monthly expenses as £406.83. TFS calculated that this would have left 
Mr H with over £600 in disposable income.However, I think TFS checks raised some concerns that should have prompted it to take its 
checks further. The credit search it carried out suggests that Mr H had some active county 
court judgements (CCJs) which he was still due to repay. I also note that during the call with 
the TFS agent, Mr H told the agent that he had a few adverse entries on his credit file, one of 
which was a mortgage repossession. I think taking these factors together with the length of 
the loan, Mr H was going to be repaying this loan for the next five years, TFS should have 
looked to verify Mr Hs credit commitments and his living costs. As TFS didnt do this, I dont 
think its checks went far enough.
What would reasonable/proportionate checks have shown?
Ive now gone on to think about what proportionate checks would have shown and whether 
TFS made a fair lending decision. 
Mr H has provided a copy of one of his bank statements, the statement doesnt show many 
transactions, Mr H says the payments into that account were from his guarantor in relation to 
other loans. I cant see that his wage was paid into that account but Im also mindful that 
Mr H had other bank accounts which he hasnt provided the statements for.
Mr H has provided a more detailed credit file and I can see that it showed that he had 
problems managing his credit as he had defaults and arrears registered on there. Mr H has 
also provided evidence to show that he was still being chased for the outstanding balance of 
his mortgage from his previous property that got repossessed. The most recent balance Ive 
seen was over £11,000.
I also have to say that while Mr H declared his expenses, I dont find his figures plausible. 
For example, he says he didnt pay rent or any bills and didnt declare a credit payment 
figure. Had TFS reacted to the information it had about Mr H it would have likely taken its 
checks further and found that Mr H was heavily indebted and had several active defaulted 
accounts on his file, TFS would likely have realised that he would struggle to repay the loan 
and it shouldnt have lent to him in the circumstances.
TFS has said he didnt believe Mr H ever planned to repay the loan, this isnt something 
I can comment on, if TFS believes there are other issues at play that wouldnt be within this 
services remit. However, this in my opinion didnt absolve TFS of its duty to take appropriate 
steps to make sure it lent to Mr H responsibly. 
Did TFS act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. And having done so, Ive not seen anything
to suggest that TFS acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr H in some other way. 
As TFS has lent to Mr H when it shouldnt have, and I think hes lost out and so it needs to 
put things right.
Putting things right  what TFS needs to do
refund all interest, fees and charges Mr H paid towards the loan;
add interest of 8% simple a year on the payments from the date they were paid (if 
they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loan from Mr Hs credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS to take off tax from this interest. TFS must give 
Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Hs complaint. TFS Loans Limited should out 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman