DRN-1519035
The complaint
Mr and Mrs I have complained that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold them fee-paying 
Platinum and Premier packaged bank accounts.
In summary they say that Lloyds told them that the accounts were required to get an 
overdraft facility. Theyve also complained that the home emergency cover that came with 
the Premier account was not fit for purpose because they attempted to claim on this cover 
on two occasions, but were told each time that they were not covered
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and he didnt think that the Platinum or  
Premier accounts had been mis-sold. 
Mr and Mrs I disagreed with the adjudicators assessment and asked for an ombudsman to 
consider the complaint.
 
This decision will only be looking at whether the Platinum or Premier account were mis-sold
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about mis-sold packaged bank accounts on our 
website. And Ive used that to help me decide this case.
Firstly I need to consider whether Mr and Mrs I were given a fair choice to take out these 
accounts. I can see that Mr and Mrs I held a fee-free account prior to taking out these 
accounts. So I think that they wouldve been aware that free accounts were available and an 
option for them. 
Looking at Mr and Mrs Is account history, I can see that they had an overdraft in place prior 
to the upgrade to the Platinum account. And I cant see that this increased around the time 
of either upgrade. So I dont think its likely that they upgraded to get an overdraft. I think that 
it is more likely that they upgraded partially to get better interest rates and larger interest free 
portions on their overdrafts. I say this because, looking at Lloydss contact notes with Mr and 
Mrs I, it appears it was explained to them that by having the Platinum account it would 
enable them to get a better interest rate on their overdraft. While I cant see a similar note 
around the time of the upgrade to the Premier account, I can see that they were heavily 
using their overdraft around the time of this upgrade. So I think upgrading their account 
meant they would be saving on the monthly interest they were paying. 
Lloydss contact notes suggest Mr and Mrs I upgraded to the Platinum for the family travel 
cover (in addition to the overdraft benefit). Mr and Mrs I have also said they upgraded to the 
Premier for the home emergency cover which indicates that they wanted the account for this 
benefit. So I think Mr and Mrs I upgraded their account knowing that they did not need to in 
order to get the benefits that the accounts came with.
Both of these accounts were recommended to Mr and Mrs I and, given this, Lloyds had to 
ensure that these accounts were a reasonable fit for them.
 
In relation to the Platinum account, I can see that it was recommended for the family travel 
insurance. And given that this was the cheapest account Lloyds offered with this benefit, I 
think that this was a reasonable recommendation. In relation to the Premier account, Mr and 
Mrs I said that they agreed to this account in order to get the home emergency cover. And 
as this was the only account that came with this benefit, I again dont think that this was an 
unreasonable recommendation by Lloyds.
I note that Mr and Mrs I have said that they were not given enough information to make an 
informed choice to take out these accounts. Specifically, they say they were not told enough 
about the limitations of the home emergency cover. They say they were told that they would 
be covered for their plumbing, but they feel that this is incorrect as when they tried to claim 
under this policy, they were unable to do so.
Firstly, I will cover whether I think that Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs I enough information about 
the home emergency cover, and then I will address their specific point about plumbing being 
covered.
During the sale I wouldve expected the main exclusions and features of this policy to have 
been highlighted. And I am satisfied that this likely wouldve been done. Especially as Mr 
and Mrs I have said that some features were mentioned, such as plumbing being covered. 
But even if not all of the main exclusions had been mentioned, I dont think that Mr and Mrs I 
wouldve been put off from agreeing to the upgrade had all the main exclusions been 
explained to them, as they were pretty standard exclusions applicable to many home 
emergency insurance policies.
In relation to Plumbing being covered, looking at the features of the policy I can see that they 
were covered for this, subject to exclusions. So I dont think that them being told they were 
covered by the Premier account home emergency cover for plumbing emergencies was 
incorrect or misleading.
 
That said, If Mr and Mrs I think that their claims on the home emergency cover were declined 
incorrectly, this would need to be addressed to the provider of the policy  as they, not 
Lloyds, are responsible for dealing with claims in line with the policy terms and conditions. A 
declined claim doesnt necessarily indicate an unfair lack of information at the time of the 
sale.
Overall, I accept that Mr and Mrs I may not have been told everything about the rest of the 
benefits that the account came with. But I cant see anything specific that they were not told 
that wouldve altered their decision to take out either account.
So taking everything into account, I dont think that the Platinum or Premier accounts were 
mis-sold. I therefore think it would be inappropriate to require Lloyds to refund Mr and Mrs I 
the fees that they paid.
I understand that Mr and Mrs I will be disappointed by this, as they may feel that these 
accounts did not provide them with value for money. But this does not mean that Lloyds 
should not have sold them these accounts or that they were mis-sold in the first instances.My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I and Mr I to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 October 2020.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman