DRN-3349909
The complaint
Mr N complains that NewDay Ltd has refused to refund transactions (made using his 
NewDay credit card) to a fraudulent binary options company.
What happened
Mr N received a call from a representative of XMarkets.com (XMarkets) who sold him an 
investment opportunity with them. The representative said part of the services provided 
would include a professional trader who would work with him and guide him through his 
investments, instructing him when to trade. He was told he would earn money and he could 
withdraw his money at any time. He was also told hed be given bonuses as an incentive for 
joining XMarkets. 
 
Mr N said he decided to go ahead and invest with XMarkets and paid them from various 
sources with banking providers, one of which included a deposit of £5,000 using his NewDay 
Mastercard credit card on 5 July 2018. He said XMarkets would make trades on his behalf 
after advising him which trades in their opinion offered the best return.
 
Mr N initially saw some of his trades win but became suspicious when he was prevented 
from withdrawing money from his trading account. He said XMarkets told him he couldnt 
make any withdrawals until he met the required trading volume - linked to the bonuses 
added to his account  which he was unaware of at the point of sale. 
Mr N says that XMarkets lost all his capital to fake trades then added a bonus of £10,000 to 
make it seem like they were helping him but instead were trapping him in an impractical and 
unfair contract term. 
In August 2018, Mr N approached NewDay for assistance with processing a chargeback 
claim but says it refused to help him.
NewDay said its disputes team reviewed Mr Ns chargeback request and considered 
whether Mr N had any valid chargeback dispute rights and it concluded he did not. Unhappy 
with NewDays answer, Mr N referred the complaint to this service. 
Mr N also requested chargeback claims with his other banking providers  those banking 
providers processed chargeback claims which all succeeded (using a misrepresentation 
reason code) but were subject to a different card schemes rules. 
One of our investigators felt that whilst Mr N had no chargeback rights, he did have a valid 
section 75 claim and as such suggested NewDay refund Mr Ns money. 
NewDay didnt agree, it said in summary:
There is no bilateral exchange, but simply a deposit and two previous final decisions 
from this service supports that position.
It agrees that to finance is not defined under the Act and notes the reference to 
Office of Fair Trading v Lloyds TSB Bank Plc (2004). But notes that the judgement 
goes on to reference a credit card issuer clearly providing financial accommodation 
to its card holder in relation to purchases from suppliers. In this case, its difficult to 
see how there is a purchase as there is no supply of goods or services and no 
bilateral exchange. In addition, the above case relates to multi-party arrangements 
and whether those were to be a transaction under the Act. 
It acknowledges that Section 75 does not use the term purchase of goods or 
services, our website (last updated on 11 October 2020), states under Section 75 If 
you used a credit card or point of sale loan to buy goods or services, then the 
transaction could be covered by Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act.
Further in the Office of Fair Trading v Lloyds TSB Bank Plc case, the court, at first 
and subsequently in the court of appeal refers to the lender providing credit for the 
purchase of goods and services, pursuant to arrangements between himself and the 
supplier. Therefore, whilst Section 75 does not use the term purchase of goods or 
services it believes it is clear that both this service and the courts view a transaction 
as being the purchase of goods or services.
As the deposit of monies was not the purchase of goods or services, then it is of the 
view that Section 75 is not engaged. 
In situations where contact was made with the binary trading company and the 
contract was entered into before a payment was made using the Credit Card, it is 
difficult for it to reconcile how the claim relates to the payment. 
Whilst the sum in question is within the financial scope of the section A Claim 
relating to a single item which the Supplier has attached a cash price below £100 or 
in excess of £30,000  there is no single item; simply the ability for the monies to be 
used to trade. If there are multiple deposits or the ability to make multiple deposits it 
is difficult to see how these can be classed a single item or a cash price. A deposit of 
monies do not pay for goods or services. In most cases further monies are deposited 
into the account which are then mixed with the deposit in question. This must support 
the position that there is no transaction involving a single item or indeed a clear cash 
price, such that Section 75 would be engaged. 
With interest at a historical low, 8% would significantly overcompensate the customer 
for being unable to invest this money elsewhere. It would suggest that the courts 
special account rate of interest would be applicable in these circumstances. 
On 16 February 2022, I issued a provisional decision upholding this complaint. For 
completeness, I repeat my provisional findings below (which forms part of this final decision):
Ive first considered that Mr N had no valid chargeback rights because the Mastercard 
chargeback scheme significantly limits any chargeback options related to investments or 
gambling. So NewDay did not act unreasonably by declining to take Mr Ns claim forward. 
Secondly, Ive thought about whether NewDay ought to have processed the disputed 
payment in the first instance and I dont think it should have.
 
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as a binary-options scam is in fact a 
scam. Some cases simply involve high-risk investment bets on the performance of (e.g.) 
commodities, cryptocurrency or stocks that resulted in very disappointing returns or losses. 
Some binary-options traders promoted these productswhich were regulated by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) at the timeusing sales methods that were arguably 
unethical and/or misleading. However, whilst customers who lost out may understandably 
regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet the high legal 
threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false representation and/or 
failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for himself or of causing 
loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006).
Banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) have duties to protect customers 
against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large transactions to guard against money laundering (see below). But when simply executing 
authorised payments, they do not have to protect customers against the risk of bad bargains 
or give investment advice  and the FCA has confirmed that a fraud warning would not 
constitute unauthorised investment advice (see its predecessors 2012 consultation paper on 
investment fraud, below). So, the first question to resolve is whether this particular 
retailer/trader was actually a fraudster.
I am satisfied that XMarkets were not carrying out legitimate binary options trades but were 
instead dishonestly defrauding customers, e.g. by not actually making trades/bets with the 
money received from clients but simply manipulating their online trading platform to show 
purported gains in order to induce further investments from victims such as Mr N. In the 
absence of evidence to the contrary, I have concluded this because:
From January 2018 (i.e. prior to the date of these disputed transactions), binary 
options traders were required to be regulated by the FCA  whereas XMarkets were 
not. Nor were they regulated in any other jurisdiction so far as I am reasonably 
aware. This indicates they were operating illegally, probably with dishonest 
intentions. Legitimate firms tend to comply with regulatory requirements. 
On 15 February 2018, an alert about XMarkets was published by the FCA warning 
that they were offering financial services in its jurisdiction without authorisation. This 
is a potential indicator of dishonest intentions. 
On 13 April 2018, the Swiss Financial Market Authority in Austria published an alert 
about XMarkets on the International Organization of Securities Commissions 
(IOSCO) investor alerts portal. This is another potential indicator of dishonest 
intentions. 
On 2 July 2018 the European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) banned the 
sale of binary options to retail consumers across the EU, including the UK. This is 
further evidences that XMarkets was operating illegally. 
Having concluded that this was a scam rather than just a bad bargain or poor investment 
advice, I must now go on to consider three more issues in order to determine the outcome of 
the complaint:
1. Were any of the disputed transactions so unusual or uncharacteristic for Mr N and/or 
his account that NewDay fraud alerts ought reasonably to have triggered some sort 
of intervention?
2. If triggered, would NewDays intervention have made a difference and prevented or 
reduced the loss?
3. And if so, was Mr N partly to blame for what happened such that it would be fair and 
reasonable to reduce compensation proportionately?
unusual or uncharacteristic activity
NewDay ought to be aware of our general position on a PSPs safeguarding and due-
diligence duties to protect customers from the risk of financial harm due to fraud. We have 
published many decisions on our website setting out these principles and quoting the 
relevant rules and regulations. It is unnecessary to rehearse them again here in detail.
It is common ground that the disputed payment was authorised by Mr N for the purposes of 
the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. This is 
because they were made by Mr N using the legitimate security credentials provided to him by NewDay. This must be regarded as an authorised payment even though Mr N was the 
victim of a sophisticated scam. So, although he did not intend the money to go to scammers, 
under the Regulations, and under the terms and conditions of his bank account, Mr N is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
NewDay should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accountsand any payments made or receivedto counter 
various risks, including anti-money-laundering, countering the financing of  terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
I am satisfied there were enough triggers in this case to have alerted a responsible 
regulated bank such as NewDay that Mr Ns account was being subjected to unusual and 
uncharacteristic activity. There were reasonable grounds to suspect a fraud or scam, and 
therefore justify an intervention (such as phoning him in order to ask discreet questions 
about the nature and purpose of the payments).
First, regulated firms ought reasonably to take notice of common types of scams. As long 
ago as June 2012, the FCAs predecessor indicatedin its consultation paper entitled 
Banks Defences Against Investment Fraud: detecting perpetrators and protecting victims 
(the 2012 paper)that it was good industry practice for firms to build up an updated watch-
list of types of scams and potential perpetrators; and regularly to share timely and detailed 
intelligence with other banks, UK and overseas regulators, the police, etc. Whilst the 
regulator gave no specific timings, it is not unreasonable in my view to expect an 
international bank to update its watch-list and communicate internally to staff within, say, one 
month of an alert being posted by the FCA or International Organization of Securities 
Commissions (IOSCO). In my judgment, such alerts should automatically trigger alarm-
bellsand lead to the payment being pausedpending further enquiries (and a possible 
scam warning) to the payer.
In Mr Ns case, there were warnings published on the FCAs website and IOSCOs investor 
alerts portal several months prior to Mr Ns payment to XMarkets. The sale of binary options 
was also banned by ESMA at the time of Mr Ns payment to them. It is not unreasonable to 
expect a firm the size of NewDay that regularly updates its internal alerts to include 
information about payees who had tried to carry out regulated activities without permission, 
or indeed illegal activities as the case is here. I accept the warning would not have identified 
what type of investment was being sold; and it did not necessarily follow from the nature of 
the warning in isolation that these were fraudsters. But given the timing of the alert relative to 
the first payment, I do think NewDay ought to have automatically blocked it; and it had 
several months to update and communicate its watch-list. The bank had constructive if not 
actual notice that the payee might not be a legitimate merchant  therefore, it would have 
been reasonable for it to have properly questioned Mr N before processing all the payments 
in order to satisfy itself that all was well.Ive not seen that NewDay intervened, nor provided a warning to Mr N about the payment he 
was making. 
If NewDay had fulfilled its duties by contacting Mr N and asking suitably probing questions, 
there is no reason to doubt that he would have explained what he was doing. In such 
circumstances, whilst the bank had no duty to protect him from a bad bargain or give 
investment advice, it could have explained to him that there was a regulatory warning and 
invited him to look more closely into this trader. It could have also explained that the sale of 
binary options to UK customers was now illegal. It could have further explained its own 
customer experiences with unregulated and unlicensed high-risk investment traders in that 
customers would often be prevented from withdrawing available balances. After all, at that 
time, there was information in the public domainwhich a bank ought to have known even if 
a lay consumer ought notabout the very high risks associated with binary options trading, 
including many warnings of potential fraud (e.g. Action Frauds June 2016 warning; the 
European Securities and Markets Authoritys July 2016 warning; the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys consultation paper of December 2016; and the Gambling Commissions 
December 2016 scam warning that an unlicensed operator is likely operating illegally; City 
of London Polices October 2017 report noting victims had lost over £59m to binary options 
fraud; Visas Business News publication of October 2017 where it expanded its chargeback 
scheme rules to cover binary options and investment disputes arising from merchants often 
unlicensed and unregulated deploying deceptive practices; and so forth). 
There is no evidence that NewDay had any interaction with Mr N prior to processing the 
payment. It was a missed opportunity to intervene.
causation
If NewDay had asked Mr N what the payments were for and the basic surrounding context, it 
is likely he would have fully explained what he was doing and that everything had been done 
over the phone and online with his broker. NewDay did not need to know for certain 
whether Mr N was dealing with a fraudulent high risk investment trader or investing in a 
legitimate (albeit highly speculative) product; reasonable grounds for suspicion are enough 
to trigger a banks obligations under the various regulations and principles of good practice. I 
consider there were such grounds here and, therefore, that NewDay ought reasonably to 
have provided a scam warning in light of all the information then known to financial 
professionals about the risks associated with unregulated binary options. 
If NewDay had given a warning, I believe that Mr N would have paused and looked more 
closely into XMarkets before proceeding. There is no evidence that he was willing to take 
high risks or had a history of speculative investments or gambling; by his account, he was an 
inexperienced investor. It seems more probable that he would have made further enquiries 
into whether or not XMarkets were regulated in the UK or abroad. He could have discovered 
they were not and the various regulatory warnings about the risk of unregulated investment 
scams (see above) and that the sale of binary options was now banned. In other words, I am 
satisfied that a warning from financial professionals such as NewDay would probably have 
exposed XMarkets smoke and mirrors, causing him not to invest and preventing any 
losses.
Even if he had not worked out that this was a scam, it is likely that a warning would have 
alerted him to the common issues arising in relation to binary options and unregulated high 
risk investment dealers, which in turn would have revealed the truth behind his supposed 
brokers (mis)representations  i.e. that they were not really regulated UK investments but 
highly-risky bets more akin to a wager in which the broker must lose if he is to win. So before 
Mr Ns payments were actually processed, he would probably have stopped in his tracks. But for NewDays failure to act on clear triggers of potential fraud or financial harm, Mr N 
would probably have not lost any money. 
contributory negligence
Despite regulatory safeguards, there is a general principle that consumers must still take 
responsibility for their decisions (see s.1C(d) of our enabling statute, the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000). In this case, I do not think that Mr N was to blame for what 
happened; that he did not foresee the risk of this sort of harm or any harm. 
Mr N believed that XMarkets were legitimate and his broker gained his trust by explaining he 
would use his expertise to trade on his behalf. He had the use of an online trading account 
and saw his investments performing. I dont think he could have reasonably known about the 
operation of this type of scam unless prompted by for instance, financial professionals that 
are familiar with these scenarios like NewDay. I think the onus was on NewDay to inform Mr 
N of the risk that he would likely lose all of his money if he made a payment to XMarkets. I 
do not place too much weight on general but arcane information in the public domain for 
reasons previously alluded to about the information imbalance between financial 
professionals and ordinary consumers. And that responsibility fell upon NewDay from the 
initial payment based on what it ought to have known about XMarkets. 
Mr N was unaware of the common deceptive tactics used by binary options scammers, as 
communicated by Visa to its acquirers and issuers in 2017, so he made payments to 
XMarkets. I do not think he could earlier have foreseen the risk that the company he was 
dealing with was a scam and the trading account he was viewing was likely to be a 
simulation.
In the circumstances, I do not think it would be fair to reduce compensation on the basis that 
Mr N should share blame for what happened.
As Im satisfied this scam could have been prevented by NewDay, I dont need to consider 
whether Mr N has a valid claim under Section 75. 
On the question of interest, 8% simple, it represents a notional average cost of consumer 
borrowing to cover someone being without their money as a result of wrongdoing for which 
we are holding a firm liable; it does not represent actual loss of interest, which may now be 
zero on a current account or less than 1% on a savings account. Many consumers have to 
pay much higher interest in order to borrow, e.g. via credit cards or short-term loans. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr N responded to my provisional decision and said he was happy to accept it and didnt 
have anything further to add. 
NewDay did not respond to my provisional decision and the deadline for doing so has now 
passed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr N accepted my provisional decision and NewDay failed to respond to it, I see no 
reason to depart from my provisional decision. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and NewDay 
Ltd must:
Refund Mr Ns disputed payment to XMarkets (totaling £5,000); 
Refund interest and charges applied to Mr Ns NewDay credit card in respect of the 
disputed payment only;
Pay 8% interest on any payments Mr N made towards his NewDay credit card in 
relation to the disputed payment only. If NewDay deducts tax in relation to the 
interest element of this award, it should provide Mr N with the appropriate tax 
deduction certificate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman