DRN-3512965
The complaint
Ms M has complained that Canada Life Limited (Canada Life) has unfairly declined her 
claim.
What happened
Ms M had an income protection insurance policy, underwritten by Canada Life. 
In 2019, Ms M became absent from work due to burnout and made a claim. Canada Life 
declined the claim on the basis that Ms M hadnt met the definition of incapacity.
Ms M appealed and unhappy with Canada Lifes response, referred her complaint to this 
Service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think Canada Life had unfairly declined 
the claim as he didnt think the medical evidence showed Ms M met the definition of 
incapacity.
Ms M disagreed and in summary has said that due to her symptoms, she would be unable to 
work for any employer as she works in an extremely high-pressured environment. And 
Canada Lifes medical experts didnt speak to her so they wouldnt understand what her 
work pressures were. 
So the case has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. And largely for the same reasons as already 
explained by the investigator.
Our investigator has provided a detailed background of the medical evidence which both 
parties are familiar with, so I wont repeat everything he has said in my decision. Instead, I 
will focus on what I consider to be key.
The relevant industry rules and guidelines say an insurer should handle claims promptly and 
fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
Incapacity is defined in the policy as follows:
We will treat a member as suffering incapacity, if, throughout the deferred period 
and beyond, the members illness or injury prevents them from, and makes them 
incapable of, performing the material and substantial duties of their normal 
occupation.
So this means Ms M would be paid a benefit if she was unable to carry out the main duties 
of her role with any employer, throughout the deferred period, due to an illness or injury. 
The onus is on Ms M to prove her claim, through medical evidence, to show an illness is 
preventing her from carrying out the main duties of her role. 
Canada Life reviewed Ms Ms claim and declined it on the basis that she was suffering from 
burnout and work-related stress rather than an illness. It relied on medical evidence from Ms 
Ms psychologist, her GP, an occupational health nurse and a consultant psychologist 
instructed by Canada Life who all agreed that Ms M was suffering from work related stress 
or burnout due to employment issues such as Ms Ms workload, changes to her team and 
understaffing. 
There is no evidence that Ms Ms work-related stress or burnout led to a recognised mental 
health illness. So Canada Life declined the claim on the basis that Ms M could have worked 
for another employer as it wasnt an illness which was preventing her from carrying out the 
main duties of her occupation but rather her work situation.
Having considered all of the evidence above, none of the medical professionals have 
suggested that Ms M has an underlying mental health illness. And all of the evidence shows 
that Ms M is suffering from work related stress. For these reasons, I dont think it was unfair 
or unreasonable for Canada Life to decline the claim.
Although Ms M says she wouldnt be able to work for any employer due to her symptoms, I 
havent seen any objective medical evidence, such as a psychiatric assessment, provided to 
Canada Life to show this. A psychiatric assessment was recommended but I havent seen 
any evidence that Ms M had one or provided the results to Canada Life for consideration. 
I also note that Ms M says the medical experts instructed by Canada Life hadnt spoken to 
her. But the reports I have seen confirm they have considered all of the medical evidence 
relevant to Ms M. The test isnt whether Ms M can continue her highly pressurised job with 
her employer in her current job. But whether her illness would prevent her from carrying out 
the main duties of her occupation with any employer. So talking to Ms M about her current 
work environment wouldnt prove that she couldnt carry out her role with another employer 
where she wouldnt necessarily face the same work pressures as in her current role.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman