DRN-2615084
The complaint
Mr G has complained that he was mis-sold a GAP insurance policy by Close Brothers 
Limited (Close Brothers) in 2009. Hes also unhappy that despite only having the car for 
12 months, he paid three years premiums for the GAP insurance.
What happened
Mr G took out a finance agreement in September 2009, to purchase a car. Around that time, 
he also took out a GAP insurance policy.
During a discussion with the Citizens Advice Bureau Mr G says he realised hed been mis-
sold the GAP policy. He complained to Close Brothers who issued their final response letter 
on 25 November 2019, not upholding the complaint. They said that given the time that had 
passed since the sale, they no longer had a copy of the call recording. But they were 
confident that the sales person would have followed the telephone script which ensures they 
comply with legislation and guidelines in relation to the sale of general insurance policies. 
Close Brothers said that based on the available information, they felt it was likely the GAP 
cover would have been beneficial to Mr G, if hed needed to make a claim. Close Brothers 
also told us that Mr G would only have received a refund on the GAP insurance if hed 
cancelled the policy within 14 days of receiving the documentation.
Mr G was unhappy with their response and referred his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator looked into his concerns and issued her view not upholding the complaint on 
6 March 2020. She gave detailed reasons explaining why she didnt believe the policy had 
been mis-sold, making reference to the call script and other available evidence. Our 
investigator also said there was nothing in the policy document to suggest that any of the 
premiums paid would be refunded if the finance was settled early. 
Mr G didnt accept the view and said he felt wed sided with the business. He asked for an 
ombudsmans decision on his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator for similar reasons. 
Mr G was sold a policy that covered the original three-year term of the finance agreement. 
He later decided to repay the finance after 12 months and believes he should have received 
a refund for premiums covering the last two years of the policy term. 
Ive reviewed the policy terms and conditions and note they dont provide for a refund of 
premiums if the finance agreement is terminated before the end of the period of cover. The 
premium would only have been refunded if the policy had been cancelled within 14 days of 
the start date of the policy. Taking everything into account, as Mr G had the benefit of the 
GAP insurance cover for the period of time in which the agreement was in place, I see no 
reason to require Close Brothers to refund the premium. 
Mr G believes the policy was mis-sold, although he hasnt provided any other specific 
reasons for this. So, Ive considered the available evidence to decide whether Mr G more 
likely than not, was eligible for the insurance and likely to gain any benefit from the cover 
provided. 
Given the sale took place more than 11 years ago, the call recording isnt available. In cases 
like this where the evidence is incomplete or contradictory, I make my decision on the basis 
of what I think most likely happened. In the absence of a call recording, the next best 
evidence I have, of what was likely discussed during the call, is the sales script used by 
Close Brothers for the sale of GAP insurance.
Having carefully reviewed the sales script I note there were a number of points during the 
call when Mr G could have answered no and the call would have ended without the 
insurance being sold to him. But Mr G did go on to purchase the GAP insurance. So, as our 
investigator also commented, this indicates to me that the sales call proceeded to the end of 
the script, resulting in Mr G agreeing to take out the insurance. I also note Close Brothers 
comment that the length of the call indicated the script had been followed. A shorter length of 
call would indicate that some sections may not have been covered.
On the basis of the contents of the sales script, Im satisfied Mr G would have likely been 
asked appropriate questions to establish whether he was eligible for the insurance, and 
whether he was likely to gain any benefit from the insurance. 
Mr G hasnt provided any other reasons as to why he believes the GAP policy was mis-sold. 
And, having considered all the available evidence, I havent seen anything to suggest that 
Mr G wasnt provided with clear information, or that the policy wasnt suitable for him.
For these reasons I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2021.
 
Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman