DRN-3183326
The complaint
Mr H has complained Marks & Spencer Financial Services plc, trading as M&S Bank, didnt 
refund him for disputed transactions or under a section 75 claim in a timely manner and pay 
him the compensation he felt was appropriate.
What happened
In June 2020 Mr H noticed a car rental charge debited to his M&S Bank credit card account. 
He contacted M&S and asked to be refunded £27.45 and £0.82; the amounts hed been 
debited without his authority. He also asked to be paid compensation in line with late 
payments regulation along with redress for damages and costs of complaining based on an 
hourly rate.
M& S Bank refunded both disputed amounts. Theyd been notified by one of the international 
card schemes of the potential compromise of Mr Hs card details so didnt dispute he could 
have been a victim of fraud.
Within a short period Mr H raised a couple of other disputes with M&S Bank. One covered 
two payments hed made to a hotel in 2019 for four single rooms. Because of the national 
lockdown he was going to be unable to use these rooms and had asked the hotel for a 
refund. Hed been unable to resolve this with the supplier (who Ill call B) so made a 
section 75 claim to M&S Bank. He asked for reimbursement of the two amounts hed paid 
(£101.85 and £305.85). His total claim included an additional £704.75 which covered 
compensation in line with late payments regulation, along with redress for damages and 
costs of complaining based on an hourly rate.
On 20 July 2020 M&S Bank refunded £407.80 to Mr Hs credit card account.
Mr H remained unhappy with this outcome and pursued complaints hed already lodged with 
our service.
Mr Hs complaints were split up to be considered by our service. An investigator got hold of 
the evidence she required from M&S Bank. She told Mr H she wouldnt be asking M&S Bank 
to pay additional compensation following the disputed car rental payment. She believed 
theyd resolved the complaint in a timely manner and we didnt generally compensate 
someone for the costs of pursuing an initial complaint.
Mr H pointed out no-one had yet dealt with his section 75 complaint and the hotel bookings 
with B. This meant that his outstanding query around joint and several liability under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 had not been resolved either.
Mr Hs complaint has been referred to an ombudsman for decision.
In the interim Ive confirmed to M&S Bank that I will be considering Mr Hs complaint about 
B.
I completed a provisional decision on 26 October 2021. I reviewed both aspects of Mr Hs 
complaint. I felt overall M&S Bank had done all they needed to ensure Mr H was 
appropriately refunded and given a small amount of compensation.
Mr H responded. His comments included:
Objecting to both complaints being dealt with together;
Complaining that the provisional decision was full of generalisations and fails to refer 
to the numerous complaints hed submitted;
failing to take account of the late payments or section 75 legislation; and
further points about how he was without funds and continued to argue for the 
compensation he felt was due.
I received no response from M&S Bank.
I now have all I need to complete my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to ask M&S Bank to do anything further. Ill explain why 
below. Ive split my consideration into two sections as there are two different sets of 
transactions. I know Mr H objects to me doing this but as an ombudsman I am able to decide 
what aspects of the complaint are appropriate for consideration.
Im aware that Ive summarised Mr Hs complaint in far less detail than he has and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point hes made. No 
discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues 
here. 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied 
I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the 
right outcome. This also reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts.
Mr H has also provided us with numerous letters during the period of his complaint. I can 
reassure him I have considered everything hes provided.
Disputed car rental payment
Mr H wrote to M&S Bank by email on 6 June 2020 confirming hed not made the disputed 
transaction. Both the main amount, and the exchange fee were refunded by M&S on 8 June.
They explained why they wouldnt be paying compensation as they didnt believe there was 
any delay in sorting out the problem.
Our service believes customers have a right to complain about issues that concern them but 
we also believe financial institutions are allowed a certain time to put things right. From what 
I can see here M&S Bank refunded the disputed transactions to Mr Hs credit card account 
within two days of the complaint. That seems pretty prompt.
Mr Hs claim included compensation for damages and his costs of complaining. But I dont 
think it would be fair to award these. We do award compensation if the financial institution has caused the issue but I dont think this is the case here. I also believe that £200 for 
damages seems high when I cant see theres been any impact on Mr H. I dont wish to 
downplay the inevitable inconvenience and discomfort of being a victim of fraud but again I 
dont believe thats down to the actions of M&S Bank.
Mr H has also claimed interest and fixed sums according to late payments legislation. Im not 
sure why Mr H believes these sums would be owed to him. Mr H hasnt expanded on this in 
his letters to us. My understanding is that this doesnt apply.
We do award interest  generally in the sum of 8% simple interest a year  where someone 
has been deprived of funds. I dont believe this was the case here as the original debit was 
two transactions on Mr Hs credit card account. I dont believe Mr H had paid the bill which 
wasnt due until 19 June 2020 anyway. Mr H wasnt even out of pocket so it wouldnt be fair 
to recompense him.
Section 75 claim
Mr H was unable to fulfil a holiday planned for June 2020 because of national lockdown. 
Hed asked B to refund him but theyd not done so. He understandably asked M&S Bank to 
get involved.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 allows a customer to submit a claim for breach 
of contract or misrepresentation by a supplier to their credit provider. This applies when 
customers use certain types of credit to buy goods or services. In this case Mr H used his 
M&S Bank credit card to pay for four single rooms. 
Its worth clarifying Im not deciding M&S Banks liability under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act. We consider the relevant law and that includes section 75. But we decide cases 
by considering what is fair and reasonable, as statute requires us to do. What Im deciding is 
whether M&S Bank did enough in considering Mr Hs complaint. And if they didnt, what else 
should they now do.
Ive considered the point Mr H made about what he sees as our failure to comment upon 
and instruct Marks and Spencer Financial Services Limited comply with their legal 
responsibilities together with costs and damages applicable to joint and several liability as 
defined within English Law and within the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
As Ive said we dont decide a banks liability under section 75 so I dont think it would be 
appropriate for me to comment further. But I am happy to confirm that I believe M&S Bank 
has done enough in considering Mr Hs complaint. M&S Bank reimbursed Mr H for the 
accommodation hed booked with B on 20 July 2020. They also paid him compensation of 
£100 against his credit card bill. I think this meets any requirement under the legislation to 
rectify a breach of contract and any consequential losses.
The same arguments that I made above about the disputed car rental payment also work 
here when considering the other part of Mr Hs complaint. I know there were a few back and 
forths between Mr H and M&S Bank before his claim was settled but I dont think its 
unreasonable of M&S Bank to have wanted further information.Mr H first made a claim to M&S Bank in May 2020 so it took less than two months for this to 
be resolved. Again I believe this didnt take an unreasonable time. Im therefore turning down 
Mr Hs request for further compensation.
I have considered whether 8% simple interest would apply. And I think its most likely it 
would. However I can see M&S Bank paid Mr H £100 compensation related to this complaint 
which more than accounts for any 8% simple interest from the period May  the time the 
breach existed being when Mr H wasnt able to get refunded by B  to July 2020. I dont 
think it would be fair to ask M&S Bank to pay anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Hs complaint against Marks 
& Spencer Financial Services plc, trading as M&S Bank.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman