DRN-2179163
The complaint
Mr R1 and Mr R2 have complained about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limiteds response 
to a claim on their roadside assistance policy. 
Mr R1 is a named driver on Mr R2s policy. It was Mr R1 who actually made the claim and 
hes taken the lead in dealing with this complaint; so, for ease, Ill refer to his comments as 
being in respect of both himself and Mr R2.
Reference to Admiral includes its agents.
What happened
Mr R1 called Admiral for help because Mr R2s car was blocking in another car. But Mr R2 
had gone away and taken his car keys with him. So Mr R1 was unable to move Mr R2s car 
out of the way and drive the other car. 
Mr R1 called Admiral and it said it would send someone out. Over the next two and a quarter 
hours or so Mr R1 called Admiral several times to see when the recovery operator would 
arrive. Once there the recovery operator told Mr R1 that all he could do was physically break 
into the car, which would set off its alarm system. Mr R1 didn't find that useful as he didn't 
want to damage the car. 
Mr R1 complained to Admiral about its service. He said it should pay him £300 
compensation and refund the full policy premiums (including for an associated motor 
insurance premium) of around £1,469 to put things right. In reply Admiral accepted that it 
hadn't got everything right. But it noted that, for the event Mr R1 was complaining about, his 
circumstances didn't entitle him to any help under the terms of the policy and said it had 
arranged assistance anyway.
Mr R1 brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. She didn't think 
Admiral needed to take any further action. Mr R1 didn't agree so the complaint's been 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
In bringing this complaint Mr R1s raised a number of points. But in this decision I don't 
intend to address every point raised; instead Ill focus on what I see as being the issues at 
the heart of this complaint. 
Mr R2s roadside assistance policy says it will provide help where the car keys have been 
lost, broken or locked in the car. And Admiral says that in those circumstances it will attend 
and move the car but won't cover any other costs, for example replacement or new keys. But 
Mr R2s keys weren't lost broken or locked in the car. In fact Mr R2 had them with him, which 
meant Mr R1 didn't have access to them when he needed them. So, as the keys werent 
lost, broken or locked in the car, the policy didn't cover Mr R1s circumstances. And Admiral 
should have told Mr R1 that he wasn't covered and it couldn't help. But, instead, it told him it 
could send someone out who would attempt to get into the car. Mr R1 said that would be fine 
as, if he could get into the car, he could roll it out of the way. Mr R1 asked how long this 
would take; Admiral replied that it would usually be within an hour.
However, Admirals recovery operator didn't attend within an hour and in the end it was in 
the region of two and a quarter hours before a recovery driver arrived. During that time 
Mr R1 had rung Admiral a number of times. And its clear from the content of those calls that 
he was frustrated with the delays he experienced. To add to his concerns, when the 
recovery operator arrived he said that the only thing he could do was force his way into the 
car, which would cause damage to it and set the alarm off. Mr R1 wasn't happy about that. 
But I note that Admiral didn't ever guarantee that it would be able to get into Mr R2s car 
without using force and the policy wording doesn't give any such undertaking. So, while I can 
understand that Mr R1 was unhappy with the outcome, I don't think Admiral did anything 
wrong when it told him it would need to use force to enter the car. And it wasn't Admirals 
fault if Mr R1 had different expectations about what the recovery operator would be able to 
do.
That said, Admiral could have managed Mr R1s expectations better. It could have told him 
at the outset that his circumstances werent covered by the policys criteria. And, having said 
it would send someone out, I think it could also have been more realistic about the possible 
timescales involved. Roadside assistance is a demand led service, that is the number of 
people needing the service will fluctuate over time. So Admiral could have let Mr R1 know 
that while it might usually attend a call out within an hour, its recovery operator might take 
longer to arrive, depending on the demands for recovery operators in his area and the order 
of priority applied to those calls out. But I note that, in response to his complaint, Admiral has 
accepted that it could have provided Mr R1 with clearer information. And its also pointed out 
that it provided a service which Mr R1 wasn't entitled to and which, under other 
circumstances, he would have had to pay for, irrespective of what the outcome was. 
So while I can understand Mr R1 wasn't happy with Admirals service, its acknowledged that 
it didn't get everything right, while providing a service it shouldn't have provided in the first 
place. And having thought about this carefully, Im satisfied that Admiral has responded 
reasonably to Mr R1s concerns. Ive certainly seen nothing that leads me to conclude it 
should pay £300 compensation nor refund Mr R2s premium. So I'm not going to instruct 
Admiral to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R1 and Mr R2 
to accept or reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 Joe Scott
Ombudsman