DRN-4320324
The complaint
Ms P complains about One Insurance Limiteds (One Insurance) handling of her claim 
following damage caused by a third party driving into her car, under her motor insurance 
policy.  
What happened
In October 2022 Ms P says a neighbour drove into her car whilst it was parked. The 
neighbour admitted fault for the accident. Ms P contacted One Insurance to make a claim. 
She says it took a long time for the appointed garage to take her car in to be repaired. Ms P 
wasnt provided with a courtesy car and her car was at the garage for around three weeks. 
This caused her great inconvenience getting to work and with other daily activities. 
When her car was fixed Ms P says she had to pay the policy excess fee. She thought this 
would be returned within a few weeks, but says it wasnt returned until May 2023. Ms P says 
the repairs werent of a good standard as the left side of the front bumper was no longer 
aligned correctly. 
In its final complaint response One Insurance says a claim was first raised on 11 October 
2022. But Ms P didnt initially want to claim until liability was established. Because of this it 
made initial contact with the third party. But says no action was taken to book Ms Ps vehicle 
in for repairs until 2 November, when she instructed it to. 
One Insurance says there was a delay in arranging the repairs until 15 November 2022. It 
says the provision of a courtesy car is subject to availability and isnt guaranteed. One 
Insurance acknowledges it didnt respond to Ms Ps request for an alternative vehicle to be 
provided. It says the policy excess is always payable in the event of a claim against its 
policy. This is requested from the third partys insurer once One Insurances costs are 
recovered. 
One Insurance says it wrote to Ms P to explain the third partys insurer hadnt paid the costs 
it had incurred. This meant court proceedings had to be issued. It acknowledged Ms P was 
dissatisfied with this, but explains it was following its established process. One Insurance 
says Ms Ps policy excess was returned to her on 15 March 2023. It apologised for its poor 
standard of service and paid £150 compensation. 
Ms P wasnt satisfied with this outcome and referred her complaint to our service. Our 
investigator upheld her complaint. She says One Insurance shouldve made efforts to 
arrange an alternative when its garage didnt have a courtesy car. Because of this it should 
pay £10 per day for the time the car was at the garage. 
Our investigator thought £150 compensation was fair for the delays and claim handling 
issues. But says Ms P must first complain to One Insurance about the standard of repairs, 
before our service can consider the matter. She says the policy excess fee is an uninsured 
loss that Ms P was required to pay. She didnt think One Insurance was at fault for the time 
taken by the third-party insurer to refund this amount. 
Ms P accepted our investigators findings, but One Insurance didnt respond. As an 
agreement wasnt reached its been passed to me to provide a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding Ms Ps complaint. Let me explain. 
The claim records One Insurance provided show Ms P contacted it on 11 October 2022. The 
notes say she didnt want to proceed with a claim at that time but was looking to settle the 
matter privately. A few days later the notes refer to a webchat with Ms P. It says the chat 
ended before she explained what she wanted to do. I can see that images of the damaged 
car were sent to One Insurance around this time. Ms P then called on 18 October to say the 
third-party had admitted liability. 
I can see from the claim records on 19 October 2022 that One Insurances agent was 
waiting on a claim form from Ms P. She emailed five days later asking when the damage 
was going to be fixed. However, in its final complaint response One Insurance says it wasnt 
until 2 November that it was aware Ms P wanted this to happen. It then made arrangements 
for a garage to be appointed on this date. 
Based on the notes it was reasonably clear on 24 October 2022 that Ms P wanted One 
Insurance to proceed with her claim. I think it couldve appointed a garage around a week 
earlier than it did. 
Ms Ps car was booked in at the repairing garage on 15 November 2022. The records show 
she contacted One Insurance three days later to say the garage had sent an estimate for 
authorisation. I cant see from the notes when authorisation was provided. But an agent 
responded to Ms P to say the matter had been passed to its engineer to complete as soon 
as possible. At this time Ms P also highlighted that One Insurance hadnt responded to her 
request for a courtesy car, which as its garage didnt have one available was creating 
difficulties for her. 
I cant see from the claim records when Ms Ps car was repaired and returned to her. 
Although I note from her comments that this took around three weeks. Based on this 
evidence I think communication couldve been better, and a repair shouldve been arranged 
sooner. I think its reasonable for One Insurance to compensate Ms P for this 
Ive thought about whether One Insurance treated Ms P fairly with respect to the provision of 
a courtesy car, whilst her car was being repaired. Its policy terms say:
If you have a Comprehensive policy and need the use of a car while your own is undergoing 
repair by one of our selected repairers they will provide you with a temporary replacement 
car - full details can be found in the Courtesy Car section of this policy (Basis of Settlement 
Sections 1 and 2). 
The sections highlighted talk about the provision of a courtesy car not being guaranteed if a 
customer uses their own choice of repairer. This wasnt the case here. Ms Ps car was fixed 
by the repairer One Insurance appointed. I note in its final complaint response that One 
Insurance says the provision of a courtesy car is subject to availability and is not guaranteed. 
But I cant see that Ms Ps policy terms say this. The indication is that a courtesy car will be 
provided whilst repairs are ongoing. I think One Insurance shouldve arranged to provide Ms P with a replacement car whilst hers 
was undergoing repairs. It acknowledges that it didnt respond to her request, which I agree, 
represents a poor standard of service. The garage didnt have a courtesy car available, but I 
think One Insurance shouldve made alternative arrangements. In these circumstances our 
services approach is to award a loss of use payment calculated at £10 per day. We think 
this represents fair recompense where a customer has been caused inconvenience due to 
not having access to a car. Ms P describes difficulty getting to work and with other everyday 
activities. So, I think a loss of use payment represents a fair outcome here. This means One 
Insurance should pay Ms P £10 per day for the time her car was at the garage.
Ive thought about Ms Ps concerns that it took a long time for her policy excess to be 
returned to her. I can understand why this caused her frustration given that the accident was 
thought to be entirely the fault of her neighbour. But the policy excess is the first part of a 
claim that a customer is always liable to pay. It isnt linked to who is at fault for the claim. 
Essentially the policy excess is an uninsured loss. This means its not One Insurances 
responsibility to claim this back from the third-partys insurer. 
From the claim records I can see that it took some time for the repair costs to be paid to One 
Insurance by the third-party insurer. The notes show that the business did actively pursue for 
payment and threatened legal proceedings when this wasnt done. I can also see that it 
asked the third-party insurer to provide Ms P with a cheque payment in respect of the excess 
fee shed paid. So, I dont think One Insurance behaved unfairly here. 
In her submissions to our service Ms P says One Insurance used the wrong address when 
responding to her complaint. Im sorry she experienced a problem here, but complaint 
handling isnt a regulated activity, so its not something I can comment on. 
Finally, Ms P says the standard of repairs by One Insurances garage isnt of a good 
standard. This has meant the bumper/wheel arch is out of alignment. I acknowledge what 
she says, but I cant see that this was raised as part of her complaint with One Insurance. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) dispute resolution or DISP rules say that we cant 
consider a complaint unless its first been raised with the business. If Ms P isnt satisfied with 
the response she receives, once shes made her complaint, or if One Insurance takes longer 
than eight weeks to respond, she can ask our service to consider the matter. But I cant 
consider this issue here. 
Having considered all of this I dont think One Insurance treated Ms P fairly because of its 
delays and poor communication, as well as the lack of a response to her request for an 
alternative courtesy car. But I think its offer of £150 compensation is fair. The business 
should provide a daily £10 loss of use payment for the time Ms Ps car was with its repairer. 
But I dont think One Insurance behaved unreasonably with respect to the policy excess fee.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. One Insurance Limited should:
pay Ms P a £10 per day loss of use payment for the period her car was with its 
repairing garage.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman