DRN-3340081
The complaint
Ms C complains that Santander UK Plc didnt tell her when they werent able to set up a 
regular direct debit to her ISA account, as she requested.
What happened
Ms C holds accounts with Santander. These include a business account and a stocks and 
shares ISA held within Santanders Investment Hub. 
In April 2019, Ms C completed an online request to set up a direct debit from her business 
account to make a regular monthly payment into her ISA. Having completed the process, Ms 
C received two letters from Santander dated 25 April 2019. They confirmed that her bank 
account details had been added to her investment hub. 
A few days letter, Ms S accessed Santanders online platform to check her direct debit had 
been set up successfully. But when she tried to do this, the screen flow displayed a message 
asking her to contact Santander.
Ms C called Santander on 1 May 2019 and explained what had happened. Santander 
confirmed her account details had been added to her investment hub but that it hadnt been 
selected for direct debit. They told Ms C how to do that by making various selections within 
the online screen flow.
Ms C later completed the online screens and she received letters from Santander dated 2 
May and 4 June 2019. These again confirmed a change of bank details on her investment 
hub. Ms C also received two letters dated 4 June 2019 which confirmed the direct debit 
together with the source account, the regular amount and collection date.
In May 2021, Ms C noticed that regular payments under the direct debit shed set up werent 
being made into her ISA within her investment hub. So, she called Santander to find out 
what had happened. 
Santander identified two potential reasons. Firstly, her business account was in a different 
name to her investment hub. Santander said that deposits into an ISA within the investment 
hubs had to come from accounts in the same name. Secondly, deposits into the ISA could 
only be made from a personal bank account. The account used by Ms C was a business 
bank account.
Ms C raised a complaint with Santander. She said Santander hadnt previously explained the 
problem to her and shed missed out on the investments shed intended. Santander 
responded to Ms Cs complaint in a letter. They said theyd written to Ms C in 2019 telling 
her that set up of the direct debit hadnt been successful due to the source account used 
being a business account. They didnt agree theyd done anything wrong.
Ms C wasnt happy with Santanders response. She said she hadnt received any letters 
from Santander explaining the problem. She also said that when she spoke to them in 
January 2020, she was told everything was set up correctly. So, Ms C decided to refer her 
complaint to this service.
Having reviewed Ms Cs complaint, our investigator thought Santander hadnt treated Ms C 
fairly. He believed Santander had failed to tell Ms C about the problem when she spoke to 
them during a call. Our investigator thought Santander should pay compensation of £200 for 
the stress and inconvenience caused.
Santander accepted our investigators findings and agreed to pay £200 compensation. Ms C 
remained disappointed and thought the compensation amount should be higher to reflect the 
missed investment opportunity.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Investment Hub service offered by Santander enables customers to access their 
Santander stocks and shares ISAs and Investment accounts through an online platform. Its 
clear to me that Ms C intended to make a regular contribution into an ISA account within the 
Investment Hub. In order to achieve this, Ms C first needed to specify a nominated feeder 
account. 
Ms C nominated her business account and received letters from Santander that this was 
successful. So, I dont think it would be reasonable for Ms C to think otherwise. Ive 
considered Santanders Investment Hub Terms and Conditions. Schedule 2: Investments 
Services, Section 3 addresses Paying Into your ISA. Paragraph 3.1 says You must make 
payments into your ISA with your own money. This is usual for an ISA given the tax benefits 
associated with this product. 
I understand Ms Cs business account is held in her maiden name. But it still belongs to her. 
So, I think she could fairly assume that she could make payments into her Investment Hub 
from that account. I cant find anything within Santanders Terms and Conditions that states 
otherwise.
Santander said payments could only be accepted into the Investment Hub from a personal 
account. Again, Ive been unable to find anything that confirms this. But that is their policy. 
Its not our role to ask a business to alter its policies and procedures or impose 
improvements on the level of service offered to their customers. These aspects fall firmly 
within the remit of the regulator  in this case, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). But it 
is our role to examine and decide whether a business has been fair and reasonable in the 
manner in which those policies and procedures are applied in the individual circumstances of 
Ms Cs experience with them.
Santander said they wrote to Ms C in 2019 to explain why her regular payment direct debit 
couldnt be set up. Theyve provided a copy of this letter which is correctly addressed. While 
Ms C says she didnt receive this letter, I cant reasonably hold Santander responsible for 
that. Once despatched, they wouldnt have had control over its delivery. But given her 
actions, Im persuaded she didnt see the letter.
Ms C called Santander in May 2019. This was prompted by a screen message when 
accessing and checking her Investment Hub. Having listened to a recording of that call, I 
think it was clear that Ms C was seeking assistance to check that her direct debit had been 
successfully set up. As this call post-dated the letter Santander said they sent, I think they 
had full opportunity to further explain and address any potential issues. They didnt do that 
here, and Ms C subsequently received letters confirming the direct debit had been set up 
successfully. So, I think Santander couldve done more to address Ms Cs problem at an 
earlier stage.
Ultimately, the problem was identified. But not until 2021. Despite all of the above, 
Santander have confirmed that during 2019 and 2020, four regular payments were accepted 
into Ms Cs Investment Hub account. This appears to contradict their own policy. 
Santanders investment team have confirmed there were system errors which, once 
identified, were resolved. I understand these amounts have since been refunded to Ms C.Im pleased that Santander have accepted our investigators recommendations. I agree that 
compensation should be paid to reflect the inconvenience and distress caused. 
Compensation is a personal thing. What is seen as reasonable by one party may not be 
considered so by another. Ms C did experience some inconvenience. But I think the 
proposed amount feels fair in all the circumstances here. I appreciate that Ms C doesnt 
agree. But it isnt the role of this service to make awards in order to penalise Santander for 
their mistakes here. 
Ms Cs wants compensation to reflect lost investment returns. But as the transfers couldnt 
be and werent made, those funds remained available for Ms C to use in other ways. Any 
award is considered based upon the impact Santanders mistake had upon Ms C. And I think 
the compensation amount proposed does that here
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Ms Cs complaint.
I require Santander UK Plc to pay compensation to Ms C of £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman