DRN-3777486
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc trading as Hitachi Personal Finance 
(Hitachi) incorrectly reported arrears on his credit file.
What happened
On 14 December 2017, Mr A was supplied with a used car through a fixed sum loan 
agreement with Hitachi. He paid a deposit of £250 and the agreement was for £18,995 over 
72 months; with monthly repayments of £263.81.
Mr As income was affected by the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. He agreed a payment 
deferral (also known as a payment holiday) with Hitachi for the payments for April to June 
2020. As he was still having difficulties, Mr A agreed a second payment deferral for the 
period August to October 2020. Mr A made his November 2020 payment, and three 
payments of £1 in January, February, and March 2021. 
In June 2021 Mr A started to make payments of £300 a month, which he increased to 
£480.70 in September 2021. The arrears were paid off by a lump sum in December 2021.
Mr A complained to Hitachi that theyd reported his arrears to the credit reference agencies, 
after telling him they wouldnt do this. Hitachi said they theyd reported Mr As account as 
being up to date when it wasnt, and when they corrected this, they reported the up-to-date 
correct situation. So, they didnt think theyd done anything wrong.
Mr A wasnt happy with Hitachis response, and he brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service for investigation. 
Our investigator said that Hitachi didnt report the payment deferrals as missed payments, 
and he wouldnt have expected them to have done this. Mr As non-deferred payment 
arrears had reached six months by September 2021 but had reduced to four months by 
November 2021 when Hitachi discovered their error. So, the investigator said that, although 
Hitachi had made an error by not reporting the non-deferred payment arrears, he thought 
they acted reasonably by only reporting arrears from November 2021 onwards, and not 
backdating the reporting to show the true history of Mr As account. 
Mr A didnt agree with the investigator. He said that Hitachi told him to ignore any default 
letters he received, and they never told him they would report any arrears to the credit 
reference agencies, or that the missed payments would affect his credit score. Hes also said 
that, if he had been told this, he wouldve used his credit card to repay the arrears.
Because Mr A didnt agree with the investigator, hes asked for an ombudsman to make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr A was supplied with a vehicle under a 
fixed sum loan agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means 
were able to look into complaints about it. 
It's not disputed that Mr A had a six-month payment deferral with Hitachi. The rules in place 
at the time meant that these deferred payments shouldnt be reported as arrears, and Hitachi 
didnt report any arrears for these payments. As such, I wont be asking Hitachi to do 
anything about the deferred payments.
However, Mr A shouldve started to make payments again in November 2020. And, while he 
paid the November 2020 payment, he didnt pay December 2020, and only paid nominal 
payments of £1 for January, February, and March 2021. Meaning that, at this point his 
agreement was four months in arrears. And the missed payments of April and May 2021 
made the account six months in arrears. As Hitachi have an obligation to report all arrears to 
the credit reference agencies, I wouldve expected them to report this worsening situation. 
However, they failed to do this, instead reporting that Mr A was up to date with his payments.
It wasnt until November 2021 that Hitachi realised that they werent reporting Mr As arrears. 
At this point the arrears had reduced from six to four months, and Hitachi started to report 
the four missed payments. While they couldve backdated the arrears reporting to December 
2020, they chose not to as the failure to report from this date was their error. And, in doing 
so, the worst extent of Mr As arrears wasnt reported. As Mr A has benefitted from this error, 
I wont be asking Hitachi to correct and backdate the arrears reporting.
From a review of all the evidence, Ive seen that Mr A was advised of the following:
Missing payments could have severe consequences and may result in legal 
proceedings being taken against you. This could include obtaining a Court Order for 
a charge on your home. We will add details of your default to your record with the 
credit reference agencies which could also make it more difficult or more expensive 
for you to obtain credit  original agreement Mr A signed in December 2017.
There will be no negative impact on your credit file as a result of the payment 
holiday, providing that you are able to resume your monthly payments in full at the 
end of the payment holiday period  letter dated 16 September 2020, advising that 
the payment deferral was coming to an end. 
I must make you aware that as payment will not be made in line with the contract, 
this could potentially reflect on your credit file  email dated 27 November 2020, 
offering a £1 a month payment arrangement.
The remainder of your monthly payment will accrue on as arrears balance and being 
in arrears could have an impact on your credit file  email dated 15 December 2020, 
confirming the £1 a month payment arrangement.
Late or incomplete payments may affect your Credit status, which would mean 
obtaining credit in the future could be adversely affected  letter dated 4 May 2021, 
about the arrears on the agreement.I must make you aware that whilst there is an arrears balance on your agreement 
this will impact your credit file and continue to do so until your agreement is 0 in 
arrears  email dated 23 May 2021, about a payment arrangement.
Please be advised that while you are on a repayment plan this may affect your credit 
file  letter dated 1 June 2021, about a payment arrangement.
Please be advised that while you are on a repayment plan this may affect your credit 
file  letter dated 15 September 2021, confirming a payment arrangement.
Mr A has said that he was told to ignore any auto-generated arrears or default letters, which 
he says he did. Hes also said that, if Hitachi had told him that arrears could impact his credit 
file, then he wouldve repaid the arrears from his credit cards to avoid that impact.
However, the correspondence referred to above isnt auto-generated correspondence, but 
(mainly) letters and emails about payment arrangements. And Im satisfied that these letters 
and emails clearly advise Mr A (over a period of a year) that his arrears could impact his 
credit file. And, if hed wanted to clear his arrears by any other means than increasing his 
monthly payments, at any point while he was in arrears, he had the opportunity to do so.
As such, for the reasons stated, Im satisfied that Hitachi acted reasonably, and I wont be 
asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr As complaint about Mitsubishi HC Capital UK 
Plc trading as Hitachi Personal Finance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman