DRN-3594946
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy esure Insurance Limited voided their home insurance policy and 
declined a claim.
Mr S has primarily dealt with the complaint, so for ease Ill refer to him only.
Reference to esure includes its agents and representatives.
What happened
The background to this complaint isnt in dispute, so Ill summarise the key points:
Mr S took out a home insurance policy underwritten by esure in February 2019. It 
was arranged and administered by a broker, who Ill refer to as B. The policy 
renewed in 2020 and 2021.
In June 2021, Mr S got in touch with esure after his home was damaged by fire. It 
found his home had been undergoing renovations since November 2020. He and his 
family had moved out around that time and were renting elsewhere.
esure said Mr S should have told it about these changes  but he didnt. And if it had 
known in November 2020 that the property was undergoing renovations and wasnt 
occupied by Mr S and his family, it wouldnt have continued the policy.
As a result, esure voided the policy back to November 2020 and declined the claim. It 
returned the premiums paid since then.
Mr S complained to esure about the policy voidance. Amongst other things, he said 
esure was relying on his failure to provide updated information during the policy term, 
even though there was no duty on him to do so.
esure maintained Mr S had breached the terms of the policy in November 2020, but it 
accepted it was wrong to void the policy from then. It said Mr S had misrepresented 
answers to two questions about the way the property was occupied when he 
renewed the policy in February 2021 and voided the policy back to that time instead.
Mr S questioned whether the way the policy had been renewed meant hed made a 
representation at all. And even if he had, he didnt think it amounted to a 
misrepresentation or a failure to take reasonable care.
Our investigator thought esure had acted fairly when it voided the policy. Mr S 
disagreed and made a number of points. An agreement couldnt be reached, so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances Ive taken into account 
relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Both parties have provided extensive and detailed submissions. Whilst Ive read and taken 
then all into account, Ill only comment on the points I think are relevant when reaching a fair 
outcome to this dispute. Thats a reflection of the informal nature of this Service.
This complaint is about esure and whether it acted fairly and reasonably when it voided the 
policy and declined the claim. It wont take into account any acts or omissions by B, as they 
have been considered under a separate complaint against B.
The reason for esure voiding the policy, and declining the claim, has changed over time. I 
will focus on the reason it is relying on now. It says Mr S misrepresented his circumstances 
in relation to two questions when he renewed the policy in February 2021.
The relevant law for this situation is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (or CIDRA). Mr S has questioned esures interpretation of parts 
of CIDRA, so Ill set out the key points and my understanding.
Section 2(2) places a duty on the consumer, in this case Mr S, to take reasonable care not 
to make a misrepresentation. In summary, if Mr S fulfilled that duty, esure can take no 
action. If he didnt fulfil that duty, CIDRA sets out the remedies available to esure.
Section 3 gives more information about what should be considered when deciding whether a 
consumer has taken reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. The information most 
relevant here says the following should be taken into account:
All the relevant circumstances
How clear and specific the questions were
How clearly the importance of answering those questions  and the possible 
consequences of not doing so  was communicated
The standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer
Section 2(3) says a failure by the consumer to comply with the insurers request to confirm 
or amend particulars previously given is capable of being a misrepresentation.
This is relevant because Mr S gave esure information when taking out the policy in 2019. In 
2021, esure wanted Mr S to check the information hed given before remained correct  and 
if it wasnt, to let esure know. This means that esure wasnt necessarily asking for new 
information in 2021. In my view, Section 2(3) means that CIDRA effectively treats being 
asked to check answers previously given as equivalent to being asked for new information  
in either case its possible for a consumer to make a misrepresentation.
When an insurer sells a policy directly to the consumer, its responsible for gathering 
information from the consumer that it considers relevant. It will use that information to make 
a decision about whether to offer a policy  and on what terms  based on its view of risk.When an intermediary or broker sells the policy, its responsible for gathering that 
information from the consumer and passing it to the insurer. How it gathers the information is 
a matter for the intermediary or broker  not the insurer.
Here, B gathered the information esure wanted to know by sending Mr S an email in January 
2021, around a month prior to the renewal. It required him to access his online account and 
review documents, including a renewal schedule.
Amongst other information, the schedule set out a list of information Mr S had previously 
given, including the two questions esure thinks Mr S made a misrepresentation about.
The schedule prominently highlighted the importance of checking the document, Mr S duty 
to take reasonable care to ensure the information was accurate, and the possible 
consequences of not doing so  including claims being rejected or the policy being voided. 
Im satisfied the schedule was clear and fulfilled the relevant points of CIDRA noted above.
Mr S says he didnt access his online account to review the schedule. As he didnt consider 
the schedule, he doesnt think a failure to respond to it can amount to a misrepresentation.
I dont agree with Mr S comments about this. I think CIDRA is clear that not fulfilling a 
request to check information previously given can amount to a misrepresentation for the 
reasons above.
Mr S says Bs email wasnt sufficiently clear to prompt him to enter his online account. And if 
he had entered the account, it wasnt clear enough about what he needed to do. But B was 
responsible for the email and the account as part of the information gathering process, so I 
cant consider those points under this complaint. But the schedule itself, which contained the 
information esure relied upon, was sufficiently clear in my view.
As Mr S didnt respond to the renewal schedule, he was effectively telling esure that the 
information within it remained accurate and didnt need to be changed. Im satisfied that 
amounts to a representation on his part.
Ill go on to consider the relevant information within the renewal schedule  and whether the 
information provided by Mr S amounts to a misrepresentation. The two questions esure says 
Mr S made a misrepresentation about are:
1. Is the property occupied permanently and solely by you, members of your family 
and any joint named policyholder?
2. Is the property regularly occupied overnight?
Im satisfied both questions are clear and specific.
Mr S had previously answered yes to both and didnt update it in 2021. esure says both 
should have been answered no at that time and were therefore answered incorrectly. This 
is because Mr S and his family had moved into the rental property in November 2020 to 
avoid the disruption caused by the renovations. They were due to move back around July 
2021, as the renovations were due to be complete then.
Whilst some of the words in the two questions are given particular meanings in the policy 
booklet, theres no indication in the renewal schedule that any of the words have specified 
meanings that must be cross checked with the policy booklet. So I think they all take their 
ordinary, everyday meaning.Mr S circumstances in February 2021 arent in dispute. He accepts he and his family werent 
living at the home, but in a rental property elsewhere. He says builders were regularly at the 
home carrying out the work and he and his family would often visit to collect post and check 
on the progress of the work. So in a broad sense, the property was occupied  people were 
regularly there most days of the week.
However, it wasnt occupied solely by Mr S and his family  whilst they were there 
occasionally, it was the builders who were usually occupying the house. And I havent seen 
any suggestion Mr S and/or his family stayed overnight when they visited. I note that even 
an occasional overnight stay is unlikely to amount to permanent occupation or regular 
overnight occupation.
For these reasons, Im not persuaded that either question was correctly answered. At the 
February 2021 renewal, I think the reasonable answer to both questions was no. That 
means Im not satisfied Mr S took reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation.
In reaching this decision, I take into account all the relevant circumstances. I also look at 
things from the perspective of a reasonable consumer. Theres been some suggestion by 
esure that Mr S may have greater insurance knowledge than the average consumer. Hes 
explained why thats not the case and, even if it were, CIDRA relies on what the reasonable 
consumer would have done anyway. So I dont think its necessary to consider Mr S level of 
insurance knowledge or what impact this may have on things.
Under CIDRA, a misrepresentation can be careless, reckless or deliberate. esure says it was 
careless and has refunded the premiums from the 2021 renewal as a result. I dont think this 
particular point is in dispute, so I wont consider it any further.
That means the remedy available to esure under CIDRA depends on what it would have 
done had the two questions above been answered no at the renewal. The onus is on esure 
to show it would have acted differently had the questions been answered that way.
esure has provided a statement from an underwriter to explain what it would have done if 
both questions had been answered no, bearing in mind Mr S was an existing customer at 
that time. In summary, esure says it wouldnt have offered to renew the policy. In part, this 
was for a third reason  the value of the renovations. Its not seeking to rely on that point any 
longer, so I havent taken that into account. But its clear the answers to the two relevant 
questions alone would have triggered esure to withdraw its renewal offer.
The statement sets out why answering both questions no would, in esures view, have 
increased the risk beyond a level it finds acceptable. I think esure is entitled to take its own 
view of risk. Based on the statement, Im satisfied it applied the same view of risk to Mr S as 
it would have done any other customer in similar circumstances.
As esure wouldnt have offered to renew the policy had it known the answer to both 
questions should have been no, under CIDRA its entitled to void the policy back to the 
renewal date. Thats what its done, so Im satisfied its acted fairly.
The claim arose in June 2021, after the February 2021 renewal. The policy was voided back 
to the renewal, which means treating it as if it didnt exist after that time. As a result, there 
was no policy in force when the claim arose. And that means esure is entitled to decline it.
It also means the arguments Mr S has made about the policy terms are irrelevant. Hes 
referred to a term within the how to make a claim section. But as the policy wasnt in force 
at the time of the claim, how that term may impact a claim isnt relevant to this dispute.Overall Im satisfied esure has acted in line with CIDRA and has treated Mr S fairly and 
reasonably. 
My final decision
My final decision is not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman