DRN-1563019
The complaint
Mr B is complaining about the way Bank of Scotland plc  trading as Halifax  has handled a 
claim he made under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 for some bespoke fitted 
wardrobes he bought.
Mr B has been largely represented by his wife in this complaint. But for ease of reference, I 
shall refer to any she submissions shes made as being made by Mr B.
What happened
In September 2018 Mr B entered into a contract with a company  who I shall call G  to buy 
and install a fitted wardrobe. The total cash price of the contract was £2,825. 
Mr B says he and his wife initially went to the showroom with very specific requirements 
following research theyd done beforehand.  He says they provided photographs of what 
they wanted and he says they had lengthy conversations with the salesman about what they 
wanted  in particular that they wanted the height of the plinth to match the skirting boards 
they were going to have in their house and their moulded appearance. Mr B says the 
salesman said he understood the look Mr B was going for, but not many people ask for this 
type of look because its expensive to achieve. But Mr B said they left confident G knew what 
they wanted.
Following this, the salesman visited Mr Bs house to take measurements. Mr B says they 
further discussed their requirements and, particularly, that they say they reiterated they 
wanted the wardrobes plinth to match the height of the skirting board (five inches). He said 
their house didnt have skirting boards at the time, but he says they gave the salesman the 
measurement of the boards and the type of moulding they were going to have fitted. 
Mr B highlighted that the order plan has a comment to say plinth is as the dust grey matt 
display. He says the salesman showed them that display option and asked if that was what 
they wanted. Mr B says he confirmed it was, but they wanted it deeper in height. The 
salesman then created a computer assisted drawing (CAD). Mr B says they highlighted a 
number of discrepancies, but they say they were reassured by the salesman that it would be 
very difficult to show all of these things on the CAD. But he says the salesman assured them 
that everything would be in line with their requests. Following this they paid a deposit of 
£1,415  paying £100 on their Halifax credit card.
The wardrobes were fitted in November 2018. Mr B says that time was a particularly busy 
and stressful period during their house renovations. He says G sent two people to fit the 
wardrobe, but they had a number of other workmen working on the renovations at the time, 
so they said their house was a mess. They say they had multiple priorities for them to deal 
with at the time, so they left Gs workmen to operate.
Mr B says he later noticed that the rails were not fitted to the doors as they wanted and the 
drawers were at the wrong height. Mr B says the workmen told them they hadnt fitted the 
rails because they wouldnt look right. Around 10 days later, Mr B says that he and his wife 
inspected the wardrobes properly and realised the appearance was not what they wanted. 
He said they had a plain flat plinth as opposed to the moulded plinth. He also said it was only 
three inches high as opposed to the requested five inches. They raised their concerns with G 
the next day.
The original salesman returned Mr Bs telephone call the next day and disputed Mr B had 
requested a specific height of plinth and said they generally only supply three inch plinths. 
Mr B also says he raised the issue with the door rails, but he said the salesman told him the 
people who made the wardrobe made it differently to the chosen specification because they 
thought it would look better. G offered to fit a new plinth with moulding, but it said it could 
only fit a three inch plinth. Mr B didnt accept this because he said it wasnt what they had 
asked for.
Following this, another person from G called to discuss Mr Bs concerns and she asked to 
come and visit. Mr B says they asked her if they could fit a five inch plinth, but she said they 
couldnt do so. Mr B says he asked her to respond to him if G could supply the spec they 
had ordered. 
As Mr B was unhappy with the way G had responded to his concerns, he contacted Halifax 
to make a claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (S75). Halifax responded 
to say that there was a difference in opinion between Mr B and G about what had been 
discussed before entering into the contract. So it asked Mr B to obtain an independent report 
to understand whether what he wanted to have on the wardrobe was feasible  in particular 
if the five inch plinth he wants can be fitted and, if it can, what would the overall cost would 
be to remedy the wardrobe to what he wants. Halifax also said it would refund the £200 Mr B 
had paid for the additional items hed paid for, but had apparently not received. 
Mr B complained to Halifax about the outcome of its review. He said he didnt understand 
why he needed to get an independent report. He was also unhappy that it paid £200 without 
any explanation of what this was for. And he said Halifaxs response on this was misleading. 
He said it initially said there wasnt anything detailed to note the additional costs paid and the 
£200 was a gesture of goodwill payment, but it was now saying this £200 was for the 
additional charges. He says he spoke with Halifax and was told that no payment was due to 
him under the S75 claim. He says Halifax told him that it would listen to the telephone calls 
hed had to see if £200 had previously been offered.
Halifax still thought its response to the S75 claim was fair as it didnt think there was 
anything in the paperwork to suggest G had agreed to a five inch plinth and that certain 
design aspects werent met. It said it was for Mr B to demonstrate there had been a breach 
of contract or misrepresentation and it didnt think hed provided enough to support this. But 
it said it there was a delay in reviewing the telephone calls its call handlers had had with 
Mr B and his wife. So it offered to pay £70 in compensation for this.
Mr B thought it was unfair that Halifax was placing such a high burden of proof on him and 
queried how a S75 claim could ever be successful if testimony wasnt taken into account. He 
says Halifax asked if hed recorded the conversations theyd had with G, but he thought this 
was an unreasonable request. He also said that he didnt think Halifaxs case handler was 
treating them fairly and asked to speak to someone else, but he says she told him there 
wasnt anyone else.
Mr B says the suggestion that they were looking to commit intentional fraud was insulting 
and they think there should be more flexibility to think about whos making the claim and the 
likelihood of them telling lies.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said both parties have provided conflicting 
version of events. He said he was satisfied Mr B went to the initial appointment with G with images of the specific style they wanted to achieve and also would have discussed this in 
detail with the salesman. However, he said he wasnt able to establish whether the size of 
the plinth was discussed. He said the adjustment of the bottom plinth would have required a 
redesign of the doors and drawers. And he thought it was likely this would have been noted 
on the CAD drawings or in the order somewhere. He said that, as these werent added, he 
couldnt say for certain that the size of the plinths was discussed.
The investigator acknowledged Mr B didnt receive the style of plinth hed requested. But he 
thought the offer to refund £200 was a fair and reasonable outcome.
Mr B didnt accept the investigators opinion. He said the Consumer Rights Act 2015 sets out 
that the goods should be as described and that any changes to the contract are not effective 
unless agreed by both parties. He maintains that they went to great lengths to tell the 
salesman the depth of the skirting that they wanted and said that they showed him a sample 
of the skirting they were going to have when he was at their house.
Mr B also said that, even if the investigator didnt accept that hed told the salesman the 
desired height of the plinth, theres no dispute that they showed him photos of the design of 
wardrobe they wanted. And he said the photos of the wardrobe G installed show a different 
design to what was on the photos he showed the salesman at the start. He said he and his 
wife were very disappointed with the wardrobes that they were supplied.
Mr B said G didnt tell him the maximum sized plinth it provided was three inches until such 
time as he asked it to fit a replacement plinth of the required height. And he maintained he 
and his wife told the salesman a number of times what they required.
Mr B highlighted hed provided email correspondence hed had with Halifax after the issues 
arose asking it to come and fit the required size of plinth and to make the necessary 
adjustments to the doors and drawers. He said Halifax fitted drawers too low for them to 
have the shaker bars they ordered fitted and look right. He says the salesman had said the 
fitter had told him on the day of fitting about the issue. Mr B says he told the salesman he 
wanted the shaker bars he ordered, but he says the salesman didnt do anything with their 
request.
Mr B said theyd gone to a lot of effort to collate and provide evidence to support what they 
maintain was discussed. But they dont think the investigator has taken any of this into 
account. 
As Mr B didnt agree with the investigator, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why.
Mr B has provided a lot of information in support of his complaint and raised a number of 
concerns about the way Halifax has handled his claim. Ive thought about everything hes 
provided in considering this complaint. Ive not commented on every point hes raised. No 
discourtesy is meant by this, but it simply reflects the informal nature of this service. Ive 
focussed on what I consider to be the key points in this complaint.
Mr B partially paid for the wardrobe G provided through his Halifax credit card. S75 sets out 
that in certain circumstances, as the finance provider, Halifax is jointly liable for any breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. Im satisfied those circumstances apply 
here. 
Mr B is claiming G didnt provide the wardrobe he asked for and G agreed to provide. G 
disputes this. It says Mr B and his wife initially visited the showroom with an example picture 
they wanted for the wardrobes. But they said there was a long discussion about the design 
and the types of doors they wanted. It said that Mr B had a number of specific requests that 
it said would be considered special requirements which wouldnt be considered standard. 
And it said these incur additional costs and would be specifically set out in the CAD. It says 
the standard height for a plinth from the floor to the bottom of the wardrobe door is three 
inches and if the contract was to provide for anything different from this, it would be set out 
specifically in the CAD. It accepts it agreed to provide a moulded plinth at the base of the 
wardrobe, but disputes a specific height was agreed.
Both Mr B and G have provided very different versions of events in respect of what was 
discussed when the wardrobe was being designed. Ive read and considered everything 
Mr B has provided us. Ive also reviewed all the photographs that theyve provided  in 
particular the photos they brought with them for the initial design appointment.
Where events are disputed like this, I think the starting point has to be  to look at the design 
Mr Bs wife has signed as the wardrobe they wanted G to supply and fit. Ive noted his 
comments that the salesman said he couldnt record every detail on the CAD. But I note 
there were a number of other specific requests on there  such as the moulded plinth at the 
top of the wardrobe which G has charged extra for. Im also conscious that the size of 
moulded plinth Mr B says he wanted G to provide would have cost £200 extra. 
So, given this, I think its most likely G would have included the fact Mr B required a specific 
type of non-standard plinth had this been agreed in the design meetings. I also cant ignore 
the fact that the CAD had a specific computer-generated drawing of how the wardrobes will 
look and Mr Bs wife has signed to confirm that this is the design she wanted. I note she 
says she was given assurances by the salesman that the actual wardrobe will have the 
plinth she wanted, but I dont think theres enough to support this. 
Ultimately, Im satisfied G has provided the height of plinth it was contractually required to 
provide. I accept it fitted the wrong style of plinth, but G offered to replace the plinth with the 
required moulded plinth. Mr B didnt accept this, but Im satisfied this was a fair resolution to 
the breach of contract. Ive thought about Mr Bs assertion that G provided an assurance that 
it would provide a different sized plinth to what was set out in the contract, but I dont think I 
think Ive seen enough to support this. 
However, I do agree with Mr B that G also hasnt provided the style of doors it contractually 
agreed it would provide. In particular I note the large doors were designed to include a 
shaker bar, but this hasnt been included. G says the fitters agreed with Mr B before 
installation that it wouldnt fit the shaker bars because it wouldnt look right. But I havent 
seen anything to support this and its clear Mr B is unhappy the shaker bars arent included. 
But I also understand G offered to fit them, but Mr B didnt accept this. I think this was the 
fair and reasonable remedy to this breach of contract. So I think it was fair for Halifax to say 
G had fairly looked to remedy this issue.
However, given the breach hadnt been remedied, I note Halifax has offered to refund the 
£200 additional payment Mr B has made towards the special requirements  namely the 
moulded plinths. I think this is a fair resolution to his S75 claim to remedy the breach of 
contract. Finally Ive thought about the concerns Mr B has raised about the general customer service 
hes received in the handling of the S75 claim  in particular about what was said to him on 
the telephone. He says he was misled about the £200 refund he was offered as he says this 
was offered as a goodwill gesture. He says he looked to discuss this with his case handler 
but he says she told him she didnt know anything about it. He also said he asked that 
Halifax listened to the telephone calls he had with his case handler to see what was said but 
it didnt do so.
Halifax accepts that the manager who was reviewing his complaint wasnt initially told that 
she needed to listen to the telephone calls Mr B had with his case handler. And it accepts 
this caused some confusion. Halifax has paid Mr B £70 in compensation for this. I 
acknowledge Halifax has caused Mr B some distress and inconvenience in respect to this. 
But Im not persuaded hes significantly lost out as a result of this. £70 in compensation is in 
line with what I would have awarded, so I think its a fair resolution to these issues.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above Im satisfied Bank of Scotland plc has handled Mr Bs S75 
complaint fairly. It should pay £200 to Mr B directly if it hasnt already done so. And I think its 
compensation offer of £70 is fair compensation for the distress and inconvenience its 
caused. It should also pay this to him directly if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2020. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman