DRN-1445096
 
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs K have complained that Tesco Personal Finance PLC has withdrawn a 
concession on their mortgage account which allowed them to earn Tesco Clubcard points 
against payments on their mortgage account. To settle the complaint Mr B and Mrs K would 
either like to keep the right to earn Clubcard points on their payments, or be awarded a pro-
rata amount of Clubcard points based on overpayments already made during the last two 
years.
What happened
In August 2017 Mr B and Mrs K took out a mortgage with Tesco. They borrowed £220,000 
plus £995 in fees over a term of 17 years on a capital repayment basis. The mortgage is on 
a fixed rate of interest of 1.68% until 30 September 2022.
The mortgage offer, signed by Mr B and Mrs K on 13 August 2017, incorporates the 
mortgage illustration and the account terms and conditions into the contract.
The mortgage came with various flexible features, one of which was that Mr B and Mrs K 
could earn one Tesco Clubcard point for every £4 paid towards the mortgage. The section of 
the mortgage illustration which specified this also said:
The rate at which customers earn Clubcard points can be changed, and the award 
of Clubcard points on mortgage payments can be stopped completely, at any time to 
reflect changes in the costs of offering and administering the Clubcard scheme.
The mortgage terms and conditions say (at Section E, part 7) that Tesco may sell and 
transfer all or part of its rights benefits and responsibilities under the agreement (including 
the mortgage) to any other party at any time.
In September 2019 Tesco wrote to Mr B and Mrs K to let them know that it was exiting the 
mortgage market and would be transferring their mortgage to another lender. As such, after 
27 September 2019, no further Clubcard points could be earned against mortgage 
payments.
Mr B and Mrs K were very unhappy about this and complained to Tesco. In its final response 
letter, Tesco explained that it was entitled to change or stop the concession relating to 
Clubcard points, as per the mortgage contract.
Dissatisfied with Tescos response, Mr B and Mrs K complained to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. An investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think Tesco had 
done anything wrong.
Mr B and Mrs K asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. In summary they say that 
Tesco made the ability to earn Clubcard points a key feature of the mortgage. Mr B and 
Mrs K say that they cant change mortgage providers without incurring a significant early 
repayment charge, so its unfair that Tesco is not obliged to honour its contractual 
agreement to continue to award Clubcard points.
Mr B and Mrs K say that Tesco has imposed unfair, one-sided terms on its mortgage 
customers and that its ability to change the terms of the mortgage contract without due 
compensation is disadvantageous to them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator, for largely the same 
reasons.
Im satisfied Tesco is entitled to transfer this mortgage to another lender. The account terms 
and conditions allow this to be done. Tesco has transferred the mortgage to a bank which 
does not offer Clubcard points against mortgage repayments.
The award of Clubcard points is not a contractual term. Its a flexible feature which can be 
varied or halted at any time. Im satisfied that this is set out clearly in the mortgage 
illustration, which is incorporated into the mortgage agreement signed by Mr B and Mrs K. 
So whilst I fully understand that the ability to earn Clubcard was an attractive incentive, its 
not a binding contractual term; Tesco was within its rights to terminate this feature when it 
decided to exit the mortgage market.
Tesco was entitled to set a cut-off date (27 September 2019) after which no further Clubcard 
points would be earned against mortgage payments. I understand Tesco continued to 
administer the mortgage account for some months after that, but that doesnt mean it was 
under any obligation to continue to award Clubcard points after the cut-off date.
My final decision
I know Mr B and Mrs K will be disappointed, but my final decision is that I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 August 2020.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman