DRN-4252779
The complaint
Mr C complains that Virgin Media Mobile Finance Limited (VM) has treated him unfairly in 
relation to goods he purchased with finance provided by it.
What happened
I will summarise the background to this complaint in less detail than the parties have done. 
There are several reasons for this. The history of this complaint is well known to both Mr C 
and VM. Moreover, the history of this complaint, has also been set out in detail in 
correspondence on the file, and in the investigators first view. Both Mr C and VM have both 
been sent a copy of that view, so there is no need for me to repeat the details here. In 
addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont include any information that 
might lead to Mr C being identified. So for all these reasons, I will keep my summary of what 
happened quite brief.
In October 2018 Mr C entered into a contract with VM to supply finance for the purchase of a 
phone. Mr C became dissatisfied with the performance of the phone, therefore he sent it to 
VM to examine it in October 2019. VM assessed the phone and whilst they found the phone 
did have faults it did not agree it had any responsibility to correct the faults. Specifically, VM 
did not agree that the faults were covered by the warranty for the phone. VM returned the 
phone to Mr C.
Mr C remained dissatisfied with the phone. He spoke to VM. According to Mr C, VMs 
employee said to him you can return the phone and we will have a look. I made it clear to 
her that Im not returning it for it to be looked at but returning it as it is not working, and I 
wont be needing it any longer as they have refused to repair it.  VM stance is that it did not 
agree to Mr C returning the phone.
Mr C tells us he posted the phone back to VM. VM tells us it never received the phone. Mr C 
complained to VM about all of this, and VM declined to uphold Mr Cs complaint. Mr Cs 
stance is that VM must now write-off the loan and stop pursuing him for the debt.
Dissatisfied with VMs response Mr C complained to this service.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. Our investigator did not recommend 
that Mr Cs complaint ought to be upheld. Our investigator issued two separate views to 
explain why hed made this recommendation.
VM accepted this recommendation, Mr C did not. In summary, he indicated he did not think 
hed been treated fairly by us or that wed taken account of the points he thought were 
important. Mr C reiterated his position that hed returned the phone. He also told us we 
needed to ask VM for the evidence that he thinks is relevant. Mr C told us that the phone 
was still under warranty and therefore should have been repaired by VM. Mr C did not agree 
that the fact that the phone is now missing had any significance when it came to making a 
decision about his complaint.
Mr C indicated that he wanted an ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. Rather, Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
I recognise Mr C has strong views about how we should investigate his complaint. However, 
this service is independent of both consumers and the businesses they are complaining 
about. This means that we dont act for consumers or businesses, nor do we take 
instructions either from consumers or businesses or allow either party to direct the course of 
our investigations; were we to do so, it would totally compromise our independence and 
impartiality. That means its up to us to determine what evidence we need in order to 
investigate a complaint. So although Ive noted Mr C s directions in relation to how he thinks 
we should investigate this complaint, following his directions is not something that Im able to 
do.
The finance agreement, that is the fixed sum loan agreement, in this case, is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Mr C complains about the quality of the phone. VM did not sell the phone to Mr C, the 
retailer did. In general, it is the retailer of goods who is responsible for the quality of goods 
that are sold to a consumer. However, under relevant law, because of the type of finance Mr 
C used to purchase the phone he potentially has a claim against VM for the quality of the 
phone.
In this complaint, I consider relevant law to include the Consumer Credit Act 1974 and in 
particular Section 75 of that Act (Section 75), and the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA 
2015).
The general effect of Section 75 is that if Mr C has a claim for misrepresentation or breach of 
contract against the supplier of the phone, he can also bring a like claim against VM 
provided certain conditions are met. 
The CRA 2015 says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that the 
quality of the goods is satisfactory. And if they are not then this is a breach of contract.
It follows that If I find that the phone was not of satisfactory quality, this would be a breach of 
contract which I could hold VM responsible for, on a fair and reasonable basis.
Mr C suggests the phone was not of satisfactory quality. VM suggests that it was. So the 
parties are miles apart about this fundamental point. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of 
the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
The difficulty for Mr C is that the phone is missing. Therefore it is not available to be 
examined. The information that I do have about the faults that were found before the phone 
went missing, do not provide sufficient information about whether most likely those faults 
were there at the time the phone was supplied. It other words there is nothing to show that the phone was not of satisfactory quality when supplied. Therefore I cannot make a finding 
that there has been a breach of contract. Therefore Mr Cs complaint falls at this first hurdle 
and Ive no proper basis for asking VM to do anything further.
For completeness, Ill also look at the return of the phone and at the warranty point. 
Mr Cs rights against VM are limited, if Mr C has a claim for misrepresentation or breach of 
contract against the supplier of the phone, he can also bring a like claim against VM, as I 
mentioned before.  
Mr C decided to send the phone back to VM, that was his choice to make. But the fact that 
the phone then got lost in the post and cannot be traced (Mr C has no proof of postage, 
neither did he choose to send the phone using a method that would have allowed him to 
track the phone), is neither a misrepresentation nor a breach of contract. Neither would Mr C 
have any claim for this against the supplier. So I cant hold VM responsible for this. If VM 
had agreed to be responsible for the return of the phone and the phone could be shown to 
have gone missing once VM received it, then I might have looked at matters differently. But 
that is not what happened here. 
Moreover, that fact that Mr C unilaterally decided by returning the phone he no longer had 
responsibility for it, does not mean VM becomes responsible instead and must write off his 
debt. That was not what was agreed by both parties, and I have no fair or reasonable basis 
to say VM must accept Mr Cs decision.
For the purposes of this complaint, VM is only responsible for misrepresentation and 
breaches of contract in relation to the contract of sale which was financed by credit provided 
by it. Ive not seen the warranty, but I dont need to do so, it is an ancillary contract. That 
means it a contract that was not funded by the credit supplied by VM, therefore Ive no 
power to hold VM to account for any breaches of that warranty. And to be clear I am making 
no finding about whether the warranty was breached or not, in any event. 
For all of these reasons, I find I have no proper basis to require VM to do anything further in 
relation to this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman