DRN-3447098
The complaint
Mr R complains about the suitability of the advice provided by Acumen Independent 
Financial Planning Limited (Acumen) in January 2018 to transfer the value of his 
safeguarded benefits in the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension 
plan (PPP).
What happened
The events leading up to this complaint were set out in detail by our investigator in her
assessment which she provided to both Mr R and Acumen. I dont intend to repeat here what 
our investigator stated but will instead provide a summary.
In March 2016, Mr Rs former employer, Tata Steel UK Ltd (Tata Steel), announced that it 
would be examining options to restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS from 
the company. The BSPS was a defined benefits (DB) pension scheme that provided a 
guaranteed lifetime income to members. The consultation with members referred to possible 
outcomes regarding their safeguarded benefits, one of which was a transfer to the Pension 
Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund designed to provide compensation to 
members of DB pension schemes when their employer becomes insolvent. Tata Steel 
closed the BSPS to further benefit accrual from 31 March 2017.
In May 2017, the PPF announced that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement 
had been agreed  this was approved by The Pensions Regulator in August 2017. Under the 
announced plans, Tata Steel agreed to set up and sponsor a new DB pension scheme, the 
BSPS2, subject to certain conditions relating to funding and size being satisfied.
In October 2017, these changes were communicated to BSPS members, including Mr R, 
under the Time to Choose exercise. This explained that BSPS members had three options 
regarding their safeguarded benefits:
1. Transfer to the PPF;
2. Transfer to the BSPS2; or
3. Transfer to an alternative pension plan such as a PPP.
Members had to decide which option they wanted by 22 December 2017  those that didnt 
choose an option remained in the BSPS and were ultimately transferred to the PPF. The 
details of Mr Rs safeguarded benefits in the BSPS at that time were as follows:
He had accrued 16 years and 6 months qualifying service between September 2000 
and March 2017;
The scheme pension provided was based on his final salary, pensionable service 
and benefit accrual rate  as at the date of leaving the scheme in March 2017, his 
annual scheme pension was £8,573.90. The scheme pension comprised several 
elements, each part of which would be revalued by a prescribed amount over the 
term to the scheme normal retirement age of 65 and, once in payment, would 
escalate annually by a prescribed amount. The projected revalued pension payable 
at age 65 was £17,896.61;
The revaluation and escalation rates were guaranteed in line with the BSPS rules;
Payment of benefits before 65 would be subject to an early retirement reduction on a 
sliding scale  in simple terms, the earlier benefits were taken, the greater the 
reduction applied to the scheme pension. Broadly, this meant a 30% reduction would 
apply to the scheme pension if benefits were taken at 55 and a 18% reduction at 60;
The cash equivalent transfer value of his safeguarded benefits was £226,574.65. 
Mr R was concerned about what the announcement by Tata Steel meant for the security of 
his safeguarded benefits in the BSPS and wanted some financial advice. A different 
business advised him to transfer the value of his safeguarded benefits out of the BSPS. But 
that transaction was put on hold. This led to Mr R contacting Acumen. He met one of its 
advisers in January 2018. A fact find document and attitude to risk questionnaire were 
completed which recorded the following information about Mr R and his family:
He was aged 34, in good health, married and had one financially dependent child 
aged 8;
He was employed and was paid gross annual income of £43,500. He had been a 
member of his employers defined contribution (DC) pension scheme since                 
June 2017. The total annual contribution in his DC plan was 16.6% of his income. He 
expected to receive a full State pension (at age 68);
His wife was employed as a nurse and had been a member of the NHS Pension 
Scheme for about 13 years;
Their assets comprised the marital home valued at £210,000 and about £3,000 in 
cash savings. He and his wife expected to receive total inheritances of about 
£100,000 at some point in the future;
Their liabilities comprised a mortgage of £138,000 on the marital home which was 
due to be repaid in 22 years time and a car loan of about £5,000;
Their monthly outgoings were £1,200. He and his wife had surplus monthly income of 
around £1,000;
He was an inexperienced investor. His risk profile was determined to be 6 on a scale 
of 1 to 10, where 1 was lowest risk and 10 highest risk. The rating of 6 was described 
as High Medium risk. His capacity for loss was recorded as Small;
Acumen recorded that Mr R had several objectives attached to his safeguarded benefits in 
the BSPS, summarised as follows:
Making a decision regarding what to do with his safeguarded benefits;
To retire at age 60 and be in receipt of a net monthly income of about £1,500 
although this may change in the future; and
To provide some form of legacy from his pension fund for his family.In January 2018, Acumen issued its suitability report recommending that Mr R transfer the 
value of his safeguarded benefits in the BSPS to a PPP and invest it in different proportions 
in three of the providers funds to align with his High Medium risk profile. It confirmed the 
reasons why it recommended a transfer to a PPP in favour of the PPF and BSPS2 options 
for the following reasons:
While invested your fund will benefit from tax advantaged growth.
Benefits can be taken at any time from age 55.
25% of the uncrystallised pension fund can be taken as a Pension Commencement 
Lump Sum (tax free cash) payment.
You have a broad range of investment opportunities offering enhanced flexibility.
You will benefit from much greater freedom and flexibility regards accessing your 
pension benefits.
Lump sum death benefits are better than can be provided from the 2 options put 
forward by British Steel.
There will be no death benefit charge on an uncrystallised pension fund if death is 
before age 75 and the value of pension benefits is within the lifetime allowance.
Your desired level of retirement income is sustainable beyond your life expectancy 
because of the combined value of your various sources of income in retirement. 
Namely, the new Personal Pension, the employers group personal pension scheme 
with [Mr Rs employer] and your State Pension.
Mr R accepted the recommendation. The pension transfer was completed in April 2018. The 
costs associated with the recommendation were set out in Acumens suitability report. These 
charges were to be deducted from Mr Rs PPP, summarised as follows:
Initial charges
£4,531.49 (or 2%)  initial adviser charge payable to Acumen
Ongoing annual charges based on PPP fund value
0.50% adviser charge  to provide ongoing advice payable to Acumen 
0.35% product charge  payable to the PPP provider
0.65% fund charge  payable to the PPP provider
This complaint
In 2021, Mr R was contacted by the FCA regarding his pension transfer out of the BSPS. 
The FCA stated it was concerned that many former members of the BSPS had received 
unsuitable advice to transfer out and could be entitled to compensation. It encouraged Mr R 
to complain if he had any concerns. After receiving that letter from the FCA, Mr R 
complained to Acumen about the suitability of the pension transfer advice it had provided to 
him.
Acumen didnt uphold this complaint. In summary, it stated that it had complied with and 
considered the FCAs rules and guidance including making Mr R aware of the risks 
associated with the transaction. It was satisfied that the transfer was in his best interests 
taking into account his objectives and wider financial situation, including other sources of 
income and capital in retirement. Notwithstanding this point, it believed Mr R wouldve transferred anyway regardless of its advice because he had already started the process of 
transferring out before he met its adviser in January 2018.
One of our investigators considered this complaint and recommended that it be upheld. This 
was because she thought that Acumens recommendation to transfer wasnt in Mr Rs best 
interests and was therefore unsuitable. To put things right, our investigator recommended 
that Acumen carry out a redress calculation in line with the FCAs Finalised Guidance 17/9: 
Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers on the 
basis that Mr R opted for the BSPS2 and would be a 20% income taxpayer in retirement. In 
addition, she recommended that Acumen pay Mr R £300 compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused by its unsuitable recommendation.
Mr R accepted our investigators assessment and recommended remedy. Acumen didnt 
accept the outcome. It didnt provide any additional comments or evidence but simply 
requested that the matter be referred to an ombudsman for review.
While waiting for this complaint to be allocated to an ombudsman, our investigator contacted
the parties in connection with the FCAs consultation launched on 2 August 2022 regarding
new pension transfer redress guidance. The investigator asked Mr R to confirm that in the 
event this complaint is ultimately upheld, whether he preferred redress to be calculated on 
the current methodology or the updated guidance expected to be implemented in early 2023. 
The investigator told Mr R that if we didnt receive an answer that wed assume he would 
prefer redress on the current methodology set out in Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for 
firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. As at the date of this 
final decision, Mr R didnt confirm which option he preferred. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, and in accordance with the Financial Services
and Markets Act 2000 and the Dispute Resolution section in the FCAs handbook, I need to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards,
and codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time.
Id like to clarify that the purpose of this final decision isnt to repeat or address every single
point raised by Mr R and Acumen. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because 
I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
The FCAs suitability rules and guidance
Acumen was authorised and regulated by the FCA at the time it provided its 
recommendation to Mr R. This meant that when it advised him it was required to follow the 
rules and consider the guidance in the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) section in 
the FCAs Handbook. In assessing the suitability of Acumens recommendation, its 
necessary for me to have due regard to these rules and guidance.
Primarily, Acumen was required under COBS 2.1.1R to act honestly, fairly and 
professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client in its dealings with Mr R. The 
suitability rules and guidance that applied when Acumen provided its recommendation to            
Mr R were set out in COBS 9. The purpose of the rules and guidance are to ensure that 
businesses take reasonable steps to provide advice that is suitable for their clients needs 
and to ensure theyre not inappropriately exposed to a level of risk beyond their investment objectives and risk profile. To ensure that this is the case, and in line with the requirements 
in COBS 9.2.2R, the business must gather the necessary information for it to be confident its
advice is suitable. Broadly speaking, this section of COBS 9 sets out the requirement for a
regulated advisory business to undertake a fact find process.
There were also specific requirements and guidance relating to pension transfers involving
safeguarded benefits, as was applicable to Mr Rs case  these were contained in                    
COBS 19.
COBS 19.1.2R required the following:
A firm must:
(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a
defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits
with the benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder pension
scheme or other pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises a retail client
to transfer out of a defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with
safeguarded benefits;
(2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able
to make an informed decision;
(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the
factors that do and do not support the firms advice, in good time, and in any case no
later than when the key features document is provided; and
(4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison
and its advice.
Under the heading Suitability, COBS 19.1.6G set out the following:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined
benefits occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits
whether to transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a
transfer, conversion or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a
transfer, conversion or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on
contemporary evidence, that the transfer, conversion or opt-out is in the clients
best interests. [my emphasis added]
COBS 19.1.7G also stated:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, pension conversion or
pension opt-out, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, where
relevant, in relation to the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved
to replicate the benefits being given up.
And COBS 19.1.8G stated that:
When a firm prepares a suitability report it should include:
(1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal
recommendation;
(2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and(3) a summary of any other material information.
Businesses are required to follow these rules and consider the guidance because the FCA 
considers safeguarded benefits to be valuable. Based on the above regulatory rules and 
guidance, businesses advising on pension transfers should start by assuming that the 
existing DB pension scheme is suitable and to only recommend a transfer, which converts 
safeguarded benefits into flexible benefits, if it can clearly demonstrate its in their clients 
best interests.
Mr Rs situation
The situation for Mr R wasnt normal because the existing DB pension scheme, the BSPS, 
was closing. So he was essentially forced to transfer the value of his safeguarded benefits to 
a new scheme. He had three options:
1. Transfer to the PPF;
2. Transfer to the BSPS2; or
3. Transfer to an alternative pension plan such as a PPP.
Its undeniable that it was a period of great uncertainty for individuals such as Mr R. Many of 
these individuals were in a vulnerable position due to the uncertainty surrounding the future 
of the BSPS. I think the uncertainty only served to emphasise the need at that time for a 
balanced assessment of the options available and ultimately the provision of suitable advice. 
Its my view that any concerns Mr R had about the security of his safeguarded benefits 
shouldve been addressed and appropriately managed by the professional party in the 
transaction, Acumen.
Options 1 and 2 wouldve enabled Mr R to retain guaranteed pension income, albeit at a 
lower level than provided by the BSPS. There were differences between the PPF and the 
BSPS2. For deferred members below the scheme normal retirement age, like Mr R, the PPF 
would provide compensation based on 90% of their accrued pension at the scheme normal 
retirement age (in effect a 10% reduction in benefits). The BSPS2 didnt apply such a
reduction. The BSPS2 also provided the potential for discretionary increases to the accrued
pension, a higher level of spouses pension and the option to transfer to an alternative
pension to convert to flexible benefits at a later date when needs could be determined with
greater accuracy than at 34  the PPF didnt offer these additional features.
So while the situation was somewhat unusual, Mr R still had the option to retain guaranteed 
benefits in either the PPF or BSPS2. Due to his age and circumstances, its my view Mr R
wouldve been better off choosing the BSPS2 instead of the PPF based on what was known 
at that time. Given the FCAs view on safeguarded benefits, its my fair and reasonable 
opinion that Acumen shouldve started its advice process by assuming the BSPS2 was 
suitable for Mr R and to only recommend a transfer to the PPP if it could clearly demonstrate 
it was in his best interests.
Acumens advice to Mr R
In responding to this complaint, Acumen stated it had made Mr R aware of the risks 
associated with the pension transfer and made clear that, in its view, the critical yield figure 
(of 6.2%) was unlikely to be achieved meaning, from an economic point of view, hed be 
worse off. But it nevertheless advised Mr R to transfer to achieve his objectives for flexibility 
and to leave a legacy for his family on death. Notwithstanding this point, it believed Mr R 
wouldve transferred anyway regardless of its advice because he had already started the process of transferring out before he met its adviser in January 2018 and so it was always 
his intention to transfer.
I recognise that there wasnt a perfect solution for Mr R. And that his safeguarded benefits
was ultimately his money to do with as he saw fit. However, he was relying on Acumen to 
provide expert, balanced information and advice, taking into account all the information
available to it at that time  so that he could then make an informed decision. I understand 
that there will be instances where a client seeks financial advice with preconceived notions
or concerns about the financial health of an employer or DB pension scheme but, as the
professional party, Acumen was tasked with rationally addressing those concerns and
providing an appropriately balanced view of the available options. 
In my view, disclosure of risks isnt the same as suitability. In other words, just because 
Acumen told Mr R that the critical yield was unlikely to be achieved doesnt absolve it from 
any responsibility for the suitability of the transaction. In my view, financial planning isnt 
simply about wish fulfilment and facilitating whatever course of action a client wishes to take. 
If an advising business considers a course of action to be unsuitable for their client, or 
otherwise not in their best interests, it has a choice not to facilitate the transaction.
Transfer value analysis 
One of the key components in determining the suitability of a pension transfer is assessing 
the financial viability of the proposed transaction. The transfer value analysis system 
(TVAS) rules applied at the time Acumen advised Mr R. This required it to carry out a 
transfer value analysis to calculate the critical yield applicable to the proposed transfer. The 
critical yield is the annual rate of investment return required on the invested transfer value, 
after charges, to match the capitalised value of the benefits offered by the DB pension 
scheme on the assumption that the value of the alternative pension is used to secure a 
lifetime annuity at the scheme normal retirement age  the higher the critical yield, the less 
likely that the alternative pension will achieve sufficient investment growth to match the 
revalued pension payable by the DB pension scheme.
Acumen calculated the following critical yield figures:
Scheme Critical yield at age 
65 based on taking 
full scheme pensionEstimated revalued 
annual scheme pension 
at 65
BSPS 6.2% £17,896.61
PPF 4.7% £14,256.94
The critical yield figures for the BSPS2 werent calculated. But it was known at the time 
Acumen advised Mr R that the BSPS2 would pay a higher level of benefits than the PPF but 
lower than the BSPS, so the critical yield figure and estimated annual pension for the BSPS2 
at age 65 likely fell somewhere in between the figures above.
Acumens recommendation to Mr R was provided to him after the FCA gave instructions in 
its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable
DB pension transfers as to how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss
assessments where a complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to
October 2017 similar rates were published on our website. While businesses weren't
required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they
provide a useful indication of what growth rates wouldve been considered reasonably
achievable when the advice was given in this case. The closest discount rate which I'm able
to refer to and published by this service for the period before October 2017 is 4.6% based onMr R taking benefits at the BSPS normal retirement age of 65. Furthermore, the FCA's 
projection rate for pensions at the time was 8% per year for the upper rate, 5% per year for 
the middle rate and 2% per year for the lower rate. 
In my view, the discount rate and FCA projection rates implied that Mr R would need to 
accept a high-risk investment approach to provide the potential for the sort of investment 
returns required over the investment timeframe to age 65 to exceed the critical yield of 6.2%. 
But that would only come with accepting the risk of significant investment loss. This is 
because the relationship between risk and reward is closely related. 
I note that Mr R was recorded as having a High Medium risk profile. The evidence Ive seen 
indicates that he had very limited investment knowledge and experience before this pension 
transfer. At the time of Acumens advice, he had £3,000 in cash savings and was a member 
of his then employers DC pension scheme. Theres no evidence that Mr R had experience 
of investing significant sums of money. Given the critical yields applicable in this case, I think 
that there was limited scope for the PPP to provide benefits that matched the relinquished 
benefits, let alone exceed them. And it seems that Acumen agrees because in its suitability 
report, when expressing its view on the critical yields, it stated, The critical yields are 
unlikely to be achievable and therefore if the assumptions are correct you may receive a 
lesser amount by transferring and From an investment perspective the transfer is likely not 
feasible.
Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving pension transfer advice,
as was set out in COBS 19.1.7B (G). A reasonable prospect of the critical yield being met or
exceeded wouldnt necessarily mean that the transfer was suitable, and conversely, there
might be other considerations which mean a pension transfer is suitable, despite providing
overall lower benefits. Ill now go on to consider this.
Flexibility of pension benefits
It was recorded that Mr R wanted to retire at age 60 and receive net monthly income of 
about £1,500. It seems that this was to remain fixed and not increase to keep pace with or 
limit the impact of inflation.
In its suitability report, Acumen recorded that it recommended the pension transfer to a PPP 
to enable Mr R to flexibly access his safeguarded benefits. I think its clear that Mr R was 
attracted to a flexible arrangement. But Im not convinced, based on the evidence provided, 
that he had a genuine need to access his safeguarded benefits flexibly with varying levels of 
income and lump sums during retirement. The evidence indicates that when he retired that 
hed likely require a steady, secure income stream for the rest of his life.
Mr R was 34 at the time and so about 26 years away from his preferred retirement age of 60. 
While I dont doubt he wouldve liked the flexibility to draw any level of benefit he wanted, 
plans can change over such a long period of time. An important point here is the fact that              
Mr R couldnt access the money until age 55 at the earliest. So I dont think there was any 
need to transfer his safeguarded benefits at that time, especially given the high critical yield 
attached to the transaction.
Acumen portrayed the PPP option in the suitability report as allowing for early retirement at 
age 60 without the penalties which would be applied to the PPF or BSPS2 options. The 
reality was of course that the PPP wouldve had less time to grow if accessed at 60 and any 
resulting income would need to last longer. I cannot see that this was explained to Mr R so 
that he could understand accessing any of the available options at age 60 would likely lead 
to reduced retirement income during his lifetime compared to taking benefits at age 65.I think it wouldve been very difficult at age 34 to determine with any reasonable degree of 
certainty whether Mr R would be able to retire at age 60. But if I assume it was a realistic 
objective, its my view that he couldve achieved this by opting for the BSPS2 and drawing 
the scheme pension at 65 without penalty. Ill explain why.
I note that Mr R had been an active member of his employers DC pension scheme since 
June 2017. He and his employer were, in total, contributing 16.6% of his gross annual salary 
of £43,500 into his DC pension plan, which was about £7,000 in monetary terms. This would 
increase in line with increases in his salary. In the event Mr R left that employment, I think 
its likely that hed find alternative employment and, with the legal requirements of auto-
enrolment, would join a different DC pension scheme and pay a minimum of 8% of his 
earnings into it. So I think its fair to say that over the 26-year period to age 60, its likely that 
Mr R would build up significant DC pension savings.
So if Mr R did have a genuine need for flexible benefits from age 60, this couldve been met 
in the first instance by using his significant DC pension savings. This course of action 
wouldve likely enabled Mr R to achieve his income and lump sum needs for the five-year 
period from age 60 until he could take unreduced benefits from the BSPS2 at 65. As noted 
above, the estimated revalued annual pension that wouldve been provided by the BSPS2 at 
age 65 was likely to be somewhere between £14,256.94 and £17,896.61. This would then 
be followed by the full state pension at 68. So, from 65 onwards, the majority of Mr Rs core 
retirement income needs couldve been met by guaranteed and escalating pensions which 
wouldve offered some inflation protection unlike the recommended PPP. And if it turned out 
the DC pension savings didnt provide adequate income for the full five-year period between 
60 and 65, Mr R couldve taken his benefits from BSPS2 at some point in between, meaning 
the early retirement factor wouldnt be as great as at age 60. Alternatively, he couldve 
considered a transfer to a PPP at that time when his retirement income and lump sum needs 
could be determined with far greater accuracy than at 34.
Transferring to the PPP led to the investment, inflation and longevity risks associated with 
providing the retirement benefits moving from the DB pension scheme to Mr R. But I dont 
think he needed to take on these risks at that time for the reasons explained above.
The course of action recommended by Acumen led to Mr R concentrating the majority of his 
retirement benefits on a DC basis which offered no guarantees but was based entirely on 
investment performance. The alternative, blended approach Ive suggested likely wouldve 
enabled Mr R to achieve the same objective but with significantly less risk. I havent seen 
evidence that Acumen adequately considered and discounted this alternative course of 
action in meeting Mr Rs early retirement and income objective. Acumen have made 
reference to Mrs Rs NHS pension scheme income and the expectation that they would 
receive around £100,000 in inheritance upon which they could rely. But I dont think Mr Rs 
access to his wifes scheme pension income or future inheritances made it suitable for him to 
relinquish the guarantees attached to his own safeguarded benefits.
The available evidence simply doesnt support the position as to why flexibility wouldve 
been a sufficiently compelling reason for Mr R to relinquish valuable benefit guarantees at 
that time. 
In conclusion, while I understand Mr Rs reasons and motivations for flexible benefits, I dont 
think Acumen clearly demonstrated why it was in his best interests to relinquish his 
safeguarded benefits at that time to achieve future flexibility. I simply dont agree the 
perceived advantage of flexibility and control of income outweighed the guaranteed benefits 
offered by the BSPS2. Death benefits 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked most people would like
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die.
The recommended PPP offered flexible death benefits. Based on the applicable tax rules, if 
death occurred under 75 the benefits are paid free of income tax  after 75 the benefits are 
taxed at the beneficiarys marginal rate of income tax. Its fair to say that immediately 
following the transfer to the PPP and for the period until Mr R could draw any benefits from 
55 onwards, the death benefits available would be significant (subject to investment 
performance) due to the simple fact he couldnt access and deplete the fund value for at 
least 21 years.
But Mr R was recorded as being in good health. So he could expect life expectancy into his 
late 70s or early 80s. There werent any immediate health concerns that indicated a pension 
transfer was a suitable course of action at that time.
The value of Mr Rs safeguarded benefits would represent a significant proportion of his 
retirement provision by the time he came to retire. Withdrawing money from the PPP to meet 
his income and lump sum needs from age 60 would likely mean that the size of the fund 
remaining in later years  when death is more likely  could be much smaller than expected.
The BSPS2 provided valuable guarantees. Mr Rs wife wouldve received a guaranteed 
spouses pension for life which would increase in payment and wouldve been valuable if        
Mr R predeceased her as well as a dependants pension for their child.
If it was a genuine objective for Mr R to provide a lump sum on his death then life cover 
couldve achieved the same objective of providing a lump sum to his wife while enabling him 
to maintain safeguarded benefits in the BSPS2. Pure life cover for a defined term is 
generally cheap and some cover may have been affordable for Mr R given he was 34, a 
non-smoker, in good health and had surplus monthly income of about £1,000. However, I 
cannot see evidence that Acumen adequately investigated the life cover option. For 
example, I havent seen evidence that it quantified Mr Rs death lump sum need, over what 
term, how this might change over time, how it might be met by other means or present 
personalised life cover quotes to enable him to make an informed decision.
Its my view that Mr R had no health issues at the time Acumen advised him which might 
reasonably have prompted him to relinquish the guarantees attached to his own retirement 
income for the sake of an enhanced safety net for his family. So Im not convinced there was 
any real merit in Mr R transferring to a PPP at that time to provide a lump sum death benefit. 
Theres no real evidence that a death lump sum was required for Mr Rs wife rather than 
guaranteed income for life.
Mr Rs concerns about the security of his safeguarded benefits
Given the level of uncertainty surrounding the BSPS at the time, I can understand that Mr R 
may have been concerned about the financial security of his safeguarded benefits. But, 
whatever happened, the majority of his benefits were secure. 
The PPF was introduced by the government in 2005 as a lifeboat scheme to protect
members of DB pension schemes with the promise of providing a minimum level of benefits.
The revaluation and escalation rates are set by law. Depending on his age on transfer to the
PPF, Mr R could expect to receive a minimum of 90% of his scheme pension, although this
would be affected by the revaluation and escalation rates under the PPF. This contrasted
with the recommended PPP where theres no promise of a minimum level of benefitspayable.
In its 2016/17 annual report, publicly available at the time of Acumens recommendation, the 
PPF stated that its overall financial position as of 31 March 2017 remained robust, with an 
increase in its surplus funds to £6.1bn. There wasnt any reason at that time to question the 
financial viability of the PPF to provide benefits in the future.
Had Acumen advised Mr R to transfer to the BSPS2 he wouldve maintained safeguarded
benefits and retained the option to transfer to a PPP at a later date, if then deemed suitable,
when he could immediately access benefits and, crucially, determine his retirement income
and lump sum needs with far greater accuracy than at 34. I think this is a key point.
A transfer to the BSPS2 wouldve also removed any immediate concerns Mr R had about the 
PPF. After all, the whole reason the BSPS2 was conceived was to provide a new long-term 
DB pension scheme for former members of the BSPS. And if it was the case, in the future, 
that the BSPS2 was at risk of being transferred to the PPF, then I think it likely that, similarly 
to the BSPS, members would be given the opportunity to transfer out to a PPP before any 
transfer to the PPF occurred. So I dont think that there was any immediate concern about 
options disappearing for Mr R or that there was an urgency to transfer to a PPP at that time 
to avoid a transfer to the PPF. In my view, Mr R was reliant on Acumen to provide a fair and 
balanced assessment of the BSPS2 and PPF and to act in his best interests in this regard. 
This ought to have involved discussing with Mr R the features, risks and benefits of those 
alternative options and allaying his misapprehensions. 
If Mr R was concerned about his safeguarded benefits being transferred to the PPF which 
would result in him losing 10% of his scheme pension, then I question why he would accept 
the risk of transferring to a PPP which exposed him to unlimited downside risks where the 
loss could be significantly greater than 10%. This simply doesnt make sense to me and 
suggests that he didnt have the knowledge and experience to understand the features, risks 
and benefits of the PPF compared to the pension transfer. He was relying on Acumen to 
provide expert advice on this point, but I think it failed to do this. Its therefore my view that 
Acumen failed to adequately allay Mr Rs misapprehensions and that he therefore made the 
decision to transfer from an uninformed position regarding the BSPS2 and PPF.
If properly informed, would Mr R have transferred anyway?
Based on the evidence Ive seen, Im not persuaded that a pension transfer was in Mr Rs
best interests and that Acumens recommendation could therefore be regarded as suitable
in the circumstances. So I think its fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint.
In potential mitigation of Acumens advice, Ive also thought about whether Mr R, if placed
in a fully informed position, would nevertheless have decided to transfer the value of his
safeguarded benefits to a PPP. This was a complex transaction involving many factors 
which Mr R, as a layperson, wouldnt have been familiar. Its my view, given his lack of 
investment knowledge and experience, that he was heavily reliant on Acumen, as the 
professional party in the transaction, to take those factors into account and provide suitable, 
balanced advice. Given Mr Rs reliance on Acumen to provide expert advice, I think its 
unlikely, on balance, he wouldve transferred against its advice had it advised him to opt for 
the BSPS2.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Acumen to put Mr R, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice he was given. My view is
aligned with that of our investigator in that, had Mr R been properly advised, he wouldveopted for the BSPS2 rather than the PPF. Ill explain why.
There were differences between the BSPS2 and PPF. These differences meant that the PPF 
was likely the better option for unmarried, deferred members who expected to retire early or 
take the maximum tax-free cash available even allowing for the 10% reduction in the starting 
entitlement. But the BSPS2 was likely the better option for married pensioners and deferred 
members who expected to draw benefits at or close to the scheme normal retirement age of 
65. For the reasons set out above, I think its likely that, properly advised, Mr R wouldve 
envisaged accessing his DC pension savings in the first instance between age 60 and 65 to 
meet any flexible income and lump sum needs before starting to take his safeguarded 
benefits at 65. In terms of death benefits, under the BPSP2 the spouses pension would be 
set at 50% of her pension at the date of death, and this would be calculated as if no tax-free 
cash was taken at retirement. And so its the benefits offered by the BSPS2 which should be 
used for comparison purposes.
As such, the calculation on the basis of entering the BSPS2 should be carried out using the
most recent financial assumptions at the date of the actual calculation. This should be on the
basis Mr R takes benefits at the scheme normal retirement age of 65.
FCA consultation 
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB pension transfer redress 
guidance and set out its proposals in a consultation document  CP22/15-calculating redress 
for non-compliant pension transfer advice. 
In this consultation, the FCA stated that it considers the current redress methodology in
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 remains appropriate and fundamental changes arent
necessary. However, its review identified some areas where it considers it could improve or
clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress.
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance  https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come 
into effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has stated that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 while the consultation takes place.
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into
force after the consultation has concluded.
Weve previously asked Mr R whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the any new guidance and rules to be published. He didnt 
make a choice. So, as set out previously, Ive assumed in this case he doesnt want to wait 
for any new guidance. Im satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate 
and, if a loss is identified, will provide fair redress for Mr R.
Acumen must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the FCAs pension
review guidance as updated by it in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how
to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. This calculation should be carried
out as at the date of this final decision and using the most recent financial assumptions at
the date of this final decision. In accordance with the FCAs expectations, this should be
undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification
of Mr Rs acceptance of this final decision.
Acumen may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtainMr Rs contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). 
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the BSPS on Mr Rs SERPS/S2P entitlement. 
Im aware that Mr R has since transferred to a new pension plan on the advice of a different 
adviser. Mr R will need to give Acumen appropriate authority so that it can obtain details of 
his new pension plan to enable it to carry out a redress calculation. If the redress calculation 
demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid into Mr Rs new pension 
plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The 
compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension plan isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, 
it should be paid directly to Mr R as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow 
for income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss couldve 
been taken as tax-free cash and 75% wouldve been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%, as previously stated by our investigator. So making 
a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
If this complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance
or rules come into effect, Id expect Acumen to carry out a calculation in line with the
updated rules and/or guidance in any event.
In addition, Acumen should pay Mr R £300 for the distress and inconvenience this matter
has caused him.
The compensation amount must, where possible, be paid to Mr R within 90 days of the date
Acumen receives notification of his acceptance of this final decision. Further interest must
be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of this
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes
Acumen to pay Mr R.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. Where I uphold
a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs
that I consider are appropriate.
Where I consider that fair compensation requires payment of an amount that might exceed
£160,000, I may recommend that the business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Acumen Independent 
Financial Planning Limited to pay Mr R the compensation amount as set out in the steps 
above, up to a maximum of £160,000. Where the compensation amount doesnt exceed 
£160,000, I would additionally require Acumen Independent Financial Planning Limited to 
pay Mr R any interest on that amount in full, as set out above. Where the compensation 
amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Acumen Independent Financial 
Planning Limited to pay Mr R any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Acumen Independent Financial Planning Limited pays Mr R the balance. I would additionally 
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr R. If    Mr R accepts this final decision, the money award becomes binding on Acumen Independent 
Financial Planning Limited. My recommendation wouldnt be binding. Further, its unlikely 
that Mr R can accept this final decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr R may 
want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this 
final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject this final decision before 26 January 2023. 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman