DRN-2131245
The complaint
Miss C complains about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) handled and settled 
a claim she made under her home insurance policy for storm damage. 
Miss C is represented by her insurance broker in bringing this complaint. But for clarity Ill 
refer to all submissions as being made by Miss C directly.
What happened
Miss C held a household insurance policy, which is underwritten by RSA. On 17 July 2019 
she contacted it to make a claim under her policy for storm damage as shed noticed 
damage to the left hand side of her gable end roof on around 28 June 2019. 
Miss C said that storms in February 2019 had caused the structure of her roof to weaken 
and she said high winds at around the end of June 2019 had caused deterioration of the 
mortar. Miss C said this damage hadnt been present when shed had her roof inspected in 
March 2019 by a company that Ill call F here. She also said the recent removal of trees 
from her neighbours garden had made her roof more vulnerable to high winds.
RSA appointed a buildings surveyor, which Ill refer to as B here, to attend Miss Cs 
property and assist it in dealing with the claim. B had previously visited Miss Cs property in 
February 2019 to determine the cause of damage to the right hand side of her roof following 
a claim for storm damage at around that time.
When B subsequently attended Miss Cs property to inspect her roof, it stated that it hadnt 
seen any damage to the main roof. But it observed the mortar was deteriorating and 
crumbling on the left hand side of the roof. It stated this could be seen all the way up the roof 
and in some sections the material had come away bringing the under cloaking with it. 
B thought the damage it had seen had been caused by a gradual breakdown and 
deterioration in the mortar. It didnt believe there was any evidence of storm damage. 
Instead, it felt the recent weather conditions had merely highlighted the pre-existing defects 
with the roof. 
Based on Bs opinion, RSA declined Miss Cs claim. It said it was satisfied the damage shed 
reported had been caused by age related wear and tear, which was excluded by her policy. 
It also stated there was no evidence of storm conditions at around the time the damage 
occurred.  
Miss C wasnt happy with how RSA proposed to resolve her claim. She said her property 
was well maintained and shed replaced the soffits, facias and gutters in 2011 when repairs 
to the flat roof were undertaken. She thought this supported her claim that a storm had 
caused the damage to her roof. And she felt B had shown bias as the same surveyor that 
had assessed the condition of her roof in February 2019 had inspected her roof on this 
occasion. 
In view of Miss Cs concerns, she complained to RSA. She provided it with a report from F 
which stated it had re-inspected her roof and noted damage to the verge on the front roof 
elevation. It also said the mortar was missing and cracked to the full length of the barge 
board area and the verge strip was missing and dislodged.
RSA investigated Miss Cs concerns and agreed to appoint a different surveyor from B to 
visit her property to inspect her roof and provide a second opinion on the cause of damage. 
Following their visit, they informed Miss C and RSA that they agreed with the previous 
surveyors opinion and didnt believe the damage had been caused by a one-off storm event. 
So, RSA maintained its decision to repudiate Miss Cs claim.  
When Miss C referred it to our service our investigator didnt recommend upholding this 
complaint. They werent persuaded the damage caused was consistent with a one-off 
identifiable storm event. And they thought it was, most likely, due to wear and tear. Overall, 
they thought RSA had acted fairly in declining Miss Cs claim. But she disagreed and asked 
for her complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. Ive read and considered all the 
information provided by Miss C and RSA but Ill concentrate my decision on what I think is 
relevant to decide the complaint. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive 
failed to take it on board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it 
in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Miss C has told our investigator about how RSA settled her claim for storm damage to the 
right hand side of her roof. Ive taken her comments on board. But there is no evidence that 
suggests the weather Miss C experienced in February 2019 caused or contributed to the 
damage she reported in July 2019. 
My role is to assess whether I think RSA made a mistake, or treated her unfairly, in how it 
decided to resolve the claim Miss C brought for damage to the left hand side of her roof. 
And, having thought carefully about everything she and RSA have said, Im afraid to say that 
I dont think it did. I appreciate Miss C will be disappointed by this outcome. But I hope she 
can understand the reasons behind my decision.
Theres no dispute that damage occurred to the left hand side of Miss Cs roof. However, 
theres disagreement between her, RSA and its appointed agents about the cause of the 
damage and the correct outcome of this claim. 
Miss C would like RSA to cover the damage to the left hand side of her roof because she 
believes it was caused by adverse weather. Her policy with RSA provides cover for damage 
caused by a range of perils that might happen. These are specific one-off events and include 
storm, for example. But, for a claim to be successful, Miss C would have to show that the 
damage shes claiming for was caused by one of the perils listed in her policy.
There are three conditions that need to be met before this service would say a claim for 
storm damage should succeed. Those are:  
1. Is there evidence that there was a storm around the date of the damage?
2. Is the damage consistent with what we would normally consider storm damage?3. Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
I have re-assessed Miss Cs complaint and all the evidence with these three questions in 
mind. And I should also clarify that the answer to all three questions needs to be yes for this 
service to be able to recommend that a storm complaint is upheld.
In weighing up the first question, I can see that Miss Cs policy doesnt define the word 
storm. This isnt unusual. And in that scenario this service takes the view that a storm 
generally involves violent winds, usually accompanied by rain, hail or snow. When looking a 
wind speed, we generally consider wind speeds of 47 mph or above to be consistent with a 
storm. So, this is what Ive thought about when deciding whether there were storm 
conditions on or around the date of Miss Cs claim.
Miss C says high winds, which were prevalent at around the end of June 2019, caused the 
damage to her roof. But, having carefully checked the weather reports relevant to Miss Cs 
locality for storm conditions at around the time the damage occurred, the highest wind 
speeds recorded were 36mph. 
I dont doubt what Miss C has said about there being high winds at the time her property 
sustained damage. But the weather recorded doesnt meet the conditions of what our 
service would consider to be a storm. And this means I havent seen enough evidence to 
persuade me that storm conditions existed at around the date of the damage. 
As Ive been unable to answer question one affirmatively, I cant fairly conclude that the 
damage to Miss Cs roof was caused by a one-off identifiable storm event as her policy 
requires. And this means I cant direct RSA to pay her claim for storm damage.
B attributed the cause of the damage to Miss Cs roof to age related wear and tear. Having 
carefully considered Miss Cs policy I can see this is specifically excluded, which is in 
common with most home insurance policies. This is because insurance is intended to cover 
the unforeseen, and something wearing out or requiring maintenance isnt unforeseen. 
If an insurer wishes to decline a claim on the basis of wear and tear it has to show that this is 
how the damage happened. In this case RSA is able to rely on the opinion of two separate 
surveyors from B. These surveyors both believe the damage was caused gradually. I 
recognise that Miss C is unhappy with the opinion B provided. However, B is a recognised 
organisation that regularly assesses property damage on behalf of insurers. So, its isnt 
unreasonable for RSA to use Bs expertise in assessing a claim for roof damage. I also think 
RSA acted fairly and reasonably by appointing a second surveyor to inspect Miss Cs roof 
and provide a second opinion on the cause of damage.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied B undertook an appropriate independent 
inspection of Miss Cs roof. The photographs it took of the roof support its opinion that the 
damage reported was due to age related wear and tear. The verge tiles show no signs of 
having been displaced and its only the mortar that has cracked and fallen out of the verge. 
Mortar deterioration doesnt happen due to a one-off storm event. If its been correctly 
applied and maintained it should be weather resistant and unaffected by storm related 
weather  although it will deteriorate over time when exposed to extremes of weather. 
Ive carefully considered the content of the report Miss C obtained from F, which she 
believes supports her claim. But F doesnt say the damage to the left hand side of Miss Cs roof was caused by a one-off storm event at around the end of June 2019. And I havent 
seen anything else that contradicts Bs opinion.
Im sorry to disappoint Miss C. But, based on the evidence Ive seen, I think its most likely 
that the adverse weather that she experienced in around June 2019 exposed the underlying 
deterioration of the mortar. Im not persuaded it was the cause of it. 
I can see our investigator thought carefully about whether any damage Miss Cs roof 
sustained could be covered as accidental damage. However, for a claim to be settled under 
this clause it must be shown that there was sudden, unexpected and visible damage which 
had not been caused on purpose.
As the mortar deterioration has happened gradually, I cant fairly find the damage to Miss Cs 
roof falls within the accidental damage clause of her policy. I also cant say the damage 
should be covered by any other parts of her insurance policy.
I know Miss C will be disappointed with this decision. Shes already incurred expense in 
paying for the repairs to her roof and I know she feels very strongly about the issues raised 
in her complaint. But for the reasons outlined, Im not persuaded RSA acted unfairly in 
declining this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 November 2020.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman