DRN-3295245
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain about the decision of Arch Insurance (UK) Limited to decline their 
business interruption insurance claim, made as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic.
What happened
The following is intended merely as a summary of the events leading to this point. 
Additionally, whilst a number of parties have been involved in the correspondence, I have 
largely just referred to Mr and Mrs F and Arch, for the sake of simplicity. 
Mr and Mrs F, as a business, operate as a hotel I shall refer to as K. They held a commercial 
insurance policy ultimately underwritten, as far as is relevant, by Arch. The policy provided 
cover for a number of areas of risk, including business interruption. 
In March 2020, as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, Mr and Mrs F were forced to close K. 
They contacted Arch to claim for their loss of income. Arch declined the claim, saying that 
the policy did include an extension providing cover for business interruption caused by 
disease  but only a specified list of diseases, not including COVID-19. Arch also said that 
the Denial of Access extension in the policy did not apply to the circumstances as K had 
been closed due to government-imposed restrictions rather than by the police or a 
competent local authority, and that the cause of this closure was not an emergency in the 
vicinity of Ks premises.
Mr and Mrs F were unhappy about this, ultimately bringing their complaint to our Service. 
They said that the list of diseases in the policy included the word viral and that this should 
be either interpreted as meaning all viral diseases were covered or that the policy was 
ambiguous. And that the term vicinity was also ambiguous and that, effectively, as the 
pandemic was everywhere it was within the vicinity of Ks premises.
However, our Investigator was not persuaded that the inclusion of viral within the wording 
of the Disease extension meant that cover was provided for COVID-19. He did not think this 
term would be reasonably considered to mean the policy provide cover for all viral diseases. 
Our Investigator also largely agreed with the other reasons Arch had declined the claim. 
As Mr and Mrs F remained unsatisfied, their complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact COVID-19 restrictions have had 
on K and Mr and Mrs F. But I do not uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
I understand that Mr and Mrs F closed K in March 2020 due to the government-imposed 
restrictions. The nature of Ks business was such that it wouldnt have been allowed to fully 
remain open after this time (though there were some exemptions for the provision of hotel 
services to keyworkers, etc.). So, the type of cover theyre looking to claim under is 
business interruption insurance.
There are a range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering 
different risks. For example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, 
whilst others provide cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional 
add-ons. The starting point is to consider the specific policy Mr and Mrs F took out.
The core cover provided by the business interruption section of Mr and Mrs Fs policy, as 
well as a number of the extensions to this cover, is based on an interruption to the business 
of the insured which has been caused by damage to property. Whilst I appreciate the 
pandemic has caused substantial financial loss, I dont think COVID-19 caused damage to 
property which has led to an interruption of Ks business.
So, I dont think either the core business interruption cover, or the extensions that rely on 
there having been damage, provide cover in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Fs claim. And 
I think Arch acted fairly and reasonably in not meeting Mr and Mrs Fs claim under this area 
of cover.
Mr and Mrs Fs policy does include two extensions to the business interruption section that 
do not always require damage and that are relevant to the current complaint. These are the 
Disease extension and the Denial of Access extension. I will address each of these in turn.
Before I do so, I will note that a number of legal judgments and an arbitration award are 
relevant considerations in relation to this complaint. As well as the FCA Test Case 
(The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) v Arch Insurance (UK) Ltd & Ors [2020] EWHC 2448 
(Comm)) and other judgments, an arbitration process relating to a different insurance 
company, China Taiping Insurance (UK) Co Ltd, is significant. This arbitration process did 
not involve, and is not binding on, the parties to this complaint. However, it did involve 
consideration of the same policy wording, so is useful on certain issues. 
The policyholders in the arbitration were represented by a law firm, as well as a QC and 
junior barrister who specialised in insurance. The arbitrator was a retired Supreme Court 
Justice called Lord Mance. As the arbitrator, Lord Mance had a duty to act fairly and 
impartially, giving each party a reasonable opportunity of putting its case and dealing with 
that of its opponent. A copy of the Award is available on China Taipings website - 
https://uk.cntaiping.com/tplresource/cms/www/taiping/file/Award_ANNEXA.zip. 
The Disease extension
This extension in Mr and Mrs Fs policy provides cover losses caused by, in part:
the occurrence at the Premises:

of a notifiable, human, infectious or contagious disease excluding Acquired Immune 
Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) or an AIDS related condition

Clarification of Notifiable Human Infectious or Contagious Disease 
EndorsementIt is hereby understood and agreed that for the purposes of the cover afforded by this 
Extension, the reference to a notifiable, human, infectious or contagious disease 
contained in paragraph b shall be deemed to mean solely the following diseases:
Diseases notifiable under the Public Health (Control of Disease) Act, 1984 or 
the Public Health (Infectious Diseases) Regulations, 1988, namely:
Acute encephalitis, Acute poliomyelitis, Anthrax, Cholera, Diphtheria, Dysentery, 
Food poisoning, Leptospirosis, Malaria, Measles, Meningitis, Meningococcal, 
Pneumococcal, Haemophilus influenzae, Viral, Other specified, Unspecified, 
Meningococcal septicaemia (without meningitis), Mumps, Opthalmia neonatorum, 
Paratyphoid fever, Plague, Rabies, Relapsing fever, Rubella, Scarlet fever, Smallpox, 
Tetanus, Tuberculosis, Typhoid fever, Typhus fever, Viral haemorrhagic fever, Viral 
hepatitis, Hepatitis A, Hepatitis B, Hepatitis C, Whooping cough and Yellow fever. 
No other disease shall be added to the above list without the prior written consent of 
the Insurers.
Having considered this term, Im not persuaded this section of the policy would have 
provided Mr and Mrs F with cover for the circumstances of their claim. This is because 
COVID-19 isnt one of the diseases listed in the definition.
As Ive said above, a range of policies are available. And some provide cover for all 
notifiable diseases  a list of diseases updated by the Government. These policies might, 
depending on the circumstances, provide cover. But this is not the type of policy Mr and 
Mrs F had.
I think the purpose and effect of the policy they have is to provide cover in the event of the 
diseases listed above. There are many potential illnesses and diseases that the policy does 
not cover including, for example, SARS (another type of Coronavirus). I dont think the policy 
can or should fairly be read as covering any and all diseases that fall outside of the defined 
list set out above.
When coming to this conclusion, I am mindful of Mr and Mrs Fs comments about the 
inclusion of the word Viral, after Haemophilus influenzae and before Other specified, 
Unspecified, Meningococcal septicaemia (without meningitis). Theyve said that this word 
should be considered as an individual reference to disease  i.e. to mean that all viral 
diseases are covered. Arch on the other hand has said that the words Viral, Other specified, 
Unspecified refer to the types of meningitis covered by the policy. 
Mr and Mrs F have provided comments about the interpretation of this term from a range of 
people they have contacted, including a medical professional. However, the test a court 
would apply is what a reasonable person, who has all the background knowledge which 
would reasonably have been available to the person or class of persons to whom the 
document is addressed in the situation in which they were at the time of the contract, would 
understand the policy to mean. So, in this case, it is the reasonable knowledge of a small 
business owner such as Mr and Mrs F. The test is not what Mr and Mrs F actually knew, but 
rather what a person in similar circumstances could reasonably be expected to know.
I dont think a court would consider such a reasonable person in relation to Mr and Mrs Fs 
policy would have an understanding of the different types of meningitis. So, whilst I do agree 
with Arch that this is likely what the policy referred to, I need to consider whether a court 
would likely find that a reasonable person would have concluded this at the time Mr and 
Mrs Fs policy was taken out. And I not persuaded it would.However, it is necessary not only to consider the words in question, but also the rest of the 
contract  as this forms part of the background knowledge of the reasonable person. 
Other than the words Viral, Other specified, Unspecified, the extension itself sets out a list 
of specific diseases. The list itself is prefaced by the words shall be deemed to mean solely 
the following diseases (my emphasis). And is then followed by No other disease shall be 
added to the above list without the prior written consent of the Insurers. This indicates to me 
that a reasonable person would understand this as being an exhaustive, closed list.
Each of the diseases in the list is separated by a comma. And Mr and Mrs F have said that 
by separating Viral with the use of a comma, this means the list can reasonably be 
interpreted as including Viral as its own disease. If so, this would seemingly include all viral 
diseases, which would include COVID-19.
If this is true though, both Other specified and Unspecified would also have to be 
interpreted in the same way. This would make having a list at all redundant, as all specified 
or unspecified diseases would be covered. Taking into account that this is an exhaustive, 
closed list, I am unable to agree that this makes reasonable commercial sense nor that a 
court would likely find that the parties entering the contract could reasonably believe this. 
Whilst I appreciate that the background knowledge of a reasonable person might not extend 
to knowing the different types of meningitis, it would have been clear to a reasonable person 
that the list includes a number of viral diseases. Some of the diseases listed are specifically 
referred to in their viral form. And if the policy was intended to cover all viral diseases, 
including these separately would not have been necessary.
I do agree that the policy could have been drafted in a way that made it clearer. However, I 
do not think the policy is misleading or that a court would consider it ambiguous. 
This is supported by the comments of the policyholders own legal representatives during the 
arbitration process, who said the words Viral, Other specified, Unspecified seemed 
meaningless. The QC in this arbitration did not include any argument in the submissions that 
this wording might indicate cover for a claim relating to COVID-19. And Lord Mance did not 
find much of any assistance in this wording. Whilst this is not conclusive in relation to the 
current issue, it is supportive of what I consider a court would decide were the issue 
presented to them. 
Ultimately, I consider the policy clearly only intended to cover certain diseases. And I dont 
think it can fairly and reasonably be read in a different way. I dont think it is a correct 
interpretation of the policy wording to say that cover is provided in relation to all viral 
diseases. And as COVID-19 was neither included nor added to the list of diseases, I am 
satisfied Archs decision to decline the claim was in line with the policy, and in all the 
circumstances of this case fair and reasonable.
The Denial of Access extension
The second extension to the business interruption section of Mr and Mrs Fs policy that is 
relevant to this complaint provides cover where there is an:
interruption of or interference with the Business in consequence of
a Damage to property in the vicinity of the Premises 
b the closing down or sealing off of the Premises or property in the vicinity of the 
Premises in accordance with instructions issued by the Police or other competent local authority for reasons other than the conduct of the Insured or 
any director or partner of the Insured or the condition of the Premises or the 
carrying out of repair or maintenance work at the Premises or the Insureds 
noncompliance with a prior order of the Police or other competent local 
authority;
c the actions or advice of the Police or other competent local authority due to an 
emergency threatening life or property in the vicinity of the Premises;

As above, I dont consider a clause requiring damage to be met in the circumstances. So, I 
dont consider a to be relevant to Mr and Mrs Fs claim.
Much of the focus to date in relation to the remainder of this clause has been on whether 
there has been an emergency in the vicinity of Ks premises which led to the interruption of 
its business. 
However, both subclauses b and c above only provide cover where something has 
happened leading to either the Police or other competent local authority to issue instructions 
or advice, or take action. So, before it is necessary for me to consider whether there has 
been an emergency in the vicinity of Ks premises, it is necessary for me to consider whether 
the interruption to Ks business was as a result of something the Police or other competent 
local authority did. 
Neither the terms the Police nor other competent local authority have been defined within 
the policy. As such, it is necessary for me to consider what these terms are most likely to 
mean in the context of this policy.
I think the Police can be interpreted in line with the normal everyday usage of this term and 
I think this would be commonly understood. The closure of Ks premises was a requirement 
following the instructions of the government-imposed restrictions, rather than any action of 
the police.
I appreciate that, had K remained open, or reopened, during the lockdown period it might 
have been closed by the police. However, it is not what did happen. I am only able to reach 
my decision based on the circumstances of this complaint, rather than what might have 
happened in different circumstances. The closure of Ks premises was a requirement 
following the instructions of the government-imposed restrictions. Mr and Mrs F obeyed 
these instructions and closed Ks premises. So, it cannot be said Ks premises were closed 
in accordance with instructions issued by the police. 
It is though necessary for me to consider in more depth what the term competent local 
authority means. 
Taking everything into account, including the decision in the China Taiping arbitration, I 
consider that the term competent local authority as it is used in Mr and Mrs Fs policy 
means a localised authority. As the arbitrator concluded, there is seemingly no reason for 
the inclusion of the word local in this term other than to limit the relevant authorities to a 
narrow geographic area. And I consider the natural way of reading this term would be to 
conclude that it referred to local bodies only.
When reaching this conclusion, I am again mindful of the fact Mr and Mrs Fs insurance 
contract should be interpreted objectively, based on the understanding a reasonable person 
would have had at the time the contract was entered. I dont think the reasonable person would have read this policy and considered that this term referred to a national authority/the 
Government. That would not be the natural understanding of the words used in the term. 
And nothing else in the policy indicates a different meaning should be applied.
I do note that a slightly different interpretation of the term competent local authority was 
reached in the FCA Test Case when the court considered the Ecclesiastical policies. 
However, such terms need to be interpreted based on the context of the contract they 
appear in. And there are significant differences between the Ecclesiastical policies and Mr 
and Mrs Fs policy. To my mind, the key difference was that the Ecclesiastical policy used 
this term in a clause that also contained the term Government Police or Local Authority. 
And it would not have made commercial sense for the two terms to have a different meaning 
in that context.
I think that restrictions that might be imposed on K, which might fall generally into the areas 
of cover provided by sub-clauses b and c in the Denial of Access extension as well as the 
Disease extension, could be following instructions of either local or national bodies. But that 
there is reasonable commercial sense in Arch having limited cover to where those 
instructions are given by a local body. This would have given Mr and Mrs F cover for the 
events which were most likely to affect it, but would also have limited Archs exposure to 
extreme events, which are more likely to result in a national response, such extreme events 
likely to result in high value claims. And, significantly, I dont think Mr and Mrs F would 
reasonably have understood the policy as providing cover different to this when it was 
entered.
Ultimately, I consider that in the context of Mr and Mrs Fs policy the term competent local 
authority refers to a localised body. The instructions that led to the closure of Ks premises 
were issued by the Prime Minister and the UK Government. And I dont consider these to be 
a localised body. As such, I do not consider Mr and Mrs F was instructed to close Ks 
premises by a competent local authority. And I consider Arch acted fairly and reasonably 
when declining Mr and Mrs Fs claim under the Denial of Access extension.
Having considered the rest of Mr and Mrs Fs policy carefully, I do not consider there to be 
any area of cover that means Arch should have met their claim. I know this decision will be 
disappointing for Mr and Mrs F, but I hope Ive provided them with a thorough explanation of 
why their policy doesnt offer cover in the circumstances of this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman