DRN-2967994
The complaint
Mrs W is unhappy with the service that she received from Lloyds Bank PLC when attempting 
to open an account.
What happened
This complaint has been brought on behalf of Mrs W by an authorised representative. For 
ease of reference I will primarily to Mrs W unless necessary to do otherwise.
Mrs W is unhappy that she has been unable to open a classic current account to
have her pension paid into and set up direct debits.
Mrs W is a senior citizen and receives care but maintains mental capacity and is able to 
pass security over the telephone. However, when she spoke with Lloyds via telephone, the 
agent that Mrs W spoke with wasnt satisfied that it could be confirmed that Mrs W fully 
understood that she was requesting a bank account to be opened or why she was 
requesting this. Mrs W wasnt happy that Lloyds wouldnt open a bank account for her, so 
she raised a complaint.
Lloyds looked at Mrs Ws complaint, but they didnt fee that theyd acted unfairly or 
unreasonably, and they noted that the option of setting up a power of attorney agreement 
existed if Mrs W was unable to complete an account application herself.
Mrs W wasnt satisfied with Lloyds response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they felt that Lloyds decision to not 
continue with Mrs Ws account application was what this service would have expected of 
Lloyds, given that Lloyds have confirmed that they had concerns that Mrs W wasnt fully 
aware of the nature of the application request that she was making. Because of this, our 
investigator didnt recommend that this complaint be upheld.
Mrs W remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It may help to start my findings by explaining that its not for this service to tell a business 
such as Lloyds who it should and shouldnt offer accounts to. Thats something that Lloyds 
are entitled to decide themselves, much as customers are entitled to decide which bank they 
may wish to have an account with. 
What Id expect in the circumstances here though is that Lloyds treated Mrs Ws application 
fairly, and I think Lloyds did here. Lloyds has explained that it had concerns about Mrs Ws 
application because it wasnt certain that Mrs W was fully aware of the nature of the request 
she was making. I can see why Mrs W was upset with this, but Lloyds had genuine concerns 
that I think it acted on fairly. Indeed, if Lloyds had opened the account without acting on 
these concerns, I think there would be a strong argument to say that Lloyds would have 
acted irresponsibly in doing so. 
However, I am sympathetic to the situation that Mrs Ws representative has described here, 
which is that Mrs W is able to fulfil the requirements to open an account on the telephone but 
that she struggled to understand that accent of the particular Lloyds agent to whom she 
spoke.
But Lloyds is entitled to employ the staff that it does, and sometimes there may be practical 
difficulties such as Mrs W experienced here. But I dont think that it would be fair, or indeed 
helpful, for me to instruct that Lloyds should instruct someone with a more neutral accent to 
speak with Mrs W and undertake a new application.
One potential option here is that Mrs Ws representative could arrange an appointment in 
branch for so that the circumstances here can be clearly explained to Lloyds and that Lloyds 
can then make a decision on how best to proceed. 
I sincerely hope that Mrs W is able to open a new bank account in a timely manner. 
However, as a formal complaint, the focus here is on the fairness of Lloyds actions when 
making the decision not to proceed with Mrs Ws attempted telephone application. And, as 
mentioned previously, Im satisfied that by declining to proceed with that application on the 
grounds of their stated concerns, Lloyds were acting with the best interests of Mrs W in 
mind, and because of this I find it very difficult to say that Lloyds has acted unfairly here.
All of which means that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Lloyds to take any 
further action at this time. I realise that this might not be the outcome that Mrs W and her 
representative were wanting, but I hope that they will understand, given what Ive explained 
above, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman