DRN-3534718
The complaint
Mrs M complains that the loans she had from Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream)
were unaffordable.
What happened
Mrs M had two loans from Lending Stream between July 2012 and October 2012 as shown 
below:
Loan Date Amount TermMax Monthly
Repayment*Due Repaid
1 23 July 2012 £100 5m £55.00 30 Nov 2012 Sold to DCA**
2 9 Oct 2012 £375 6m £220.00 28 Mar 2013 Sold to DCA**
* Including overlapping loans
** Debt Collection Agency
Mrs M says Lending Stream approved the loans when she wasnt working as she was on 
maternity leave. She says its left her in considerable debt and negatively impacted her 
credit record.
Lending Stream says it asked Mrs M about her income and expenditure and reviewed her 
credit file. It says it found the figures were reasonable and it was satisfied its checks 
showed Mrs M had enough disposable income to afford the repayments.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. Although he 
considered Lending Stream should have carried out better checks for loan 2, he did not find 
anything in the available information to indicate the repayments were unaffordable for 
Mrs M.
Mrs M responded with information about repayment difficulties and her bank statements. 
She says if Lending Stream had carried out better checks it wouldnt have approved the 
loans.
My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision to Mrs M and to Lending Stream on 9 May 2022. Ive 
summarised my findings:
For loan 1, I was satisfied Lending Stream carried out proportionate checks and that 
it was reasonable to conclude the loan was affordable;
For loan 2, however, I was not satisfied Lending Streams checks went far enough 
because:
oMrs M was asking for significantly more money over a longer term;
oHer maximum monthly repayment was now over 16% of her income;
oLoan 1 was still outstanding;
oMrs M had already had difficulties making the repayments on time for loan 1;
oHer credit file was showing a worsening picture:
She had four defaulted accounts  the most recent being in March 
2012;
She had seven delinquent accounts from as recently as the previous 
month;
The total debt on her active accounts had more than doubled since 
loan 1;
Her credit score had declined by 87 points between the two checks.
So I had a look at Mrs Ms bank statements from the time as a reasonable proxy for 
what proportionate checks might have shown for loan 2:
oAlthough I could see Mrs Ms income was roughly in line with what shed 
declared, this appeared to be from benefits, rather than employment income;
oHer regular expenditure was significantly higher than the £850 shed declared 
and meant she was spending practically all her income each month;
oMrs M had multiple direct debits returned unpaid in the lead up to loan 2;
oShe was being charged £100 per month for her overdraft and unpaid direct 
debits.
I was satisfied, therefore, that proportionate checks would have indicated Mrs M was already
struggling to manage her money, the repayments were unaffordable, and that further lending
was unsustainable.
So my provisional decision was that I upheld Mrs Ms complaint about loan 2.
Lending Stream responded to accept my provisional decision.
Mrs M did not respond to the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Lending Stream accepted my provisional decision and neither party provided any 
additional information, I see no reason to depart from the conclusion I reached.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending 
Stream) should buy back loan 2 if it is able to and take the following steps. If it isnt able to 
buy the debt back, then it should liaise with the debt owner to achieve these results:A. Remove interest and fees from the balance on loan 2, and treat repayments made 
by Mrs M as though they had been repayments of the principal on all outstanding 
loans.
B. If this results in Mrs M having made overpayments then Lending Stream should 
refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the 
overpayments, from the date the overpayments were made, to the date the 
complaint is settled.
C. If there is still an outstanding balance, then Lending Stream should try to agree 
an affordable repayment plan with Mrs M;
D. Remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Ms credit file in relation to loan 2 - 
up to the date the complaint is settled.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending Stream to take off tax from this interest. 
Lending Stream must give Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she 
asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2022.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman