DRN-4069398
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited didnt fairly or reasonably deal with 
claims under Sections 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA) in relation 
to the purchase of a holiday product in January 2017.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C bought membership points for a holiday club from a supplier I will call D. I 
gather this was their sixth transaction with D, having made their first purchase in 1994. The 
purchase price of the 2017 product was £4,930 and was funded by a loan in joint names with 
Shawbrook.
Unhappy with this purchase Mr and Mrs C made claims for misrepresentation and an unfair 
relationship under Sections 75 and 140A of the CCA in March 2021 using a professional 
representative (PR). There were a number of reasons for those claims  which can be 
summarised as follows: Section 75:
Misrepresentation
A high number of the promises made at the time of sale werent reflected in the 
purchase agreement.
Mr and Mrs C were unaware that they had purchased a floating weeks timeshare 
which was null and void.
They were also unaware of the high rate of interest being charged.
Section 140A: Unfair Relationship
Mr and Mrs C were not allowed a choice of lender.
They were charged an extortionate rate of interest.
The commission to the broker was not disclosed.
Affordability
The bank had not supplied information on the methodology used to carry out the 
affordability calculations.
No information had been sought from Mr and Mrs C about their income or 
expenditure
The only information provided was that shown on the application form.
Shawbrook rejected the claim and set out its reasoning in some detail. In summary it said 
that Mr and Mrs C were given sufficient information at the time of purchase and were 
experienced purchasers and users of Ds products. Full documentation was supplied and no 
attempt was made to cancel during the cooling off period. It also rejected the PRs legal 
analysis.
The PR didnt agree and the complaint was brought to this service where it was considered 
by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld.
She was unable to identify sufficient evidence to support a claim of misrepresentation and 
she wasnt persuaded that there was an unfair relationship. Nor did she believe there was a 
basis to conclude that the lending was unaffordable.
The PR disagreed and said the contract with D was not compliant with the 2010 Timeshare 
Regulations in that it didnt identify the property adequately and the exact period was not 
defined. It said the bank had made payments to D before the end of the withdrawal period. It 
said these failures meant the agreement was unenforceable. The PR said Shawbrook had 
breached its duty of care to Mr and Mrs C and they had only realised this in 2021 when they 
engaged the PR.
I issued a provisional decision as follows:
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. Section 75 offers protection to customers who use certain types of credit to make 
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or services, if there has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the agreement.
There is no dispute that the chain is intact and so I have to consider if there has been a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
S 56 and 140A Section 56 of the CCA is also relevant. In broad terms this means that any 
negotiations between Mr and Mrs C and D are deemed to have been conducted by the D as 
an agent for Shawbrook. This includes any representations made by D and any other 
dealings between them.
The statutory agency created by section 56 of the CCA is also relevant in the context of 
section 140A as the pre-contractual acts or omissions of D will be deemed to be the 
responsibility of the lender, and this may be taken into account by a court in deciding 
whether an unfair relationship exists between the consumer and the lender.
The claim has been made in time and so I am able to consider the complaint about 
Shawbrooks rejection of it.
The EU Directive
The 2008 Directive was implemented into English law in the 2010 Regulations and came into 
force in February 2011.
There are several matters to note in the Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange 
Contracts Regulations 2010. In particular, 5. (5) of the act defines relevant accommodationas
(i) the accommodation which is the subject of the contract, or
(ii) in a case where a pool of accommodation is the subject of the contract, some or all of the 
accommodation in that pool;
Section 12 1A of the 1992 Act sets out a requirement to provide a document setting out key 
information in relation to the contract. The things required to be disclosed are set out in 
Schedule 1 and, broadly speaking, include the things the PR has referred to in its 
arguments.
In particular, it is required to set out:
The exact nature and content of the rights, a short description of the product.
It also requires an accurate and detailed address where the contract concerns a 
specific immovable property.
During the 14-day withdrawal period any advance payment by the consumer is 
prohibited.
It also requires that the contract states the exact period within which the right which is 
the subject of the contract may be exercised, and if necessary, its duration.
Having considered both the 2010 Act, I do not think it makes the timeshare agreement 
voidable as is suggested. I believe that points based or floating week timeshares were 
common models that had not been prohibited in English law. The legislation makes provision 
for timeshare accommodation being from a pool of accommodation, so I think it was drafted 
with those types of arrangement in mind. Nothing in the 2010 Act makes me think selling 
those types of products was prohibited. So, I do not think all timeshare agreements had to 
refer to a specified apartment or set week to comply with the Act.
Mr and Mrs C had been given a number of documents regarding the operation of the product 
and I think it possible they were given information that complied with 2010 Act. But I do not 
need to make a finding on that point as, even if they were not given that information, I do not 
think that means the timeshare agreement was voidable for the reasons I gave above.
In Mr and Mrs Cs case, BPF made payment to D more than fourteen days after the 
agreement was taken out, but within three months and ten days of the sale. Such a payment 
would have been allowed had the timeshare provider provided the information required 
under Schedule 1 of the 2010 Act. But again, I need not make a finding on whether that 
information was supplied, as I do not think the agreement became voidable if payment was 
taken too early under the provisions of the 2010 Act.
The agreement for the purchase of the points sets out commencement as being 2018. 
These are available to use in conjunction with membership of D and are available for as long 
as that membership is maintained. I cannot see that this falls foul of the regulations.
In summary, I think Mr and Mrs C took out a timeshare agreement that was fairly 
straightforward. Their agreement entitled them to stay at a number of different properties run 
by the timeshare provider. Each property had a different cost in points and they had 2,000 
points to use in each year. Mr and Mrs C were able to book from 2018 onwards and every 
year they had to pay maintenance fees to access their points. None of this was in any way 
unusual or unclear, in my view, so I do not think there was any reason why this agreement was voidable for the reasons put forward by the PR.
Misrepresentation
A misrepresentation is when a false statement of fact has been made and that false 
statement of fact induced a consumer to purchase the goods or services. In order to find a 
misrepresentation has occurred, there must be proof that a false statement of fact has been 
made and it needs to be decided that that false statement induced the consumer to enter 
into the agreement.
I cannot say what was actually said during the meeting when the purchase was made. I am 
aware that sales representatives will prioritise the positives of the product they are selling, 
but that does not mean that this amounts to a false statement of fact. Much of what is said 
can be put down to the expression of an opinion or a view.
As our investigator has explained that the sales aids and training used by suppliers give us 
some insight into what they would likely have seen and been told during the verbal part of 
the sale. These aids highlight an imbalance in information, favouring the emotional and 
tangible benefits people would receive if they became a member and limited information on 
how the product functioned and how much it would ultimately cost across the term once 
maintenance fees and associated finance were factored in.
These aids are usually carefully structured and so if properly used the likelihood of 
misrepresentation occurring is reduced. I havent seen sufficient information to suggest the 
product wasnt suitable for Mr and Mrs C.
I cannot say what actually happened and while I do not doubt Mr and Mrs Cs recollection I 
cannot say that this is sufficient to allow me to overlook the documentary evidence.
In summary there is nothing in the documentation I have seen which was signed by Mr and 
Mrs C that shows any misrepresentation and I do not have sufficient evidence to allow me to 
ignore that paperwork.
S 140A Unfair Relationship
When considering if there was an unfair relationship I have taken due note of the sale and 
the process used by D. I do not consider it likely that court would conclude that the Ds 
actions as an agent of Shawbrook generated an unfair debtor  creditor relationship.
I appreciate that according to the PR Mr and Mrs C were pressurised into taking out the 
agreement. I can understand why they have taken that view. My understanding is that these 
sales meetings ran on for many hours and the representatives of D would highlight the 
benefits of the product. I have no doubt that the techniques used would have made saying 
no more difficult, but this does not mean that it was impossible to decline the offer. I cannot 
conclude that this amounted to undue pressure.
In summary I do not have sufficient evidence to show Mr and Mrs C were unreasonably 
pressurised to sign the agreement.
It is possible that the disclosure of information about the product couldve been clearer. So, 
Ive looked at whether this led to such an imbalance of information between the parties, that 
it gave rise to an unfair relationship.
I believe Mr and Mrs C were aware they were buying a holiday product and they had made a 
number of previous purchases. As such I think it likely that Mr and Mrs C were aware of what they were purchasing and how Ds products worked. So, while the sales meeting mayve 
been overly weighted towards the aspirational lifestyle owning a holiday club membership 
could provide, I dont think the gap in knowledge between what they thought they were 
acquiring and what they actually got was so significant so as to suggest it could give rise to 
an unfair relationship.
I have also considered the matter of commission in relation to this transaction. On balance I 
am not persuaded there is sufficient evidence to show that it would be likely a court would 
find there was an unfair relationship as set out in s 140A.
Unaffordable Lending
PR has said that Shawbrook had not carried out any checks to ensure that the loan was 
affordable and appropriate to Mr and Mrs Cs needs. It also said that Mr and Mrs C had not 
been given any choice about the lender they used.
Lenders are required to ensure that loans are affordable and appropriate. What that means 
in practice will vary from case to case. But I do not believe here that it is correct to say that 
no checks were carried out. Shawbrook has explained that it carried out the checks which 
were appropriate at the time.
I note that Mr and Mrs C have not suggested that they had any difficulty in making the loan 
repayments. When they took the loan out, they signed a statement confirming that they were 
able to meet the financial commitments involved. There is nothing to suggest that Mr and 
Mrs C had to take out the loan with Shawbrook. They could have taken out a loan 
independently from a different lender. I also note that it was repaid in January 2019 which 
does not support the claim that it was unaffordable.
Conclusion
I have every sympathy with Mr and Mrs C, but I do not consider I can uphold their 
complaint.
The PR didnt agree and, in summary, argued that the requirement of the 2010 Timeshare 
Regulations were not met by D. It said that the Schedule 1 disclosure requirements must be 
met and if not then the loan is unenforceable. It added that the bank had been negligent and 
breached its duty of care.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to the provisional decision the PR has limited its arguments to the alleged 
breach of the 2010 Timeshare Regulations by D and the potential impact of a breach. As 
such I will address that argument and I can only regard the other issues as not in dispute.
I believe I can deal with the issue of a breach quite simply. Its the substance of the 
regulatory breach  and the impact on the consumer  that matters more than the breach 
itself. So, even if the provision of information by D fell short in some way, that doesnt 
automatically lead to a complaint being upheld on the basis that the debtor-creditor 
relationship was unfair. And the fact that the purchase agreement may have been 
unenforceable (which is different to voidable) under Regulation 15 of the 2010 Timeshare 
Regulations (in light of a breach of Regulation 12) is, in my view, unlikely to render the 
debtor-creditor relationship unfair because I cant see why the unenforceability of the purchase agreement against Mr and Mrs C would be to their disadvantage. 
To the extent that the contract is advantageous to the consumer and they want to continue 
with it, nothing changes even if the relevant section of Regulation 15 bites. It is only in the 
circumstance that the supplier takes enforcement steps against the consumer that the 
unenforceability becomes relevant, in which case it provides a helpful protection and 
advantage to the consumer.
So even if the regulations were breached it does not result in the contract being void, rather 
it means that it may be unenforceable. That does not make the loan void. So even if there 
had been a breach, technical or otherwise it doesnt lead to the conclusion that Shawbrook 
was wrong to reject the claim and I should uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 May 2023.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman