DRN-1422053
  
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold them a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a regular premium MPPI policy taken out in April 2003. Mr and Mrs 
M applied for the policy in a meeting. The policy covered both of them against accidents, 
sickness and unemployment. The policy was cancelled in 2005.
Mr and Mrs M say they should have never been sold this policy and would never knowingly 
agreed to it. They think it mis-sold the policy to them.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ms case.
I have decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Here are my reasons:
I havent been able to see many of the sales documentation that would have been 
used at the time of sale. I have had to rely on a 'family planning review' document 
completed by the advisor from HSBC at the time of the meeting along with internal 
screen prints from its system. I've also considered what I know of sales that 
happened at that time and also read Mr and Mrs Ms recollections and consider from 
this what most likely happened.
 
The policy was sold to Mr and Mrs M separately from any other sale. They were not 
sold MPPI at the same time as arranging their mortgage in that the policy covered 
their existing mortgage from a different finance provider. So I don't think they would 
have been given the impression they had to have MPPI in order to obtain the 
mortgage as they had already obtained it with another party. And i can't see within 
the evidence i do have, that the policy was compulsory or sold to them without their 
knowledge.
 
Its completely understandable that Mr and Mrs Ms recollections are not detailed in 
any way or that they cant remember being sold PPI as the sale took place a long 
time ago. Ive been able to see from the 'financial planning review' document, that demonstrated a discussion was most likely had between Mr and Mrs M and 
HSBC about obtaining MPPI and that it recommended the insurance to them. And 
because of this, I dont think the evidence is strong enough for me safely to say 
HSBC added the MPPI policy without Mr and Mrs Ms consent. So I dont uphold Mr 
and Mrs Ms complaint on this point. 
 
Moving on, I need to consider next whether HSBC provided advice to Mr and Mrs 
M or not during the sale. If it did, it would have had an additional responsibility to 
ensure the policy was suitable for him. As I have already concluded I think HSBC did 
recommend the policy to them and it looks like it was suitable. 
 
I have drawn this conclusion after considering Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances at the 
time of sale. Because, although they say they had very reasonable sick pay they 
could have used (Mrs M says she had 6 months sick pay), the MPPI policy would 
have paid out if they were sick or made unemployed in addition to this. Having the 
policy in place would mean they could use any sick pay they may have had to cover 
other expenses. The policy also would have covered them for a longer period. I dont 
think their means are sufficient for me reasonably to say that they wouldnt have had 
at least some use for the policy.
 
Mr and Mrs M was not affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main 
benefits, such for someone that had a pre-existing medical condition. It is unlikely Mr 
and Mrs M needed better advice or information about the policys exclusions and 
limitations and if they had received clear information on these terms I dont think it 
would have put them off.
 
Finally, I cant be sure if HSBC disclosed the costs of the policy in a clear way but 
even if it did, I dont think Mr and Mrs M would have done anything differently for the 
same reasons as I have already given. Ive also seen nothing to suggest it was 
unaffordable.
 
In conclusion, it has been a difficult decision to make due to the lack of information provided 
about this sale, but based on what I have seen and what I know of HSBC sales during the 
time of sale, I do not think the policy was mis-sold.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 My final decision
I do not uphold Mr and Mrs M's complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 March 2020.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman