DRN-1420134
 
The complaint
Mrs D complains One Insurance Limited hasnt given a fair settlement for her car following it 
being a total loss. She also complains about the service provided during the claim. 
Reference to One Insurance includes any agents acting on its behalf. 
What happened
Mrs D has her car insured through One Insurance. The cover provided is comprehensive. 
On 27 May 2019, Mrs D was involved in a road traffic accident following a tyre blowing on 
her car. As a result her car veered, and she hit a third party vehicle that was parked. 
Mrs D reported the accident to One Insurance from the scene. One Insurance arranged for 
the car to be collected and taken to a depot for later inspection. The car was collected the 
same day. However, there were delays in the car being taken to the repairers for inspection 
following a back log of cases over the weekend and the bank holiday Monday. 
This in turn led to a delay in Mrs D receiving a courtesy car. It wasnt until the following week 
that Mrs D was provided with a courtesy car, or her car inspected. On 12 June Mrs D was 
notified her car was a total loss. And she was initially offered £6,850 in settlement. Mrs D 
disagreed the amount was fair and she was asked to provide information about how much it 
would cost to replace her car. Mrs D researched this and provided adverts showing cars of a 
similar age and specification in excess of £8,900. But One Insurance was only willing to 
increase its offer to £7,700.
Mrs D complained about the settlement value and the service she had received, particularly 
the delays and what she had been told. One Insurance upheld the complaint and agreed 
there had been some delays in the handling of the claim and offered £100 compensation. It 
also agreed to increase its settlement offer to £7,877.50 as the midday between the values 
provided by two industry guides. 
Mrs D asked us to look into her complaint. And she told us shed been sent a letter about 
storage costs. When sending its file One Insurance indicated it had offered Mrs D £200 for 
the service failings. Our investigator was satisfied that was fair compensation for the delays 
and service failures. But she wasnt satisfied the settlement offer was fair. She explained we 
used a third industry guide and taking into accounts its valuation she felt a settlement of 
£8,099.33 was reasonable. She also said 8% simple interest should be added to that 
amount from the loss to the date of settlement, and she didnt find it fair that any storage 
costs be removed from the settlement amount. 
Mrs D remains unhappy that the adverts for a similar age and specification of car to hers 
havent been taken into account in the settlement. She also wants the calls listened to as 
she was given the wrong information on more than one occasion.  One Insurance also disagreed with the settlement requested. It said if a third guide was to be 
taken into account then so should another which valued the car far lower than the offer 
made. Our investigator explained this wouldnt be taken into account as that guide couldnt 
provide historical valuations over three months old, which this was.  
Our investigator requested the calls from One Insurance, which have since been provided. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs D's complaint falls into two areas; the valuation of her car and the service she was 
provided during the claim. I will deal with each in turn. 
Valuation
The starting point for any claim is the contract between the parties, so between Mrs D and 
One Insurance. That's the policy document and schedule. Section 1 Accidental Damage 
says:
What is Covered?
If your car is damaged by accident, vandalism or malicious damage, we may:
Pay the cost of repairs to your car.
Replace what is lost or damaged. 
Make a settlement payment based on the cost of replacing your car at the time of the 
loss or damage, taking into account its make, model, age, mileage and 
circumstances of its purchase by you. This shall not exceed the estimate of value 
that you last gave to us. 
Both the insurance industry, and we, use industry guides to establish fair settlement offers 
where a vehicle has been deemed a total loss. The industry guides have conducted 
nationwide research of likely selling prices for car, using advertised selling prices and 
auction prices. 
I accept Mrs D is unhappy that reference has been made to these guides. And I have 
considered the adverts she provided to both One Insurance and us, showing cars of a 
similar age, specification and mileage to hers being advertised at more than £8,900. 
However, I do need to take into account these are adverts, and it's generally accepted that 
almost all sellers will inflate asking prices so any negotiated purchase price is as near to an 
acceptable sale's price as possible. It isn't unusual, indeed it's quite common, for asking 
prices to be reduced by many £100s in order to secure a sale. 
I have also considered the industry guides. We use three guides, Cap's, Glass's and 
Cazana. There is a fourth guide available (referred to above by One Insurance) called 
Parker's but that's only reliable for car valuations where the total loss event happened within 
the last three months. That isn't the case here, so it isn't a guide I'm going to take into 
account. 
One Insurance offered a final settlement offer of £7,877.50, being an average of the Cap's 
and Glass's valuations (£7,950 and £7,760 respectively). Our investigator also looked at 
Cazana which listed a valuation of £8,588, a fair bit higher than the other guides. Because of that our investigator recommended One Insurance increase its settlement offer to £8,099.33, 
an average of all three valuations. 
When considering settlement offers of several thousand pounds, I would usually find an offer 
that was within a £100-£200 margin of the average fair; which is what One Insurance had 
already offered in its final response. However, I understand Mrs D had extras on her car; a 
pack that included external and interior upgrades including alloy wheels. It isn't clear from 
One Insurance's valuations that this has been taken into account. And I understand from the 
values we have carried out there are limited options to include those extras. Overall, taking 
into account the guides and the information from Mrs D, I find that a settlement of £8,099.33 
as recommended by the investigator, is fair and reasonable. 
I understand Mrs D has been sent a letter about her car being scrapped and storage costs. 
Once a total loss settlement is made, the car which the settlement has been made for 
becomes the property of the insurance company. That is unless the policy holder wants to 
keep it and any scrap value is deducted from the settlement. I understand Mrs D doesn't 
want to keep the car and so, it is effectively the property of the insurer. It isn't clear what the 
insurer was looking to deduct storage costs from. But its terms do refer to it paying  storage 
costs. So I don't find it fair for One Insurance to take these into account in any payment it is 
making to Mrs D. 
Service
Mrs D complains that she has been provided poor service. She complains:
She was led to believe she would get a courtesy car the day after the accident. 
She was told her licence check had been validated when it hadn't.
One Insurance tried to make an issue of three points on her licence despite it already 
knowing of this. 
There were delays in the car being collected for inspection which meant there were 
delays in her receiving a courtesy car. And the courtesy car was unsafe to drive. 
I have listened to a number of calls between Mrs D and One Insurance. I agree she was told 
she would get a courtesy car the day after the accident. And that was incorrect. Under the 
terms of the policy Mrs D was only entitled to a courtesy car whilst hers was undergoing 
repair. Mrs D's car was deemed a total loss, so I don't think she was ever actually entitled to 
a courtesy car, although it appears one was provided between the car being taken to the 
garage for inspection and it being deemed a total loss. 
Mrs D was also incorrectly told in the same call that her driving licence information had been 
validated when it hadn't been. It wasn't until she called the next day that she was told she 
needed to get a code from the DVLA about her driving licence. So I agree she was provided 
poor service on these occasions. 
However, I understand that there was a delay in her car being collected from the depot for 
inspection due to a backlog of other incidents the garage needed to attend to. I don't think 
this was in the insurer's control. However, its notes do suggest there was some delay in 
putting an initial request through for collection of her car. But given the delays the garage 
was experiencing (which I have already found was outside the insurer's control) I'm not 
persuaded this had any overall impact, although I can understand the frustration this 
caused Mrs D. 
Mrs D has referred to One Insurance sending her a letter about discovering she had three 
points on her licence. I haven't seen a copy of this letter, although I understand having listened to calls between Mrs D and the insurer that it just needed to check the information 
about the points. So its unclear why the letter was sent, and I fully accept this would 
have been distressing for Mrs D. 
Although Mrs D raised concerns about the quality of the courtesy car, I can't see that One 
Insurance ever considered that, or to what extent, if at all, the car wasn't safe. And I don't 
that's possible to establish now so long after the event. Nevertheless, I have taken this into 
account. 
Overall, there have been service failings, with Mrs D being given inaccurate information and 
being told her claim was progressing when it hadn't been. When sending in its file, One 
Insurance said it had offered £200 for the service failings. Having considered everything, I 
consider £200 to be fair and reasonable for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Putting things right
I require One Insurance to:
pay Mrs D £8,099.33 in settlement for the total loss of her car; and 
it needs to add 8% simple annual interest  from the date of loss to the date of 
settlement; and
less any interim payments it may have made (but not storage costs); and
pay Mrs D £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused, if it hasn't already done 
so.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold this complaint and require One Insurance Limited to redress 
Mrs D as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 May 2020.
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman