DRN-4115310
The complaint
Mr E complains HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt give him correct information about his credit card 
account. 
 
What happened
Mr E applied for the card online in February 2022.
Mr E says he called HSBC in October 2022 to enquire about interest free purchases on his 
credit card. Mr E says he was told in this phone call he would receive no interest on 
purchases for nine months in perpetuity. In December 2022, Mr E discovered hed been 
charged interest and complained to HSBC. 
HSBC responded to say the interest free period expired in November 2022. Unhappy with 
this response Mr E referred his complaint to our service. 
An Investigator considered Mr Es complaint. He said, in summary he could find no evidence 
Mr E was told purchases on this card would be interest free in perpetuity and the terms and 
conditions set out that the interest free period was for nine months from account opening. 
Mr E responded to say, on reflection, he thought perhaps the call had taken place on a 
different day to the one we had a recording of. Our Investigator made further enquiries, but 
HSBC could still find no record of any other calls made by Mr E to HSBC. So our Investigator 
still thought HSBC hadnt made a mistake. 
As Mr E didnt agree with our Investigators view, the complaints been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr E applied for the credit card online in February 2022. Theres no suggestion he spoke to 
anyone about his application before completing it. It was up to Mr E to decide whether he 
wanted the card based on the information HSBC had provided to him during the application 
 which included the terms and conditions of the account.
Those terms and conditions say the introductory rate for purchases is 0% on purchases for 
9 months from account opening. So I think it was clear in the terms that the introductory rate 
only applied for the first nine months.
 
Mr E says he called HSBC in October 2022 and was told, essentially, that no interest would 
be applied  ever - to the purchases made in the first nine months. HSBC only have a record 
of one telephone call with Mr E during October 2022. Ive listened to this call. Mr E says 
during this call Ive got 0% interest on purchases until 14 November so I think Mr E was 
aware at this time that the interest free period had a time limit. The call handler carries out 
Mr Es request to change his direct debit to make the minimum repayment but there is no 
further discussion about the interest rate or 0% offer. So I havent found Mr E was given the 
wrong information during this call. 
Mr E later said he thought there might be a different call where he was given the wrong 
information. He provided a phone bill with two calls highlighted in October 2022 (one being 
the call already provided, and a second call to the same number a few days earlier). But the 
number highlighted isnt HSBCs  its for a different company. In any event, HSBC carried 
out further searches and could find no further calls from Mr E. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen; I dont think HSBC gave Mr E incorrect information about 
the 0% introductory offer. So I dont think theyve made a mistake by applying interest to 
Mr Es account in line with the terms and conditions after that offer expired. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Es complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman