DRN-1387114
The complaint
Mr H complains about a car supplied to him under a conditional sale agreement with 
Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn).
What happened
Mr H entered into a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn in January 2019 for the 
supply of a used car. The car cost £9,079, was 7 and a half years old and had around 
91,000 miles on the odometer. Mr H sourced the car from a dealer I shall refer to as M. 
Mr H has said in February 2020 he noticed the passenger wing mirror would not fold in and 
the traction control button wouldnt work. He said the car was taken to a local garage and the 
garage has confirmed the car was presented to it with those faults at this time. Mr H has said 
the faults were not fixed as M said it would pay for the repairs but never authorised them. 
In July 2020 Mr H said the car began losing power and would drop from 70mph to 40mph. 
He reported the issue to Moneybarn with a view to them repairing the car or taking it back. 
Moneybarn commissioned an inspection by an independent engineer in August 2020. The 
engineer provided a report which noted the following:
There was a misfire noted immediately on start up.
There was evidence of excessive black soot around the tailpipe area.
A diagnostic run on the cars internal system revealed error codes relating to engine 
oil pressure, a misfire on two cylinders, the passenger wingmirror, a wheel speed 
sensor on the ABS and some other sensors relating to fuel. 
The oil pressure was low. 
The engineer suggested that Mr H refrain from driving the car to avoid causing any 
consequential damage to it. The engineer concluded that although there were faults with the 
car, they would need to be investigated in more detail to discover their exact nature and root 
cause. He said the faults were not likely present at the time the car was supplied to Mr H 
given the time hed had it and the mileage hed covered. 
Moneybarn concluded following this that the car was not faulty when it was supplied to Mr H 
so didnt agree to pay for any of the repairs or take the car back. 
Our investigator didnt think Mr Hs complaint should be upheld. He said there wasnt enough 
evidence to suggest that any faults with the car were present when the car was supplied to 
Mr H. 
Mr H didnt agree with the investigator and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The car was supplied to Mr H under a regulated consumer credit agreement so our service 
can look at complaints about it. Moneybarn is the supplier of goods under this kind of 
agreement and is responsible for dealing with complaints about their quality. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) implied a term in Mr Hs agreement with Moneybarn 
that the goods supplied would be of satisfactory quality. The CRA says that goods will be 
considered of satisfactory quality where they meet the standard that a reasonable person 
would consider satisfactory  taking into account the description of the goods, the price paid 
and other relevant circumstances. In this case I think other relevant circumstances would 
include things like the age and mileage of the car.
In Mr Hs case, the car was used, with a cash price of around £9,000. It had covered around 
91,000 miles and was seven and a half years old. It is fair to say the expectations of this car 
would not be as high as they would for a brand new car. And, it could be reasonably 
expected that parts might require repair or replacement  even within a reasonably short 
period of time after supply. 
The garage that looked at the car for Mr H in February 2020 wrote a letter to confirm the car 
was presented with faults with the wing mirror and traction control that could not be turned 
off. It looks like M may have agreed with Mr H to pay for these things to be repaired but for 
whatever reason this did not happen. Im looking here at a complaint about Moneybarn and I 
cant consider the actions of M after Mr H entered into the hire purchase agreement. I have 
nevertheless considered whether I think Moneybarn were responsible for these repairs   
keeping the implied term about satisfactory quality in mind. 
Our investigator asked Mr H if he had any job sheets from when the car was taken to the 
garage but he told us he didnt. This means I dont have a lot of information about what went 
wrong with the traction control or why. Moneybarns contact notes do show a conversation 
with M where it was discussed the traction control did work but a part was required to fix the 
button to show whether it was on or off. The wing mirror not folding in on the other hand 
seems like a more straightforward fault. 
Having thought about these issues and the information available about what might have 
caused them, Ive not seen enough to make think they were faults that would make the car 
of unsatisfactory quality. I think these are the kind of repairs a reasonable person might 
ordinarily expect to carry out on a car of this age and mileage, even shortly after being 
supplied with the car. 
Mr H complained of further issues in July 2020 when he said the car was losing power and 
dropping from 70mph to 40mph. He took the car to the same garage again. The letter the 
garage wrote says Mr H presented the car advising it was suffering from a loss of power with 
no Engine Management Light on. Mr H has said he was quoted a lot of money to put the car 
right. Ive not been provided with any quotations however or any further detail from the 
garage about what was wrong with the car or what may have been causing a loss of power. 
The issue was considered by the independent engineer that examined the car in August 
2020. He identified a misfire in the engine which was corroborated by a misfire fault code 
identified in two cylinders by the diagnostic. There were other faults identified with oil 
pressure, fuel sensors and ABS sensors. The engineer concludes however that further 
investigation is required to establish the full nature of the faults and what caused them. No 
link between what was discovered and a loss of power is established in the report. The 
report further concludes that based on the amount of time the consumer had the car and the mileage that had been covered, any faults that had been identified were not likely to have 
been present at the time the car was supplied to Mr H. 
So, looking at the available evidence, its clear enough that something isnt right with the car. 
Whats not clear enough however is what has caused this or what the full extent of the 
problem is. With this considered, along with the fact Mr H did not experience a loss of power 
until a number of months after he was supplied with the car, there isnt enough evidence to 
show there was a fault present at the time the car was supplied and which would mean it 
was not of satisfactory quality.  
Ive considered also whether the car was sufficiently durable as this is also an aspect of 
satisfactory quality. The car however had high mileage and was relatively old so I dont find 
the things that have been identified in the engineers report mean the car was not durable. I 
find they are problems a reasonable person might expect to need to repair after driving 
5,000 miles in a seven and a half year old car with 91,000 miles on the clock. 
Mr H has said he hasnt made any repayments on the car for a while. Moneybarn should 
ensure it treats Mr H with due consideration and forbearance in dealing with any financial 
difficulties Mr H may be facing, including discussing appropriate termination options should 
that be necessary.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2021.
 
Michael Ball
Ombudsman