DRN-4224731
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T have complained that Leeds Building Society (LBS) declined their request to 
port (transfer) their mortgage interest rate product onto a new mortgage on another property.
To settle the complaint Mr and Mrs T want LBS to reimburse the early repayment charge 
(ERC) they paid on redemption of their mortgage.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Mr and Mrs T being identified. So for these 
reasons, I will keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
Mr and Mrs T had a mortgage with LBS, originally taken out in 2017 and refinanced onto a 
new interest rate product in 2019. Their mortgage was for approximately £640,000, of which 
about £585,000 was on an interest-only basis. The repayment vehicle for the interest-only 
part of the mortgage was a sale of the property. The terms of their interest rate product 
allowed LBS to charge an ERC on a tapering scale if the mortgage was repaid in full or in 
part before 30 November 2024.
In 2020 Mr and Mrs T took a six-month Covid-19 payment holiday on their mortgage. 
However, even after that, Mr and Mrs T had financial difficulties and werent able to make all 
the monthly repayments on the mortgage. By 2022 Mr and Mrs T were finding the mortgage 
unaffordable. They decided to move house and downsize, and wanted to port the mortgage 
on a like-for-like basis onto the new property. They were selling for £1.5million and wanted to 
buy for £1.1million. They put in an offer on the new property, which was accepted.
However, LBS declined the application on the basis of affordability. Mr and Mrs T went 
ahead with their sale and paid an ERC. They complained to LBS that their mortgage 
application had been declined. In its final response letter, LBS explained that it was under a 
duty to ensure that any new mortgage was affordable. However, because Mr and Mrs T had 
been in financial difficulty and their circumstances had changed, LBS wasnt able to offer 
them a new mortgage.
Unhappy with LBSs response to their complaint, Mr and Mrs T brought their complaint to our 
service. They said that, after the sale of their property, they were unable to afford to buy 
another property and so have been forced into the rental market. 
An investigator looked at what had happened. She thought LBS hadnt treated Mr and Mrs T 
fairly and that it should have agreed to the new mortgage.
The investigator asked LBS to do the following:
refund the ERC, including 8% simple interest;
allow Mr and Mrs T to apply for a new mortgage without the need for an affordability 
assessment;
if the new mortgage was at a higher interest rate than the 2019 interest rate product, 
LBS would need to refund the difference until the 2019 product expired;
LBS should allow Mr and Mrs T until September 2023, when their rental contract comes 
to an end, to do this;
LBS should refund the rental payments from September 2022 until the date of purchase 
of the new property, or until September 2023, whichever is soonest, less the amount the 
mortgage payments Mr and Mrs T would have made during that period, and pay 8% 
interest on this;
pay £500 for trouble and upset.
Mr and Mrs T agreed with the investigators findings but LBS did not. LBS explained that, at 
the time Mr and Mrs T took out the mortgage, Mr T was earning over £170,000. However, 
when they asked to port the mortgage, Mr T was only earning £35,000, he and Mrs T had 
started companies that were both  making a loss and they had unsecured debts of £125,000. 
As a result, LBS didnt consider the mortgage to be affordable.
Provisional decision of 28 June 2023
I issued a provisional decision, in which I reached the following conclusions.
There are regulations in place that have flowed from the FCAs Mortgage Market 
Review (MMR) which took place after the financial crash in 2008. This has led to a 
series of major changes, effective since 2014, in the way residential mortgages are 
regulated. MMR regulations have brought about requirements for stricter lending 
assessments, aimed at protecting consumers and encouraging mortgage lenders to 
act more responsibly. 
The FCA recognised though that existing borrowers who wanted to make changes to 
their mortgages might have difficulties with this if they had passed tests under the old 
rules but wouldnt under the new ones. So, it introduced certain rules to address this. 
The rules are contained in the Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (MCOB).
MCOB says a lender doesnt have to carry out an affordability assessment if a 
borrower wants to vary or replace an existing mortgage and there is no additional 
borrowing (other than for product fees) and no change to the terms of the mortgage 
that is material to affordability
Mr and Mrs T didnt want to increase their borrowing, but they were buying a property 
that cost less. This meant that the loan-to-value ratio (LTV) was increasing from 43% 
to 59%. This was an increase in risk to LBS, which was a change to the term of the 
mortgage material to affordability. In addition, Mr and Mrs T had told LBS they were 
in financial difficulties. I note they had not made all the contractual payments required 
under the mortgage contract, which is also something that is material to affordability.
LBS was concerned to see that Mr and Mrs Ts income had decreased significantly  
by about 80% - since theyd taken out the mortgage, in addition to which theyd told 
LBS they were in financial difficulty and had significant credit card debt of about 
£125,000. After checking records at Companies House, LBS noted that 
Mr and Mrs Ts companies were both making a loss, which gave further cause for 
concern in relation to providing an income stream for the future.Taking all this into consideration, Im satisfied that LBS was entitled to consider 
affordability. The changes in Mr and Mrs Ts circumstances since they took the 
mortgage out had a significant impact on the future affordability of a mortgage of 
more than £600,000, as it would have been about 18 x income, a multiplier that could 
not be considered reasonable under any circumstances. Given this, Im satisfied that 
LBSs concerns about affordability were legitimate and that its decision to decline to 
port the mortgage was reasonable.
Ive noted that Mr and Mrs T have claimed they have been forced into the rental 
market, as they can no longer afford to buy a property. However, I understand they 
sold their property for £1.5million. After paying off the mortgage and credit card 
debts, Mr and Mrs T would have been left with about £700,000. Online property 
portals show that they could have purchased a substantial property, free of 
mortgage, and in the same area as they wanted to buy, similar to (or better than) the 
property they are renting, for £500,000-£600,000. Im therefore not persuaded that 
Mr and Mrs T could not have bought a property elsewhere.
In all the circumstances of this case, I dont think LBS acted unfairly in declining the 
mortgage application on the basis of affordability. I therefore dont intend to direct 
LBS either to offer a new mortgage or reimburse the difference in rental payments 
Mr and Mrs T have had to make.
I appreciate that having to pay the ERC on redeeming their mortgage was an 
unwelcome expense. However, it was a term of the mortgage contract and so I can 
find no basis on which it would be fair or reasonable to order LBS to reimburse this.
Responses to the provisional decision
LBS had nothing further to add. Mr T, who has dealt with the complaint throughout, has 
replied in detail. To summarise:
he is shocked and saddened that there has been a change in the outcome and he wants 
the previous outcome to be reinstated;
before starting his business in 2019/2020 payments were always up to date;
it was only the global pandemic that impacted on the mortgage, although business was 
slow to start up again after the pandemic;
they had offered to put more money into the purchase and reduce the LTV, but LBS 
would not agree to this;
LBS did nothing to support them;
LBS never told them that they had concerns about lending them £600,000. If theyd 
known this, they would have looked for properties within a price range that LBS would 
have lent on, rather than being forced off the property ladder;
I am wrong to suggest they could buy a property for £700,000, because theyd have to 
pay stamp duty and other expenses;
he would be curious to see which properties I have seen which could accommodate a 
family of 6 for this price;
they previously lived in a 3,000 square ft property with an acre of land and are now in a 
rental property half the size, paying twice the amount;
LBSs actions are indespicable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the file again from the outside, and revisited my provisional decision, taking 
into consideration the further points Mr T has made.
I will begin by clarifying that the Financial Ombudsman Service is independent of both 
consumers and the businesses they complain about. We are not here to take either partys 
side in a dispute, but to investigate complaints. So whilst I acknowledge Mr Ts strength of 
feeling about what he considers to be a lack of support, I have based my conclusions on the 
available evidence, and having done so, I am entitled to reach a different outcome from the 
investigator.
After reviewing the file, I still dont think LBS acted unreasonably. The significant decrease in 
Mr and Mrs Ts income, the financial difficulties their new companies were facing, coupled 
with the substantial unsecured debt, meant that there were no available mortgage options 
that LBS considered affordable for Mr and Mrs T. It would have been irresponsible for LBS, 
and contrary to mortgage regulation, for LBS to offer a mortgage where there was 
insufficient income to sustain it and where the long-term sustainability of Mr and Mrs Ts 
income stream was uncertain.
In all the circumstances, therefore, I dont think LBS acted unfairly. I know Mr and Mrs T will 
not see it that way, but the evidence doesnt persuade me that LBS has done anything 
wrong in declining the porting application. Even if Mr and Mrs T had offered to reduce the 
amount they wanted to borrow, the level of their other debts and the uncertainty that they 
had a secure income stream still meant that LBS couldnt have offered them a new mortgage 
of any amount. Given this, Im not persuaded that the ERC was charged unfairly on 
redemption of the mortgage. 
Im satisfied that, taking into account the MMR regulations, it was appropriate for LBS to 
carry out an affordability assessment. Mr and Mrs Ts circumstances had changed 
significantly since the mortgage was originally taken out. Mr T had moved from a job paying 
(in 2017) £170,000 to starting his own company in 2019. This was making a loss, and the 
£35,000 salary Mr T was drawing didnt appear to be sustainable, based on the published 
accounts. Mrs T had also started her own company, and this, too was making a loss. 
As a result, Mr and Mrs T were unable to show a source of income that would support any 
mortgage borrowing. Im also satisfied that, given the income concerns, it would not have 
been in the best interests of Mr and Mrs T for LBS to disregard the affordability issues and 
offer a mortgage in any event, as this would be in breach of LBSs regulatory obligations in 
relation to responsible lending. 
I must also clarify that I did not at any point suggest that Mr and Mrs T should buy a property 
for £700,000, as Mr T has claimed. As I said in my provisional decision  set out above  I 
thought it would be feasible to purchase a property for between £500,000-£600,000, free of 
mortgage. This, of course, would not be as well appointed as either their previous property 
or the one theyd wanted to buy. 
But I have identified today on rightmove.com over 80 results for 4-5 bedroomed properties 
within a 5-mile radius of their current rented property, 37 results for 4-5 bedroomed 
properties within 3 miles of the property they wanted to buy, and nine 5-bedroomed 
properties within a 3-mile radius of their former home, for between £500,000-£600,000. 
(There may, of course, be some geographical overlap giving duplicated results, but I think I 
have made it clear that there are a number of available properties in the area.)So whilst I am sympathetic to Mr and Mrs Ts situation, Im not persuaded that they are 
totally without options in the property market, albeit that those properties might not be as 
desirable as the one theyd wanted to move to.
I know this isnt the outcome Mr and Mrs T were hoping for. Given the amount of equity they 
retained from the sale of their property, they might find it helpful to speak to an independent 
financial adviser about their options, to see if a mortgage can be sourced elsewhere. They 
can find details of how to find an adviser on the FCA website at https://www.fca.org.uk.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 August 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman