DRN-4332394
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited T/A More Th>n wont refund
the building insurance premiums that she paid from September 2016 to December 2017.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
jurisdiction decision dated 1 August 2023  a copy of which is set out here. In my provisional 
decision I explained why I didnt intend to uphold Mrs Gs complaint. I said:
What happened
Mrs Gs husband held home insurance with More Th>n for a significant period of time. When
he passed away, his will permitted Mrs G to live in his property provided she insured it. But it
remained owned by Mr Gs estate. As a result of what the will said, Mrs G took over the
insurance policy her husband had held with More Th>n. And shes been purchasing home
insurance for this property with More Th>n each year since 2011.
In December 2017, More Th>n spoke with Mrs G about her buildings insurance policy.
During that discussion More Th>n became aware that Mrs G wasnt the legal owner of the
property in which she was living. So, it informed her she couldnt insure the building in her
name.
On 15 December 2017, More Th>n ended Mrs Gs buildings insurance policy with it. And, on
19 December 2017, it wrote to Mrs G confirming its reasons formally why she couldnt insure
the building. It also explained that it would issue a refund of just over £462, which comprised
the unexpired part of the buildings insurance policy.
Mrs G wasnt happy that shed been paying for buildings insurance since 2011. And in May
2022, she wrote to More Th>n requesting a refund of premiums paid from 2011 until
September 2017. Mrs G said More Th>n didnt respond. So, on 8 June 2022, she
complained about what had happened.
More Th>n issued its final response to Mrs Gs complaint on 14 July 2022. It explained that it
wasnt going to comment on the circumstances relating to why buildings insurance cover
was removed because this had been the subject of separate complaints made by Mrs G in 
2018 and 2019. So, it focused its response on Mrs Gs request that it refund premiums paid
between 2011 and 2017.
More Th>n didnt uphold Mrs Gs complaint and declined to refund any further premiums. It
stated it had provided insurance in good faith and had believed Mrs G had held an insurable
interest in the property. Additionally, it said it had acted correctly in removing cover when it
became aware that Mrs G didnt own the property. And it stated no refund was due because
Mrs G had claimed under the policy for storm damage during 2012, 2014, 2016 and 2017.
So, shed benefited from the policy.
As Mrs G was dissatisfied with how More Th>n had dealt with her complaint, she referred it
to our service. We received her complaint in August 2022.
Mrs G stated that she wanted recognition of the errors made by the solicitors that had
drafted her late husbands will. She said the will contained a provision requiring her to insure
the property in which she was living, which wasnt correct. And she said this had led to More
Th>n providing insurance which it ought to have known was an error on its part. She wanted
us to direct More Th>n to refund all premiums paid from 2011 to September 2017.
Our investigator looked into Mrs Gs complaint and decided our service couldnt consider the
merits of her concerns about More Th>ns decision not to refund building insurance
premiums paid from 2011 to 2016 because these were time-barred. But they thought we
could look into Mrs Gs complaint about the premiums she paid from 2016 until 2017 when
the buildings insurance was removed by More Th>n.
When our investigator looked into the unrefunded premiums from 2016 to 2017, they
recommended upholding Mrs Gs complaint. In their view, they stated that because Mrs G
wasnt able to hold buildings insurance she wasnt the correct policyholder. And they thought
this meant that More Th>n wasnt at risk of paying a claim as a result.
Our investigator also acknowledged that there were claims made by Mrs G in 2016 and 2017
 although the claim costs for 2016 and 2017 were less than the premiums paid. Overall,
they thought More Th>n should resolve Mrs Gs complaint by issuing a refund of the building
insurance premiums for 2016 and 2017 minus the cost of any claims made during those
years.
Mrs G disagreed with our investigators view on the merits of this complaint and More Th>n
didnt confirm its position. Ive therefore been asked to decide how this complaint should be
resolved.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by reminding More Th>n and Mrs G of my previous decision, which related to
whether we had jurisdiction to consider a complaint about unrefunded building insurance
premiums.
In my jurisdiction final decision I said that our service could consider whether More Th>ns
decision not to refund the premiums Mrs G paid for buildings insurance from September
2016 to December 2017 (when the policy was removed) was fair and reasonable.
In determining whether More Th>n should refund premiums paid for buildings insurance, Ive
taken into account what the parties knew about the need for cover while the policy was 
running, Ive taken into account that the policy did operate to deal with claims during the time
cover was in place and Ive thought about whether it made an error in providing a policy
between September 2017 and December 2017.
As I explained in the background to this complaint, Mrs Gs buildings insurance policy with
More Th>n ended on 15 December 2017. This was after a discussion between Mrs G and
More Th>n at around that time. More Th>n states that, as a result of that discussion, it
became aware that Mrs G wasnt the legal owner of the property in which she was living. So,
it informed her that she couldnt insure the building in her name. Im satisfied that the
approach that More Th>n took here was correct.Ive seen no evidence that either More Th>n or Mrs G were aware that she wasnt the legal
owner of the property prior to the discussion that took place in December 2017. So, I cant
fairly conclude that More Th>n ought to have removed the buildings insurance policy prior to
15 December 2017. It had no reason to know, or believe, that Mrs G didnt have a legal
interest in the property in which she lived until the discussion in December 2017 took place.
The evidence our service has seen persuades me that More Th>n provided buildings 
insurance to Mrs G in good faith based on the information it knew at the time that cover was
provided. More Th>n continued to provide the policy at the request of Mrs G. It only stopped
offering that once it was given updated information, More Th>n had offered cover and paid
out on claims prior to that. It follows that I cant direct More Th>n to refund the building
insurance premiums Mrs G paid as shed like me to.
More Th>n has also shared records with our service that show Mrs G reported claims under
her building insurance policy for storm damage to her property in 2016 and 2017. There
were earlier claims too.
I can see that the 2016 claim was reported to More Th>n on 7 February 2016. As this claim
was made under the policy that commenced on 29 September 2015, Ive not taken this claim
into account as its time barred in line with my jurisdiction decision.
On 4 September 2017, Mrs G reported a further storm claim to More Th>n. This claim was
made under the policy that commenced on 29 September 2016. So, its something I have
taken into account as part of Mrs Gs claims history during the period thats relevant to this
decision.
Because Mrs G reported a property insurance claim to More Th>n within the period Im
considering, shes had the benefit of cover in her name under the buildings insurance part of
her home insurance policy irrespective of whether the claim was settled in her favour. I dont
agree with our investigators view that More Th>n wasnt at risk of paying a claim because
Mrs G wasnt able to hold buildings insurance and wasnt the correct policyholder. I say this
because I havent seen any evidence to demonstrate that More Th>n wouldnt have settled a
claim under the building insurance policy. Given it considered claims over the years, this
persuades me it thought it was on risk during the time Mrs G held building insurance with it.
It follows that I cant fairly direct More Th>n to refund the building insurance premiums Mrs G
paid from September 2016 to September 2017.
I think it was fair for More Th>n to keep the premium as it had provided cover and would 
have dealt with any claims made. I think More Th>n acted fairly and reasonably when it 
provided cover and with the refund it gave Mrs G.
I know that Mrs G will be disappointed with what Ive said. But, for the reasons set out
above, my provisional decision is that I am not minded to uphold this complaint.
In my provisional decision I invited both parties to respond with any additional information 
they wanted me to consider before I made my final decision, which is our service's last word 
on the matter.
When Mrs G responded to my provisional decision she stated that disagreed with my 
assessment of her complaint. She explained that she had been the victim of malpractice by 
More Th>n and the solicitors whod drafted her late husbands will. She didnt think Id given 
that proper consideration.
Much of Mrs Gs response to my provisional decision was directed towards my previous 
decision on jurisdiction. She refuted that restricting her complaint to the period I had, in line with my jurisdiction decision, was fair and reasonable. She stated that, in doing so, I was 
prejudicing her ability to advance her complaint about matters that had arisen prior to 
September 2016. And, in doing that, Mrs G said I was attempting to coerce her and 
deliberately altering the facts of her case.
As regards the merits of Mrs Gs complaint she said she didnt have the benefit of cover 
because she shouldnt have been sold insurance by More Th>n in the first place. While she 
conceded shed made claims she explained that only one claim under her buildings 
insurance policy had been upheld. So, she refuted that shed had the benefit of cover in her 
name under the buildings insurance part of her home insurance policy during the period Id 
decided our service could consider.
At the conclusion of Mrs Gs representations to my provisional decision, she asked me to 
rescind my previous decision on jurisdiction and expand the period Id decided we could look 
at from 2011 to 2017 on the basis that she believed there were extenuating circumstances to 
enable me to do so.
More Tha>ns response to my provisional decision explained that it had insured the building 
in which Mrs G lived in good faith during the time the policy was live. It said it had become 
aware of Mr Gs death in 2011 and had, at that stage, transferred the policy into Mrs Gs 
name. It stated there were no records confirming that ownership of the property had been 
discussed at the point of the policy transfer. And it said this issue was only raised in 2017 
when More Tha>n was notified, by a third party, that Mrs G didnt own the property she was 
insuring. At that point, More Th>n said it took action to discuss and remove the buildings 
insurance cover.
More Th>n stated that Mrs G had been on risk throughout the time her buildings insurance 
had been provided by it and said it would have honoured any validated claims that had been 
made under the buildings policy. It also explained that it wouldnt have asked, or expected, 
Mrs G to repay a settled claim, had a payment been made, because of the property 
ownership issue. And More Th>n sought to rely on a number of legal precedents relating to 
insurable interests to argue that Mrs G had an insurable interest in the property because she 
was living there.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to remind Mrs G that I issued a decision on jurisdiction on 12 July 
2023. This decision set out in detail why I didnt think our service could consider issues 
arising from 2011 to September 2016 because they were time barred. I also explained that I 
had considered whether we could have set aside our time limits but I hadnt seen any 
evidence demonstrating that there were any exceptional circumstances from bringing her 
complaint to our service sooner. Id like to reassure Mrs G that her representations to my 
provisional decision on this issue dont contain any information of which I was previously 
unaware.
In my jurisdiction decision I also explained clearly why our service could investigate issues 
arising from September 2016 to December 2017, when the policy ended. But I stated the 
complaint would be restricted to this period only.
My jurisdiction decision also addressed Mrs Gs complaint about the way in which her late 
husbands will was drafted by the solicitors he instructed and the advice she subsequently 
received from his lawyers. I explained why this service couldnt consider complaints against solicitors and that the Legal Ombudsman was the correct service to direct concerns about 
that issue. 
My jurisdiction decision was a final decision because Id agreed with our investigators view 
on jurisdiction. So, unlike with a provisional decision, any information provided to our service 
after the final decision was received by Mrs G and RSA wouldnt change the outcome of that 
decision. This was explained by our investigator after Mrs G sent representations about my 
jurisdictional decision. This might explain why I issued my provisional decision on the merits 
of Mrs Gs complaint shortly after she responded to my jurisdictional view.
I know Mrs G feels Ive ignored the comments she shared with our service. However, Id like 
to assure her that anything relating to the merits of the complaint that was within jurisdiction 
was taken into account before I wrote my provisional decision.
Turning to representations about the merits of this complaint insofar as they relate to what 
happened from September 2016 to December 2017, I remain satisfied that neither More 
Th>n nor Mrs G were aware that she wasnt the legal owner of the property prior to the 
discussion that took place in December 2017. So, I cant fairly conclude that More Th>n 
ought to have removed the buildings insurance policy prior to 15 December 2017. Theres no 
evidence that it had reason to know, or believe, that Mrs G didnt have a legal interest in the 
property in which she lived until the discussion in December 2017 took place.
I remain persuaded that More Th>n provided buildings insurance to Mrs G in good faith 
based on the information it knew at the time that cover was provided. It continued to provide 
the policy at the request of Mrs G and only stopped offering that once it was given updated 
information. I dont think it made an error.
Mrs G claims she didnt have the benefit of cover under her buildings insurance but, during 
the period our service can consider, she reported a claim to More Th>n which it considered. 
Even if that claim wasnt settled in Mrs Gs favour More Th>n was at risk of paying a valid 
claim from September 2016 to December 2017. Theres no evidence to indicate it wouldnt 
have settled a valid claim during that period. And More Th>ns response to my provisional 
decision provided further reasons and case law to evidence why it considered Mrs G to have 
had an insurable interest in the property she insured. It follows that, as Mrs G had the benefit 
of cover, More Th>n can fairly retain the building insurance premiums she paid.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs G but she hasnt presented any new arguments or evidence that 
persuades me that More Th>n acted unfairly in keeping the premium paid from September 
2016 to December 2017. I remain persuaded it acted fairly and reasonably when it provided 
cover and in the refund it gave Mrs G. 
In the overall circumstances, I remain persuaded that this complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
This now brings to an end what we, in trying to resolve Mrs Gs dispute with More Th>n 
informally, can do for her. Im sorry we cant help Mrs G any further on this.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2023.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman