DRN-4021189
The complaint
Miss M says Ageas Retail Limited didnt provide her with the full terms in relation to her 
motor insurance policy. That meant she believed her cover was different, and argues the 
claim should be settled along those lines instead. 
What happened
In December 2021 Miss M applied for a motor insurance policy through a price comparison 
website. The cover was underwritten by Ageas Insurance Limited, with Ageas Retail Limited 
responsible for the administration involved in setting the policy up. When Ive referred to 
Ageas below that means Ageas Retail Limited, as this complaint concerns whether Miss M 
had sufficient access to the policy terms from inception  rather than the insurers handling 
of the claim.
Once the application was complete, Ageas sent Miss M an email prompting her to create an 
account  where it said she could download her policy documents. Attached to that email 
was a welcome letter, along with the Statement of Fact (what Miss M had entered during the 
sale) and a summary of the key aspects of the cover. 
The welcome letter said: Youll find a summary of your cover over the page. Your insurance 
documents and policy information are enclosed with this letter and we recommend you 
check these thoroughly to make sure theyre accurate. Please let us know if you require any 
changes. But the insurance documents werent enclosed with the letter, so Miss M says she 
believed the summary to be the only terms relating to her contract of insurance.
In August 2022 Miss Ms vehicle was unfortunately hit, while it was parked and unattended, 
by a third party who then fled the scene. CCTV showed the incident, but the third partys 
vehicle registration couldnt be made out from the footage  so neither the insurer nor police 
were able to trace them. That meant Miss Ms insurer covered the loss and recorded it as a 
fault claim against Miss Ms policy, because there was no other party it could recover its 
outlay from (not because Miss M was in any way at fault). As the car was deemed beyond 
economic repair, and so a total loss, Miss M wasnt entitled to a courtesy car under the full 
policy terms. The insurer also offered Miss M what it calculated was the market value for the 
vehicle, immediately prior to the loss. 
Miss M realised at that point she hadnt seen the full terms of the policy, and so raised a 
complaint. She was unhappy that her insurer deemed her to be at fault, even though the 
CCTV footage showed she wasnt to blame in the incident. Miss M argued that the policy 
wording she received suggested she would be entitled to a hire car, and a new car 
replacement  and the full terms shouldnt apply, as she hadnt been made aware of them 
prior to taking out the cover. Miss M was also unhappy she hadnt been advised to protect 
her No Claims Discount (NCD), and complained she was told an incorrect excess amount.  
Some complaint points were responded to by the insurer. Ageas responded to say it thought 
the full policy terms had been made available to Miss M at inception, as it had invited her to 
download them via her online account. Ageas did say there had been some poor service, 
and confusing information around the excess amount, and offered £50 compensation by way 
of apology. Miss M wasnt happy with the response, and so referred her complaint to our 
service for review.
An investigator here didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In his view, Ageas had 
supplied enough information at inception to have enabled Miss M to navigate to her policy 
terms. He also noted the terms Miss M thought shouldnt apply were common to all motor 
insurance policies. So, in his opinion, the fair remedy wouldnt be to apply cover she would 
never have been able to achieve  even if he didnt think the full terms had been provided. 
Miss M didnt accept the investigators view and reiterated why she felt there was no reason 
to believe any additional documents were part of the contract. She stressed the argument 
she was making was a legal one, and thought her point about how the 'red hand rule should 
apply hadnt been addressed. As a result, Miss M asked for an ombudsman to reconsider 
things. So the complaint was passed to me for a final decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Miss Ms complaint. I appreciate that will come as a 
disappointment to her, but I hope my explanation offers some reassurance that an 
independent party has reviewed what happened. In reaching my decision Ive taken account 
of the relevant law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; codes of 
practice; and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. When making 
a determination of whats fair and reasonable in a given scenario, I must have regard for the 
law  though Im free to depart from it if I find that produces the fairest result.
Ive looked through all of the information thats been provided to me, and carefully 
considered every argument Miss M has made. I mean no discourtesy by not responding at 
similar length to Miss Ms submissions, or addressing every individual point shes raised. 
That just reflects the informal nature of our service as an alternative to the courts. Ill also 
make no mention in this decision of the aspects of her complaint that are better directed to 
the insurer  for instance, her complaint about how the claim was investigated, and the use 
of fault when recording it. Instead, Ive focussed on what I consider to be the two key 
questions for me to decide in relation to Ageass responsibility in the matter:
Did Ageas do enough to reasonably put Miss M on notice of the terms of her policy?
If it didnt, what does that mean for the cover that should be applied to her claim?
Miss Ms main arguments, around why Ageas didnt make her aware there were other terms 
that applied to her cover, centre on the incorrect statement in the welcome letter  that her 
insurance documents and policy information were enclosed  and the general difficulty 
shes had in finding the terms when later following Ageass instructions. I agree that line in 
the letter would have initially been confusing, but I dont agree it was reasonable to assume 
(in the context of all the suggestions Ill run through to the contrary) no other terms applied to 
her policy. 
It seems that this might have been the first time Miss M bought motor insurance (going by 
the date she passed her test), and Ive borne that in mind. Shes also mentioned when taking 
out other policies, like home and pet insurance, she usually received a full policy booklet  but I dont know whether those were purchased prior to this one. Meaning Ive not assumed 
Miss M had any detailed knowledge of how this was all meant to work. But even so, I 
consider it ought to have been reasonably apparent that not all her insurance documents 
were enclosed  particularly given the main one, her insurance certificate, wasnt. 
The pages in the welcome pack that Miss M believed were her full terms say: This 
document provides a summary of the key information for this product. Full information is 
provided in the policy documentation. So I dont think it was reasonable to conclude the 
wording on that summary page were the only terms that applied to her cover. The short 
bullet points it contained, like New car replacement, dont really make complete sense in 
insolation either (though I would interpret those three words on their own to mean theyll 
replace new cars, not you get a new car even if yours is old). But they arent meant to be 
interpreted in isolation  as the top of the page makes clear, they should be read in 
conjunction with the full information contained in the policy documentation. I appreciate Miss 
M might still have thought that was the other pages in the welcome pack, but none of those 
other pages expanded on the summary of cover that had been given. 
Throughout the messages Miss M received at inception it was repeated that she needed to 
set up her online account. I think that was clear instruction  and had Miss M done that then 
she would have seen the full terms. As soon as you go to the website Ageas directed her to, 
you are invited to view our documents  and the first one listed is the Rias Car Insurance 
Policy Booklet. As Miss M had taken car insurance, the policy booklet would clearly have 
been relevant to that cover. I appreciate Miss M might have assumed that contained the 
welcome pack shed already seen  but given all the other indications that wasnt the only 
relevant wording, as set out above, I dont think that would have been a reasonable 
assumption. Documents in the online account area also eventually disappear after 
cancellation or cover ends  which is why she cant see them now.
Ageas could certainly have made things easier and clearer  but I think it did enough to put 
Miss M on notice of the full terms of her cover. So I find, on balance, shes been treated 
fairly. Miss M has argued that the red hand rule means Ageas had to do more to highlight 
the other terms  so they shouldnt apply. The judge in that ruling said some clauses need 
to be printed in red ink on the face of the document with a red hand pointing to it before the 
notice can be held to be sufficient. But that was qualified as the more unreasonable a 
clause is, the greater the notice which must be given of it. I dont think that principle placed 
a greater expectation on Ageas in this case, as the terms Miss M has disputed werent 
unreasonable or unusual  and the summary document did highlight all the key aspects of 
cover. Miss Ms legalistic argument around what technically should or shouldnt form part of 
the contract would be better suited to court, as I cant pass judgement on the position in law.  
Even if I thought Miss M hadnt been put on notice of the full terms at all, I dont think the fair 
remedy would be to say cover should be based on her reading of the summary page. The 
terms the insurer applied to her claim were common to pretty much all motor policies  and 
the cover Miss M believed she had doesnt exist anywhere, even for a significantly higher 
premium. So I dont consider it would have been fair or reasonable to have expected Ageas 
to fill in the gaps and make the cover something that Miss M could never have ordinarily 
achieved. For the same reason, I dont think shes been prejudiced by not having sight of 
those common motor policy terms prior to the insurer applying them to her claim. 
I dont have any concerns that Miss M wasnt advised to protect her NCD, as she hadnt yet 
accrued any years to protect. There also seems to have been confusing information given 
about the excess amount, but that was eventually sorted  and the £50 compensation Ageas 
offered fairly accounts for any frustration and inconvenience caused. I know Miss M didnt 
feel Ageas had reasonably dealt with her complaint, and highlighted it had taken longer than 
the prescribed time limit to issue its final response. But it was only just outside that timeframe, if at all, and I dont think that had any impact on the claim  as Miss M would still 
have likely disputed Ageass answer through our service anyway, even if shed received it 
sooner.   
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint about Ageas Retail Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 May 2023.
 
Ryan Miles
Ombudsman