DRN-3590931
The complaint
Miss H has complained that Credit Link Account Recovery Solutions Limited are pursuing 
her for a debt which she feels they havent sufficiently proven she owes them.
What happened
This complaint surrounds a consumer credit account that was opened in 2019, and was sold 
to Credit Link in 2020.
Miss H made payments towards the account until 2022, when she sent Credit Link a series 
of letters asking them for proof she owed the money.
Credit Link provided documents such as the credit agreement and notice of assignment. But 
Miss H said she wanted things like the deed of assignment. She felt that without this, Credit 
Link were not entitled to chase her for the debt and so were harassing her, which she said 
had worsened her mental health.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Miss H 
didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked carefully at the relevant evidence here, including the signed credit agreement, 
the account statements, the notice of assignment, the electronic account data, and key 
account correspondence. The references, dates, and amounts all match up. The fact that the 
agreements signature is in a box does not change its validity  it is perfectly normal for the 
credit agreement to have a box to sign. The account was set up in Miss Hs name, using her 
address, and the goods were due to be delivered to her there. The personal details provided, 
like her date of birth and email address, match what she gave us. Miss H was sent 
correspondence about the account over the years, and she made payments up until 2022. 
So the evidence all seems to support this being a genuine debt of Miss Hs, which she was 
aware of at the time, and which she accepted was hers prior to this complaint. Ive not found 
anything which substantiates that the account is fraudulent, or which shows that the account 
belongs to anyone other than Miss H. So I think this is Miss Hs account.
Credit Link provided the relevant valid notice of assignment, which was enough to show that 
they now own the account. This means that Miss H now owes the debt to Credit Link instead 
of the original lender. Its not clear why Miss H would also like the deed of assignment, which 
is a private document between Credit Link and the original lender. The deed would contain 
commercially sensitive information that would not normally be appropriate to pass on, and it 
would not contain anything that Miss H needs to see. Further, Credit Link were not required 
to give that document to her. So I think its reasonable that they havent.
Amongst her correspondence, Miss H and her representative made some arguments about 
the enforceability of the debt. Whether or not the debt is legally enforceable is something for 
a court to decide  I do not have the power to determine that. With that said, I am aware that 
there are websites and forums which make big promises about clearing debts using obscure 
legal arguments. Just in case Miss H has been relying on those, I should warn that if 
something seems too good to be true, it usually is. I would strongly recommend seeking 
legal advice from a properly qualified and verified person before attempting to use those 
same kinds of arguments in a court.
Since Ive found that this was a genuine account of Miss Hs, which Credit Link now own, 
I think it was fair for them to contact her about it. As the debts current owner, they were 
entitled to do so. Ive not found that Credit Link corresponded with Miss H excessively or 
unreasonably. And I think its fair for them to ask Miss H to repay the debt she owes.
I hope I can assure Miss H that its normal for debts to be sold on like this. I do appreciate 
that her contract was originally with the original lender. But now that Credit Link have bought 
the debt, it means she really does owe the money to them instead. Of course, Credit Link 
still have to deal with her fairly when asking for payments, and her payments should be 
based on what she can afford. Miss H may want to get back in touch with Credit Link to see 
what assistance they can give her in repaying the account. Ill also send her the details for 
charities who can give her free, impartial advice about dealing with debt. And Miss H can 
always get back in touch with us as a separate case if she later feels that Credit Link arent 
taking account of her circumstances when working out a payment plan.
But as things stand now, I have not found that Credit Link did anything substantially wrong in 
this case, and I think its reasonable for them to ask Miss H for repayments on the debt that 
she now owes to them.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss Hs complaint in this case.
This final decision marks the end of our services involvement in the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 September 2022. 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman