DRN-2436185
The complaint
Mrs R is complaining about the administration of her credit card account by Capital One 
(Europe) plc.
What happened
Mrs R moved overseas in 2010. She was struggling to pay off her credit card debts so in 
May 2011 she contacted a UK debt charity who set up a debt management plan for her. 
They made payments to all of Mrs Rs creditors on her behalf, including Capital One.
In December 2011, Mrs R wrote to Capital One to ask them to update her address. She 
received a reply saying Capital One couldnt process her address change as the signature 
didnt match the signature on her account. The letter asked Mrs R to call Capital One. Mrs R 
says she called but couldnt pass the security questions so was unable to speak to them. 
Mrs R says the issue with the security questions was the address she gave  despite giving 
both her overseas addresses and her last address in the UK.
Mrs R says she told the debt charity about the phone call and assumed they would tell 
Capital One of her change of address. She continued to pay Capital One through the debt 
charity.
In January 2014, Mrs R wrote to Capital One to ask them to update her address again. 
Capital One wrote back and, as in 2011, said they couldnt process the address change as 
the signature didnt match the signature on her account. As in 2011, the letter asked Mrs R 
to call them.
In July 2014, the debt charity wrote to Mrs R to tell her theyd had a payment returned to 
them by Capital One. They said they needed Mrs R to provide the correct creditor name and 
account details so they could continue paying off the debt. The debt charity said they didnt 
hear any more about the debt after this.
Mrs R thought shed cleared all of her debts in March 2019. But when she moved back to the 
UK and then applied for a mortgage in May 2020, she realised she had a county court 
judgment (CCJ) in relation to her Capital One debt. Her mortgage application was rejected.
Mrs R complained to Capital One. She was upset that Capital One hadnt provided the 
correct address to the debt collection agency when theyd sold her debt in November 2012. 
Capital One said that theyd received Mrs Rs requests for them to update her address in 
December 2011 and again in January 2014. But, they said, on both occasions theyd asked 
Mrs R to call them and didnt hear from her. So they didnt update her address. They didnt 
uphold Mrs Rs complaint so she brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked at Mrs Rs complaint and didnt think Capital One had done anything 
wrong. She thought Capital One acted fairly by keeping Mrs Rs existing address details on 
their file  because they didnt have proper authorisation to change her address. And 
although she was sympathetic to the situation Mrs R found herself in, she didnt think Capital 
One had treated Mrs R unfairly or unreasonably.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I appreciate Mrs R will be disappointed, Im not upholding her complaint. Its clear 
there was a breakdown in communications between Mrs R, the debt charity and Capital 
One. And I can see that this may have been a contributing factor in a CCJ being made 
against Mrs R. However, I agree with our investigator that Capital One shouldnt be held 
responsible for this. Ill explain why.
Ive looked at the copies of the letters Mrs R sent Capital One to ask them to change her 
address. Im satisfied the signature on both of those letters doesnt match the signature on 
Mrs Rs credit agreement, so it was fair for Capital One to ask Mrs R to call them to 
authorise the address change. 
Mrs R said she wasnt able to pass the security questions when she called Capital One. 
Theres not enough information available for me to see why thats the case  Capital One 
have said they had Mrs Rs last UK address on file at the time so Im not sure what 
happened. But it seems Mrs R would have known that she hadnt successfully changed her 
address as a result. 
Mrs Rs commented that the address information that the debt charity had, and provided to 
Capital One, didnt match the information Capital One had. I can see thats true  but I cant 
see that the debt charity asked Capital One to change their records of Mrs Rs address, or 
that they had authority to do so. So I wouldnt expect Capital One to have changed their 
records of Mrs Rs address just because it didnt match the information provided to them by 
the debt charity.
Capital One passed the debt to a debt collection agency to handle in early 2012 and then 
sold it in late 2012. Theyve explained that when this happens, its up to the debt collection 
agency to inform the debtor. So I wouldnt have expected Capital One to tell Mrs R theyd 
passed the debt on. And Id expect Capital One to give the debt collection agency the 
address they held on their files  which is what they did. So I cant say Capital One did 
anything wrong when they sold the debt.
After Capital One sold the debt, they passed Mrs Rs payments on to the debt collection 
agency. I can see theres been a bit of confusion about why this stopped. The debt charity 
told Mrs R in their letter of July 2014 that theyd had a payment returned to them by Capital 
One. But neither the debt charity nor Capital One have any record of a returned payment. 
The debt charitys letter to Mrs R dated 5 June 2020 says: We checked information from 
Capital One on 11 July 2014 which suggested your account had become inactive, so we 
didnt send any further payments to Capital One after 19 June 2014. As the debt charity 
stopped sending payments to Capital One, I cant say Capital One did anything wrong in this 
respect.
In summary, Capital One didnt have the necessary authorisation to change their records in 
relation to Mrs Rs address. They passed the address details they had to the debt collection 
agency, and passed Mrs Rs payments on to the debt collection agency until those payments 
stopped in July 2014. Im satisfied theyve acted fairly.
My final decisionAs Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mrs Rs complaint about Capital One (Europe) 
plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman