DRN-3298558
The complaint
Miss W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC provided her with incorrect information about 
an outstanding debt she was unaware of.
What happened
Miss W received a letter from a third party saying she still had a debt of over £800 from her 
Barclays student account. Miss W thought shed settled her debts a few years ago. When 
shed called Barclays in 2019 to check her balances she was told they were all clear. 
Miss W said shed have taken action if shed known something still existing. So she 
contacted our service and our investigator looked into the matter.
Our investigator could see Miss W previously had two accounts with Barclays. One, with a 
balance of around £120, had been cleared in August 2015. The other account had a balance 
of just under £900. And Barclays had sold the debt to a third party in December 2020.
Our investigator contacted Barclays, but it was unable to find any record of having received 
a call from Miss W during 2019. So he couldnt fairly say Miss W had been given wrong 
information by the bank. There was no evidence of it. And he couldnt uphold Miss Ws 
complaint.
Miss W didnt agree with our investigator. She doesnt feel she should have to pay a debt 
she knew nothing about. So shes asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand how upsetting this must be for Miss W. She thought shed paid her 
outstanding debts and was surprised to receive a letter from a debt collection agency. 
From what Ive seen it appears the debt of just under £900 relates to an overdraft on 
Miss Ws student account. As payments were no longer being made towards the debt 
Barclays sold the debt to a third party in 2020. 
When a debt such as this goes into arrears its not unusual for the bank to use a debt 
collection agency to chase for payment. Or it may decide to sell the debt to another business 
who will then try and collect it instead. And thats what appears to have happened here. 
Its part of the normal debt collection process for debts to be sold or placed with another 
company after payments stop. And thats why Miss W has been contacted by the third party 
about the outstanding balance.
I can see Miss W has also raised a complaint about the company who dealt with her debt 
management plan. But this complaint is against Barclays. So Ive looked to see if Barclays 
has done anything wrong it needs to put right. 
But Ive not seen anything to suggest Barclays was responsible for the payments towards 
the plan stopping. And Ive not seen anything to show the debt has been paid off. 
I realise Miss W is sure she spoke to Barclays sometime during 2019 and was told her 
account balances were clear. But Barclays has been unable to find any record of the call or 
a discussion with Miss W. And unless Miss W is able to provide any further information I 
cant fairly say Barclays was responsible for Miss W receiving incorrect information. 
The evidence shows the debt still exists. And Ive not seen anything to suggest Barclays has 
done anything wrong in passing on the debt for a third party to collect. 
I realise Miss W will be disappointed with this outcome. And I recognise the shock she 
wouldve had if she thought her debts had been cleared. But I cant say Barclays has made 
any errors. And I wont be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 April 2022.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman