DRN-4018209
The complaint
Mr S and Ms L were undertaking a transfer of equity to remove Ms L from their joint 
mortgage and Help to Buy (HTB) loan as theyd separated. They complained to Target 
Servicing Limited about delays in the process.
Whilst Ms L is a party to this complaint because her name was originally on the HTB 
agreement, weve only been dealing with Mr S as any losses were incurred by him, rather 
than by them jointly. Any reference to Mr S in this decision should be taken to mean him and 
Ms L jointly where applicable.
The HTB scheme
The HTB scheme was a government scheme in place to support home ownership. In 
addition to the usual mortgage from a regular lender, a borrower took a shared equity loan 
funded by the government to reduce the amount of cash deposit that would be otherwise 
required.
HTB shared equity loans are secured by way of a second charge over the property, ranking 
behind the main mortgage.
Mr S and Ms Ls property was in England, and they took the shared equity loan out with 
Homes England, which was formally known as the Homes and Communities Agency.
Homes England isnt regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) but it appointed 
Target to administer the loan on its behalf. Target is regulated by the FCA.
The rules which set out the complaints our service can consider are found in the Dispute 
Resolution (DISP) section in the FCAs handbook. DISP 2.3 says that our service can 
consider a complaint if it relates to an act or omission by a firm carrying on a regulated 
activity.
The Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001 sets out the 
list of regulated activities referred to in DISP. Among the regulated activities listed is debt 
administration and debt collection.
Having considered the activities that Target was carrying out in relation to Mr S and Ms Ls 
agreement, Im satisfied that the event complained about is an activity that forms part of 
administering the loan or collecting payments, and therefore is a matter we can consider 
against Target.
What Ive decided  and why
I issued a provisional decision in February 2023, the findings of which said:
This complaint only deals with the period since 21 August 2020 and at that time Target 
was awaiting information from Mr S solicitor, and matters couldnt be progressed until that 
was received. Target received the last of the information it needed from Mr S solicitor on 
13 November 2020, so that is the starting point from which I can consider whether Target 
caused any delays. I cant consider either the period before 21 August, or the period whilst 
there was information outstanding from Mr S solicitor (which takes us to 13 November).
This wasnt a standard transfer of borrower application for Target, as it had been agreed 
that Mr S would also be borrowing extra funds from his new mortgage lender. The 
agreement of the extra funds means an extra stage was needed in the process.
Normally  for cases where there is no additional borrowing - on 13 November Target 
would have sent the deeds to Homes England for sealing, which is what the call handler  
in error  told Mr S solicitor had happened. Instead on 13 November Target sent the 
Additional Borrowing Request (ABR) paperwork to Homes England as that stage needed 
to be completed first, and it was only once the ABR was formally approved by Homes 
England that the deeds could then be sent for sealing.
That means the four to six weeks timescale that had been quoted was inaccurate, as that 
was just the timescale for the deeds part of the process. It didnt include the extra ABR 
approval stage.
Target sent the ABR to Homes England on 13 November and didnt receive the approval 
back until 8 January 2021  thats eight weeks (including the Christmas period). Target has 
said there is no set service standard for that process, but that eight weeks is longer than it 
would expect.
Upon receipt of the ABR approval Target sent the deeds to Homes England to be sealed, 
and they were received back on 30 January. That was a period of three weeks, against the 
four to six weeks that is normally allowed for that process.
Whilst Ive considered Mr S argument that Target and Homes England should have 
planned for Christmas so it shouldnt have caused any additional time to be taken, I dont 
agree. They have a set number of staff and a certain amount of work. Any period where the 
business is closed is, by default, going to mean that all applications take a little longer as 
there is still the same amount of work and the same amount of people to do it before and 
after the closure period. It is unfortunate that Mr S and Ms Ls application fell over the 
Christmas period, but I cant hold Target liable for that as it only received the last of the 
information it needed from Mr S solicitor on 13 November.
That said, I dont think it is fair to factor in a two week allowed delay for the Christmas 
period as Target has said, as that is an extended period and more than youd expect. 
Having considered everything I think allowing one week of delay is more appropriate.
The ABR and the sealing of deeds took around eleven weeks in total. Having considered 
everything I feel a total of nine weeks in total for those two processes is more appropriate  
that is one week for the Christmas period, which then would have left eight weeks for the 
ABR approval and sealing of the deeds.
This means the completed paperwork should have been sent to Mr S solicitor on 
15 January rather than 31 January  that is, 16 days sooner.
 
Mr S solicitor was told that it would be four to six weeks as the call handler didnt realise 
the ABR process would need to be completed first. This is what we call a 
misrepresentation; that is, Target gave incorrect information to Mr S (via his solicitor) about 
the timescales. When were looking at complaints about misrepresentations we consider 
the appropriate remedy is to place the consumer in the position they would be in if the 
incorrect information hadnt been given. We dont put them in the position they would be in if the misinformation had been correct (that is, it would only take four to six weeks from 
13 November).
Mr S could never have been in the position where the paperwork would have been 
completed in that timescale. For that reason, there are no grounds for me to order Target 
to do anything further in respect of this issue.
As Ive explained, I cant hold Target liable here for any delays before 13 November 2020 
as the period until 21 August 2020 doesnt form part of this complaint, and then Target was 
waiting for Mr S solicitor to provide all the outstanding information. The process then took 
around eleven weeks from 13 November, whereas I feel it should have been completed 
16 days sooner than it was.
Our investigator recommended Target pay £300 compensation to Mr S for the distress and 
inconvenience caused, which Target has accepted. Having considered everything I agree 
that is a fair and reasonable award for the delay in question and the inconvenience Mr S 
was put through due to that.
Im provisionally minded to uphold this complaint in part, and order Target Servicing 
Limited to pay Mr S:
£300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
The difference (if it shows Mr S incurred a loss) between what Mr S paid for the 
16 days delay, and what he would have paid had things completed 16 days earlier. If 
Mr S had completed 16 days earlier, then he would have had a lower interest rate for 
that time, but he also would have had a higher mortgage balance (because he was 
borrowing extra funds). Both those factors need to be taken into account in the 
calculation as those represent Mr S financial loss (or gain) due to that 16-day period. 
Target should compare;
othe interest Mr S paid for his existing mortgage (that is the lower borrowing 
amount being charged on that lenders standard variable rate) to 
othe interest he would have paid to the new lender based on the September 
2020 mortgage offer (that is, including the additional borrowing and at the new 
interest rate).
oThe calculation should be just the interest (not any capital repayment amount) 
for a 16-day period.
oI understand some of the additional borrowing was used to repay some debts. If 
Mr S can provide documentary evidence of the debts repaid, and the interest 
that was being charged on those debts, then that can be factored into the above 
calculation as part of his losses as he was charged interest on those debts for 
an additional 16 days.
Target didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mr S responded and said whilst he was 
disappointed with my findings, he was prepared to accept the outcome.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and having considered the full file afresh, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional findings.Putting things right
I order Target Servicing Limited to pay Mr S:
£300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
The difference (if it shows Mr S incurred a loss) between what Mr S paid for the 
16 days delay, and what he would have paid had things completed 16 days earlier. If 
Mr S had completed 16 days earlier, then he would have had a lower interest rate for 
that time, but he also would have had a higher mortgage balance (because he was 
borrowing extra funds). Both those factors need to be taken into account in the 
calculation as those represent Mr S financial loss (or gain) due to that 16-day period. 
Target should compare;
othe interest Mr S paid for his existing mortgage (that is the lower borrowing 
amount being charged on that lenders standard variable rate) to 
othe interest he would have paid to the new lender based on the September 
2020 mortgage offer (that is, including the additional borrowing and at the new 
interest rate).
oThe calculation should be just the interest (not any capital repayment amount) 
for a 16-day period.
oI understand some of the additional borrowing was used to repay some debts. If 
Mr S can provide documentary evidence of the debts repaid, and the interest 
that was being charged on those debts, then that can be factored into the above 
calculation as part of his losses as he was charged interest on those debts for 
an additional 16 days.
If this decision is accepted, I would ask Mr S to provide the information required to complete 
the above calculation to our investigator as soon as possible. If the documentary evidence 
about the debts repaid isnt provided then this wont be factored into the calculation.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and order Target Servicing Limited to pay compensation as 
Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Ms L to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 April 2023. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman