DRN-2334892
The complaint
Mr B complains that HSBC is responsible for his losses following a crypto-currency scam he 
fell victim to. 
What happened
Mr B says he was caught up in an elaborate scam involving crypto currency and as result 
has lost a significant amount of money. He originally complained to HSBC about a £200 
payment made to Coincorner and a £4,305.02 direct debit payment made to his own credit 
card (held with another provider) which funded further payments to the crypto scam.
 
HSBC looked into that complaint and said it couldnt consider claiming the money back 
through a chargeback as too much time had passed. It also said the direct debit payment 
was an agreement set up between Mr B and the credit card provider and he should dispute 
any scam payments made with that card with the card provider. The direct debit payment 
itself wasnt fraudulent. 
HSBC also concluded these payments werent covered by the more recent Contingent 
Reimbursement Model Code which came into force in May 2019 and isnt retrospective. 
Unhappy with HSBCs response, Mr B brought the complaint to our service. During our 
investigation of the complaint Mr B revealed he was also complaining about three payments 
made from his First Direct account to a company called Coinfloor. These were as follows:
Date Payee Amount
9 October 2017 Coinfloor £1,000
10 October 
2017Coinfloor £2,000
19 October 
2017Coinfloor £2,000
One our investigators looked into all the disputed payments. He concluded that that they 
werent unusual enough for HSBC to have intervened or consider that Mr B might have been 
the victim of a scam at the time. He carefully considered all the activity on Mr Bs account to 
conclude these transactions werent suspicious or should have caused HSBC concern at the 
time they were made. He also said Mr B was out of time to ask for a chargeback to claim 
back these funds. Overall, he didnt think HSBC had acted unfairly by not refunding Mr B. 
Mr B disagreed and said he believes HSBC is responsible for his losses and it could have 
done more to prevent the scam.
Because Mr B did not accept the investigators findings the complaint has been passed to 
me. In considering this complaint I asked HSBC if it had any further comments given that it 
originally considered a different set of disputed transactions that Mr B is now claiming HSBC 
should refund. In response HSBC said they were international payments made in 2017 so 
they also arent covered by the CRM. HSBC added it didnt see any value in attempting to 
recall the payments considering the time that has elapsed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything I cant fairly hold HSBC liable for his losses. Ill 
explain why. 
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and
conditions of their account. And Ive taken that into account when deciding what is fair and
reasonable in this case.
But the matter doesnt end there, Ive also taken into account the law, regulators rules and
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time. And I consider HSBC should, fairly and reasonably:
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including money laundering, the financing of terrorism, and fraud and 
scams.
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
So, I need to decide whether HSBC acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr B
when he made the payments from his account, or whether it shouldve done
something more.
Its not in dispute that Mr B authorised the transfers and, as Ive explained above, HSBC
had an obligation to follow his instructions. 
The first set of transactions Mr B disputes
Ive first considered the direct debit payment of £4,3056.02 that Mr B originally disputed. 
HSBC has said the direct debit payment went to Mr Bs credit card provider and I agree with 
its conclusion that this is a genuine agreement between Mr B and his card provider. I havent 
seen any evidence to suggest this payment was fraudulent in anyway or that Mr B claimed 
he didnt authorise it. I dont think it was unfair for HSBC to decline to refund this payment to 
Mr B. 
The £200 payment to Coincorner is low in value and doesnt, on the face of it, represent 
any risk of harm to Mr B. It doesnt appear to be a transaction which HSBC ought to have 
been concerned about. So, I dont think HSBC made any error in processing the transaction 
in line with Mr Bs request.
The second set of transactions Mr B disputesMr B has since asked us and HSBC to consider three payments he made to Coinfloor. 
These total £5,000. 
Here I need to decide whether HSBC acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr B 
when these payments were authorised on the account, or whether it should have done more 
than it did. Having carefully considered all of this, I think HSBC acted fairly and reasonably in 
allowing the payments to debit Mr Bs account. So, I dont think it needs to reimburse Mr B 
with the £5,000. Ill explain why in more detail. 
Theres no dispute here that Mr B authorised these payments. Because of this, HSBC had 
an obligation to follow Mr Bs instructions. But it was possible for HSBC to stop the payments 
if it had reasonably been put on notice that the funds were being misappropriated. Ive 
considered whether there was anything about the circumstances surrounding these 
payments that could have put HSBC on notice that they were being made as part of a scam.
Are the debits unusual?
HSBC isnt expected to prevent every single fraudulent transaction made. But it does have 
measures in place (as do all banks) to attempt to detect and prevent fraud and scams  and 
it does take steps to protect its customers from financial harm; including APP scams. But 
there is a balance to be struck between identifying payments that could potentially be 
fraudulent and minimising disruption to legitimate payments. And how HSBC chooses to 
configure its fraud detection systems is for it to decide. The point I need to answer here is: 
based on all the circumstances of this complaint, whether HSBC ought fairly and reasonably 
to have done more here whether its fraud prevention systems detected the payment or not. 
Having done so I dont think it should and Ill explain why.
- Mr B regularly made large payments from his account, including internal transfers 
between accounts, bill payments and card payments.
- The value of each payment doesnt stand out as being particularly large compared to 
the normal activity on Mr Bs account
- The account balance is still in credit after each of the transactions. And in particular 
after the first transaction Mr Bs account balance remains over £10,000.
- There are other large payments coming in and out of the account during the same 
time period as the disputed transactions. For example, on 9 October a bill payment 
for £17,000 is made from the account, followed by a credit of £8,800. 
- The disputed transactions are spread over a 10-day period. So, Im not persuaded a 
pattern emerged that ought to have concerned Mr B was at risk of being scammed.
- HSBC has said the payments were international. Whilst that could be an indicator of 
risk or harm, I dont think this factor, combined with others Ive considered, mean the 
transactions were unusual enough for HSBC to have intervened. 
Having considered the above the payments Mr B made to Coinfloor they dont strike me as 
particularly unusual or suspicious for the account activity. And I dont think HSBC had 
reasonable grounds to stop these payments from debiting Mr Bs account. So, I dont think 
HSBC was unreasonable when deciding not to refund to Mr B. 
My final decisionI dont uphold Mr Bs complaint against HSBC UK Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 
Sophia Smith
Ombudsman