DRN-2711264
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has unfairly declined a claim made 
under their home insurance policy.
They are being represented by a solicitor in their complaint.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P have had their Nationwide branded home insurance for a number of years. In 
April 2017, at the time of the incident claimed for, the insurer was UKI. I understand that in 
December 2017, that changed to Royal & Sun Alliance, a different insurer.
In April 2017, a post person was delivering mail to Mr and Mrs Ps home when one of their 
dogs bit the post person. Following this, in May 2017, a claim for personal injury was made 
to Mr and Mrs P. And in February 2019 legal proceedings were brought against them.
Mr and Mrs P employed solicitors to help with the claim and they were initially intending to 
defend it. However, in August 2019 they made a part 36 offer to the post person for £3,400, 
which was accepted in settlement of the personal injury and special damages claim. But this 
didnt include court costs. Mr and Mrs P are now being pursued for the post persons legal 
costs and they employed different solicitors to help with this. That solicitor noted they ought 
to have been indemnified for the event by the home insurance. And when Mrs P called UKI 
in November 2019, it confirmed there was cover under the policy for personal liability.
Mr and Mrs P submitted a claim. But this was declined. UKI said its position had been 
severely prejudiced by Mr and Mrs Ps decision to deny then admit liability, negotiate and 
then settle the claim without its written consent. It said had it been dealing with the matter, it 
would have been addressed before court proceedings were issued, significantly reducing the 
post persons legal costs and it wouldnt have been necessary for solicitors to be instructed 
to represent Mr and Mrs P.
Mr and Mrs P asked us to look into the matter, as they say they contacted the insurer in 
June 2017 and again in 2018 and were told on both occasions that cover wasnt provided 
under the policy and so they had little choice other than to arrange their own legal help.
Our investigator upheld the complaint as she was persuaded Mr and Mrs P would have 
made a claim to the insurer had they understood cover was provided. UKI didnt agree, it 
provided evidence by way of a call note which showed Mr P had contacted UKI in June 2017 
and he was told cover was provided and to submit details, but a claim wasnt submitted. It 
said the wording about submitting a claim in the policy documents was clear. And when Mrs 
P called the insurer in 2018, that was Royal & Sun Alliance and not it.
As agreement couldnt be reached the matter was referred to me for review and 
determination. I issued my provisional decision on 24 February 2021 explaining why I was 
minded to find that UKI wasnt at fault for Mr and Mrs P not pursuing their claim earlier, but 
that it should reimburse them for the personal injury costs as UKI would likely have had to 
pay those in any event. But I wasnt minded to ask UKI to pay anything towards the legal 
costs incurred as I was satisfied its position had been prejudiced. 
UKI has said it is willing to cover the personal injury costs as long as it doesnt get drawn into 
the legal costs. Mr and Mrs Ps representative has made substantial submissions which I 
summarise as:
The complaint is against Nationwide Home Insurance, it has never been 
against UKI. Doubtless it has been reinsured. Mr and Mrs P cant be 
expected to know if the insurer reinsures with others. 
There is no UK company called Nationwide Home Insurance, Mr and Mrs P 
werent told that and the literature is all the same as Nationwide Building 
Society. 
Customers and consumers are not experts in the field of insurance, Nationwide 
Home Insurance is a term only; a legal fiction.
Its been asserted that Mr and Mrs P didnt speak with UKI in 2018 but with Royal &  
Sun Alliance; all they knew was that they rang the Nationwide Claim Line. Royal & 
Sun Alliance should have told them to call UKI or go back to Nationwide  how can 
them not being told that be their fault.
An insurer hasnt been prejudiced as they were told they had no cover before legal 
proceedings started. 
For 15 months it has requested sight of this call note which has been repeatedly 
denied them. Because of this it does not believe the note will stand up to forensic or 
similar examination.
It doesnt understand how the ombudsman has asked for the £3,400 but not the legal 
costs  either Mr and Mrs Ps or the post persons.
Because of the representatives comments about the call note, I arranged for a copy of this 
to be sent to them. We asked for any further submissions to be made by 19 March 2021. To 
date we have heard nothing further and so it is now appropriate to progress this complaint to 
the final stage. 
As I havent been persuaded to change my provisional findings, I make my provisional 
decision final. In doing so, I have responded to the representatives submissions in the body 
of my findings below.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ps representative has made a lot of comments about who this complaint is 
against and the knowledge of Mr and Mrs P in relation to this matter. The product they 
bought was a Nationwide branded home insurance policy. Its for that reason the livery on 
the documents is the same as the building society  because its a branded product. 
But that doesnt mean this complaint should (or can) be against Nationwide Home 
Insurance. Indeed when the matter was referred here the representative included a final 
response which wasnt from Nationwide. It was explained to the representative the matter 
was being taken forward against UKI in October 2020, as it was the underwriter of the policy 
at the time of the event complained of  there is no such insurer as Nationwide Home 
Insurance (and so it hasnt reinsured with another party  thats when an insurer insures a 
risk with another, which isnt the case here). Im satisfied this complaint is correctly 
considered against UKI.I accept that Mr and Mrs P may be laypeople who arent experts in insurance. But Im 
satisfied they have been told who the insurer is as this information is set out the policy 
documents. So although they may have called a number in the policy booklet, that will 
invariably, as with most insurance policies, be a number for the insurer or a party that 
administers claims on its behalf. 
The starting position with any complaint about a claim made under an insurance policy is the 
terms and conditions which apply, as they form the basis of cover provided. The policy says:
D Personal Liability
Youre covered for Personal Liability
We will pay up to £5,000,000 to cover your legal liability for damages you have to 
pay if someone makes a claim against you for:
accidental death or illness of, or bodily injury to, any person
accidental loss of or damage to property.
that happens within the period of insurance on your schedule.
This will also include costs, expenses and legal fees for defending you, if we have 
agreed this in writing.
This section covers liabilities arising from you occupying your property. Any liability 
that arises solely from you owning your home, not as occupier of the property, is not 
covered under this section. 
And
Claims conditions
If you make a liability claim
For any claim you must:
send us any letter, claim, writ or summons in connections with the claim or 
potential claim as soon as you receive it, unanswered
get our written consent before admitting, denying, negotiating or settling a 
claim.
We may take over, defend or settle the claim, or take up a claim in your name for
our own benefit.
You must give us all the information and help we need.
It is clear, and UKI did not dispute, that cover was provided under the policy for the event 
claimed for  one of Mr and Mrs Ps dogs biting a post person. However, I also accepted it 
was clear, as per the terms, that Mr and Mrs P ought to have gained written consent from 
UKI before settlement was agreed or legal costs incurred.
I considered carefully Mr and Mrs Ps arguments that they were told there wasnt cover 
provided under the terms of the policy for the event. However, I found that wasnt borne out 
by the available evidence. Although UKI no longer had a copy of a call recording, I had seen 
a note from a phone call Mr P made to UKI in June 2017, which Mr and Mrs Ps representative has now been sent a copy of. This showed Mr P was told UKI would consider 
the claim subject to any conditions and exclusions, and that he should send the claim to it. 
But as Mr P didnt have a pen to take down the address, he would call back.
This was also confirmed as having taken place by Mr and Mrs Ps representative in an email 
to us of 12 January 2020, in which the solicitor said:
NW, the insurers, say that soon after the dog bite, Mr P contacted them to report it; 
he was told by them what to do, to submit papers etc and that the claim would be 
dealt with.
NW say he failed to take their address details and tailed to follow their instructions. 
Mr P says, at the time he was extremely unwell, and he simply omitted to follow 
that up. [my emphasis]
I was therefore satisfied that Mr and Mrs P were provided with the correct information, that 
cover was provided under the policy, in June 2017. I accept Mr P may have been unwell, but 
my decision remains that I dont believe I can fairly and reasonably hold UKI responsible for 
Mr and Mrs P not pursuing their claim further at the time.
Ive also considered the call Mrs P said she made in 2018. But having listened to her call of 
November 2019 with UKI, it was clear the call of 2018 took place with Royal & Sun Alliance 
not UKI, Mrs P herself explained this during the call. Whilst I accept that their home 
insurance may have remained Nationwide branded, and Mrs P may very well have called the 
number in the policy documents, any information Royal & Sun Alliance gave isnt the 
responsibility of UKI and I find no basis on which to ask UKI to do anything in relation to that.
The representative has made a number of comments about what Royal & Sun Alliance 
ought to have done during this call. Whether or not it could or should have done more is not 
something I can consider here. This complaint is against UKI  I havent seen any evidence 
that Mr and Mrs P have complained to Royal & Sun Alliance about the 2018 call which would 
allow us to consider it (a business complained about first needs to be given an opportunity to 
put matters right before we can get involved). It remains open to Mr and Mrs P to pursue 
their concerns about the 2018 call further with Royal & Sun Alliance if they wish to do so. 
Overall, whilst I accept Mr and Mrs P might not be responsible for what happened in 2018, 
as they werent speaking with UKI, it isnt fair to find it is either.  
UKI says it position has been prejudiced as a result of Mr and Mrs P actions. But the 
representative doesnt agree; particularly because Mr and Mrs P were told there was no 
cover before legal proceedings were begun. But as has been shown that isnt correct. Mr 
and Mrs P were told they did have cover by UKI. That they were told by another party they 
didnt have cover, doesnt mean it would be fair to hold UKI liable for their legal costs. 
I accepted that as the post person was bitten by one of Mr and Mrs Ps dogs, it was unlikely 
UKI would have sought to defend the claim made against them. Thats because it was Mr 
and Mrs Ps responsibility to ensure that persons on their property lawfully were kept safe 
from harm and that would include from their dogs. Indeed, I noted in its response to the 
claim, UKI said had it been dealing with the matter it would have been addressed before 
court proceedings were issued. That means almost all of the legal fees Mr and Mrs P are 
now facing would have been avoided. Im therefore satisfied UKI has been prejudiced; legal 
fees were incurred that otherwise wouldnt have been had Mr and Mrs P followed up their 
claim shortly after contacting UKI in June 2017.  I therefore dont require UKI to make any 
contributions to Mr and Mrs Ps legal costs in relation to this matter. 
However, this was a policy of indemnity, and I found Mr and Mrs P were entitled to be 
indemnified for the event that led to the legal costs being incurred. It seemed to me that had Mr and Mrs P submitted the claim when they ought to have done UKI would, at the very 
least, needed to have reached a settlement with the post person. I havent seen any 
persuasive reason why that settlement shouldnt be made now.
I understand Mr and Mrs P negotiated a settlement and I accepted that UKI might have been 
able to negotiate a lower settlement. But I wasnt necessarily persuaded that was most likely. 
My understanding was that various offers were put forward by Mr and Mrs P which were 
either declined or not responded to until the offer of £3,400 was made. I was therefore 
minded to ask UKI to pay Mr and Mrs P £3,400 in the absence of any reason why it 
shouldnt. 
UKI has agreed with my findings in this respect and has agreed to make payment of £3,400 
to Mr and Mrs P. As it has agreed, I see no reason to alter my findings in this regard.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I require U K Insurance Limited to reimburse Mr and Mrs P £3,400.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman