DRN-3040410
The complaint
Mr R and Mrs R complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE has not fairly refunded the 
premium they paid after they cancelled their travel insurance policy.   
What happened
On 17 February 2020 Mr and Mrs R paid to renew their annual worldwide multi-trip travel 
insurance policy underwritten by Great Lakes. In total they paid a premium of £1,518.18 for 
the policy. This premium included cover for a number of pre-existing medical conditions, and 
an optional Cruise Plus Cover extension. The policy came into effect on 11 March 2020 and 
was due to run until 10 March 2021.
On 1 May 2020 Mr and Mrs R emailed Great Lakes and asked to cancel their policy as they 
were unable to travel due to government guidelines concerning the Covid-19 pandemic. 
They asked for a refund of the premium theyd paid for the policy. 
Great Lakes said that it couldnt provide them with a full monetary refund as the policy had 
been cancelled outside of the 14-day cooling-off period. But it did offer them a refund worth 
£1,038.66 in the form of:
An opportunity to receive a pro rata credit towards buying a new 15-month annual policy 
for the price of 12, at the current market rates. 
    Or the opportunity to receive a pro rata credit towards buying a deferred annual policy. 
    This will be for a 12-month policy, at the current market rates. You could then choose to   
    start the cover at any time within 12 months of purchasing the policy
It also said that: 
We understand not all of our customers will want to travel abroad at the moment, therefore 
you have the option to receive a pro rata voucher credit towards buying a new UK only 
annual policy. There is also the potential to upgrade the destination area at a later date 
**subject to Terms and Conditions**.
This offer was calculated using the number of unused days of cover from 30 May 2020 and 
based on the premium paid Mr and Mrs R had paid for the standard policy cover and 
declared medical conditions - but excluding their added optional Cruise Plus cover 
extension. 
Mr and Mrs R werent happy with this offer, so they brought their complaint to our service. 
They explained that given their age and government restrictions around travel they would 
like a monetary refund rather than a credit voucher as they do not envisage travelling.
Great Lakes increased its pro-rata refund offer by £103.78. But said it couldnt give Mr and 
Mrs R a monetary refund. 
Our investigator set out the details of the relevant cancellation rights and how they applied in 
the circumstances of this case. The investigator also explained that it is a fundamental 
principle of insurance law that if the insurer had started to bear risk  for however short a 
time  the premium paid is not returnable. That means its not unreasonable for an insurer to 
keep any premiums relating to the risk it covered during that time. The investigator also 
explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of insurance to be 
performed because cover under the policy started on 11 March 2020 and the policy covered 
various risks during that time. 
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
They thought that the fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this complaint 
was for Great Lakes to provide Mr and Mrs R with a pro-rata refund of the premium they paid 
for their policy from 1 May 2020, when theyd emailed Great Lakes to let it know they wished 
to cancel the policy. The investigator said this refund should include the premium Mr and 
Mrs R had paid for the optional Cruise Plus cover extension. And should be adjusted to fairly 
reflect the discount applied to the policy at the point of sale. The investigator also felt that it 
was reasonable for Great Lakes to offer this refund in the form of a credit voucher, as the 
terms it had put forward were not unreasonably restrictive. 
Great Lakes accepted this view and agreed to adjust its refund calculation as directed by our 
investigator. 
But Mr and Mrs R didnt feel the recommendations were fair. They say they are still unable to 
travel worldwide safely, and so would like a monetary refund. So the case has been passed 
to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The policy terms and conditions say: 
Cancellation provisions
Your right to cancel the policy
Date of effect of cancellation made by you
If you ask us to cancel your policy in writing or by telephone, such cancellation shall take 
effect on the date the notice is received, or on the date specified in the notice, whichever is 
later.
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of 
your documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you have 
paid, less any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or intend to make a 
claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14 day cooling off period no premium
will be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional circumstances such as
bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical 
conditions. I am upholding this complaint to the extent that I agree with our investigators 
recommendation that Great Lakes should calculate Mr and Mrs Rs policy refund by dividing 
the actual price paid for the annual multi-trip insurance policy by the total cover length (in 
days) multiplied by days not on risk. This pro rata refund should include the premium they 
paid for the optional Cruise Plus cover extension.
I say this because:
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period and so there is no 
requirement under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a 
refund.
As Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says that where cancellation takes 
place after the 14 day cooling off period Great Lakes isnt obliged to give a refund of 
premium - though it does have a discretion to do so in exceptional circumstances. I 
dont think that the Covid-19 pandemic constitutes a situation where it would be 
reasonable to expect Great Lakes to use that discretion referred to here. The 
examples given in the clause are very personal situations such as bereavement, or 
changes concerning a policyholders medical conditions. However thats not whats 
happened here. The Covid-19 pandemic has affected the travel plans of a great 
many people.
Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-
19. In the circumstances of this case I think it is fair for Great Lakes to give Mr and 
Mrs R a pro rata refund from the date they cancelled their policy. I appreciate Mr and 
Mrs R did not claim under their policy, and government restrictions around travel 
came into force not long after it renewed. But prior to the policy cancellation Great 
Lakes was bearing the risk that they may have taken a trip, or had to cancel a 
planned trip, due to an event insured by the policy  such as illness or injury. And it is 
fair that it should retain some premium for this.
I understand from both parties that Great Lakes received notice from Mr and Mrs R 
that they wished to cancel their policy via an email sent on 1 May 2020. Mr and Mrs 
R have explained they were trying to contact Great Lakes by telephone from the 24 
March 2020 but were unable to get through. I do appreciate how frustrating this must 
have been for them. Great Lakes has explained that its level of service has been 
impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic. But I have to consider that they could have sent 
an email before this date to let Great Lakes know of their cancellation wishes sooner. 
So I think it is fair that Great Lakes calculates the refund based on the date of 1 May 
2020. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs R would prefer to receive a monetary refund rather than a 
credit voucher due to their age and on-going restrictions around travel. Theyve told 
us that they like to take cruise holidays, but dont feel they are going to be able to 
safely travel worldwide again. However, as Ive outlined, this offer is more than is 
required by both the relevant industry regulations and the policy terms. And I dont 
think the terms of the voucher are unreasonably restrictive. Mr and Mrs R do not 
have to purchase worldwide cover if they do not feel comfortable travelling worldwide 
 other options, including UK-only cover, are available. 
I can understand why Mr and Mrs R may be feeling hesitant about travel. But they did 
choose to enter into a contract with Great Lakes here when they renewed their policy 
in February 2020. And they paid a premium for that policy in return for Great Lakes accepting the risk that they may make a valid claim under the policy. The voucher 
represents the unused days of cover after their policy was cancelled. And means the 
risk Great Lakes accepted at their request is effectively moved to a future date. 
Putting things right
Great Lakes should calculate the value of Mr and Mrs Rs voucher on the following basis;
A pro-rata refund of the premium paid for the annual multi-trip insurance policy 
(including cover for pre-existing medical conditions) from the date their policy was 
cancelled. This should be calculated by dividing the actual price Mr and Mrs R paid 
for the policy by the total cover length (in days) multiplied by days not on risk.
A pro-rata refund of the premium paid for the optional Cruise Plus Cover extension 
from the date their policy was cancelled, calculated as above.
My final decision
I am upholding this complaint to the extent that Ive outlined above. I direct Great Lakes 
Insurance SE to put things right in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Jenette Lynch
Ombudsman