DRN-1975596
The complaint
Mrs W complains that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy by 
Bank of Scotland trading as Halifax (HBOS) associated with a mortgage.
What happened
Mrs W complained to HBOS that she had been mis-sold PPI. Mrs W thought that the PPI 
she had covered both her mortgage and a loan. 
HBOS said she had no PPI associated with her mortgage taken out in March 2003. But she 
did have a loan she took out in July 2004 which had PPI associated with it. 
Mrs W didnt agree with what BOS said about having no PPI with her mortgage. She said 
she had paid a monthly amount for PPI that was related to her mortgage. 
Our adjudicator said the monthly amount Mrs W was paying to HBOS, by separate direct 
debit to her monthly mortgage payment, was a for repayments to a separate loan which 
included PPI. But there was no evidence that Mrs W had taken out a PPI policy to cover her 
mortgage repayments. 
Mrs W remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to consider her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ws case.
When Mrs W brought her complaint to this service, she said it was about PPI sold to her that 
covered her mortgage. However, the reference number and figures she quoted on the 
information she submitted appeared to relate to a loan she had taken out with HBOS. 
The mortgage and loan were separate financial products, taken out at different times, the 
mortgage in March 2003 and the loan in July 2004. The mortgage was also actually taken 
out through a separate business arm of HBOS. As these were separate financial products 
with different arms of the business, they need to be considered separately. In this decision I 
am only considering the mortgage Mrs W took out and if there is evidence to show that PPI 
was taken out to cover the repayments on her mortgage.  The loan and PPI associated with 
that, will be looked at separately. 
Mrs W indicated she thought she had been mis-sold PPI that related to her mortgage. HBOS 
has said that Mrs W did not take out a PPI policy to cover her mortgage repayments in the 
case of accident, sickness and unemployment. 
HBOS does not have all the documents from the time the mortgage was taken out, which is 
not surprising as this was in March 2003 and the mortgage was repaid in full in November 
2005, so all some 15 years or more ago. Businesses are only legally required to keep 
records for six years. 
But HBOS does have some computer records of Mrs Ws accounts. These show that Mrs W 
took out a mortgage with a business that was part of the HBOS group. The mortgage, which 
was for £70,000 on a property costing £90,000, started on 31 March 2003 and ended on 
4 November 2005. 
The computer records do not show that Mrs W ever took out a PPI policy to cover her 
mortgage repayments in the event she was unable to work due to accident sickness or 
unemployment.
The information provided by Mrs W has at times has indicated she thought she was paying 
£177.88 each month for a PPI policy that covered repayments to both her mortgage and 
loan if she was unable to work. She sent in bank statements to show the monthly payment of 
the £177.88 coming out of her bank account, paid to HBOS. But the evidence from the 
business indicates that this monthly payment Mrs W was making from November 2004, was 
the amount to cover a monthly loan repayment, totally unrelated to the mortgage. 
This payment of £177.88 monthly, taken from her bank account by direct debit, was not a 
payment purely for a PPI policy as Mrs W seems to think. This payment was to make the 
monthly loan repayments to a loan she had taken out. The loan did have a PPI policy 
associated with it to cover the loan repayments, but it was totally unrelated to the mortgage 
Mrs W had. As I have said earlier, this is being looked at separately. 
I can see Mrs W was paying around £795 per month for her mortgage and a PPI policy for 
this could have cost in the region of £60 to £80 per month at that time, if a policy had been 
taken out. But a PPI policy for her mortgage would not have been anything like the amount 
of £177.88 shown as the direct debit Mrs W has referred to. The information from HBOS 
shows that £177.88 was for a loan repayment.
I have seen nothing to show Mrs W took out PPI with her mortgage or that she was paying 
for any policy taken out through BOS that would cover her monthly mortgage payments if 
she was unable to work because of accident, sickness or unemployment. 
Mrs W has during her complaint also referred to fraud and illegal acts by HBOS. This service 
is here to resolve specific complaints about financial products to reach a fair and reasonable 
outcome, based on the evidence provided by both parties. We are not the regulator of 
financial businesses, that is the Financial Conduct Authority and they would investigate 
wider allegations relating to business practises. 
I am only considering in this decision what is fair, based on the evidence presented by both 
parties about Mrs Ws mortgage and if there was a PPI policy that covered her repayments 
in relation to this mortgage for accident, sickness and unemployment. And I have seen 
nothing to show that there was such a policy.
Mrs W has also recently referred to concerns about the redemption figure she paid for her 
mortgage. This is a totally separate issue and would need to be taken up firstly with HBOS to 
obtain their view on any complaint and issues about this before it could be considered by this 
service. Based on all the evidence I have seen, I am satisfied that Mrs W did not take out PPI to 
cover her monthly repayments if she was disabled or unemployed that was associated with 
her mortgage. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I am not upholding Mrs Ws complaint that Bank of 
Scotland Plc trading as Halifax mis-sold her a PPI policy to cover her mortgage repayments. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2020.
 
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman