DRN-1715426
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold him a mortgage payment 
protection (PPI) policy.  
What happened
Nationwide only has limited records. It only knows that Mr S took out PPI prior to 1990. So it 
seems likely that it was taken out at the same time that Mr S applied for the mortgage in 
1988.  
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr S disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint and Ill explain why.
Nationwide no longer has any documentation from the sale, which isnt surprising given how 
long ago it took place. However, that does make the complaint more difficult to decide. In 
reaching my decision I have considered the information that we do have, as well as what I 
consider is most likely to have happened.
Mr S says he was led to believe that the PPI was a compulsory part of the mortgage 
agreement. 
Ive thought very carefully about what Mr S has said. I have no doubt that he has provided 
his genuine recollection of events. But the sale was a long time ago and so it wouldnt be 
surprising if Mr Ss memory has faded. From what we know of Nationwides sales processes 
at the time, the PPI was usually presented as optional. I havent seen any evidence to lead 
me to conclude that something different happened in this case. On balance, I think that its 
more likely than not that Mr S was given a choice about taking out the PPI. It seems to me 
that he probably decided to buy it, knowing that he didnt have to, even if he no longer 
remembers doing so.
I dont know if Nationwide advised Mr S to buy the policy or not. If it was an advised sale 
then, in recommending the policy to him, Nationwide would have needed to ensure that it 
met Mr Ss needs. And from what I know of Mr Ss circumstances at the time, the policy was 
suitable for him.
Mr S cant remember how much sick pay his employer would have given him. Nevertheless, 
the policy would have paid out in addition to any sick pay and potentially for longer than Mr S 
would have received full pay for. Mr S had some savings. But having the policy would have 
allowed him to retain these or use them to cover other outgoings at what would have been a difficult time. Overall, I think that Mr S had a need for the cover and could have benefitted 
from it.
I consider that Mr S would have known something about the PPI  that it would have 
covered the mortgage repayments if he was unable to work due to accident, sickness or 
unemployment  because I dont think hed have decided to buy it without knowing anything 
at all about it.
Its possible that Nationwide didnt provide as much information about the policy as it should 
have, especially about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr S wasnt affected by any of 
those things. As I think that Mr S had an interest in the cover and decided to buy it, I dont 
think that further information would have caused him to change his mind.
This means that Nationwide doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S. But 
Nationwide has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because: 
When the policy was sold, Nationwide expected to get a high level of commission 
and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr S 
about that. Because Nationwide didnt tell Mr S, that was unfair. 
 
To put that right, Nationwide has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Nationwide Building Society does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Nationwide Building Society does have to pay back to Mr S any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman