DRN-2055901
The complaint
Mr Ws unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited declined his claim made under a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
 
What happened
During the COVID-19 pandemic, Mr W agreed to be furloughed by his employer with effect 
from March 2020. His employer would pay him 80% of his wages up to a maximum of 
£2,500 a month via the governments Coronavirus Job Retention Scheme (CJRS). Mr W 
contacted Aviva to make an unemployment claim on his PPI policy from the point at which 
he was furloughed (until his return to work at the start of June 2020). 
Aviva investigated the claim before declining it. Aviva said Mr W had been furloughed and so 
remained employed. It added that the policy covered him for unemployment and not for a 
reduction in income.   
Unhappy with Avivas decision, Mr W complained to us. Our adjudicator looked into the 
complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld. He believed Aviva had acted fairly in the 
circumstances. 
Because Mr W didnt agree with the adjudicators findings, the complaint was passed to me 
to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
The starting point for me in considering Mr Ws complaint was to look at the terms of the 
policy. Most relevantly in this case, the terms say the benefits will be paid in the event of 
unemployment for more than 30 days in a row. The policy defines 
unemployment/unemployed as follows:
Having no paid work or temporary work and having a Jobseekers Agreement with the 
Department for Work and Pensions in the UK. If you are ineligible for a Jobseekers 
Agreement you must be able to provide alternative proof acceptable to us that you are 
actively seeking work in the UK.
The policy defines work as including Any paid work of at least 16 hours a week.
So, the policy requires a number of things before unemployment benefits will be paid. One of 
which is that Mr W should have had a Jobseekers Agreement (JSA), if eligible. 
From the information Mr Ws provided, he was eligible for JSA benefit for a time at least. A 
letter from his Benefit Centre dated May 2020 showed he was entitled to £74.35 a week from 
20 May 2020. The letter confirmed payments couldnt continue beyond November 2020 due 
to the level of his National Insurance Contributions. 
A further letter from Mr Ws Benefit Centre dated June 2020 included more details about his 
claim. It said his benefit ceased on 31 May 2020.
Accordingly, the evidence demonstrates Mr W was in receipt of JSA benefits from 20 May to 
31 May 2020. Theres no indication Mr W had a JSA from the time he was furloughed in 
March 2020. This suggests Mr W didnt meet the policy requirement of being unemployed 
(including having a JSA) for more than 30 days in a row.
Further, Mr Ws P45 shows his leaving date as 31 May 2020. On the basis thats correct, 
and that he returned to work at the start of June 2020, this again indicates he didnt meet the 
policy requirement of being unemployed for more than 30 consecutive days.
The policy states Aviva will accept alternative job search evidence if Mr Ws ineligible for 
JSA. In his claim form of May 2020, Mr W listed three recruitment organisations hed 
registered with. But its unclear when he first registered with them. More recently, Mr Ws 
sent us some alternative evidence which Ive considered carefully. However, that evidence is 
dated August 2020 and doesnt cover the period for which Mr W has claimed. 
Even if I considered that Mr Ws claim satisfied the above requirements, hed still have to 
show he had no paid work of at least 16 hours a week as per the policy terms. He argues 
that was the case since he was unable to work at all while on furlough. But, as the furlough 
letter from his employer stated, You should not report to work but you remain our employee. 
So, although he was prevented from doing any work, he was still employed, and I gather 
was being paid the equivalent of more than 16 hours of work a week via the CJRS.
The very nature of furlough means that Mr W wasnt unemployed at that time. Indeed, 
presumably the primary reason Mr W was furloughed was so that his employer could avoid 
terminating his employment which could have resulted in him becoming unemployed.  
Ive thought very carefully about everything Mr Ws said in support of his claim. 
Nevertheless, I dont believe its been shown to have met the policy requirements for 
claiming unemployment benefits. I dont believe that Avivas treated Mr W unfairly in 
declining his claim in the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, and while recognising Mr Ws strength of feeling on the matter, Ive 
decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman