DRN-2914448
The complaint
Mr L complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) gave him incorrect and misleading information 
when he tried to open a joint account online.
What happened
In April 2021, Mr L went on to TSBs website to apply for a joint account. The website at the 
time showed a link saying open a new account under the heading Joint account. Mr L 
took this to mean that he could open a new joint account online. However, when he tried to 
do so, only an account in his name was opened.
Mr L queried this with TSB. But TSB told him he could only open a joint account by visiting 
one of its branches. So he made a complaint, saying the information on the website was 
misleading and that as hed intended to set up a joint account with his father, the situation 
had put him a month behind for paying their bills. He also said TSB has now changed the 
information on the website to make things clearer, which shows the information it had given 
previously was incorrect and misleading.
TSB says it didnt do anything wrong and that the information on the website clearly says 
both customers need to visit a branch in order to open a joint account. But as a gesture of 
goodwill it gave him £9 to cover his expenses and £25 for the inconvenience caused.
Mr L was unhappy with TSBs response and referred his complaint to this service. Our 
investigator considered all the information from both parties, but didnt recommend that the 
complaint should be upheld. She thought some of the information might have been 
misleading on its own, but that overall the information on the website at the time was clear.
As Mr L didnt agree with our investigators assessment, the complaint has now come to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im afraid I wont be upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
I accept what Mr L says about the information on the website now being different to what it 
showed when Mr L went to apply for a joint account online in April. And I agree with Mr L that 
some of the information on the webpage at the time couldve been misleading to customers.
I say this because the screenshot Ive seen from the time Mr L applied says:
A joint account is simply a bank account in the name of two or more people. You can 
either convert your existing bank account into a joint account by adding someone 
else to it, or open a new account in two peoples names. 
There is a link over the words open a new account, which I think would suggest to 
customers that they could apply for a joint account online. However, beneath this paragraph, 
it clearly says: 
You can open a joint account or add someone to your existing account at your 
nearest branch. Youll both need to go into a branch so that you can provide 
identification in person.
I consider the webpage to have the potential to be misleading, because a customer only 
reading the first paragraph might decide to proceed to opening the account as soon as they 
saw the link to open a new account. They may not decide to read the whole webpage. So I 
think Mr L has a point. And I also think its possible that customers who read the entire 
webpage might have thought opening a joint account in branch was just another option 
available to them, rather than the only way to do this. 
However, I do think most customers who decide to read the entire webpage wouldve known 
theyd need to go into a branch to apply for a joint account. And I also think it wouldve been 
clear to customers once theyd clicked on open a new account that they would not be 
opening a joint account. This is because the subsequent webpages only ask customers for 
one persons details. I therefore think its likely most customers would know theyd need to 
take additional steps in order to complete the process of opening a joint account.
The website has now changed, and the link to open a new account in the joint account 
section has been removed. So I think TSB was aware that the information given previously 
might be misleading to some customers.
So, having found that its possible customers could be misled by the information which was 
on the old website, Ive considered the impact this had on Mr L. And having considered the 
trouble and upset this wouldve caused Mr L and the fact that I havent seen evidence of any 
financial loss, I think what Lloyds has offered already is fair and in line with what I wouldve 
awarded in the circumstances of this case. So, Im sorry to disappoint Mr L, but I wont be 
asking Lloyds to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2021.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman