DRN-4023549
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ws complaint is about their mortgage account with Lloyds Bank PLC. Mrs W, 
who has dealt with the complaint throughout, says that she was told that the reversionary 
rate on sub-account 2 of the mortgage was Standard Variable Rate (SVR). However, this 
was, in fact, incorrect and the sub-account reverted to Lloyds Homeowner Variable Rate 
(HVR) instead.
To settle the complaint Mr and Mrs W want Lloyds to put sub-account 2 onto SVR.
What happened
I do not need to set out the full background to the complaint. This is because the history of 
the matter is set out in the correspondence between the parties and our service, so there is 
no need for me to repeat the details here. Lloyds has acknowledged it made an error, so all I 
need to decide is what needs to be done to put things right.
In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont include any information that 
might lead to Mr and Mrs W being identified. So for these reasons, I will instead concentrate 
on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive 
ignored it; rather, itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the 
complaint.
The mortgage was in two parts. The original mortgage began in October 2008. This was 
redeemed in August 2017 and used to port (transfer) £290,237 onto a new mortgage. This is 
sub-account 1, and was on SVR. 
Additional borrowing of £442,423 was taken out on a fixed rate until 31 May 2022. The 
mortgage offer says After 31/05/22 the rate that will apply is Lloyds Bank Homeowner 
Variable Rate, currently 3.74% until the end of the term. This is sub-account 2.
On 21 April 2022 Mrs W spoke to Lloyds and asked what rate sub-account 2 would go onto 
after 31 May 2022. She was incorrectly told it was SVR.
Lloyds acknowledged it incorrectly told Mrs W on 21 April 2022 that sub-account 2 would 
revert to SVR and paid £75 for this mistake. 
However, Mr and Mrs W werent happy with this and escalated the complaint to our service. 
Mrs W said that she and Mr W had never been told that any part of their mortgage would 
move to HVR. 
Mrs W said that HVR hadnt been introduced until 2019, and some time after taking out the 
mortgage she and Mr W had received a letter stating that HVR, not SVR would apply to the 
fixed-rate part of the mortgage when it came to an end. Mrs W said she thinks it is unfair that 
Lloyds is allowed to change the terms of the mortgage and switch sub-account 2 onto HVR 
when it was originally meant to revert to SVR.
However, the investigator explained that the mortgage offer showed that sub-account 2 
would revert to HVR. Mrs W said that wasnt the case and that she had a mortgage offer 
which showed that sub-account 2 would revert to SVR. The investigator asked Mrs W to 
send a copy of this mortgage offer, but it wasnt provided. Instead Mrs W sent the cover 
letter for the mortgage offer.
The investigator thought the £75 paid by Lloyds for mistakenly saying that sub-account 2 
would revert to SVR was fair and reasonable, but Mrs W didnt agree and asked for an 
ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im satisfied that the mortgage offer shows that sub-account 2 will revert to HVR when 
the fixed rate comes to an end on 31 May 2022. If Mr and Mrs W had read the mortgage 
offer, Im satisfied theyd have been aware of this, as it is shown prominently in a box where 
the interest rates that apply to both parts of the mortgage are set out. So Mrs W is mistaken 
in her belief that HVR only came into existence in 2019, as clearly it existed in 2017 when 
the mortgage offer was issued.
In her conversation with the investigator Mrs W said that shed had a letter saying the fixed 
rate part of the mortgage was being changed from SVR to HVR. Mrs W said that Lloyds was 
in breach of regulations by doing this, as it couldnt make changes to the mortgage contract. 
But Ive looked at the 2017 mortgage offer and this says that HVR would apply to sub-
account 2 as a reversionary rate. Mrs W hasnt provided either a copy of a mortgage offer 
showing sub-account 2 being subject to SVR, or a copy of a letter from Lloyds saying that 
SVR was being replaced by HVR on sub-account 2. I am therefore not persuaded by 
Mrs Ws arguments in this regard, as they are not supported by any evidence to corroborate 
what she has said. 
Lloyds has accepted it made a mistake when Mrs W was told that sub-account 2 would 
revert to SVR. Where a business has made a mistake we look to see what the impact of that 
mistake is, and what would have happened if the mistake hadnt been made.
The mistake  and I must make this clear  was not that Lloyds had made an error about 
which rate the sub-account would move onto. Rather, the mistake was that Mrs W was told 
(incorrectly) that the reversionary rate was SVR, rather than the actual rate of HVR. 
Therefore, if the mistake hadnt been made, Mrs W would have been told (correctly) that the 
fixed rate part of the mortgage would revert to HVR. So for a short period Mr and Mrs W 
were under the impression that the fixed-rate part of the mortgage would be on SVR when it 
would always have been reverting to HVR.
Consequently, there is no basis whatsoever on which it would be fair or reasonable for me to 
order Lloyds to switch sub-account 2 onto SVR; thats not the rate that applies to this part of 
the mortgage. From 2017 Mr and Mrs W have known that after 31 May 2022 that part of the 
mortgage would revert to HVR, because it says so quite clearly in the mortgage offer.In the circumstances Im satisfied that the £75 already paid by Lloyds for mistakenly telling 
Mrs W that sub-account 2 would revert to SVR when, in fact, it was always going to revert to 
HVR is fair and reasonable. I therefore make no other order or award.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 29 November 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman