DRN-1827877
 
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with Invesco Fund Managers Limiteds requirements for him to verify his 
identity in relation to an investment he held with them. 
What happened
In 1996, Mr S made an investment with Invesco. It had remained untouched, with nothing in 
or out, for a number of years. 
Last May, Invesco wrote to Mr S to ask him to verify his name and address, in order to 
comply with anti-money laundering regulations. These regulations, in summary of whats 
relevant here, require companies like Invesco to maintain adequate, up to date customer 
verification records. 
Invesco say they attempted to verify Mr Ss identity using an electronic process with a credit 
reference agency. But as this wasnt successful, they wrote to him to ask for documentation. 
Given the surprise of the letter after more than 20 years, Mr S thought it might be some sort 
of scam or attempt at identity theft. So he wrote to Invesco to query this. Invesco replied to 
confirm it was them and they did need to verify his identity. They explained why they had 
asked for Mr Ss documentation and explained how and why they go about doing this, 
including what happens if the automatic process doesnt work. 
While they noted Mr S had held his investment for a long time, his identify had been verified 
using historic standards. So they needed to bring their records up to date. They explained 
how they made use of a credit reference agency, but in cases where this didnt provide 
enough information they needed to approach clients for documentation.
There were various letters back and forth covering similar ground but in short, Mr S felt that 
Invesco ought to have had enough to know they were dealing with him for various reasons, 
including that hed written to them on his business headed paper which they could link to his 
website which had his photo on. He also felt the nature of the untouched investment wasnt 
akin to the usual behaviour associated with money laundering. 
Things remained unresolved and Mr S made the decision to move his money away from 
Invesco. Although the sale was completed as requested, Invesco wouldnt release the funds 
before verifying his identity  so they let Mr S know they needed documentation for this, and 
for the bank accounts he wanted the money sent to.
 
 
Mr S approached the regulator and HMRC for help too  he felt the accusations and threat of 
holding his funds amounted to being guilty before being proven innocent. But as he remained unhappy with the position he found himself in and given how long things were 
taking to get resolved, he asked for our help. 
In the meantime, Invesco released Mr Ss sale proceeds. They say this was because they 
had been able to verify Mr Ss address following the submission of bank statements, and 
they could see his address had not changed from what theyd originally held in 1996. Once 
the transfer was made, Invesco also offered Mr S £100 in recognition of the inconvenience. 
But as Mr S still wanted to get to the bottom of the matter, one of our investigators had a 
look into things. However, he didnt think Invesco had done anything wrong. He noted that 
Invesco had to adhere to their regulatory obligations and felt the evidence theyd requested, 
as well as their electronic attempt, was reasonable. He also noted that Invesco had warned 
Mr S that any transfers could be delayed without the paperwork. 
Mr S remained unhappy  he explained his reasoning again and emphasised the stress the 
matter had caused. He felt he had been accused of money laundering and the position he 
was put in meant he was effectively guilty until he could prove otherwise. And he felt that 
many of his questions remained unanswered. Importantly, he wanted to know what the 
mismatch in information was between Invesco and the credit reference agency. As things 
remained unresolved, the case was passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 A financial firm like Invesco acts under a number of obligations. They have to look after the 
money and assets that their customers entrust to them. And they have to comply with anti
money laundering and terrorist finance requirements. Checking a customers identity plays a 
part in both. When financial firms make these checks it can be frustrating for the customer, 
but there are good reasons for them to be done  they ought to be thought of as a necessary 
inconvenience.
So it wasnt the case that Invesco suspected Mr S of money laundering. Instead, they had a 
duty to ensure they were abiding by the laws and regulations relevant to their business  
some of those requiring them to ensure theyve verified who their customers are. 
Financial firms are required to take a risk based approach and often use processes that 
try to minimise the inconvenience to customers. Invesco have explained they were reviewing 
all customer accounts and identified Mr Ss as not being verified in accordance with current 
regulations. This is understandable if there had been no contact since the investment was 
made in 1996, given requirements are more thorough now. Invesco needed to take steps to 
rectify this. 
Often financial firms check a customers identity electronically but these checks dont always 
work. There can be a number of reasons for why one of these checks might not be sufficient, 
for no fault of the customer. Broadly speaking, the check will match up personal data with 
other records and a score will be given to recognise the confidence the agency has that 
someone is who they purport to be. Whatever the reason was here, Mr S required some 
further checks, hence Invescos need to contact him. I appreciate Mr S now has a report 
from the credit reference agency and all he can see are very recent, unrelated enquiries. But 
perhaps this goes some way towards explaining why Invesco needed to ask for 
documentation  if there was not enough else recorded about him.Regardless of the reason, Invesco had to do a bit more to verify Mr S. Asking for documents 
to establish proof of identity isnt unusual or unreasonable. I appreciate Mr S says he can be 
looked up on his website. But I can understand why this isnt acceptable to Invesco  it 
wouldnt enable them to tell the difference between the real Mr S and a fraudster 
impersonating him. I also appreciate HMRC confirmed Mr Ss business isnt within the scope 
of the money laundering regulations, but that isnt what was in question here. Invesco are 
within the scope of the regulations. So they were the ones who need to verify Mr S to make 
sure they had done what was asked of them. His business does not need to worry about this 
sort of thing. So I dont agree that HMRC had agreed with Mr S in that he didnt need to do 
anything more.
While I accept the request from Invesco will have initially been unsettling given the rise of 
scams in recent years, Im satisfied Invesco explained things clearly to Mr S and their 
request was reasonable. 
Mr S questioned why Invesco could approach the credit reference agency and find out things 
about him without his permission. But these sorts of agencies are entitled to hold data on 
behalf of financial organisations. Generally, being a customer of one a financial firm means 
you will have already provided your permission for the organisation to report accurate data 
about you  this is done in accordance with the laws and rules associated with collecting and 
holding of data. And the data protection laws dont require consent before they can process 
your data, so long as they have legitimate reasons for doing so. So I dont have any 
concerns about the Invescos decision to involve the credit reference agency here. I think 
they were trying to put Mr S to as least trouble as they could by attempting to verify him 
without his involvement. 
Mr S wanted to sell his investment and it appears Invesco acted on the instruction promptly. 
Selling an investment is time sensitive, so I can appreciate why Invesco accepted this 
instruction without full checks being complete. So Mr S crystallised his investment when 
requested, meaning hes not been subjected to any adverse market movement in the 
meantime. Thereafter, there was time to make the necessary checks before releasing sale 
proceeds, which is what happened here. While the transfer wasnt for another three months, 
this wasnt Invescos fault.
I can see that last autumn, Invesco made the decision that Mr S had satisfied the verification 
checks. This was done following consideration of his bank statements as well as an internal 
process change. I can see Mr Ss money was transferred soon after. And £100 was offered 
for the inconvenience. I appreciate there were a number of letters written by Mr S and that 
he has explained the toll this matter has taken on him. But I think this is a fair sum to have 
offered and Im not inclined to say Invesco should pay any more as overall I think they were 
right to try work within their obligations and cannot see that they have acted either unfairly or 
unreasonably.
 
 
 
 
 
 My final decision
Invesco Fund Managers Limited have already made an offer to pay £100 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So my decision is that Invesco 
Fund Managers Limited should pay £100 if they have not already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2020.
Aimee Stanton
Ombudsman