DRN-1659003
 
The complaint
Mr V complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy in 2001. 
What happened
Mr V says he was mis-sold PPI, which covered his credit card. 
Barclays says that there is no evidence that any PPI premiums were ever charged. It upheld 
Mr Vs complaint but said no refunds would be due to Mr V for the PPI mis-sale or for the 
undisclosed commission.  
Our adjudicator didn't think the complaint should be upheld. Mr V disagreed, so I've been 
asked to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Vs case. 
Barclays has provided evidence that shows PPI appears to have been attached to the 
account from 2001. However, the card statement data shows that, even on the occasions 
when there was a balance owing on the account, no PPI premiums were taken. 
The statement data covers the time that PPI appears to have been attached to the account. 
But given the evidence  it also appears that Mr V never paid anything for it, even when he 
should have. Why that happened I don't know. But it means that, even if the PPI was mis-
sold, Mr V never paid for it. So I don't think he's suffered any financial loss as a result of 
having PPI. 
Ive thought about everything Mr V has said  including what he said about having pre-
existing medical conditions and his lack of knowledge of the PPI. But these points dont 
change my decision. The evidence indicates PPI was added to the account in 2001, and that 
Mr V never paid anything for it. So there is nothing to be refunded to him in respect of the 
PPI mis-sale or any other part of the complaint. 
My final decision
I've decided that there is no evidence that Mr V suffered a financial loss relating to PPI or to 
any other part of his complaint on his credit card account. As such, I don't uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2020.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman