DRN-3350615
The complaint
Mrs E has complained that American International Group UK Limited (AIG) unfairly turned 
down her business interruption insurance claim. 
What happened
Mrs E held a policy with AIG. She looked to claim on her policy after her business was 
impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments response to the pandemic. 
AIG said Mrs Es claim wouldnt be covered as the interruption to her business wasnt due to 
damage and while the policy covered a list of specified diseases, Covid-19 wasnt one of the 
diseases listed. 
Unhappy with AIGs response, Mrs E brought her complaint to our service. She said Covid-
19 couldnt have been listed as it wasnt known about when the policy was entered into and 
she would have been covered if shed been required to close due to a plague. Mrs E referred 
to force majeure and said her business had been forced to close by the Government. 
Our investigator looked into Mrs Es claim but didnt recommend it be upheld as she didnt 
think the policy provided cover for the circumstances of her claim. 
Mrs E asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Mrs Es business. However, I wont be upholding her complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. Mrs E has referred to force majeure 
but this isnt something mentioned in her policy. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if AIG has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Mrs Es claim. 
Damage
The core business interruption section of the policy covers:
Loss of Income occurring during the Indemnity Period resulting from Damage to
Trade Contents or glass insured under this policy,
            or,
the Buildings of the Premises shown in the Schedule.
The policy defines damage as Loss of, Destruction of or Damage to. 
For this to provide cover, the interruption to Mrs Es business would need to be as a result of 
loss of, destruction of or damage to Mrs Es trade contents, glass or buildings. I havent seen 
anything to indicate that the interruption to her business was caused by damage to Mrs Es 
trade contents, glass or buildings, so this doesnt cover her claim. 
Notifiable disease
The wording of the policy was amended by an endorsement document. This says that the 
policy covers an outbreak of a notifiable disease at Mrs Es premises or within a one mile 
radius of it. The policy defines a notifiable disease as a specified list of diseases, which 
doesnt include Covid-19. 
Given Covid-19 might not have been in existence at the time the policy was drafted, I 
wouldnt expect it to be included in the list of diseases. But there were similar policies on the 
market that provided cover in the circumstances of the pandemic, for example policies which 
covered all notifiable diseases as set out and updated on a Government-defined list. Mrs Es 
policy is not like this  it sets out a defined list of the diseases which are covered. And there 
is nothing in the wording of the policy which implies it would provide cover for any new 
diseases which might emerge. 
Mrs E said that if her business had been required to close because of the plague then her 
claim would have been covered. While that might be the case, AIG is entitled to decide 
which diseases it wants to cover and as it chose to cover a specified list of diseases I dont 
think the policy can fairly be read as covering all and any new diseases. Therefore, I think 
AIG has acted fairly and reasonably in finding that the policy didnt provide cover. 
I recognise this isnt the outcome Mrs E was hoping for but, having considered things very 
carefully, I cant fairly require AIG to pay her claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman