DRN-3629000
The complaint
Mr D complains that Erudio Student Loans Limited closed and defaulted his student loans 
after he missed a deferment application. 
What happened
Mr D took out student loans in 1995 and 1996. The loans became payable in 1999 and Mr D 
has completed deferment applications since that time as his income hasnt met the threshold 
required to begin repayments. Mr D applied annually and says he expected the loans to be 
written off after 25 years, in line with their terms and condition. 
In 2017 Mr D updated his address online with Erudio. But Mr D has explained he later 
moved and forgot to amend it again. 
Mr D has told us that despite forgetting to amend his address he received email reminders 
about the deferment applications he needed to complete from Erudio so continued to apply. 
But last year, Erudio wrote to Mr D about the deferment process and sent postal reminders 
that the application needed to be completed. After the deferment period ended in June 2021, 
Erudio sent Mr D arrears letters. In September 2021 the new resident wrote to Erudio to say 
Mr D no longer lived at the address on file. 
Erudio proceeded with the termination and closure of Mr Ds loan. As a result, the total loan 
amount became due and was no longer eligible for an age related write off. 
Mr D complained but Erudio said the issue had been caused after he failed to update his 
address and because it hadnt received a deferment application last year. Mr D has 
explained that due to the proximity of the age related write off after 25 years he thought the 
loans had been cancelled. Erudio didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Ds complaint and upheld it. They agreed Mr D 
hadnt updated his address but thought Erudio couldve done more to contact him avoid the 
loan closures and default. Erudio didnt respond to the investigators most recent view so 
Mr Ds complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All parties accept Mr D didnt update his address in line with the terms. Erudio has forwarded 
systems evidence to show Mr D had previously updated his address online in 2017 so knew 
what the process was. But Mr D has told us his address wasnt updated due to an oversight 
on his part, not because he didnt know how. And I accept thats the case. 
Mr D has pointed out he received deferral information for some years by email so was 
expecting to receive the same in 2021. But Erudio wrote to Mr D about the deferment and 
subsequent arrears instead. I accept that if the address was correct Mr D wouldve received 
this correspondence. But I also accept Mr D made a reasonable assumption that he would 
be contacted by email as he had in previous years. Erudio hasnt commented on why it 
changed the method of contacting Mr D about his deferments last year. 
I also think its reasonable to note that in September 2021 Erudio received returned post 
from a third party that confirmed Mr D hadnt resided at the registered address for two years. 
Erudio updated its records but continued to proceed with the account closure process that 
led to default. But we know Erudio had previously successfully corresponded via email, so I 
think it wouldve been reasonable to try and contact him that way. Erudio says it sent Mr D 
text messages, but given the seriousness of the situation, another alternative wouldve been 
to call Mr D. 
Whilst I agree Mr D ought to have updated his address, I accept it was a genuine oversight 
that persisted for some time because he was corresponding via email. Erudio hasnt 
explained why it chose to correspond in the post for 2021, but Im satisfied that change was 
also part of the background to Mr Ds deferment being missed. And Erudio was aware Mr D 
hadnt lived at the address on file in September 2021, before the loan was terminated. Im 
satisfied there were reasonable alternatives Erudio couldve considered to contact Mr D. 
 
Putting things right
In my view, the fairest way to resolve Mr Ds complaint is to rewind the current position and 
reinstate Mr Ds loans. Erudio should then consider and process a deferment application 
from Mr D for 2021. If Erudio has recorded any defaults or adverse information about the 
loans on Mr Ds credit file, it should delete it. 
Im conscious Mr D wouldve either been eligible for further deferments in 2022 or age 
related write offs. Erudio should bear this in mind when reworking the loan accounts and 
settling this case to ensure Mr D isnt disadvantaged. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ds complaint and direct Erudio Student Loans Limited to 
settle in line with the above guidance. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman