DRN-3279403
The complaint
Miss F complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) unfairly defaulted her account.
What happened
Miss F had a student account with Santander since 2016. In April 2018, the interest free 
overdraft limit, on student terms, was £1,500 and the balance was also £1,500 debit. On 12 
December 2018, with the balance the same, Santander cancelled the limit and wrote to Miss 
F to say so. On 27 December 2018 and 28 December 2018, Miss F spoke to Santander 
about her account. In March 2019, the account was defaulted and transferred to a debt 
collection agency (DCA).
Miss F complained. She said it was unfair for Santander to withdraw her student overdraft. 
She said she hadnt received any correspondence before December 2018 because shed 
moved property - and Santander wrote to her old address. And then, when she advised 
Santander of her new address (in December 2018) they took it down wrongly and so she 
didnt then get any letters. And because she hadnt got any correspondence, it was 
unreasonable for Santander to default her account as shed not been advised of her situation 
in writing. She said that when she spoke to Santander on 27 December 2018, she agreed to 
pay £1 a month and if she did that, she was told there wouldnt be a default applied.
In December 2018, Santander said that Miss Fs student terms had been cancelled as shed 
not complied with the terms and conditions of the account  which was to pay in at least 
£500 each term. So, the overdraft limit was cancelled. But there hadnt been any credits to 
her account since April 2018. Santander said theyd written several letters to her since 
September 2018. It was unfortunate that these were sent to her previous address, but shed 
not advised Santander of her new one. 
In August 2020, following a further complaint from Miss F, Santander said that in the call with 
Miss F on 27 December 2018, theyd made an error within the last three digits of the 
postcode when taking down her new address. This was a mistake  and they offered 
compensation of £50 for that. They said on the call with Miss F on 28 December 2018, they 
told Miss F that because her account was in arrears, a default would happen and they 
explained the impact this would have on Miss Fs credit file. They said they agreed that Miss 
F could pay in £10 per month to prevent further calls and letters. Miss F said she would go 
away and ask her parents to pay £100 per month and call Santander back. When Miss F 
called back on 28 December 2018, she registered her complaint. After that, five payments of 
£1 were received before her account was defaulted in March 2019 - with an entry on her 
credit file. 
Santander said Miss F was aware of her debt and had failed to pay in further funds (other 
than the £1 per month) and so the default should remain in place. They offered to re-date the 
default to August 2020, or leave the default dated March 2019. In either case, the default 
would remain on Miss Fs credit file for six years from then. 
Miss F didnt agree or accept Santanders offer of compensation. She brought her complaint 
to us. Our investigator said that Santander had acted fairly. Santander had accepted that the 
address in their records was wrong due to their error  and therefore it was unlikely that 
shed received the letters about her account after her call on 27 December 2018 and after 
that. But against that, he felt that Miss F was aware of her debt and had been told about the 
default - in the calls in December 2018. So  he considered that the default should remain in 
place.
Miss F didnt accept our investigators findings and asked that an ombudsman look at her 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are several aspects to Miss Fs complaint. She said:
It was unfair of Santander to remove her student overdraft by relying on the terms 
and conditions.
That letters before December 2018 were sent to the wrong address as she had 
moved.
That letters after 27 December 2018 were sent to the wrong address due to 
Santanders error.
As a result, she didnt get any letters about the account and the default, so the 
default should be removed.  
She had agreed with Santander that a default wouldnt be applied if she paid in £1 a 
month. Shed done that but theyd still defaulted her account.
Cancellation of Miss Fs student overdraft: 
Santanders terms and conditions say that the account should be used as a primary 
account and so it should receive at least £500 into it each term. The key facts document 
says Only one I23 Student Current Account can be open at any one time and must be used 
as your main or primary current account. Your main form of funding, for example your 
student loan, grants, parental contribution, and/or income from any parttime employment 
must be paid into it. If you dont regularly pay in your main form of funding, we may remove 
your overdraft, remove other services from your current account (or) close your current 
account.
Miss F says that it was unfair for Santander to rely on its terms and conditions. But all banks, 
including Santander do have them  and ask customers to run their accounts in line with 
them. So, I dont think they can be set aside. 
Also, I can see that Miss F didnt pay anything into her account after the last credit in April 
2018  and the day after that, the same amount (£1,335.52) was transferred out to another 
account in Miss Fs name. On the call on 27 December 2018, Miss F confirmed that she had 
directed her student loan into another bank. So  even setting aside the terms and 
conditions of the account, I think it was reasonable to expect Miss F to pay into the account 
more regularly than she did and leave the amount of the student loan in it. 
I can see also that Santander wrote to Miss F in September 2018 and asked her to pay into 
her account within the next three weeks. In October 2018, they wrote again to say the same thing. In November 2018, they wrote again in similar terms  and asked for a credit within 
the next ten days. Later November 2018, they said that Miss F should pay in at least £20 in 
the next 10 days followed by regular payments (or) well have to removeany arranged 
overdraft. This means youll need to repay the whole balance of £1,500. On 24 
November 2018, they wrote to say that Miss Fs debit card had been stopped. On 15 
December 2018  Santander wrote to Miss F to say her overdraft limit had been cancelled 
and the balance of £1,500 had to be repaid in the next ten days. So  Santander did try to 
contact Miss F and set out clearly what the position was on Miss Fs account  and what 
they wanted to happen.
Santander held the wrong address before December 2018: 
Miss F told Santander on the call on 27 December 2018 that shed moved, but not advised 
them of her new address. Therefore - the letters sent between September 2018 and 
November 2018 hadnt got to her. But  it was for Miss F to advise Santander of her new 
address, and I cant hold Santander responsible for that. They sent the letters to the last 
known address they had in their records  and thats all they can do.
Santander made an error when noting her new address on 27 December 2018:
Its not in dispute that Santander made an error. They input the wrong post code  the sixth 
digit was wrong, but the rest of the address and five digits of the postcode were correct. We 
cant be certain if this meant that Miss F did or didnt get the letters that were sent after that 
time, but as Ive said, its accepted that on the balance of probabilities, she didnt. Santander 
have offered compensation of £50 for this error  which Miss F hasnt accepted.
The default should be cancelled as Miss F didnt get any letters about it: 
This is the crux of Miss Fs complaint. Ive listened to the calls between her and Santander 
on 27 December 2018. Miss Fs account was by that time being handled by Santanders 
collections team. Santander said they wanted to agree how Miss F could pay back the debt. 
They went through her income and expenditure to see how much she could afford to pay. 
Miss F offered to pay back £10 a month, but Santander said that was too low  and said 
Miss Fs account would still go into default with payments of that amount. They explained 
this would be marked on her credit file which would affect her ability to get credit for the next 
six years. And the account might still be passed to a DCA to collect. This was stated twice to 
Miss F. They also recommended that Miss F took advice from a free debt advice agency and 
gave her the number to call. 
On the call, Santander then said that a default could be avoided by paying £100 a month  
i.e. repaying the debt in 15 months. The call handler said that would be acceptable, but it 
would still show as an arrangement to pay on her credit file  which he said wasnt as bad 
as a full default. Miss F said she wanted to avoid any effect on her credit file and so she said 
she would speak to her parents to ask them to pay that amount for her. It was left that Miss F 
would speak to them and call Santander back with her decision.
On 28 December 2018, she called back. She was asked if she had spoken to her parents, 
but Miss F didnt reply. It was left that Miss F would have to pay at least £1 a month to stop 
any contact from Santander  but they again said that her credit file would be marked with a 
default and it would affect her ability to get credit for six years, and that a transfer to a DCA 
would still take place. Miss F then asked for a copy of Santanders complaints procedure. 
Her subsequent calls on that day were to raise a complaint.
So  I think Miss F was made aware of the consequences of what was going to happen. I 
heard Santander clearly state this three times in the calls. I accept that the information was new to Miss F  and my sense of the calls was that she initially had problems understanding 
what she was being told, but I think that by the end of the calls, she must have been aware. 
Whether Miss F did in fact speak to her parents to ask them to support her and pay £100 a 
month  we dont know. If she had, then the default couldve been avoided. But - she didnt 
come forward to Santander with that proposal when she called them on 28 December 2018.
Miss F believed that paying £1 a month would avoid the default: 
I didnt hear that said by Santander on the calls. On the call on 28 December 2018, 
Santander stated that payment of £1 a month would still lead to a default and that would be 
marked on her credit file, and her account would still be transferred to a DCA.
In February 2019  Santander sent to Miss F a Notice of Default, and later that month, they 
wrote to say that a default would be registered with the credit reference agencies. But I 
accept that because of the error in Miss Fs address, she may not have received these.
So in making a decision on Miss Fs complaint: I dont think Miss F could say she didnt know 
about the debt  as she had taken the action to transfer her student loan out of the account 
in April 2018 and redirect other credits to her other bank account. And on the calls in 
December 2018  she clearly knew about the debt she owed. And before that time  it was 
her responsibility to let Santander know about her move of address but didnt.
We asked Santander about Miss Fs internet access to her account  and they showed us 
evidence that she logged onto her account up to 15 January 2019 and could also see her 
bank statements online. And so  Miss F must have been aware of the debt, even if she 
didnt get the letters from Santander. It doesnt appear that she logged on after 15 January 
2019  but she couldve done so.
Coming to what happened after December 2018   I must balance the error by Santander on 
Miss Fs address with what she was told on the calls in December 2018. And for me, Miss F 
was clearly told about her options and the consequences of what would happen. The calls 
on 27 December 2018 lasted 38 minutes  so Santander did spend sufficient time in going 
through things. Even accepting that Miss F probably didnt get the letters in February 2019  
Im persuaded that she was given sufficient and clear information on the calls for her to 
understand what was going to happen.
And so, on balance, I am not upholding Miss Fs complaint
(continued).
My final decision
Santander has already made an offer to pay £50 to settle the complaint and I think this offer 
is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Santander UK Plc should pay £50.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman