DRN-3115178
The complaint
Mr M complains that the loan he had from TFS Loans Limited was unaffordable to him.
  
What happened
Mr M took out a guarantor loan with TFS Loans on 4 April 2019. He borrowed £1,500 and 
was due to repay £85.10 monthly for 36 months.
Mr M says that TFS Loans didnt carry out enough affordability checks when he applied for 
the loan. He said that had it done so it would have been quite clear that the lending was 
unaffordable and that TFS Loans should, instead, have given him debt management advice.
TFS Loans says it asked Mr M about his income and living arrangements and verified his 
salary with a bank statement. It said Mr M lived with his parents and paid no rent. TFS Loans 
said that Mr M explained that defaults and County Court Judgements (CCJs) on his credit 
file were because hed been out of work for three years due to an accident and that he was 
repaying them monthly. It added that it asked Mr M about his other non-discretionary spend 
and found he had over £500 of disposable income each month, making the loan affordable.
Our investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. She wasnt satisfied TFS 
Loanss checks went far enough as the credit check suggested financial difficulties and it 
didnt verify Mr Ms expenditure. That said, she found the existing information was enough to 
indicate the lending was irresponsible. She recommended that TFS Loans should deduct 
any payments Mr M made from the principal and refund overpayments plus 8% interest. She 
also said it should ensure associated adverse information is removed from Mr Ms credit file.
TFS Loans responded to say, in summary, that it did not consider a three-year loan to be 
long-term and that customers should not be declined for credit purely because of past 
trauma. It said Mr M was repaying his outstanding accounts at a reduced level and that he 
could have repaid his CCJs had he chosen to. It added that it obtained full and accurate 
information before agreeing to the loan, even if the application form did not initially reflect 
that. TFS Loans said it didnt see anything to suggest Mr M could not afford the loan and it 
was entitled to rely on the information Mr M provided.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when TFS Loans lent to Mr M. Its 
rules and guidance obliged it to lend responsibly. As set out in the regulators Consumer 
Credit Sourcebook (CONC), this meant that TFS Loans needed to take reasonable and 
proportionate steps to assess whether or not a borrower could afford to meet its loan 
repayments in a sustainable manner over the lifetime of the agreement.
CONC 5.2A.4R states that:
A firm must undertake a reasonable assessment of the creditworthiness of a customer 
before:
1. entering into a regulated credit agreement; or
2. significantly increasing the amount of credit provided under a regulated credit 
agreement.
3. significantly increasing a credit limit for running-account credit under a regulated 
credit agreement.
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner was defined as being able to meet repayments out 
of normal income without the customer having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment the customer has a contractual or statutory obligation to 
make and without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on the customers 
financial situation (CONC 5.2A.12R).
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
borrower of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance, potentially by carrying out more detailed checks
the lower a persons income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make payments for an extended 
period).
In addition, as per CONC 5.2A.16G (3): For the purpose of considering the customers 
income, it is not generally sufficient to rely solely on a statement of current income made by 
the customer without independent evidence (for example, in the form of information supplied 
by a credit reference agency or documentation of a third party supplied by the third party or 
by the customer).
And CONC 5.2A.17R (2) says: The firm must take reasonable steps to determine the 
amount, or make a reasonable estimate, of the customers current non-discretionary 
expenditure.
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Ms case, I have considered the 
following questions:Did TFS Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Mr Ms loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way? 
oIf not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? 
Did TFS Loans make a fair lending decision?
Did TFS Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive seen evidence to show TFS Loans asked about Mr Ms financial circumstances, 
checked his credit file and verified his income. However, based on the information it received 
Im not satisfied that the checks carried out by TFS Loans went far enough. I say that 
because:
The loan was over a term of 36 months and TFS Loans needed to ensure the 
repayments were sustainable over that period;
TFS Loanss credit check showed:
oSix defaults, with the latest being in January 2018;
oThree CCJs with a combined balance of £4,229;
oOne further account in arrears;
oMonthly repayments on a loan, a home credit account and a defaulted 
account of £277 in total;
I accept that Mr M explained the reason for the historical financial difficulties, but I havent 
seen evidence to show he was repaying the defaults at a reduced level as TFS Loans 
suggested. Indeed, if he had the level of disposable income that TFS Loans calculated, then 
Mr M could have afforded to settle many of the defaulted accounts. As it is, with the new 
loan Mr M would have been committed to spending almost 30% of his income on credit, 
even before he made any payments towards his defaulted accounts. Therefore, I consider 
TFS Loans should have carried out further checks to fully understand Mr Ms financial 
circumstances, including verifying the expenditure hed declared.
Mr M hasnt provided any bank statements from the time, but I have seen a full credit check 
from September 2020. This shows:
Three additional defaulted accounts, two of which were in February 2019 and March 
2019;
Mr M had been making no repayments towards his defaulted accounts;
Although I havent been able to verify the expenditure Mr M declared, Im satisfied that his 
financial difficulties were not historical and he was struggling to manage his money in the 
lead up to the TFS Loans.
In summary, I find it was irresponsible to lend to Mr M and TFS Loans did not make a fair 
lending decision, although I cannot conclude that it acted unfairly or unreasonably in any 
other way.
  
My final decisionMy decision is that I uphold this complaint. TFS Loans Limited should:
Add up the total amount of money Mr M received as a result of having been given the 
loan. The repayments Mr M made should be deducted from this amount;
oIf this results in Mr M having paid more than he received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated 
from the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement*);
oIf any capital balance remains outstanding, then TFS Loans should attempt to 
arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr M. 
Remove any negative information about the loan from Mr Ms credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS Loans to deduct tax from this interest. TFS Loans 
should give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2022. 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman