DRN-3617054
The complaint
Mr C complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC wouldnt tell him how it had calculated the
Annual Percentage Rate (APR) applicable to his mortgage.
What happened
Mr C wrote to us with concerns about the APR on his mortgage held with Barclays. He said
Barclays was pretending its APR was properly calculated, but what it was really doing was
pretending the initial rate applied for the whole duration of the mortgage, which wasnt true.
He said the initial rate in his case only applied for five years, and then a higher rate (in his
case 3.59%) applies. So he said Barclays APR was a lie, and didnt allow him to compare
the market. Mr C said that the true APR was much higher than 1.8% as Barclays claims, he
said he was paying much more than that.
Mr C said that he didnt know what an APRC was, and wanted to know how Barclays could
introduce a new term.
Mr C wanted Barclays to set out for him how the APR it had given him was calculated. He
thought it must be a lenders duty to tell people that. Mr C said hed been asking this for a
very long time, and he still hadnt got an answer from Barclays.
Barclays initially provided a general explanation of its advertised mortgage rates. And it
offered him a payment of £50 because Mr C said hed had great difficulty trying to speak to
someone on the phone. But Mr C said he wanted a full calculation of how the APRC was
arrived at, which he then said was 2.8%.
When this case came to our service, Barclays hadnt been able to identify Mr Cs mortgage
account. Our investigator discussed this with Barclays, and it managed to locate the
borrowing. It then sent through a copy of Mr Cs original mortgage offer. But Mr C said this
didnt include the calculation he wanted.
Our investigator didnt think Barclays had been unfair. It had given Mr C the most information
it could when it wrote to him. It wasnt able to provide more detail, because it hadnt been
able to identify his mortgage account at that time.
Our investigator said Barclays had now sent details of Mr Cs mortgage offer. She set out for
him where in the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) handbook he could find the equation
used to produce an APRC. (APRC is short for Annual Percentage Rate of Charge.)
Our investigator explained that our service doesnt offer an accounting service, so she
couldnt make a finding on whether the figures were accurate. But she thought Barclays had
followed the approach and methods that the FCA expects businesses to use. So she didnt
think this complaint should be upheld.
Mr C replied a number of times, to say that he would not be satisfied until he received an
equation setting out how the figures were calculated. He is not prepared to calculate this
himself. And he said that Barclays must have done something wrong, because it still hadnt
given him the answer he wanted. Mr C said that the only possible explanation was that
Barclays was cheating people, and was afraid to admit it.
Mr C also said he couldnt understand why Barclays couldnt initially identify him. He said it
knew his name and address, and he felt that surely that must be enough. Mr C wanted his
complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a final decision.
I then reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
Mr C has expressed dissatisfaction with how long he has been asking Barclays to reply 
to his request on how the APRC on his mortgage account was calculated.
I think that this case may have been complicated because in his communications with 
our service, and apparently also with Barclays directly, the form of surname Mr C is 
using isnt the same as the one on his mortgage. Barclays has had some difficulty 
locating his account, as a result of this.
Barclays has now found Mr Cs mortgage, and its sent us his mortgage offer. Mr C 
wanted to know how Barclays had arrived at the APRC figure. Mr C has referred to this 
as 1.8%, but also 2.8%, and hes said that this is what Barclays is asking him to pay 
every month.
For clarity, the APRC figure on Mr Cs mortgage offer wasnt 2.8%. It was 1.8%, as set 
out on his mortgage offer.
But Barclays has never suggested that Mr C should pay 2.8% interest each month on 
his mortgage. It offered him a mortgage at an initial fixed rate of 1.29%. That rate 
applies until 31 May 2026. So thats how much interest Mr C will pay, until then.
Mr Cs mortgage will then go onto a variable rate. That variable rate is set by reference 
to the current Bank of England rate. And when Barclays made its offer to Mr C, the rate 
was 3.49% above what was then the Bank of England base rate, 0.10%.
As Mr C is probably aware, this base rate has since been changed by the Bank of 
England. And, as Mr C is probably also aware, few people end up paying this rate, as 
most people arrange a new fixed or discounted rate, once their initial fixed rate period 
ends.
The APRC is therefore a notional figure. Ive explained that its not what Mr C is paying 
on his mortgage each month. An APRC is provided because the FCA, which regulates 
mortgage providers, says that Mr C has to be given a way to compare the overall cost of 
borrowing  a number that he can easily compare to offers from other mortgage 
providers.
Of course, Mr C is probably most interested in the initial fixed rate. But he may also be 
interested to see what would happen if he stayed with Barclays after this time  would 
he be better off with Barclays over the course of his whole mortgage, or not? So 
Barclays uses the formula which the FCA requires (and which our investigator directed 
Mr C to) to work out the APRC. Thats a hypothetical interest rate, to give Mr C an idea of how much interest he would pay overall on his lending, if he stayed with Barclays 
after his fixed rate ends, and started to pay its variable rate.
As Mr C can see from the FCA Handbook, this is a complex calculation. As our 
investigator said, we dont provide an accounting or auditing service. So I also will 
refrain from making a finding that Barclays figures are accurate, although I havent seen 
anything to make me think they arent.
Ive also thought about whether I should ask Barclays to provide this calculation to Mr C, 
and Ive reached the view that Barclays isnt required to do this, to provide a fair and 
reasonable outcome to this complaint. I understand that Mr C will be disappointed not to 
have this calculation set out for him in full, but banks dont have to do something, just 
because a customer asks them to.
Here, the APRC was, as Ive explained, only ever a notional figure. It was only of 
assistance for the purposes of comparison when Mr C took out his mortgage. And the 
calculation Barclays did to arrive at a figure of 1.8% interest overall is no longer relevant 
now that the Bank of England base rate has increased considerably. For those reasons, 
I wont ask Barclays to recreate this calculation in full for Mr C now.
I can see that Barclays has also offered Mr C a payment of £50 to apologise for any 
difficulties he had in contacting it by phone. I would expect that this offer is still open to 
Mr C, and he can contact Barclays to accept this if he wishes.
I know that Mr C will be disappointed that his complaint hasnt been upheld, but I hope 
my explanation has set this in some context for Mr C.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied. Barclays said it had nothing to add, Mr C sent further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C said he was very frustrated with my decision. He said that as a minimum, he wanted 
the equation used to produce the APRC to be sent to him. He said he was able to calculate 
an APR quickly when only one interest rate was involved, but here there were two. 
The relevant equation is set out in the FCA handbook, and our investigator previously sent 
Mr C a link to that. Im not able to simply set that equation out here. Its a complex equation, 
as I noted, and I cant be confident that it will reproduce clearly and accurately in this 
decision. But I can provide a link Mr C can use to take him straight to the equation  
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/MCOB/10A/2.html
Mr C may find he doesnt have all of the information needed to work through this equation. If 
so, then I would say Barclays doesnt have to give him the additional information, for the 
same reasons I said it doesnt have to provide a worked calculation for him  it was only ever 
a notional figure, and is no longer relevant now the Bank of England base rate has changed. 
Mr C also repeated the reasons why he thought Barclays should have been able to locate 
his records immediately. But, as I noted in my provisional decision above, the form of 
surname Mr C is using in his communications with our service, and apparently also with Barclays directly, isnt quite the same as the one on his mortgage. I still think this is likely to 
be the cause of any delays in locating Mr Cs information.
I have considered Mr Cs further comments, but I havent changed my mind. Ill now make 
the decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman