DRN-4392241
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about AXA Insurance UK Plcs handling of a claim they made under 
their home insurance policy.
AXA is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agents. As AXA has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the agents, in 
my decision, any reference to AXA includes the actions of the agents. 
What happened
In late 2022, Mr and Mrs W made a claim under their home insurance policy with AXA after 
an escape of water caused damage to their kitchen.
AXA appointed their approved suppliers to deal with the claim and a surveyor was sent to Mr 
and Mrs Ws property to assess the damage. The surveyor offered Mr and Mrs W a cash 
settlement of £2,866.23 (less the £500 policy excess) for repairs. AXA also arranged for 
drying works to be carried out.
Mr and Mrs W provided quotes from contractors theyd found to do the work which were 
higher than the amount AXA had offered. The quote included screeding over the existing 
tiles. 
AXA thought the quotes Mr and Mrs W had provided were too high. It also didnt agree that 
screeding was necessary. It suggested that Mr and Mrs W either get another quote or it 
could arrange for its own contractors to carry out the repairs. 
Mr and Mrs W raised concerns that AXAs surveyor had underestimated the work that was 
required. They didnt think the surveyors initial inspection had been thorough enough.
Mr and Mrs W agreed for AXA to appoint its own contractors to carry out the work. But they 
were concerned that AXAs contractors wouldnt carry out repairs to a satisfactory standard 
and the floor wouldnt be screeded as their own contractors had suggested. They questioned 
why they were being asked to pay the £500 policy excess to AXAs approved suppliers. 
They also raised concerns about the communication between the various parties involved.
AXA said Mr and Mrs W were required to pay the policy excess prior to a settlement being 
issued. The contractors couldnt visit their property to begin their survey / work without 
receipt of the excess beforehand. 
AXA said the initial survey was non-invasive, meaning only the available damage would be 
considered. Should any additional damage be located during their claim, an amendment to 
the scope could be made. It said its approved suppliers would typically offer a cash 
settlement but if this was unsuitable or couldnt be agreed, AXAs own contractors could be 
instructed.
AXA acknowledged that communication from its approved suppliers had been poor and paid 
Mr and Mrs W £200 to compensate them for this.
Mr and Mrs W remained unhappy. They raised concerns that AXAs approved suppliers 
hadnt provided them with a breakdown of works as requested and didnt respond to their 
queries about the scope of works. They said they didnt want to deal with AXAs approved 
suppliers and asked for the claim to be cash settled without the excess being deducted.
In its second response to Mr and Mrs Ws complaints, AXA apologised for poor service and 
awarded them an additional £75 compensation. It said it was required to put Mr and Mrs W 
back in a pre-loss condition. The quotes Mr and Mrs W had provided from their own 
contractors included elements of betterment rather than being based on what they had 
before. 
AXA said its contractors had advised the nearest like for like replacement would be to 
provide a plywood flooring which is what had been costed for within its limit of liability. It was 
Mr and Mrs Ws choice not to proceed this way, but this was the limit of liability the insurance 
provided cover for. It said the contractors had reviewed his and confirmed they could look to 
apply a screed but there would be no difference in price.
Mr and Mrs W asked our service to consider their concerns. Our investigator thought the 
cash settlement AXA had paid Mr and Mrs W for their claim was reasonable. But he agreed 
that AXAs communication with Mr and Mrs W was poor, and he didnt think £275 was 
enough to put things right. He recommended AXA pay Mr and Mrs W a further £175.
AXA accepted our investigators outcome, but Mr and Mrs W disagreed. They said they were 
given no knowledge of the £475 reduction in settlement due to unnecessary work. They 
were never given the choice between having screed or plywood. AXA and its approved 
suppliers didnt put anything in writing. They felt £450 compensation was an insult after five 
months of stress and bullying tactics. 
Mr and Mrs W said their main issue had always been the deliberate flawed initial survey. 
They believed non-invasive was due to a lack of care on the part of the surveyor and AXAs 
refusal to accept that. 
They said they had to make up the difference in repair costs and still had the joinery repair 
outstanding. 
As Mr and Mrs W disagree with our investigators outcome, the complaint has been passed 
to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain 
why.
Cash settlement
The surveyor who attended Mr and Mrs Ws property in December 2022 completed an 
inspection summary form which described the insured repairs in the kitchen and utility room. 
The form included an amount for building repair costs of £2,866.23 and said the settlement 
offered was £2,366.23 after the policy excess had been removed. Mr and Mrs W have commented that the survey was flawed and that non-invasive was due 
to a lack of care. However, the form states that repair costs are based on insurer approved 
labour & material rates for the insured repairs evaluated during our non-intrusive inspection. 
So, I dont think the surveyor was required to pull up the floor during the inspection. 
Mr and Mrs W have shared information they received from AXAs approved suppliers with 
frequently asked questions including:
What happens if the estimates I obtain are higher than the settlement amount calculated by 
the surveyor?
Dont worry just send the estimates to us and we will review these
What happens if I find additional damage at my property?
This can happen, particularly with escape of water claims where it can take time for all the 
damage to manifest and become apparent. If you do notice additional damage following our 
inspection just get in contact with us
So, I think AXA made it clear that it would be willing to consider additional damage that 
hadnt been found in its initial non-intrusive survey.
Mr and Mrs W say that further damaged was identified during the drying company works. I 
dont think this has been disputed by AXA. But AXAs approved suppliers considered the 
quotes Mr and Mrs W provided to be too high. There was also a disagreement about 
whether or not the floor needed screeding. 
The policys terms and conditions set out how AXA settles claims. They say:
We may repair, reinstate or replace the lost or damaged property. If we cannot replace or 
repair the property we may pay you the loss or damage in cash or cash alternative (including  
vouchers and / or store cards). Where we can offer repair or replacement through a 
preferred supplier but we agree to pay you a cash or cash alternative settlement, then 
payment will not exceed the amount we would have paid the preferred supplier
I understand that AXA has paid Mr and Mrs W a cash settlement of £2,866.23 (less the 
excess). AXA has provided us with a scope of work to show that it would have paid its 
preferred supplier £2,458.65 to carry out the work. The scope includes a costing for plywood 
underlay. So, it appears to have accounted for the additional work that was discovered 
during the drying works.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs W had concerns about plywood being laid on the floor rather 
than it being screeded. However, the information theyve provided from their own contractors 
suggests that screeding was recommended because putting down plywood would be more 
expensive due to the work involved. And AXA says plywood was the nearest like for like 
replacement to what Mr and Mrs W had before. So, Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs Ws 
property wouldnt have been put back to its pre-loss position if AXAs contractors had carried 
out the repairs. 
The amount on the scope of works is lower than the cash settlement amount on the 
surveyors inspection report. I understand this is because certain items were removed, 
because they didnt need to be replaced. I appreciate Mr and Mrs W are unhappy that they 
werent informed about this. However, AXA based the cash settlement on the amount 
showing on the inspection report, which was higher. So, they dont appear to have lost out 
financially because of this. In their response to our investigators outcome, Mr and Mrs W said they understand the 
£500 excess payment. They confirmed theyd been paid £2,366.23 to settle their claim for 
repairs. Keeping in mind that the policy terms allow AXA to limit a cash settlement to the 
amount it would have paid its preferred supplier, I think the amount AXA paid to settle their 
claim was reasonable. 
Customer service
The relevant industry rules require insurers to handle claims promptly and fairly. It should 
provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate 
information on its progress.
AXA has acknowledged that the service Mr and Mrs W received from it and its agents was 
poor. Its already paid Mr and Mrs W £275 for distress and inconvenience and has agreed to 
our investigators recommendation to pay them an additional £175. So, Ive needed to think 
about whether or not a total of £450 is sufficient compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience theyve experienced.
From what Ive seen, I think AXAs communication with Mr and Mrs W throughout the claim 
was poor. It didnt explain that the cash settlement wouldnt be paid until after the drying 
works were completed. Mr and Mrs W also raised concerns that AXAs supplier hadnt 
confirmed that it would pay for drying work in writing and AXA hadnt been able to reassure 
them over the phone. 
Mr and Mrs W had to chase AXAs suppliers for approval for the drying company to remove 
tiles, which shouldnt have been necessary. There were also several occasions when Mr and 
Mrs Ws emails werent responded to.
I dont think AXA clearly explained the next steps for work to be carried out by its own 
contractors. It doesnt appear to have explained that it hadnt yet appointed a contractor to 
carry out the work because the £500 excess hadnt been paid. Its suppliers didnt respond to 
Mr and Mrs Ws request for a detailed breakdown of work which may have provided them 
with some reassurance about the standard of repairs to be carried out. 
In its response to Mr and Mrs Ws complaint, AXA said that its contractors could have looked 
to apply a screed rather than plywood and there would be no difference in the prices for this. 
However, it doesnt look like this was communicated with Mr and Mrs W at the time. 
Mr and Mrs W have commented that the compensation our investigator recommended was 
no more than a slap on the wrist for AXA who did not meet their professional standards in 
anyway. To be clear, our service doesnt have the power to fine or punish a business. We 
can only consider the impact of its actions and award compensation to put things right.
I dont doubt that Mr and Mrs W were caused considerable distress, upset and worry over a 
number of months because of AXAs poor handling of their claim. However, £450 is in line 
with the compensation our service would typically award for distress and inconvenience 
under the circumstances. So, while I empathise with Mr and Mrs W, I havent found reason 
to increase this.
Putting things right
Pay Mr and Mrs W £175 for distress and inconvenience.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint and direct AXA Insurance 
UK Plc to put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman