DRN-4490686
The complaint
Ms R complains that Close Brothers Limited (Close Brothers) supplied her with a car that 
she wasnt happy with.
What happened
Ms R referred a complaint to us along with a representative. As the complainant is Ms R, for 
ease, I have addressed my decision to Ms R only throughout, when referring to what they 
have both told us.
Ms R acquired a used car in May 2020 from a supplying dealership. The car was acquired 
using a conditional sale agreement with Close Brothers and it was first registered around five 
and a half years earlier. The total cash price of the car was £58,000 and the duration of the 
agreement was 60 months. The mileage recorded on the agreement said the car had 
travelled 16,000 miles at the point of supply. An online advert for the car at the time said it 
had travelled 15,900 miles.
Ms R said shortly after acquiring the car, it developed faults. I wont comment further on 
these faults as our service has already responded and made findings on them in a previous 
complaint referred to us.
Ms R had also highlighted what she believed to be an intermittent engine misfire. This was 
initially investigated in April 2021 but a fault couldnt be identified. So, she said she would 
look to have it investigated further as she felt the issue persisted.
Ms R believed a possible engine misfire hadnt been fully investigated by Close Brothers and 
complained again to them.
Ms R then also complained to Close Brothers about a possible mileage discrepancy with the 
car. Ms R said she found evidence the mileage of the car had been altered significantly 
before being acquired by a possible 15,000 miles. Ms R said that she noticed the 
discrepancy through a third-party tracking application installed to the car.
In April 2023, Close Brothers provided Ms R with their final response. They explained that as 
Ms R had raised this complaint to them outside of six months since she acquired the car, 
she would need to provide evidence that the mileage of the car was incorrect and that it had 
been clocked. Close Brothers also went on to say that they checked the MOT history and 
didnt see any concerns with the mileage.
In a final response Ms R received from Close Brothers in June 2022, it said Ms R previously 
raised a complaint about the engine misfire, but they were unable to detect a misfire at the 
time of their inspection. So, Ms R had repairs completed herself to the coils and spark plugs 
to attempt to resolve the issue. Close Brothers appointed an independent inspection 
company in April 2022 and they concluded that they do not believe the fault would have 
been present or developing from the point of sale. Close Brothers offered Ms R £150 as 
compensation for any delays or inconvenience she may have suffered throughout the 
complaint. Ms R has received £150 as compensation into her account.
Ms R, unhappy with Close Brothers response, referred the complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, she didnt think the fault of the 
engine misfire was present or developing at the point of sale. And she concluded that the 
mileage of the car was likely around 16,000 miles at the point of supply after reviewing the 
MOT history.
Ms R disagreed with the investigators outcome. Ms R said, among other things, that the 
independent report showed a fault did exist and as it was intermittent in nature, Ms R 
believed it was present when the car was acquired. Ms R went on to say that the 
manufacturers dealership suggested the car had a non-standard performance upgrade, 
which likely increased the wear and tear and chances of faults arising. Ms R said the original 
advertisement clearly stated the mileage as 15,900, not 16,000 miles. Ms R also said that 
she felt the third-party tracking application installed to the car was reliable in considering the 
miles the car had likely travelled.
As Ms R disagreed with the investigators findings, the complaint was passed to me to 
decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 16 November 2023 where I explained why I didnt intend to 
uphold Ms Rs complaint. In that decision I said:
Ms R complains about the quality of a car supplied under a conditional sale agreement. 
Entering into regulated consumer credit contracts like this as a lender is a regulated activity, 
so Im satisfied I can consider Ms Rs complaint against Close Brothers.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and 
regulations. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. The CRA 
explains under a contract to supply goods, the supplier  Close Brothers here  has a 
responsibility to make sure goods are of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory quality is what a 
reasonable person would expect  taking into account any relevant factors.
I would consider relevant factors here, amongst others, to include the cars age, price, 
mileage and description. Its important to note that Ms Rs car was used. So, I dont think a 
reasonable person would expect it to be in the same condition as a new one. But, that being 
said, Ms Rs car was around five and a half years old, cost £58,000 and I think its fair to say, 
from its advertised mileage, it was below the average of a car this age. Ms R has 
complained that the mileage of the car was altered before the point of supply, so Ive made 
comments about it later in my findings. But, considering all the relevant factors above, I think 
a reasonable person wouldve expected the car to be in good condition, free from anything 
other than very minor issues and would expect trouble free motoring for some time.
The CRA also explains that goods must be as described. So, the car shouldve been 
advertised and sold to Ms R with an accurate mileage.
What I need to decide in this case is whether the car was of satisfactory quality or not, and 
whether it was as described. The first thing to consider is whether the car developed a fault.
Ms R provided a copy of the report conducted by an independent third-party in April 2022. 
The report said,
In our opinion based on the visible evidence we would conclude that the vehicle did display 
evidence of misfire..The report concluded the car did display evidence of an engine misfire and this is consistent 
with what Ms R has said. So, Im satisfied that there was a fault with the car.
The report went on to say,
The faults would not have been present or developing at policy inception We note the 
vehicle covered 12,325 miles since hire to the date of our inspection.
I appreciate Ms R believes the fault with the engine was likely present when the car was 
acquired. However, the evidence supplied doesnt suggest so. The report conducted on the 
car is clear in explaining that the fault would not have been present or developing at the 
point of supply.
Ive noted that Ms R did have the car inspected in April 2021, but they also didnt find a fault 
with an engine misfire at the time.
Ms R also provided a copy of an email received from the manufacturers dealership where it 
gave a brief summary of the diagnostics and works carried out on the car on behalf of Ms R. 
It said the first works carried out to the car in relation to an issue with the engine was in 
February 2022  almost two years after the point of supply. I think it is likely that if an issue 
with the engine was present or developing at the point of supply, it would have been 
apparent much sooner.
So, considering everything here, I havent seen enough to persuade me that the conclusions 
of the report arent valid and Im more persuaded by what has been stated in the 
independent report. It follows that Im satisfied the engine misfire fault wasnt present or 
developing at the point of supply.
Ms R believes the car had a non-standard performance upgrade, which might have 
increased the chances of faults arising. Im mindful no further evidence has been provided to 
show modifications to the engine, such as full diagnostics or an independent report. Ive 
noted that the manufacturers dealership suggested the car to be tested on a dynamometer, 
but no test has been conducted nor a report of its findings provided. Im also mindful that the 
independent report provided doesnt state that the car had a performance enhancement to 
the engine. So, from what I have seen, I dont think it is likely the car has had a performance 
upgrade. 
Ms R has said the advertisement for the car stated the mileage at 15,900, and not 16,000 
miles as stated in the agreement. I appreciate Ms Rs point here that this is different. But, I 
need to consider whats fair and reasonable. It might not be possible for a dealer to advertise 
a perfectly accurate mileage  for instance if the car was taken for a test drive, this would 
change.
Given that the two mileages are, broadly, around the same, Im satisfied the car was 
advertised with the mileage being around what was stated on the agreement.
Ms R feels strongly about the veracity of the third-party tracking application installed to the 
car in showing what the true mileage of the car to be. However, the information provided 
doesnt explain how the tracker concluded the mileage of the car is higher than that 
displayed on its odometer. And no further expert evidence has been provided to support 
what the tracker shows. Im also mindful of the MOT history of the car, which shows in 
September 2019, the cars mileage was 14,865, and in October 2020, the cars mileage was 
19,624.Ive also had in mind that no evidence has been provided from any physical inspection of the 
car. For instance, Ive been provided with no evidence to show, for example, that parts of the 
car have suffered a higher level of wear and tear than should be expected.
I want to reassure Ms R that Ive very carefully considered all of the evidence here, including 
reviewing all of the information from the app shes supplied. But, I havent seen enough to 
persuade me the mileage of the car has been clocked and tampered with and I think it is 
likely the cars mileage at the point of supply was around the mileage stated in the finance 
agreement.
In September 2023, Ms R has said that the car is awaiting further tests for which reports can 
be provided, and that she aims for the tests to be booked in for November 2023. Im mindful 
that we are already part-way through November 2023 and this complaint has been with our 
service for some time already. So, to draw a close to this complaint, I will allow both parties 
until the end of this month to make any further submissions.
Responses to the provisional decision
Ms R responded and made several further comments to my provisional decision. Among 
other things, Ms R provided further insight into her interactions with Close Brothers and with 
the manufacturers dealership. She said she didnt think a comprehensive investigation was 
carried out by Close Brothers when she raised her concerns to them.
Ms R also said that the independent report completed in April 2022 was very presumptuous 
with no technical explanation.
Ms R also went on to explain that the third-party tracking application is a well-established 
and reputable tracking organisation. Ms R also said that she believed the mileage of the car 
was adjusted before a MOT was completed, to show a smooth paper trail of mileage. 
Ms R also believed the information supplied from the manufacturers dealership showed 
there was a high chance the car had a third-party performance upgrade completed on it.
Close Brothers didnt respond to my provisional decision, before the deadline I set.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised this complaint very briefly, in less detail than has been provided, 
and largely in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think is at the heart of the matter here. Namely, did Close Brothers supply Ms R with a 
car that wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
I can see Ms R feels strongly about her complaint. If theres something Ive not mentioned, I 
havent ignored it. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point or 
argument to be able to reach what I think is a fair outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. 
This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
Ms R has suggested in her response that I havent considered or reviewed her previous 
complaint made to Close Brothers, which was also referred to our service. To be clear, I 
have considered it. But as I said in my provisional decision, I wont make further comments 
on the findings made in that complaint as our service has already provided an answer to it. 
However, as our service didnt previously make a finding on the engine misfire, mileage discrepancy, or to the performance of the engine, Im satisfied I can consider those aspects 
in this decision.
Having considered the additional comments made by Ms R, Im not persuaded to change my 
opinion from the provisional decision made. Ultimately, on balance, from the evidence I have 
available to me, I dont think an engine misfire was present or developing at the point of 
supply. Having reviewed the April 2022 independent report, I accept the car has an engine 
misfire issue. I also think it is likely the engine misfire issue appears intermittently, from what 
Ms R has told our service. But I need to be satisfied that the engine misfire was present or 
developing at the point of supply. Two independent reports; one from August 2020 and the 
other from April 2022 didnt say that an engine misfire was present or developing at the point 
of supply. So, Im not satisfied that an engine misfire was present or developing at policy 
inception.
Turning my attention now to the mileage discrepancy. As I explained in my provisional 
decision, I carefully considered all the information from the app which Ms R supplied. 
However, the information provided doesnt explain how the tracker concluded the mileage of 
the car is higher than that displayed on its odometer. And no further expert evidence has 
been provided to support what the tracker shows. So, Im not persuaded to change my 
opinion from the conclusion I reached in my provisional decision.
Turning my attention now to the performance of the engine. I accept the manufacturers 
dealership said that a road test of the car found it didnt lack power and it feels quicker than 
a standard car. But in the same email, the manufacturers dealership went on to say that 
they advise for the car to be tested on a dynamometer to determine the actual power output. 
So, I dont think I can rely on these comments as further investigation was required to be 
certain that the engine had been tampered with or remapped.
Ms R previously said she was awaiting further tests for which reports could be provided. So, 
in my provisional decision, I allowed both parties further time to provide submissions; but no 
reports had been submitted by the deadline I set. I appreciate Ms Rs comments and her 
concern that tests completed could cause further damage to the car. But, without clear 
evidence or reports to the contrary, Im not persuaded to depart from the findings I initially 
made.
Im also mindful that I have given enough time for further submissions to be made, and I 
dont think it is fair to prolong my findings any further.
So, in summary, I dont think Close Brothers need to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Ronesh Amin
Ombudsman