DRN-4419347
The complaint
Mr T complains PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender (Mr Lender) gave him loans and 
his finances werent sufficiently checked before the loans were granted.
What happened
A summary of his borrowing can be found below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
instalmentshighest 
repayment per 
loan
1 £200.00 09/11/2021 26/11/2021 3 £96.35
2 £200.00 05/12/2021 31/01/2022 6 £79.88
Following Mr Ts complaint Mr Lender wrote to him to explain that it wasnt going to uphold it 
because it had carried out proportionate checks. Unhappy with this response,
Mr T referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.
An adjudicator then considered the complaint. She said Mr Lender made a reasonable
decision to provide loan 1. However, the adjudicator thought loan 2 shouldnt have been 
granted. She said this because after Mr Ts income and expenditure information was
considered (as well as the largest loan repayment) this left around £78 per month in
disposable income  which the adjudicator thought wasnt a sustainable sum.
Mr T agreed with the proposed outcome, however, Mr Lender didnt, and Ive summarised 
the points below:
An expenditure assessment was carried out which showed loan 2 to be affordable.
At this point in the lending relationship, it was entitled to rely on the information it had 
been provided. However, Mr Lender did use a precautionary uplift of Mr Ts 
expenditure by a further £167 to cover extra expenditure on shopping and travel.
This uplift was based on Office of National Statistics (ONS) data factoring in region 
and Mr Ts age. Therefore, it isnt an exact reflection of the circumstances. But even 
without this uplift the loan was affordable.
Each loan repayment reduced in value so by the final payment Mr T wouldve had to 
make he wouldve had more disposable income available to him.
At the time of loan 2, from the credit checks, Mr Lender knew that there were no 
outstanding payday loans or any forms of insolvency.
As no agreement was reached, the case was passed to me to resolve. I then issued a 
provisional decision which gave reasons why I was intending to not uphold Mr Ts compliant. 
Both sides were given an opportunity to provide further evidence.  
Mr Lender acknowledged the provisional decision and explained that it had no further 
submissions.  
Mr T didnt agree with the provisional findings, and Ive summarised his response below
After making the loan repayment he was left with too little to get through the month.
Had there been any unexpected costs  such as needed a new tyre Mr T couldnt 
have afforded it. 
Mr T said he did have issues repaying the first loan because he retuned for a great 
sum (loan 2) within a matter of days. This shouldve raised alarm bells.
At the time no mainstream lender would provide credit to Mr T and so he had to take 
loans with an inflated interest rate  and for the second loan Mr T was offered less 
than what he had applied for. 
Mr T had some concerns about the uplift that Mr Lender applied to his declared 
outgoings  he also said that as he needed credit, he made his application appealing. 
Mr T is disappointed by the outcome but is concerned that Mr Lender has given loans 
to the most vulnerable in society. 
Mr Ts bank statements show that he overspent each month and entered into an 
unarranged overdraft on a regularly basis  which further reduced his monthly 
disposable income. 
Mr T accepts the decision for loan 1  as he was a new customer, but he said for 
loan 2, there are concerns such as; the volume of creditors; missed payments and a 
lack of disposable income to support his family. Mr T says all of these factors meet 
the definition of irresponsible lending. 
A copy of the provisional findings follows this in smaller font and forms part of this final 
decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive used that
to help me decide this complaint.
Mr Lender had to assess the lending to check if Mr T could afford to pay back the amounts
hed borrowed, plus the interest due, without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way
which was proportionate to the circumstances. Mr Lenders checks couldve taken into
account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the
repayments, and Mr Ts income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Mr Lender should have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr T. These factors include:
Mr T having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr T having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time 
(reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or 
was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr T coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also suggestive 
of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr T. The adjudicator didnt think this
applied to Mr Ts complaint.Mr Lender was required to establish whether Mr T could sustainably repay the loans  not
just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr T was able to repay
his loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ts complaint.
Both Mr T and Mr Lender agreed with the outcome the adjudicator reached for loan one, so I
dont propose to reconsider that loan here because it is no longer in dispute. Instead, this
decision will focus on whether Mr Lender was right (or wrong) to have granted loan two.
Loan two
For this loan, Mr Lender asked Mr T to declare his income and expenditure details and it
also carried out a credit search.
Mr T declared his income as £2,000 per month and Mr Lender says this income was
checked through a third-party report provided by a credit reference agency. Although, the
exact results of this check havent been provided.
Mr T was asked about his monthly expenditure. This was checked and Mr Lender used data
from the ONS to where it was appropriate uplift some of the values that Mr T had provided.
Its worth saying here that the ONS values work as an average based on region, age and
homeowner status and so they arent specific to Mr T. Following the check, Mr Lender
assessed the loan on the bases that Mr Ts outgoings were £1,842 per month. This left £158
per month to afford the loan repayments.
Based solely on the income and expenditure information Mr Lender gathered Mr T had
enough disposable income to afford the loan repayments.
The adjudicator upheld this loan, because in her view, when the largest monthly repayment
was taken into account  and when thinking about the income and the expenditure figures
Mr Lender considered, it only left around £78 to cover any other expenses and so in the
adjudicators view, this wasnt enough to say the loan was sustainable.
Ive thought carefully about this and I do foresee situations where after taking account of all
of the expenditure (as well as the loan repayment) a consumer could be left with so little that
it just isnt reasonable to believe that the loan could be repaid in a sustainable manner.
However, having looked at the individual circumstances of this complaint, I dont think I can
fairly conclude that having a disposable income of at least £78 per month meant this loan
was unsustainable, and I say this for several reasons.
Firstly, the loan was structured in a way that meant each month Mr Ts payments were
slightly different  this is a result of interest being charged daily, and so as capital is repaid a
smaller amount of interest can be charged. What this means is the amount of disposable
income left over each month varied, and by the end of the loan term (assuming all payments
were met) Mr T wouldve had disposable income of nearly £120 per month  which I do think
is more than enough to cover any fluctuations in other expenditure.
Secondly, Mr T appeared to have repaid loan one without any difficulty, indeed, it was repaid
much sooner than Mr Lender had expected, it was a three-month loan that was settled in
around three weeks.
Thirdly, although Mr T had returned fairly quickly for a new loan  nine days later he hadnt
borrowed any more capital. This is I think important when looking at the context of the
relationship because it showed at the very least, that Mr Ts need for credit wasnt
deteriorating because he hadnt returned for a larger sum.Overall, given what Ive seen so far, Im intending to conclude that the amount of disposable
income Mr T had left over for one month, isnt enough to make me think that Mr Lender
wouldve concluded the loan repayments were unsustainable for him. However, that doesnt
mean Mr Lender did all it ought to have done before granting the loan.
Before the loan was approved Mr Lender also carried out credit searches and it has
provided us with a summary of the results it received from the credit reference agency. I
want to add that although Mr Lender carried out a credit search there isnt a regulatory
requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific standard.
Having looked at the credit results, Mr Lender knew Mr T wasnt insolvent either through an
Individual Voluntary Arrangement, bankruptcy or a County Court Judgement within the three
years preceding the loan.
In addition, it was given information to suggest that for the loan Mr T didnt have any
outstanding AAI loans. These are advance against income and so Mr Lender was informed
that there were no outstanding payday loans. This is evidence that could potentially show
that Mr T wasnt reliant on lending and / or was likely having financial difficulties.
However, as part of the credit search results (as well as the expenditure information)
Mr Ts outstanding Loans figure was calculated  which was the amount each month Mr T
had to pay out.
This figure would include short term loans and Mr Lender has already shown that according
to the credit search results Mr T didnt have any at the time. But Mr T has been recorded as
having £887 worth of outstanding loan payments when loan two was advanced. And this is
an increase to what Mr Lender knew at loan one  where the value was £700. So, Mr Lender
knew, that in around one month Mr Ts commitment to such expenditure had increased by
£187.
In addition, Mr Lender was aware that Mr T was already committed to spending at least 44%
of his income serving other loans  before any other costs are considered. And with the
largest loan repayment due to Mr Lender this goes up to almost 49%.
So, after the credit search results as well as the other checks Mr Lender carried out I do
think, it ought to have considered whether it knew enough about Mr Ts circumstances given
the large amount. And I say this because the greater the proportion of a consumers income
that is needed to service outstanding Loans and the fact that Mr T needed to make that
repayment over a longer period of time, the greater the risk of a consumer finding the loan
repayments unsustainable.
Given this, I do think Mr Lender ought to have carried out further checks to satisfy itself that
Mr T wasnt overindebted elsewhere with other loans or was utilising other forms of high-cost
credit. Mr Lender couldve gone about doing this a number of ways, it couldve asked to see
an up-to-date copy of Mr Ts credit file  as this may have shown Mr Lender information it
didnt receive from the credit reference agency about the types of credit Mr T had
outstanding. Or, perhaps, it couldve questioned Mr T further about his credit commitments.
Mr T has provided a copy of the credit file  it is a different one than Mr Lender wouldve
used, but it does given an overview of the outstanding commitments he had at the time. Ive
used Mr Ts credit file, to work out what sort of credit he had outstanding at the time, and
what his monthly commitments were. Having done so, I can see that Mr T didnt have any
outstanding payday loans at the time. He did have a loan with a credit union, high-cost loan
providers, one high cost instalment loan and a peer-to-peer lender  these loans were
costing him around £683 per month to service.
On top of this, he had a number of credit cards that needed to be repaid.
So overall, I do think that the amount of credit commitments that Mr Lender used for the
affordability assessment for this loan was likely to be broadly accurate  just under £900 per
month. And its clear, from the credit report that Mr T had provided, that at the time he had anumber of different loans and credit cards to service, but only one outstanding high-cost
instalment loan.
So, while in my view the affordability of the loan is quite tight and Mr Lender knew that
Mr T already had to spend quite a bit of his income on existing credit commitments, I do
think given what Mr Lender discovered in totality meant that it was just about reasonable for
it to have advanced this loan.
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment for Mr T but I have provisionally decided,
given all the evidence, to not uphold his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Lender didnt have anything further to add and Ive considered all of Mr Ts points and 
while I know this will be disappointing for him, I have reached the same conclusions as 
before for the same reasons. Ive explained why below.
Mr T has reiterated that his concerns lay with loan 2 only and so that is what I have focused 
on.  The main crux here, is that Mr T is in effect saying that he was left with too little money 
each month to cover any unexpected costs  put simply he wasnt left with enough of a 
buffer. Mr T provided the example that if needed a new car tyre he wouldnt have been able 
to afford it. 
Ive thought carefully about this and reconsidered everything that has been provided. In this 
case, Mr Lender can only assess the lending at the time when it is approved  and there 
wasnt any indication from the information Mr T provided that either his income would 
change over the life of the agreement or that his outgoings would materially change. The 
checks Mr Lender did, showrf he had sufficient disposable income to afford the repayments. 
Of course, if the checks showed Mr Lender that Mr T was left with very little at the end of the 
month, for example £5 then I wouldve had concerns about Mr Lender providing this loan to 
Mr T over six months. Whereas, in this case, I do think, given the regulations dont mention 
how much of a buffer should be left after the loan repayments are considered, that it was 
reasonable, based on the information Mr Lender obtained, for it to be confident that 
Mr T could afford his repayments  which is what it was required to do by the regulations. 
Ive also considered the fact and go into more detail about this below that Mr Lender did 
apply some uplifts to the figures Mr T had provided. In terms of the uplifts that Mr Lender 
applied, it said for example that it thought travel of £50 wasnt right and so lifted that up to 
£90 per month. Overall, the uplifts amended Mr Ts outgoings by a further £130.  
So, what Mr Lender did was in fact decrease the disposable income of Mr T when it wouldve 
been reasonable of it to have relied on the information he had provided. And while Mr T has 
been honest about making the application look as appealing as possible, I cant say in the 
circumstances that Mr Lender was wrong to have relied on what it was told or that it was 
wrong of it to add the uplifts. And with or without the uplifts the loan looked affordable. 
I appreciate, Mr T says that Mr Lender ought to have been alarmed when he retuned around 
a week later and was advanced the same amount of money. This was only the second loan 
so Mr Lender didnt have other previous lending to review in order to consider whether this 
potential quick update was out of character or not for Mr T. But in saying that I cant fairly conclude that for a second loan, for the same sum, that it 
wouldve necessarily set alarm bells ringing. I do think, if this was later in the lending chain, 
for example at loan 4, then that may have been a concern but by that point there wouldve 
been a longer lending relationship for Mr Lender to have thought about. 
Mr T says for the second loan he applied to Mr Lender for a larger amount, I dont know what 
the larger amount he applied for was  Mr T hasnt said and that information isnt contained 
with the file Mr Lender has provided. 
It is of course possible that Mr T wanted a larger sum and Mr Lender wouldnt lend that to 
him  and instead provided him with a loan of £200. The reasons for doing that are likely that 
it thought Mr T couldnt afford to take on a larger loan. But in any event, as a loan of £200 
was advanced that is what I have to consider  did Mr Lender carry out a proportionate 
check for that sum of money? Having reviewed everything, I think it did. 
Mr T says had Mr Lender reviewed his bank statements it wouldve seen his disposable 
income wouldve been reduced further due to having to pay and service an overdraft. While 
this may be the case, I dont think it had reached the point where it wouldve been 
proportionate for Mr Lender to have reviewed bank statements for a £200 loan over six 
months and I say this because, the credit file indicated no insolvency and loan 1 did appear 
to have been repaid without any obvious difficulties. 
I know Mr T considers the interest to be high and he had no choice but to take the loan 
because no mainstream creditor would lend to him. I do think it is fair to say that these loans 
attract a higher rate of interest than loans that can be typically provided from a high street 
bank. 
However, since 2015, there has been a cost cap that was put in place by the industry 
regulator. Simply put, it means a lender cant collect more than 100% of the amount 
borrowed so for example, loan 2 would mean Mr Lender couldnt collect more than £400 in 
capital, interest and charges. 
Having looked at the amount Mr T repaid to Mr Lender for loan 2; the loan was covered by 
the cost cap  and the repayment didnt exceed it or go beyond what was stipulated in the 
credit agreement. 
I can tell from Mr Ts response that he is concerned about Mr Lenders behaviour not just 
towards him but also towards more vulnerable members of society. But I am limited in scope 
to what I can actually review as part of the complaint.
I can only consider the action of Mr Lender in relation to Mr T. I cant for example review 
Mr Lenders lending practices more widely. The point Mr T has raised is more to do with the 
regulation of Mr Lender, which isnt something I can comment on or investigate. 
So, having considered everything again, I am still of the view that Mr Lender carried out a 
proportionate check which showed it that Mr T could afford the loan and the repayments 
would be sustainable for him. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im not upholding 
Mr Ts complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman