DRN-1890551
The complaint
Mr D complains he didnt receive a letter from Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc trading as Hitachi 
Personal Finance to remind him about when his interest-free period would end on his loan. 
As a result, Mr D missed the deadline and has been charged interest.
What happened
Mr D acquired a new kitchen on 10 November 2018 using a fixed-sum loan agreement with 
Hitachi. The loan was for £9,900 and had a deferred first payment period for a year. So, 
Mr D wouldnt pay any interest on the loan amount if he repaid the loan before 10 November 
2019. It was a Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) agreement. Mr D says that the salesman told him 
hed receive a letter with a reminder before the end of the BNPL period.
Later in November 2019 Mr D called Hitachi and asked for a settlement amount. Hes 
explained this is because hed not yet received a reminder. Hitachi explained that the 
deferred payment period ended on 10 November 2019. As he hadnt repaid the loan before 
this date, the interest was applied to the loan from the start date of the agreement. Hitachi 
also confirmed it had sent a reminder email to Mr D.
Mr D complained. He explained he expected a letter to arrive which is why he hadnt repaid 
the loan. He also says he hadnt received an email, and as hed always been told it would be 
a letter he wasnt looking out for an email either. He believes the interest now added on 
appears too high and would like to be able to repay the loan without any interest added due 
to Hitachi not sending him the reminder.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He explained the loan agreement made it clear 
when Mr D would have to repay the loan if he wanted to avoid paying interest. The 
investigator was also satisfied that Hitachi did send Mr D a reminder by email in September 
2019 and explained the evidence hed seen to support this.
Mr D disagreed. He said these communications shouldve been in the post, had Hitachi done 
this then he wouldnt have been charged interest. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The agreement Mr D has with Hitachi is a BNPL agreement. This means that for the first 12 
months of the agreement, Mr D doesnt have to make any payments towards the loan. It also 
means if he repays the full loan within those 12 months, he wouldnt be charged any interest 
on what he borrowed. If he doesnt repay the loan in full then interest is applied  including 
interest accrued over the first 12 months.
Mr D says he was aware of how the agreement worked and knew there was a date by which 
he needed to make payment before interest was charged. But he wasnt sure of the exact date due to the time that had passed. And hes explained he expected a letter reminding him 
when to pay, and how much. I can understand it must have been frustrating to have not 
received this letter, but Ive had to decide whether Hitachi has done something wrong here 
and I dont think it has.
Mr Ds agreement which he signed says the following:
Under this agreement you will pay 48 consecutive monthly payments of £250.55 
commencing on 10 11 2019 (Deferred First Payment Date). Subsequent payments will be 
due on the same date in each month. If by the Deferred First Payment Date you have paid to 
us the Amount of Credit in full, you will not have to pay any interestWe will send you a 
reminder before the Deferred First Payment Date.
So, I think Mr D was made aware of the date by which he needed to have repaid the loan in 
full to avoid interest. And as Mr D took out this agreement on 10 November 2018 and was 
aware that payments were deferred for 12 months, Id have expected him to know  with or 
without a reminder  that he needed to repay the loan by 10 November 2019 to avoid paying 
interest. So, I wont be asking Hitachi to deduct the interest it has applied to Mr Ds loan 
amount.
It does say on Mr Ds agreement that a reminder would be sent. And Ive seen that an email 
was sent to Mr D to the email address he provided on his loan agreement. The email was 
sent on 29 September 2019 and had a letter attached saying how much was owed and that, 
if paid by 10 November 2019, no interest would be applied. Mr D has said he didnt receive 
this email, but Im satisfied from the evidence Ive seen that it was sent to him.
I know Mr D expected to receive a letter, because this is what he was told in store when 
purchasing his kitchen. Its clear this may have been an error by the salesman, but theres 
nothing in the agreement which says Mr D would receive the reminder in the letter. And I 
dont think its Hitachis fault that Mr D had this expectation.
Mr D didnt repay his loan by 10 November 2019 which was 12 months after taking the loan 
out, and the end of the deferred payment period. So, Hitachi has applied interest on the loan 
in line with the agreement  this includes deferred interest for the first year of the agreement. 
I can see the loan agreement sets out the total amount the interest will be for the loan if it 
isnt repaid by the deferred first payment date, and if its paid monthly over the course of the 
agreement. So, I dont think Hitachi has done anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2020.
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman