DRN-3444031
The complaint
Mrs F complains about her J D Williams & Company Limited trading as Fashion World 
(JDW) store card account.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Mrs F and JDW. I wont repeat in 
detail what is already known to both parties. In my decision, Ill mainly focus on giving the 
reasons for reaching the outcome I have.
Mrs F had a store card account with JDW since 2016. Around the end of 2019 and start of 
2020, Mrs F was experiencing financial difficulty and began to pay £10 every week towards 
her account balance. Afterwards, she noticed that her account balance wasnt decreasing as 
expected and shed been charged a number of fees for late payments.
Mrs F complained to JDW and they didnt uphold her complaint. In their final response they 
said shed been charged late or missed payment fees in line with the terms of her account 
and they didnt find that theyd made any errors. Mrs F then referred her complaint to our 
Service for an independent review. Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be 
upheld and as Mrs F didnt accept their recommendations, the complaint has been referred 
to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. Similarly, I wont comment 
on every interaction between both parties here  only the key ones. However, Ive given 
careful consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Im sorry to hear of the difficult time Mrs F experienced during the COVID-19 pandemic.
When considering this complaint, I need to decide whether JDW have treated Mrs F fairly 
and reasonably overall. This includes consideration of whats happened, weighed up against 
the terms of her account and any support offered to her when she was experiencing financial 
difficulties.
When opening this store card account with JDW, Mrs F agreed to make a minimum monthly 
repayment each month. Usually this is calculated as a percentage of the outstanding 
balance. This is normal for this type of account.
Mrs F has told our Service that around the end of 2019 or beginning of 2020 she began 
making a weekly repayment of £10. Her rationale for this was she was paid monthly, 
whereas the account required the minimum repayment every 28 days. Ive considered the 
account statements and these support that Mrs F was paying £10 most weeks from around  
November 2020. 
Mrs F emailed JDW on 28 January 2021:
.Please as a goodwill gesture could you kindly investigate and refund these 
charges because I have been making regular payments.
Please kindly adjust/reset my account reflecting an arrangement of £10 weekly
preventing these charges as it only makes it worse.
My finances are stretched and your assistance with this matter is appreciated.
JDWs system notes indicate that she explained her personal circumstances and that shed 
not been working since March 2020 because of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and 
has been paying £10 per week. They also recorded her vulnerability on their system. 
As outlined in her email, she was unhappy with some of the fees charged and JDW agreed 
to refund some of these. JDW agreed to clear arrears of around £80 and refunded some of 
the fees Mrs F had been charged. This was positive and supportive. Crucially, the note from 
29 January 2021 says:
adv [advised] to cont [continue] making £10 payments. 
This is very important as it doesnt reflect that a reduced repayment has been agreed. My 
interpretation is the adviser is telling Mrs F to continue paying £10 weekly - if thats what 
affordable for her. Therefore, in the absence of an agreed deviation to the account terms, the 
normal terms of the account  which included penalty fees for late or missed payments 
apply. 
This is further supported by an email from JDW to Mrs F dated 29 January 2021:
As a goodwill gesture to help get you back on track with your payments, I have 
cleared the arrears of £78.17 on the account and brought it up to date for this 
statement period. I have also removed two administration charges. Your account 
balance now stands at £885.45 with no minimum payment due. Your next statement 
is going out on 13th February 2021.
Your payment rate going forward is £36.78, please ensure you make this 
payment by the due date on your statement, to avoid any further charges. I 
have noted you'll be making £10 weekly payments. [bold added for emphasis by 
Ombudsman]
In simple terms  theres no supporting evidence that there was any agreed deviation to the 
terms of the account between Mrs F and JDW took place. I can also see that Mrs F 
continued making a weekly repayment of around £10 relatively consistently for a number of 
months after this.
In another email from Mrs F to JDW dated 28 January 2021, she requested a COVID-19 
payment deferral. Whilst Ive seen no evidence that this was put in place, as outlined in the 
businesses holding response, this option was only available to customers whose financial 
difficulties were as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. Whilst Ive no doubt at all that the 
pandemic contributed to Mrs Fs financial difficulties, theres also clear evidence that they 
had begun prior to March 2020  as she had been making reduced weekly repayments since around the end of 2019 and had contacted JDW about her difficulties in January 2020. 
Therefore, I dont find it unreasonable if a COVID-19 payment deferral wasnt put in place. 
A further system note from March 2021 shows that Mrs F was unhappy that despite her 
weekly payments her overall balance wasnt decreasing as expected and she continued to 
be charged late payment fees and interest. In this note JDW say they advised Mrs F her 
account wasnt on a reduced repayment plan and to contact them if she was struggling 
financially.
An email from JDW to Mrs F dated 18 and 19 March 2021 outlined again that if she was 
having financial difficulties to contact them either by phone or respond to the email and 
theyd discuss options. They said: 
I have now had a look at your account and I can see that your account is not 
currently on a payment plan. In order for us to look at that request further for you, we 
need more information regarding your current circumstances...
...If for any reason you're unable to call us, please provide the following:
 As much information as you can in relation to your current and future financial
circumstances. This will help us identify the most appropriate solution for you.
 Are you currently up to date with your household priority bills? For example, 
mortgage, rent, gas, electricity, council tax etc.
 What is your current income source?
 A suggested amount that you can commit to pay every 28 days.
Once we have this information we can look at your request further for you [bold 
added for emphasis by Ombudsman].
Ive not seen sufficient evidence that Mrs F engaged appropriately with JDW here to allow 
future, agreed options to be discussed. 
Summary 
Theres no persuasive supporting evidence that Mrs F had an agreement with JDW to 
deviate from the normal account terms. It clearly was her understanding there was a plan in 
place - but I dont find that JDW gave false or misleading information to Mrs F to make her 
think this. This means, where £40 per month didnt cover the minimum monthly repayments 
or clear the outstanding balance, interest and fees would continue to accrue. 
Im also satisfied that JDW clearly let Mrs F know how theyd be able to consider the most 
appropriate way forward - if she engaged with them either through an affordability 
assessment by email or by phone. But I havent seen evidence that she appropriately 
engaged with that process. Of course, there were references in communication from her that 
she was financially struggling, but Ive not seen sufficient supportive evidence that she either 
contacted the number given or responded appropriately by email giving the specific details 
requested. 
I know my decision will disappoint Mrs F. It brings to an end our Services involvement in 
trying to informally resolve this dispute. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2022.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman