DRN-3515398
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mr Y hold with HSBC UK Bank Plc. Hes unhappy that 
HSBC is threatening to repossess his mortgaged property when he says hes trying to 
renovate and sell it. Hes also unhappy that HSBC has asked him for evidence of his health 
problems as part of its decision-making process.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mr Y and HSBC. Im also aware 
that the investigator issued a detailed response to the complaint, which has been shared 
with all parties, and so I dont need to repeat the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mr Y being identified. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, its apparent this complaint is simpler than its been made to look.
Lenders have a regulatory duty to treat borrowers in financial difficulty fairly, but fair 
treatment doesnt simply mean agreeing to what the customer wants. Its altogether more 
nuanced that than, and everything has a context. 
Here the context is that HSBC first obtained a suspended possession order in 2012, when 
Mr Ys arrears were in the region of £20,000. Ten years on, the arrears are now in the region 
of £112,000, Mr Y hasnt made a payment since 2017 and hes been telling HSBC he 
intendeds selling the mortgaged property since 2018. By any reasonable assessment, HSBC 
has been more than patient with Mr Y; its not obliged  whether by regulation or good 
practice generally  to continue being so indefinitely. 
In the event HSBC did decide to start enforcement action it would ultimately be for the court 
to decide if granting possession was fair in the circumstances. But I cant reasonably 
conclude that HSBC seeking to enforce the order rather than allow Mr Y more time to try and 
sell is inherently unfair.
Regarding Mr Ys concerns about the privacy of his health details, its worth remembering 
that it was he who told HSBC he had health problems, and because of that, it should show 
him further leniency by giving him more time to sell the house rather than seek to enforce the 
suspended possession order. HSBC would have had no reason to ask for further information 
if Mr Y hadnt told it of his health problems in the first place.
Its true that HSBC cannot demand more detail, but it can reasonably request it. More 
pertinently, if he doesnt provide the information it has asked for, HSBC can also reasonably 
decline to take any further account of Mr Ys health situation when assessing his request for 
more time before it starts enforcement. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman