DRN-1569812
The complaint
Mr B says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr B took out a Barclays credit card in 1996. At the same time, Barclays sold him PPI to 
protect his card repayments if he couldnt work due to disability or unemployment. It also 
included life cover. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the PPI had been mis-sold. Mr B didnt agree, so the case was 
passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Bs case. 
Having done so, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Barclays needed to make it clear to Mr B that he had a choice about taking out PPI and get 
his agreement before adding it. I gather the sale took place at a branch meeting and its now 
difficult to say with any certainty what happened at the time. 
Ive carefully considered what Mr B says about how the PPI was sold, including that he didnt 
knowingly agree to take it. That may be the case, but Ive seen a copy of his signed credit 
card application form. In it, he was given the option to tick to either request or decline PPI. 
The box to take PPI was ticked while the box to decline it was left blank. 
In addition, its now many years since the PPI was sold. In my view that makes it more 
difficult for me to rely on what Mr B remembers from the time. It could be that  
understandably after all this time  he was told about the PPI but simply doesnt recall taking 
it.
Overall, I havent seen anything to make me think Barclays didnt make it clear to Mr B that 
he had a choice about taking out PPI. And I think he chose to take it. 
Ive gone on to see if there are any other reasons why I should uphold Mr Bs complaint, but 
I dont think there are. Barclays says it recommended the PPI to Mr B. That favours him 
because it meant Barclays, among other things, should have looked into whether it was right 
for him. 
I cant say for sure what checks Barclays made. But, from what I know of Mr Bs 
circumstances, I think the PPI was right for him. I say that because:
It seems Mr B would have been eligible for the cover. And there was nothing to 
suggest he was significantly affected by the main exclusions to, or limits on, the 
policy. 
While Mr B says he had critical illness cover, that didnt cover the same things as the 
PPI. The former paid a lump sum benefit whereas the latter would potentially have 
paid up to 12 monthly benefits per claim. The PPI also included unemployment 
cover. So, I think the PPI provided Mr B with useful protection. 
 
The PPI appears to have been affordable to Mr B. And it was flexible in that he could 
have cancelled it at any time, and at no extra cost, if he decided he no longer wanted 
it.
As well as checking if the PPI was right for him, Barclays also should have given Mr B clear 
information about the policy so he could make an informed decision about buying it. I dont 
know what steps Barclays took to do this. And its possible some things werent explained as 
clearly as they should have been. But, as Ive said, I think its likely Mr B agreed to the cover 
and it looks to me as if it was right for him and was affordable. So, I dont think better 
information would have affected his decision to buy it.
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B. But 
Barclays will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B. Thats because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mr B about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mr B, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has offered to pay back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think thats fair in this case.
What the business needs to do
Barclays has to pay back to Mr B any commission and profit share it got that was more than 
50% of the relevant PPI premium, if it hasnt already done so. Barclays should also pay back 
to Mr B any extra interest he paid because of that.
Barclays should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mr B the difference 
between what Mr B owes and what he would have owed if the commission and profit share it 
got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Barclays should also pay Mr B 8%* simple 
interest if he paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr B can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC doesnt have to pay back all of the cost 
of the PPI to Mr B.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mr B any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2020.
 Nimish Patel
Ombudsman