DRN-2777702
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) sent text messages to his sisters phone 
number in error and didnt offer him enough compensation.  
What happened
Mr Ks sister received text messages from Lloyds that were intended for Mr K. Some related 
to his new bank account with Lloyds, and others to this complaint.
Mr K complained to Lloyds about this. He said it was a breach of data protection regulation 
and had caused him reputational damage. He said that hed wanted to keep his banking 
details private.
Lloyds explained how this had happened. Mr Ks sisters number had been registered with 
Lloyds insurance department in relation to a policy Mr K held with them previously and this 
number had been pulled through and used instead of the other number Mr K had given 
Lloyds.
Lloyds said that it understood that Mr K had provided his current number when he opened 
his new account and apologised for suggesting that Mr K may have provided the wrong 
number. Lloyds said that the information disclosed in the text alerts would not have led to a 
security breach since Lloyds wouldve gone through further security checks on the phone 
before disclosing any personal information. It also re-assured Mr K that it had taken steps to 
de-link the records so that this would not happen again.
Lloyds apologised for its error and paid Mr K £100 compensation which it thought was fair as 
Mr K hadnt suffered financial loss or reputational damage.
Mr K was unhappy with this. He feels that a clear explanation is needed and that £500 would 
be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. As Mr K was not happy with Lloyds response, 
he brought his case to our service.
Our investigator explained that the role of this service is not to punish a financial business, 
and that this is a matter for the relevant regulator. He explained that our role is to provide for 
fair compensation for what happened. He felt that in the circumstances, £100 was what he 
wouldve awarded, and that Lloyds had given a reasonable explanation of what had 
happened. He didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr K wasnt happy with this, so the case came to me to decide.
Lloyds then provided some further information, explaining that the insurance policy referred 
to was in Mr Ks sole name, and the number currently in use by his sister was the number 
provided as his number at that time, and I took account of this in my provisional decision, 
which is set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A systems error by Lloyds resulted in it sending texts relating to the account opened by Mr K 
in August 2020, and then in relation to his subsequent complaint, to the phone used by his 
sister. That number had been held on Mr Ks profile as his number in relation to an insurance 
policy he had with them in 2017.
It wouldnt necessarily be unreasonable for Lloyds to use a number already held on file for a 
customer on the basis that it was a number previously provided. However, in its final 
response, Lloyds accepted that Mr K had provided a new number when he applied for his 
account in early August 2020. Its records show that the new number was added to Mr Ks 
profile later in August 2020, at around the time of his complaint. Lloyds were aware that the 
number was Mr Ks sisters from this time. Despite this, texts were sent to her number until 
late September 2020, including those about this complaint, as the previous number 
remained linked to his account. This was not the level of service he was entitled to expect 
from Lloyds.
Lloyds has now de-linked the old number from Mr Ks account to ensure this does not 
happen in future.
Mr K has said he wanted to keep his banking arrangements private but found that his sister 
was receiving texts that made it clear that he had a banking relationship with Lloyds, and she 
was put to the trouble of telling him about them as he wouldnt have received the information 
in them himself. He was further upset when he felt that Lloyds suggested that he may have 
given an incorrect number himself. So, I can see that the whole situation has caused Mr K 
upset and inconvenience.
But I cant fairly say that Lloyds has caused Mr K any reputational damage. The texts 
indicated that Mr K had an account with Lloyds but didnt given any more information so I 
cant reasonably conclude that this wouldve caused him reputational damage. Also, as 
Lloyds has confirmed that it wouldve verified anyone who called in response to the texts, I 
cant see that there was a risk of information about the account being disclosed if Mr Ks 
sister had called Lloyds.
As to the explanation that Mr K is asking for, I think that Lloyds has provided an explanation 
of what happened, so I dont think it would be reasonable to expect any more information 
from it.
Mr K says there was a data protection breach, but this is not something that this service 
would decide on. This would be a matter for the relevant regulator, which is the Information 
Commissioners Office.
Lloyds paid Mr K £100 as compensation, but Mr K does not feel this is enough.
Although the disclosures in the texts were limited, Mr K has said he wanted to keep his 
banking arrangements private, which is not unreasonable. He was also upset that his sister 
had been inconvenienced. Texts continued to be sent to the number held by his sister while 
his complaint was being considered which I can understand was very frustrating for Mr K. I 
can see that this issue caused Mr K inconvenience and upset, which was exacerbated by 
the suggestion that he may have contributed to the problem. So, taking account of all of this, 
I intend to require Lloyds to pay Mr K a further £100, bringing the total compensation to 
£200.
My provisional decisionMy provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint.
I also intend to require Lloyds Bank plc to pay Mr K £100 in addition to the £100 it has 
already paid.
Mr K and Lloyds both accepted my provisional decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 As Mr K and Lloyds both accepted my provisional decision, my final decision is in the same 
terms.
Putting things right
To put things right, I require Lloyds to pay Mr K £100 in addition to the £100 it has already 
paid, bringing the total compensation to £200. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I require Lloyds Bank plc to pay Mr K £100 in addition to the £100 it has already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2021.
 
Rosemary Campbell
Ombudsman