DRN-3648678
The complaint
Mr B complains that his broker for his motor insurance, Acorn Insurance & Financial 
Services Ltd (Acorn), cancelled his policy but continued to charge him premiums.
What happened
I set out the background to the complaint within my provisional decision and also here. 
Mr B had an accident and on 29 March 2021 made a claim to Acorn. Acorn said Mr Bs call 
was received by its out of hours team and so the next day when Mr B called again its agent 
wasnt aware of the claim. On the second call Mr B said he wanted to cancel his motor policy 
from 1 April as he was going abroad for a couple of months. Acorn said Mr B didnt mention 
his claim on the second call and Mr B said Acorn didnt send confirmation of cancellation. 
Acorn contacted Mr B on 30 March 2021 confirming his instruction to cancel his policy, 
saying, The return premium allowed by the insurer for cancellation after deduction of our 
£100 cancellation fee is £1456.28, the outstanding settlement on the finance  is £1714.65. 
This leaves a balance payable of £258.37. Mr B said this was what he understood about his 
claim when he returned to the UK in July 2021, when he took out a new policy via Acorn, 
with a different bank account.
Acorns note re the cancellation call states that Mr B called to cancel as he will be away for 
3 months. - Agent fails to read the correct cancellation script to customer.
In its letter of 7 September 2021 Acorn told Mr B he had two policies and his policy had been 
cancelled. It said the policy states: if an incident is made or reported which may give rise to 
a claim under this insurance policy, the insurer will retain the whole premium whilst the claim 
is in the process of being settled. Acorn said if the claim is closed as non-fault, the insurer 
may refund a percentage of the premium. However, Mr Bs claim was settled as his fault.
Mr B was confused as hed cancelled his old policy and didnt know why Acorn was still 
taking his monthly premiums from his old bank account. Mr B complained to Acorn.
Acorn told Mr B that despite agreement to cancel his policy from 1 April 2021 it had been 
cancelled from 3 March 2021, but this had been corrected. Mr B said Acorn didnt tell him 
that if he cancelled the policy he would have to pay a whole years premium. Acorn said this 
is what his policy states. It said the policy premium was collected by instalments, but Mr B 
hadnt made all of the payments, leaving a balance payable of £1,456.28. 
Mr B was unhappy with Acorns response and brought his complaint to our service. Mr B 
said that in order to resolve his complaint Acorn should keep his original policy because it 
was still taking payments from his old bank account for his cancelled policy.
My provisional findings and the parties responses
In my provisional findings I said I intended to uphold the complaint. I said that Mr B called to 
notify a claim on 29 March 2021 and called Acorn again to cancel his policy when, contrary 
to what Acorn said, he mentioned his claim. The agent said he didnt need to mention it 
again and emailed him to confirm cancellation, but set the cancellation date as 3 March, not 
1 April as agreed on the call. 
When Mr B returned to the UK in July 2021, he took out a new policy with Acorn and paid 
£475.58 deposit. I havent seen anything to suggest that Acorn alerted Mr B to the fact he 
was still being charged his previous premium when it arranged this new policy for him. Mr B 
said the payments were taken from his old bank account. Acorns previous communication of 
30 March told Mr B he would be credited for the uncollected instalments for his policy. 
Acorn's letter of 7 September 2021 confirmed Mr Bs policy was cancelled with effect from 
31 March 2021 and said the full annual premium was payable. Mr B queried this, and Acorn 
apologised for not explaining about the premium. Mr B told Acorn that it would have affected 
his decision to cancel his policy. Acorns agent wanted to check if it was possible to rein old 
policy and NTU new one as requested. But the passage of time meant this wasnt possible. 
Acorn continued to pursue Mr B for the full annual premium of his cancelled policy. 
Acorn charged Mr B the full annual premium in line with the policy terms. But made errors by 
cancelling it to the wrong date and not telling Mr B he was likely to be liable for the full years 
premium. This information may not have been available on Acorns system when he called 
on 30 March, but he provided the details to the first agent. Had this agent informed their 
customer service colleague that a fault claim had been made, Mr B could have been alerted 
to the cost of cancellation. Notwithstanding this, Acorn should have written to Mr B about this 
as soon as possible afterwards and at least when he took out the second policy in July 2021.  
Mr B was abroad until July 2021 using a different bank account, and contacted Acorn about 
a new policy as soon as he returned. He said that had he known the full years premium was 
payable at the time, he wouldnt have cancelled the policy. Acorns mistake in not telling Mr 
B affected his choices and he cancelled a policy that he had nothing to lose and much to 
gain by maintaining.  
The way Mr B described the accident to Acorn left little doubt that he understood he was to 
blame. Acorns record states, PH admits he collided into TPV. And so I think it very likely 
he wouldnt have cancelled his policy if hed been told he would have to pay the full premium 
in any event, as there was no advantage to him to cancel. Although its in Mr Bs policy that 
he would pay full premium in these circumstances, English is not his first language and I 
think it was reasonable for him to rely on the information he was given by Acorns agents.
 
I thought it fair to treat Mr Bs original policy premiums as if they had been paid in respect of 
ongoing cover for the policy year, from 25 January 2021 to 24 January 2022. This means the 
premiums he paid for his new policy should be refunded to him or removed from his account 
from 19 July 2021 to 24 January 2022, but the policy should remain effective. I also thought 
it fair for Acorn to refund or credit Mr B the proportion of his deposit for his second policy for 
the same period, and all of the cancellation charge he incurred. And these should be paid or 
credited to him with interest.
Mr B has suffered distress as a consequence of the additional insurance premiums hes 
incurred and the inconvenience of trying to understand and redress what has happened. And 
so, I also thought it would be fair for Acorn to pay Mr B £250 compensation for the impact 
Acorns mistakes had upon him. 
Mr B agreed with my provisional decision. Acorn said it would respond but hasnt done so.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments again to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I remain of the view that 
the complaint should not be upheld and for the reasons I have given in my provisional 
decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld. I require 
Acorn Insurance & Financial Services Ltd to pay back or credit Mr B the following: 
the amount of the premiums Mr B paid for the second policy he took out, from 19 July 
2021 to 24 January 2022: 
the amount of any cancellation charge from when Mr B cancelled his policy in March 
2021:
the proportion of Mr Bs deposit for his second policy that relates to the period from 
19 July 2021 to 24 January 2022.
Acorn Insurance & Financial Services Ltd should add 8% simple interest per year to the 
amounts Mr B has paid, from the dates each instalment of the premium until Acorn pays the 
redress. If Acorn Insurance & Financial Services Ltd is deducting tax from any part of the 
award, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off and provide a tax deduction certificate if he 
requests it so he can reclaim the tax from Her Majestys Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
I also require Acorn Insurance & Financial Services Ltd to pay Mr B £250 compensation for 
his distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2022.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman