DRN-4205897
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd [Accredited] has unfairly 
declined a claim theyve made on their buildings insurance policy following damage to their 
garage. 
What happened
Mr D has led the complaint with this Service so Ive referred to him mainly throughout. 
References I make to Mr Ds actions include those of his wife. 
Accredited is the underwriter of the policy, i.e. its the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns 
the actions of its agents, for which Accredited has accepted responsibility. Any reference to 
Accredited, includes the actions of its agents. 
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so Ive included a summary 
here.
Mr D owns a property insured under a buildings insurance policy underwritten by 
Accredited. 
Mr D says a period of ice, snow and very wet weather caused a landslip at the rear of 
his garage, causing damage to the garages rear elevation. He reported this to 
Accredited to make a claim on the policy. It appointed an agent to validate and 
manage the claim.
Initially, Mr D says the claim was accepted and Accredited appointed a contractor. 
The contractor undertook some work to limit any further damage and agreed what 
further works were required.
Subsequently, Accredited arranged a further inspection of the damage. Following 
this, it said the cause of the damage was poor workmanship related to the 
construction of the retaining wall and garage, rather than landslip. It declined the 
claim.
Mr D was unhappy with this and complained to Accredited. It issued a final response 
reiterating that it believed the damage to the garage was caused by the failure of the 
retaining wall behind. It said this was caused by the lack of drainage and general 
poor construction of the retaining wall and it was ultimately inevitable that it would 
fail. It also questioned the construction of the garage. It maintained the decline of the 
claim under the exclusions for poor workmanship and damage caused gradually. 
Mr D raised a complaint with this Service. Our Investigator considered the evidence 
and upheld the complaint. He said that Accredited hadnt shown the retaining wall 
and garage werent constructed to the building requirements at the time and as they 
had stood for between 30 and 40 years with no prior problems, he said Accredited 
should accept the claim.
Accredited disagreed and asked an Ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When claiming on an insurance policy, the onus is on the policyholder to show, on 
balance, the claim is covered under the policy terms. When an insurer relies on an 
exclusion to decline the claim, the onus is on it to show the exclusion applies. Ill be 
keeping this principle in mind when looking at this complaint, together with what I 
consider to be fair and reasonable. 
Ive seen from the report following the first inspection of the damage, Accrediteds 
surveyor originally decided the proximate cause of the damage was ground 
movement. He also had detailed the remedial work required under the claim and 
approximate costs of this being undertaken. It was subsequent to this that Accredited 
changed its view on the cause of the damage and declined the claim. 
Mr D said the garage had been constructed sometime between 1980 and 1990 and 
Ive seen nothing which shows Accredited disagreed with this. On balance, it seems 
to me more likely than not the retaining wall between the garage rear elevation and 
the ground behind it would have been built sometime before the garage
Accredited says the retaining wall and garage were poorly constructed but it hasnt 
identified any guidelines from the period when they were built to show why they 
werent built in line with the standards, guidelines and techniques required at the 
time. When asked about this, it merely said retaining walls do not require building 
regulation approval but made no comment on what was required at the time the wall 
was built, nor provided any evidence to support its stance. 
And it said the garage should have been considered by a competent builder when it 
was constructed  but Ive not seen anything which shows it wasnt, nor any 
construction guidelines or best practice that supports its opinion on poor construction. 
So, while Accredited says they have been poorly constructed and were inevitably 
destined to fail, I have kept in mind here that they have stood the test of time, having 
been constructed between 30 and 40 years ago. So, in summary, Ive not been given 
sufficient evidence to persuade me that Accrediteds conclusion the issues occurring 
are most likely caused due to poor workmanship at the point of their construction.
Overall, Im not persuaded Accredited has done enough to show the exclusions for 
poor construction and gradual damage apply. It follows that Im not satisfied it has 
declined the claim fairly. In light of this, I will be directing Accredited to accept the 
claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd 
to accept and deal with Mr and Mrs Ds claim. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 December 2023.
 Paul Phillips
Ombudsman