DRN-2041084
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Lloyds Bank plc mis-sold them three payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policies.
What happened
In 2002, 2003 and 2004 Mr and Mrs S bought a PPI policy at the same time as they took out 
mortgage loans in one of the banks branches. The policies were in Mr Ss sole name and 
gave him protection against accident, sickness and unemployment. They paid a monthly 
amount for the cover. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs S disagreed so the complaint was
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs S say they were surprised and annoyed to find out PPI was added. I cant know 
what was said in the meetings, so I dont know how the PPI was presented to Mr and Mrs S. 
But Lloyds has been able to provide the PPI application forms and direct debit mandates that 
Mr S signed for each sale. And theres nothing on those forms that I think could reasonably 
have led him to believe the PPI was mandatory. Also the 2002 and 2003 mortgage loan 
application forms set out the option to select or decline PPI  with equal prominence - and 
they indicated they wanted it. So, overall, I think Lloyds made it clear the PPI was optional 
and Mr and Mrs S agreed to take it out for Mr S.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs S for Mr S, so it had to make sure it was right 
for him. I think it was based on what I know of his circumstances at the time of each sale. 
Mr S wasnt entitled to any sick pay and the PPI would have paid out for up to 12 months for 
each successful accident and sickness claim. He was entitled to some redundancy pay but 
the PPI would have paid out in addition to this, for up to 12 months. It would have allowed 
them to protect his lump sum redundancy payment, giving increased financial stability at an 
already difficult time. 
Mr and Mrs S said family would have helped, but thats not suitable alternative protection, its 
not guaranteed, and peoples circumstances can change. They told us Mr S had life 
insurance but that is a different kind of protection and wouldnt help with monthly mortgage 
repayments in the same way as PPI. Mr S said he already had sickness insurance, but he 
hasnt been able to provide a policy document or recall how much it paid out, or if there was 
a deferral period. So from the available evidence I cant fairly conclude he had sufficient 
cover not to need these PPI policies. Mrs S has provided information on her circumstances 
but she wasnt covered by the policies, so this is not relevant to my analysis.
Mr and Mrs S were borrowing large sums over a long period secured on their home. Given 
the serious consequences of missing mortgage payments, I think the cover wouldve been 
useful for Mr and Mrs S if Mr S was sick, had an accident or lost his job.
Its possible Lloyds didnt give Mr and Mrs S all the information they needed before they 
decided to buy PPI. I dont know when it made the costs clear, but the PPI was competitively 
priced and apparently affordable. And I dont know that it pointed out the main things the 
policies didnt cover. But Mr S doesnt appear to have been affected by any of those things 
(such as the type of employment contract or any pre-existing medical conditions). So I dont 
think better information wouldve changed their decision.
It follows I dont think Mr and Mrs S lost out because of any problems with these sales.
My final decision
My decision is I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 November 2020.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman