DRN-2848747
The complaint
Ms H complains about the handling of her motor insurance claim by AA Underwriting 
Insurance Company Limited (AA).
What happened
Ms Hs car was damaged when another vehicle drove into it in April 2020. Ms H reported the 
accident to the police and contacted AA about it on the day it happened.
AA wrote to Ms H promptly and explained that based on what shed told it, it didnt consider 
her to be at fault for the accident. It told her shed need to pay an excess of £500 under her 
motor insurance policy. It said it would try to contact the other drivers insurer to ask its view 
about liability, and would seek to recover all costs from the other drivers insurer. It added 
that it would only contact Ms H further if it needed more information, or to tell her it had 
received its costs and when we will look to reimburse you with your excess. Meanwhile, it 
was arranging for a courtesy car for Ms H.
Initial repairs to Ms Hs vehicle were carried out in April 2020. But further specialist repairs 
were needed, and the repairer was closed due to Covid-19. 
In mid-May 2020 AA told Ms H that the other drivers insurer had asked for further details of 
the accident, including any images of the accident scene, any witness and police details and 
any independent evidence. It asked her to provide that evidence, and to complete an 
insured statement for it to send to the other drivers insurer. Ms H provided those straight 
away, but expressed her dissatisfaction that shed already provided most of the information 
straight after the accident. And she was dissatisfied that AA had taken six weeks to ask her 
for some of the details.
At the beginning of June 2020 AA emailed Ms H to tell her it had asked the other drivers 
insurer to reimburse all the costs AA had incurred in connection with Ms Hs claim and to 
reimburse Ms Hs excess. It explained that once its costs had been fully reimbursed, it would 
be in a position to close Ms Hs claim. And it updated her when it chased the other drivers 
insurer when it hadnt had a response after a fortnight.
Ms H complained to AA about its handling of her claim at the beginning of August 2020. She 
pointed out that the repairs still werent complete and that her excess still hadnt been 
refunded. She was also unhappy that the claim was recorded as her fault. And she said that 
she considered AAs handling of her complaint to have been poor. She said the repairer had 
re-opened in June 2020, but that although shed chased the repairer five times, her car 
hadnt been booked back in for the repairs to be completed.
After it received Ms Hs complaint, AA chased the other drivers insurer again. A couple of 
weeks later, in September 2020, AA told Ms H it had received an admission of liability from 
the other drivers insurer. It then refunded her excess within a few days.
The repairer contacted Ms H in March 2021 and arranged to take her car to finish the 
repairs. But it didnt keep the appointment. It eventually collected Ms Hs car in late April 
2021 and completed the repairs.
One of our investigators considered Ms Hs complaint and thought it should be upheld. In 
summary, he thought that the repairs had taken too long, even allowing for delays caused by 
the Covid-19 pandemic. And he said AA had taken too long to refund the excess Ms H paid 
too. Whats more, AA hadnt confirmed whether it had recorded Ms Hs claim as no fault in 
spite of the investigators requests that it do so. He said AA should pay Ms H £200 to reflect 
the trouble and upset Ms H had experienced as a result of AAs poor handling of her claim.
After the investigator sent out his view, AA confirmed that it had recorded the claim as non-
fault in its records.
Ms H accepted the investigators view. But AA disagreed with it, so the complaints been 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Ms Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
Ill deal first with the question of the fact that Ms Hs claim was recorded as a fault claim. 
Insurers often record claims as fault claims on their systems when they havent been able 
to recover all their costs from the other partys insurer. This doesnt necessarily imply that 
the policyholder was to blame for the incident. 
Im satisfied from evidence AA has provided from its internal records that the claim is now 
recorded as non-fault. I think AA could have explained more clearly to Ms H at the outset 
how the claim would be recorded. But Im satisfied that it was reasonable for the claim to be 
recorded as a fault claim until AA recovered all its costs from the other driver. And even if 
that took longer than it should have done, I think its unlikely that Ms H suffered any material 
loss or inconvenience as a result of the claim being temporarily recorded as a fault claim. 
But I consider AAs handling of the claim to have been poor overall. AA maintains that it 
reached its decision on liability and returned the policy excess quite quickly based on the 
timeframes of getting an admission of liability. It says it had to chase the other drivers 
insurer several times, and it wasnt until early September 2020 that it accepted liability. It 
started the process for reimbursement of Ms Hs policy excess twelve days after that, and it 
was paid a few days later.
I accept that the excess was refunded to Ms H reasonably promptly once the other drivers 
insurer admitted liability. But I cant see that AA was proactive in trying to get a response 
from the other drivers insurer between mid-June 2020 and August 2020, when Ms H raised 
her complaint. And if it had been more proactive, its possible that the other drivers insurer 
would have admitted liability sooner, and that, in turn, would have led to Ms H getting her 
excess back more quickly.
AA accepts that there were delays with the final repairs. But its commented that there wasnt 
much it could do, as an insurer, to speed up repairs given the closure of firms during the 
lockdowns due to Covid-19. Its commented that the repairer was shut for a large part of the 
year, due to the pandemic. Its also claimed that trying to arrange repairs with Ms H was 
difficult too.
But Ms H has pointed out the repairer reopened in June 2020, after the first national Covid-19 lockdown. And although AA hasnt disputed that the repairs werent complete, it didnt 
arrange for them to be finished until April 2021. Even if the repairer closed again during the 
second lockdown, which started in November 2020, Im satisfied that there was ample 
opportunity for AA to arrange for the work to be complete before then, and it didnt do so. 
Ultimately, it took more than a year for the repairs to be completed.
Ive seen nothing to make me think that Ms H contributed to the delay in finishing the repairs. 
She had to chase both AA and the repairer numerous times before the matter was fully 
resolved. Whats more, the lingering stress of the matter remaining unresolved lasted for 
many months. And while I accept that some degree of delay due to the Covid-19 restrictions 
was inevitable, Im not satisfied that AA dealt with all aspects of Ms Hs claim as quickly as it 
should have done. 
Taking everything into account, I consider the £200 recommended by the investigator to be 
reasonable to reflect the trouble and upset Ms H experienced.
Putting things right
AA should pay Ms H £200 to reflect the trouble and upset she experienced.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AA Underwriting Insurance Company 
Limited to put things right by paying Ms H £200. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman