DRN-4350988
The complaint
Miss P complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) wont refund money she lost after falling 
victim to a scam.
What happened
In 2022 Miss P was looking for a nanny job and found a job offer online. She provided her 
contact information and was contacted by someone who Ill refer to as S, who offered her a 
job as a travel reviewer. Miss P was required to purchase packages and write reviews in 
order to receive a commission payment.
In December 2022, Miss P made the following payments as part of the scam. All of the 
payments were made to cryptocurrency wallets in Miss Ps name, held with two separate 
cryptocurrency exchanges. The funds were then moved onto the scammer from the 
cryptocurrency wallets.
Date Transaction detail Amount
7.12.2022 Payment to cryptocurrency wallet - B    £550.00
8.12.2022 Payment to cryptocurrency wallet - B £1,149.00
10.12.2022 Payment to cryptocurrency wallet - B £1,600.00
12.12.2022 Payment to cryptocurrency wallet - B    £400.00
13.12.2022 Payment to cryptocurrency wallet - B    £340.00
15.12.2022 Payment to cryptocurrency wallet - O    £501.00
21.12.2022 Payment to cryptocurrency wallet - O    £550.00
Total payments £5,090.00
In January 2023, Miss P became aware it was a scam when the website she was using 
stopped working. She reported the scam to Monzo and asked them to refund her. While 
Monzo were investigating her fraud claim, Miss P raised a complaint about how long it was 
taking for them to give her an answer.
Ultimately, Monzo declined to refund Miss P the funds she lost, but they apologised for the 
time it took them to look into her claim and paid her £25 compensation.
Miss P wasnt happy with Monzos response, so she brought a complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into her complaint but didnt uphold it. They said the payments Miss P 
made werent unusual or out of character, so they wouldnt have expected Monzo to identify 
a scam risk or intervene before processing her payments. The investigator felt the £25 paid 
by Monzo was fair for the poor service she received.
Miss P disagreed with the investigators opinion and asked for the case to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that Monzo is expected to process payments 
that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the 
customers account and the Payment Services Regulations (PSRs).
As the investigator explained, the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) 
doesnt apply to this case, as Miss P made the payments to an account in her own name 
before sending the funds to the scammer. This means I cant consider the payments under 
the framework of the CRM Code.
But there is an obligation on Monzo to be on the lookout for, and to protect its customers 
from, potentially falling victim to fraud or scams. This includes monitoring accounts and 
identifying suspicious activity that appears out of character. In situations where potential 
fraud is identified, I would expect Monzo to intervene and attempt to prevent losses for the 
customer.
Having considered the payments Miss P made as part of the scam, Im not satisfied Monzo 
shouldve been concerned or identified her as the potential victim of a scam. I say this 
because the payments individually were for reasonably low values and were spread out over 
a two week period. Also, there were two separate payees involved and there wasnt an 
escalation in the payment size, as we often see when payments are made as part of a scam. 
So I cant fairly say Monzo shouldve intervened before following Miss Ps payment 
instructions.
I appreciate that this represents a lot of money for Miss P and that shes been seriously 
impacted by the loss of the funds. But a balance has to be struck between Monzo identifying 
payments which could be fraudulent  and then responding appropriately to their concerns  
and ensuring minimal disruption to legitimate payments. And based on the circumstances of 
this case, I cant fairly say that Monzo shouldve prevented Miss Ps loss or ask them to 
refund her.
Miss P is unhappy with how long it took Monzo to reach an answer on her fraud claim. She 
raised the claim on 10 January 2023 and was initially told it would take up to 14 days for 
Monzo to provide their response. On 14 January 2023, Monzo messaged Miss P to say her 
claim had been sent to a specialist team and it could take up to 15 days for them to contact 
her, although they could extend that to 35 days if they needed further time. Ultimately,     
Miss P was given the outcome of her fraud claim on 2 March 2023 which was outside the 35 
days Miss P was told. I appreciate that this wouldve been frustrating for Miss P, but as it 
was only a few days late I think the £25 Monzo has already paid her is fair compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Monzo Bank Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman