DRN-3440679
The complaint
Mr V complains that Santander UK Plc wrote to him by post regarding the mortgage which it 
held on his late mothers property although he had requested that it not contact him in that 
manner.
What happened
Mr Vs mother was the sole owner of a property following the death of her husband. Mrs V 
sadly passed away in the early stages of the Coronavirus Pandemic in April 2020. At the 
time of her death Mrs V had been on an interest only mortgage that had matured in 2014. In 
2020 there was a discussion between Mr V and Santander about getting the mortgage 
transferred into his name. That would have required a Grant of Probate, but Mr V wasnt 
feeling up to the pressure of the application. Mr V went to France in late 2020 and in a call in 
January 2021 Santander said that it wouldnt be sending letters to him at his address. Mr V 
called Santander in March 2021 complaining about a letter he got. Santander responded to 
that complaint by letter.
Later in the summer of 2021, the property was agreed for sale and the mortgage redeemed 
in early 2022. Santander accepted that it told Mr V that it wouldnt communicate with him by 
post and paid him £75. Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be 
upheld as after January 2021, the letters related to the redemption figure on the mortgage 
and it was reasonable for Santander to communicate that by post. Mr V disagreed and 
asked for a review.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would firstly like to express my sympathy to Mr V on the sad death of his mother and I 
recognise how much it has affected him. Mr V was not until then the customer of Santander 
but as the executor and beneficiary of the estate he would have had to make a decision on 
what to do with the property that was subject to the mortgage. I can understand that would 
be stressful coming on top of his mothers death. Of course, there would then have to be 
some interaction between himself and Santander to decide what he wanted to do with the 
property and how to discharge the mortgage to Santander owed on the property. Our 
expectation would be that Santander should be sympathetic to Mr V and gave him a 
reasonable period to decide about what he wanted to do with the property following his 
bereavement.
Mr Vs complaints are specifically about the letters he received from Santander. Ive looked 
at those to see whether they could be construed as putting pressure on Mr V. I cant fairly 
say so. Indeed, they appear to be geared to relieving that pressure. I note that one letter 
recognises that before Mr V could do anything he would have to take out a Grant of Probate 
and Once Grant of Probate has been obtained, we (Santander ) will be able to help the 
executor with their intentions for the property. That letter goes on to set out the possibilities 
open to the executor when that happens. The letter suggests to me that Santander was 
willing to give Mr V time to sort out this difficult matter without the pressure of deadlines. I 
also note that it was a specialised bereavement team that dealt with Mr V at this time which 
also suggests that Santander were aware of the requirements for understanding Mr Vs 
position.
What seems to have sparked this complaint is that having told Mr V that it wouldnt contact 
him by post, Santander in early April answered Mr Vs phone enquiry about the balance of 
the mortgage by letter, which Mr V complained about and then responded to that complaint 
by letter. The letter Ive seen is merely providing information and indeed its not unusual for 
lenders to send hard copies where they are providing balances as a more secure method of 
doing so.In general, I note that Santander followed Mr Vs preferences by phone contact and 
contact with his representatives. Santander agrees that it told Mr V that it wouldnt do so and 
that may have been disappointing for Mr V. But it seems to me that the payment of £75 fairly 
compensates Mr V for that disappointment. But Ive seen nothing in the letter and other 
correspondences to suggest that Santander was anything other than sympathetic to Mr Vs 
position. So, I cant fairly uphold this complaint.  
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V and the 
estate of Mrs V to accept or reject my decision before 3 August 2022.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman