DRN-3427951
The complaint
Mr M complains about the way AJ Bell Management Limited dealt with the settlement of 
shares he was due linked to the merger of a Special Purpose Acquisition Company (SPAC) 
that he had originally held shares in. He says delays in settlement meant he was unable to 
sell the shares when he intended to, and this has caused him a loss. 
What happened
In January 2021, Mr M placed an order with AJ Bell to purchase shares in a SPAC to be held 
in his ISA account. He said he was intending to sell his shares following a planned merger. 
The merger was completed at the end of March 2021, but due to a settlement problem the 
shares in the newly merged company were not available to trade in his account when he 
wanted to. 
Mr M raised his concerns with AJ Bell shortly afterwards but as they werent resolved he 
raised a complaint in July 2021.  He said the inability to sell the shares has meant their value 
dropped daily and this has caused him significant distress.
AJ Bell responded to the complaint. It didnt uphold it - in summary it said:
- It was unable to trade the shares when Mr M requested as it was still awaiting receipt 
of them and had been unable to credit them to his account.
- There were also problems with the shares not being eligible to be held with its UK 
settlement system, so it was working to get the situation resolved by depositing with 
an overseas settlement system.  
- It chased the different parties but hadnt been able to find a resolution  but said it 
would continue work on getting the new shares credited to the account.
- It didnt believe it was responsible for the time taken to resolve the issue as this was 
something outside of its control.
Mr M didnt agree with the response. He said AJ Bell should have anticipated the
settlement risks and mitigated them either by putting procedures in place to ensure the 
smooth settlement of the stocks post-merger, or not have sold the shares to him in the first 
place. He referred his complaint to this service for independent review. 
Shortly after referring the complaint to us, in October 20221, Mr M eventually received the 
shares into his account. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. She didnt uphold it. In summary she 
said:
- AJ Bell had a responsibility to settle the shares as soon as it could, and it did this.
- The account terms say AJ Bell are not responsible for any delay in settlement as a 
result of circumstances which are beyond its reasonable control. The delays affecting 
settlement of Mr Ms shares were outside of AJ Bell's control; it made continuous 
efforts to contact the relevant parties to try and resolve matters. 
- The terms also say AJ Bell isnt responsible for the acts and omission of others  
including the settlement system or participant in such a system. 
- AJ Bell didnt provide any advice to purchase the shares. Mr Ms account was 
execution only, meaning he had the responsibility for choosing a suitable product to 
meet his needs. The type of shares he purchased were not quickly tradeable, but this 
was a potential risk associated with the product he chose.
Mr M didnt accept the investigators conclusions, so the complaint has been passed to me to 
reach a decision. He provided further submissions for me to consider:
At the point he purchased his shares there was already a merger agreement in place 
and after this point it is rare for a SPAC merger to collapse. He fully expected, as 
came to pass, that the merger would go ahead. AJ Bell either failed to anticipate this 
well publicised merger, or did not take the trouble to check, and dealt shares in a 
stock that would soon become untradeable. 
There is a cooling off period between the dates when shareholders vote to approve 
the merger and the actual merger occurs when the SPAC target is completely 
certain, at this point AJ Bell would have known they wouldn't have been able to trade 
the stock post-merger yet failed to warn him.
He had no knowledge of AJ Bell's settlement systems, so could not know which 
depositories it uses and the stocks from which countries it is capable of holding. It is 
up to AJ Bell to protect customers from these risks and if it is unable to protect them 
then it should not be profiting from trading in these stocks. The least it could do is 
provide a warning at time of execution, which it did not.
He accepted the risk of the product he invested in, but he was unwittingly exposed to 
a settlement risk. Due to AJ Bell's inability to settle the stock he was exposed to 
increased risk at the worst possible point and for six months in duration. The basis of 
his complaint is that he was mis-sold this stock on the basis of the settlement risk 
inherent in AJ Bell's system, not the product. 
He questioned what evidence is available to show AJ Bell did everything it could to 
resolve the situation as soon as it was aware of the problem and that the delays were 
completely out of its hands. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of this complaint is that Mr M believes he has suffered a loss because of failings by 
AJ Bell that delayed the settlement of shares into his account. It isnt in dispute that there 
were delays in the settlement but what I need to decide is whether AJ Bell can be held 
responsible for them and in turn the losses Mr M claims. 
Mr M holds an execution only dealing account, so Ive looked at the terms and conditions of 
his account which cover the service he could expect to receive from AJ Bell. Ive noted the 
following sections that are relevant: 
Our Services enable You to select Products and open Accounts in order to invest on an 
execution only basis. We do not provide financial, investment or tax advice as part of the 
Services. Neither We nor Our Associates give, nor is anything on the Website or any linked 
website to be construed as personal investment recommendations, financial, or tax
advice of any kind. You are responsible for selecting the Product and any investments.
If You are in any doubt about the suitability or appropriateness of any particular Product, 
investment or any part of the Service, We recommend that You speak with an authorised
financial adviser.
We will provide the Services with reasonable skill and care but, because We do not give 
advice, We cannot guarantee that they will meet Your particular needs.And the terms explain if there is a delay in settlement AJ Bell will continue to use reasonable 
endeavours to settle the order. There is also a term that explains AJ Bell is ..not responsible 
for any delay in settlement as a result of circumstances which are beyond Our reasonable 
control or for the failure of any other person. 
Im satisfied this means AJ Bell isnt responsible for advising or recommending the shares 
Mr M holds. It also indicates that there are settlement risks and if there are delays AJ Bell 
would use reasonable endeavours to complete settlement  but it didnt accept responsibility 
for delays caused by others. 
Mr M made a decision to purchase shares in a SPAC that he was expecting to sell in the 
future (for potential profit) when an anticipated merger was completed. But due to delays in 
him receiving the new shares following the merger he wasnt able to realise the level of 
returns he was expecting.  So Ive looked at the evidence available to establish whether AJ 
Bell were at fault or errors on its part meant it is responsible for delays  and in turn the 
losses Mr M claims. 
AJ Bells position is that while it accepts that the allocation of shares took longer than 
anticipated, it worked to liaise and co-ordinate with various different parties in order to 
resolve the matter and the delays were ultimately outside of its control. It has explained that 
following the merger Mr Ms new shares were no longer held on the UK Settlements System 
(UKSS) and instead the shares were to be held with the International Settlements System 
(ISS). It says this transfer of systems is an industry standard process. It says it made 
continuous efforts to liaise with the parties to try and resolve the issues  but a resolution 
wasnt achieved until October 2021 when Mr M received the shares. 
Ive looked at the evidence AJ Bell has provided to support its position that it could not 
allocate the shares to Mr Ms account until October 2021. There clearly were problems in the 
settlement, so I asked AJ Bell to explain what actually resolved the issue. It explained that 
after several months of chasing and trying to establish what was happening, after a senior 
level escalation it was discovered in a meeting in October 2021 between the three parties 
that the shares had been with the ISS since June 2021. Once this was discovered 
settlement took place shortly afterwards. 
So, it does appear the ISS was in receipt of the shares on or around the 11 June 2021  and 
I would have expected Mr M to have received his shares shortly after this time. Ive 
considered whether AJ Bell is a fault for this delay. AJ Bell has been able to provide 
evidence that it was in regular contact with the relevant parties and was chasing often 
weekly for updates throughout May, June, July, August and September 2021. From 
reviewing the evidence, it appears that there was a disagreement between the two 
settlement systems as to who was responsible for holding the shares. Ive seen that AJ Bell 
made proactive attempts to resolve the situation and impressed the importance on the third 
parties of resolving the matter. AJ Bell has shown that it arranged a three-way call in 
October 2021, and it was during this process it was established that the shares were held 
with the ISS  and as I said, from this point the matter was resolved quickly. 
While, the precise reason for why the shares werent settled sooner is difficult to establish, it 
seems most likely this was due to problems with settlement system that were outside of AJ 
Bells control. Im satisfied that the evidence doesnt support that AJ Bell were at fault for the 
delays Mr M experienced. It has shown that it took steps to resolve the issue  and while this 
took much longer than expected it did help achieve the ultimate resolution. For this reason, I 
dont find AJ Bell responsible for the losses Mr M claims as I dont think the balance of 
available evidence supports that it was responsible for the delays.
 My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman