DRN-2304106
The complaint
Mr Bs complaint is about the way Crowdstacker Limited presented an investment 
opportunity on its crowdfunding platform. He feels information about the company he 
invested in was misleading and Crowdstacker failed to perform sufficient due diligence 
on this.
What happened
Crowdstacker provides a loan-based crowdfunding facility through a peer-to-peer platform 
in which investors can lend to borrowers in return for interest. Crowdstacker gives 
information regarding investment opportunities by way of investment brochures which 
investors can read before selecting which loans they want to invest in.
Mr B invested £12,000 into a loan with Company A through Crowdstackers platform 
in August 2017. The investment brochure explained Company A would use the loan 
to purchase and refurbish freehold pubs. It explained the following:
Company A would use equity or subordinated debt to fund 30% of each 
acquisition, with the loaned money being used to fund the remaining 70% of the 
purchase price.
An independent RICS valuation from a chartered surveyor would be obtained 
for each property prior to the purchase, confirming the value of the property at 
the time of purchase as well as the Expected Market Value (EMV) of the 
property.
The loan would also be used to fund 100% of the refurbishment costs of each 
pub, providing that the total amount of funding did not exceed 70% of the EMV 
of the pub after refurbishment.
The pubs would be operated by a separate company which Ill call 
Company B, which had some of the same key management as Company 
A.
Interest on the loan would be paid by way of cash flow generated from the 
operating pubs and lenders would be paid back their capital at the end of the 
three-year loan term by one or a combination of the following ways:
oThe accumulated profits of Company A
oSales proceeds of some or all of the property assets of Company A
oThe sale of the business of Company A
oRefinancing of the loans
The investment brochure also explained the following security would be in place for the loan:
Each freehold property purchased would be secured by way of a first ranking 
legal charge registered at the Land Registry.
The loan would be secured by way of a first ranking debenture over all the 
assets of Company A and the guarantor (one of Company As subsidiaries).
The guarantor, who was responsible for operating the non-tenanted pubs 
owned by Company A, would give a guarantee for Company As obligations 
under the loan.
Independent valuations would be carried out to ensure the LTV would not 
exceed 70% of the purchase price and EMV of the properties after 
refurbishment. Annual valuations on the portfolio of pubs would also be carried 
out and if the outstanding loan was greater than 70% of Company As assets 
then the shareholders could procure a further cash injection or sell property to 
realise any excess capital uplift.
In October 2018, Crowdstacker emailed Mr B to explain an additional review of Company 
A had been triggered as Company B had gone into administration. Following this, in 
March 2019, Crowdstacker wrote to Mr B to explain Company A had also been put into 
administration.
Mr B raised a complaint with Crowdstacker as he had a number of concerns regarding 
its due diligence on Company A. In summary, Mr B said:
The financial dependency between Company A and Company B wasnt fully 
disclosed. This was important as the failure of Company B directly caused 
Company A to be put into administration.
Legal charges for the purchased freehold pubs werent registered until 
September 2018. This meant Company A didnt need to adhere to the 
operative clauses in the legal charges, such as completing refurbish work 
within nine months.
Valuations for the purchased pubs were inaccurate and the LTV of 70% 
was exceeded.
Crowdstacker shouldnt have allowed Company A to overfund beyond its initial
£5,000,000 target.
Crowdstacker didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. In summary, it said:
The investment brochure made it clear that there was a link between Company A 
and Company B  same key individuals of the management team and that 
Company B would be responsible for operating the pubs.
The purchase of the pubs was undertaken through solicitors and as outlined in 
the investment brochure.
The investment brochure made it clear that the target may be extended in the 
future.
The risk factors were highlighted to Mr B and the investment brochure 
was transparent and not misleading.
Mr B remained unhappy and so he brought his complaint to our service. An 
investigator looked into Mr Bs complaint, but he didnt uphold it. In summary, he said:
He was satisfied there was no financial link between Company A and 
Company B and the only links were those which were disclosed in the 
investment brochure.
None of the securities listed for the loan were related to Company B and so he 
didnt agree that the failure of Company B directly caused Company A to be put 
into administration.
He was satisfied Crowdstacker did take out the security detailed in the 
investment brochure.
The pub valuations were conducted by Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors 
(RICS) qualified surveyors and so it was fair for Crowdstacker to rely on these.
He also hadnt seen any evidence to suggest the LTV exceeded 70%.Mr B disagreed with our investigators opinion. He didnt agree that here was no financial 
connection between Company A and Company B and directed our service to the 
administrators report for Company A. He said the report referred to Company B being a 
connected company and that Company A was regarded as being within Company Bs 
group with the same financial accounts. He said the fact that both companies shared key 
management and that the securities taken out by Crowdstacker werent in relation to 
Company B was irrelevant. Rather, the key issue for him was that Crowdstacker knew 
there was a risk of Company A failing when Company B was put into administration and 
yet it still allowed Company A to continue to trade for a further two to three months.
Mr B also said the ability for Company A to repay the loan interest was dependant on the 
refurbishment of the pubs and without the legal charges being registered as soon as they 
were purchased, Crowdstacker had no way of ensuring refurbishment works happened in a 
timely manner. He said its obvious that the failure to refurbish and open some of the pubs 
significantly contributed to investors loss and to the subsequent devaluation of the portfolio 
when it came to security. And so Crowdstacker failed to ensure the loan obligations were 
performed on behalf of investors. He added that had he known the legal charges wouldnt 
be added until year after the pubs were purchased, he would never have invested.
Mr B also didnt think our investigator had addressed his concerns regarding the additional 
loan raise and exceeding the LTV. He said that, following an investor update in February 
2018, Crowdstacker allowed Company A to raise an additional £1,400,000. And this 
directly contributed to his loss by way of diluting the existing security, as well as resulting 
in exceeding the LTV of 70%.
Our investigator considered the additional points made by Mr B, but they didnt change 
his thinking on the complaint. As no agreement could be reached, Mr B asked for an 
ombudsman to reach a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id first like to reassure Mr B that Ive read all the correspondence in the file when 
deciding the complaint. I hope he wont take it as a discourtesy that I havent commented 
on every specific point raised but its not because Ive failed to take it into account. Ive 
instead concentrated my findings on what I believe to be the key factors in reaching a fair 
and reasonable outcome.
Mr B has raised concerns regarding the information Crowdstacker presented to him 
about the opportunity to invest in Company A. The key issues centre around the 
connection between Company A and Company B and the security in place for the loan 
(including the valuations of the purchased pubs and the LTV).
When considering these points, Ive taken into account the regulatory obligations 
placed upon Crowdstacker at the time. The Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) 
Principles for Business (PRIN) set out the overarching requirements which all 
authorised firms are required to comply with. The most relevant principles here are:
PRIN 2.1.1R (2) A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
PRIN 2.1.1R (6) A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers 
and treat them fairly.
PRIN 2.1.1R (7) A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and 
not misleading.
Crowdstacker is also required to act in accordance with the rules set out in the FCAs 
Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS). And the most relevant obligations here 
are:
COBS 2.1.1R (1) A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its client.
COBS 4.2.1R (1) A firm must ensure that a communication or a financial 
promotion is fair, clear and not misleading.
The connection between Company A and Company B
As explained above, Crowdstacker was required to ensure the information provided in the 
investment brochure was fair, clear and not misleading. Page 10 of the investment brochure 
explained the purchased pubs would be operated by Company B and it made it clear that 
the management team of Company A had some of the same key management as Company 
B.
I understand Mr B feels quite strongly the connection between the two companies went 
beyond that which was stated in the investment brochure. Hes referenced the following 
parts of the administrators report for Company A from April 2019 to demonstrate there 
was also a financial connection which wasnt disclosed to investors:
Whilst the pubs operated independently under management agreements, for 
head office functions such as maintaining accounts [Company A] historically 
used the services of a connected company, [Company B].
[]
Only the Groups management accounts for 12 months to 31 July have 
been provided
[]
The Directors have not to date submitted a signed Statement of Affairs and 
have stated that they are not in a position to submit on due to inadequate 
books and records.
Whilst Mr B says the above extracts show Company A and Company B were part of the 
same group, I think its important to clarify that any mention of the Group within the 
administrators report is in reference to Company A and its subsidiary only, as explained 
under the definitions section of the report. So I dont agree that any inference to Company 
A being part of the same group as Company B can be made here.
I acknowledge that the administrators report does mention that Company A historically 
used the services of Company B for maintaining accounts and said it was a connected 
company. My role is not that of a forensic accountant but having looked at accounts 
included in the administrators report, its clear to me that these refer to the profit and losses 
of Company A and its subsidiary only. So whilst the accounts may have been maintained by 
Company B, Ive seen no evidence to show the accounts were one in the same for 
Company A and Company B. Having considered information on the Companies House 
website for both Company A and Company B, including all administrators reports for both companies, Ive also found no mention of Company A and Company B being part of the 
same group, or as a subsidiary of one or the other. So I think its fair and reasonable to 
assume the administrator was referring to the same connection as disclosed in the 
investment brochure.
On a final point on this matter, I understand Mr B has questioned why Crowdstacker 
initiated a further review of Company A following Company B being put into administration, 
if the two companies were not financially connected.
Many companies will use other the services of other companies in the day-to-day running of 
their operations. I dont think it would be fair for a pitch to mention every such company or 
for a crowdfunding platform to always have to investigate the financials of these connected 
companies. But where the use of another companys services is integral to the operation of 
a company, then following the failure of a connected company, I think it would be prudent 
for a crowdfunding platform to assess the impact of this.
In Mr Bs case, Crowdstacker explained it performed this additional review to allow it to 
understand the impact the failure of Company B had on the operations of Company A. As 
explained in the investment brochure, Company B was responsible for operating the pubs 
Company A purchased and refurbished. The pubs operating effectively was an integral part 
of raising revenue for Company A to repay interest on the loan and so Id expect 
Crowdstacker to review matters concerning this. So whilst I dont think Crowdstacker 
needed to perform due diligence checks on Company B before promoting the investment in 
Company A, I think it was appropriate for it to assess the impact the failure of Company B 
had on the operations of Company A. And, on balance, Im not persuaded that the review 
was triggered due to a connection that went beyond that which was disclosed in the 
financial brochure.
So taking into account all of the above, Im satisfied Crowdstacker gave Mr B fair, clear 
and not misleading information regarding the connection between Company A and 
Company B.
The security, valuations and LTV
Page 13 of the investment brochure explained what security would be in place for the loan 
to Company A. The first security listed was legal charges over property:
Your Loan will be secured on each property purchased by the Company, by way 
of a first ranking legal charge over the property, in favour of the Security Trustee 
on behalf of the Lenders. Each charge will be registered with the Land Registry.
I can confirm that Ive seen copies of the title deeds for each property showing that a first 
ranking legal charge was registered with the HM Land Registry in September 2018. I 
understand Mr B believes the legal charges should have been registered much sooner 
after the properties were purchased. Mr B has pointed to covenant 8.3 (d) within the legal 
charges which explains:
The Borrower must complete all works to the Charged Property within a 
reasonable period to time but in no event exceeding 9 months.
Mr B says this provided further security for investors as it gave Crowdstacker the ability to 
exercise power of sale if Company A failed to refurbish the properties within nine months 
of purchase. He says that, had he known the legal charges would not be drawn up and 
registered upon purchasing the properties, he wouldnt have invested.Ive thought carefully about this point and whilst I think it would have been prudent of 
Crowdstacker to have registered the legal charges much sooner than it did, I dont agree 
that this would have made a material difference to Mr Bs decision to invest. I say this as, at 
the time of investing in Company A, Mr B wasnt aware of what, if any, operative clauses 
would be included in the legal charges. The investment brochure simply said that first 
ranking legal charges would be registered against each of the properties and Im satisfied 
this did happen. So I dont think it misled Mr B in this regard.
I have to be careful not to use hindsight when thinking about whether Mr B would have 
invested had he known the legal charges wouldnt be registered straight away. Having 
now seen sight of the legal charges, its clear what operative clauses were included, but 
without that hindsight I dont think Mr B would have been in a position to understand what 
impact the late registration of these charges would have had on his investment. 
Ultimately, the legal charges were in place for security in case Company A defaulted on 
the loan. Whilst they were added later than expected, they were still registered prior to 
Company A being put into administration and so they were in place when security needed 
to be realised.
Mr B has also raised concerns regarding the valuations and LTV of the properties 
purchased by Company A. I understand hes questioned the accuracy of the valuations and 
has suggested that the LTV of 70% was exceeded when Crowdstacker allowed Company A 
to raise an additional £1,400,000 over its £5,000,000 target. Again, Ive fully considered Mr 
Bs points, but I havent found anything to persuade me that Crowdstacker has acted 
unfairly.
The investment brochure explained the following regarding the portfolio of pubs 
being independently valued:
An independent valuation of the properties will be carried out to establish the 
value prior to purchase and an Expected Market Value after refurbishment. The 
Loan to Value (LTV) will not exceed 70% of the purchase price on purchase and 
70% of the Expected Market Value of the properties after refurbishment.
A further independent valuation on the portfolio of pubs will be carried out on 
an annual basis. If the outstanding Loan is greater than 70% of the Company 
assets, the shareholders take the following actions:
Shareholders may procure that further cash is injected into the 
Company by issuing shares or subordinated debt.
Company may choose to sell a property in order to realise any excess 
capital uplift.
Crowdstacker has explained that internal valuations were provided in January 2018 and a 
revised independent valuation was conducted on one of the completed pubs in January 
2018. Ive seen copies of the independent valuations carried out by a RICS chartered 
surveyor on each property. Having done so, Im satisfied that these were sufficiently 
detailed to establish the prices prior to purchase and the expected market values. And so, I 
think it was fair for Crowdstacker to rely on these to ensure Company A met the LTV 
requirements. Ive also seen evidence of the amount Company A contributed to the 
purchases, as well as completion statements which support that the LTV requirements 
were adhered to.
As part of Crowdstackers further review of Company A, following Company B being put 
into administration, it decided to also seek its own independent red-book valuations for the pubs to determine a prudent value for the pubs. The valuation was delivered at the 
beginning of December 2018 and showed a shortfall in values. Some of the shortfall was 
attributed to the closed pubs, as three of the seven pubs were still in the process of being 
refurbished prior to Company A going into administration. Ive seen no evidence which 
shows that any of the pubs that remained under refurbishment had breached the individual 
pub conditions as set out in the investment brochure.
Crowdstacker has also explained that four pubs had been opened by the end of 2017. 
From the information supplied, the pubs, on balance at that point, had traded well and had 
been in-line with forecasts post refurbishment at the time under Company As ownership. 
One of the pubs had traded ahead of target and this led to a revised valuation. Two of the 
pubs, were being refurbished and were recorded on the balance sheet at cost and not at 
EMV.
Crowdstacker has confirmed that the additional £1,400,000 raised was spent on the 
continued refurbishment of the two pubs, as well as purchasing an additional pub. 
This additional pub was purchased for around £446,000 with an EMV of £1,600,000 
post refurbishment. Again, I can confirm that Ive seen evidence which supports these 
valuations.
Taking into account all of the above, Im satisfied the LTV requirements were adhered to. I 
say this as the unopened pubs, as mentioned above, were included in the 68% LTV 
calculation at cost  i.e. purchase price plus costs spent on refurbishment to date. As each 
pub was opened, they were to be valued at the EMV indicated in the initial valuation 
reports which would have added to the asset base and lowered the LTV when compared 
to Company As gross assets. Furthermore, the LTV test was intended to be conducted on 
a pub level basis during the year to allow for each pub to be refurbished and opened so as 
to add value to the company assets. Again, Ive seen no evidence to show there was a 
breach in the conditions of the loan in this respect.
On a final note on the security in place for the loan, I can confirm that Ive also seen 
evidence to show that Crowdstacker were appointed as a security trustee over Company A 
and its guarantor, and that a first ranking debenture was registered over the assets of both. 
And that Ive seen evidence that Company As subsidiary gave Crowdstacker a guarantee 
of Company As obligations under the loan. And so I have no concerns regarding these two 
securities mentioned in the investment brochure either.
I understand Mr B has also questioned why Crowdstacker allowed Company A to increase 
its loan facility as he feels this didnt demonstrate due skill, care or diligence. The 
investment brochure clearly explained on the FAQ page that the target could be extended 
in the future:
What is the fundraising target?
The Loans have an initial target of £5m, which may be extended in the future.
So Mr B ought to have considered any risk associated with this when he decided to 
invest. The purpose for the additional loan was to continue with refurbishment of two 
unopened pubs, as well as purchasing an additional pub, so I think it was fair for to do so 
as it was done so with the intention of providing further income in order to repay 
investors. Ive also seen evidence of a Gross Assets Test conducted in December 2017 
which supports the financials given in Crowdstackers March 2018 investor update email.
Having considered everything, Im not persuaded Crowdstacker has acted unfairly in the 
way in which it presented the investment opportunity in Company A and Im satisfied it 
performed sufficient due diligence before doing so and throughout the loan term.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2021.
Ben Waites
 
Ombudsman