DRN-3277194
The complaint
Mrs I complains about Amtrust Europe Limiteds handling of her claim about a stained sofa 
under her furniture warranty.
What happened
Mrs I contacted Amtrust because her sofa had stains on it from drinks being spilt. She says 
an engineer turned up and cleaned the entire sofa not just the seat that had the stains. She 
says there was a bad smell after the cleaning took place. Mrs I says the next day she 
noticed the colour of the entire sofa had faded. She says she has no money to replace the 
sofa and Amtrust refused to do anything further.
Amtrust says its engineer did as best they could to remove stains but the staining was 
extensive and had built up over time. It says its policy covers sudden and single incidents of 
accidental damage and staining not damage resulting from wear and tear or anything, 
which happens gradually or over a sustained period of time, or by the accumulation of 
multiple stains.  
Mrs I referred her complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold her complaint. She 
thought the approach taken by Amtrusts engineer to clean the whole sofa was reasonable. 
This was to prevent the cleaned areas standing out from the rest of the sofa. She referred to 
the engineers comments that the sofa had heavy ingrained staining that couldnt be 
removed completely. Because of this she didnt think Amtrust had done anything wrong.
Mrs I disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding Mrs Is complaint. I understand she will be disappointed, 
but I will explain why I think my decision is fair.
Amtrust has supplied records from when Mrs I first made contact about her sofa in 
December 2020. The notes say her children had dropped food on the sofa. When Mrs I tried 
to wipe it up, using the cleaning kit provided by the manufacturer, it seems to have taken the 
colour out. Mrs I says there is staining on the sofa, there are three holes and some stitching 
is coming away. 
The notes show Amtrust told Mrs I its policy doesnt cover stitching. It requested photos of 
the damage. Photos were provided in January 2021 and during a phone call in February the 
holes and stitching were again discussed. The notes say Mrs I referred to holes where the 
stitching is located. Amtrust told her it declined to cover this damage. The notes show Mrs I 
referred to the fabric colour, fading all over the sofa. It was explained that this isnt covered. 
An appointment was made around a week later for a technician to attempt to clean the 
staining. 
The technicians report confirms all four seat cushions were cleaned. He refers to the 
staining as general soiling. After this cleaning Mrs I says there was a strong bleach smell 
and that when the sofa dried the colour had faded across the whole sofa. She refers to the 
staining being present on one section, not the whole sofa. 
Amtrust asked its technician to provide comment on the concerns raised. He responded to 
say there was significantly more staining than was initially reported by Mrs I. He says there 
was a possibility that the corner unit would look, uneven or asymmetrical, which is why all 
the seat cushions were cleaned. He refers to the sofa having, very heavy, ingrained soiling. 
The technician says the ingrained soiling has not been removed in full and refers to the sofa 
having been, neglected. He adds that the damage to the sofa is not covered under the 
warranty. 
Amtrust refers to section 3.1 of the policy terms that say:
This insurance will not pay for costs arising from: - Any damage, soiling or staining caused:
-by wear and tear, anything which happens gradually or over a sustained period of time, or by 
the accumulation of multiple stains. 
The business says its policy covers single incidents of accidental damage and staining. 
Because of this it declined to do anything further in relation to Mrs Is claim. 
I can see from the photos supplied that there are a number of holes in the sofa and areas 
where stitching is coming away. Some of the staining can also be seen. I acknowledge Mrs 
Is view that staining was limited to one area of the sofa. But this differs from the technicians 
description of ingrained staining throughout the sofa. 
I have thought about the technicians decision to clean the whole sofa. Amtrust confirms this 
was to avoid there being an obvious difference between the cleaned and uncleaned 
sections. This seems a reasonable approach, particularly given the technicians opinion that 
the extent of the staining was greater and more ingrained than had been reported. 
I have also thought about Mrs Is concern that the colour of the sofa has faded following the 
cleaning. 
I didnt think it was entirely clear which photos were taken before and which were taken after 
cleaning. So, we asked Mrs I for photos that showed the sofa before it was cleaned to 
compare against the photos taken afterwards. We also asked Amtrust to clarify which photos 
it had taken were before cleaning and which afterwards. Both responded and Mrs I also 
supplied a video of her sofa prior to the cleaning. 
I have examined the photos in detail. But I dont think they clearly show the cleaning has had 
the effect Mrs I claims. The colour appears fairly consistent across both the pre and post 
cleaning photos. The technician report includes two photos that show the sofa and the 
staining before cleaning and some afterwards. It isnt clear to me from these photos that the 
colour has faded  albeit I note Mrs Is view that this occurred after the sofa dried. 
In the video Mrs I sent the cushions appear slightly darker than the photos, although the 
video and photos were taken at the same time. When comparing these images of the sofa 
with photos taken after cleaning, again I dont think this clearly shows the colour fading Mrs I 
has claimed. I asked Amtrust why it attempted cleaning if the policy doesnt cover this damage. In 
response it says staining has to be assessed and a cleaning attempt made to determine the 
type and cause of the problem. This reveals whether it will be covered by the policy. It says 
sometimes this process is enough to remove certain types of stains that are reasonably 
fresh and not ingrained. It says when there has been a build-up of stains from multiple 
events the topmost stain may be cleaned away leaving the old stains exposed.
I think it was fair that Amtrust followed its process and attempted to remove the staining. In 
this case it determined it wasnt able to remove ingrained older staining and concluded the 
claim wasnt covered. 
Amtrusts records show that Mrs I reported fading all over the sofa when she first contacted 
it in December 2020. Having considered these comments along with the photos and video, I 
dont think its reasonably been shown that cleaning was the sole cause of fading to the sofa. 
Finally, Mrs I complained that the smell caused by the chemicals used in the cleaning were 
very strong. I asked Amtrust for it to comment on this point. 
Amtrusts technician says Mrs I had attempted to remove the stains using her own cleaning 
products. He says there was a significant amount of faded patches noticeable. He also says 
he asked for authorisation to clean the full sofa as he thought this was the only way to 
resolve the claim. The technician says its possible the cleaning chemical he used reacted 
with the cleaning agents Mrs I had used, to cause the smell she complained off. He says the 
only other chemical he used gives off a pear aroma.
Im sorry to hear Mrs I found the smell unpleasant, but I dont think Amtrust did anything 
wrong when trying to remove the staining. 
Having considered all of this, I dont think Amtrust treated Mrs I unfairly in carrying out an 
initial cleaning attempt before determining the staining was made up of multiple stains 
developed over time. Because of this I think it fairly relied on the terms of its policy to decline 
the claim. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do anymore to resolve Mrs Is complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman