DRN-1371860
complaint
Mr M says Elevate Credit International Limited, trading as Sunny, irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about an instalment loan Sunny provided to Mr M in August 2019.
Our adjudicator thought about Mr Ms complaint and felt Sunny had lent to him responsibly, 
so he didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. Mr M disagreed so, the complaint was passed to me 
for a final decision.
my finding
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely 
to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
why I think Sunny checks were proportionate for Mr Ms loan
For Mr Ms loan of £450.00 he needed to repay a maximum of £101.50 during the term of 
the loan. 
Ive seen a record of the information Mr M provided when he completed his loan application. 
Mr M said he had a monthly income of £1910.00 and after deducting his regular monthly 
outgoings he said he was left with a disposable income of £244.00. So, it looked like he had 
enough disposal income to make his payments under this loan agreement.
At this point in the lending relationship I think it was reasonable of Sunny to have relied on 
what Mr M told them about his income and expenditure. It is of course possible that had 
Mr M taken further lending then Sunny, as a reasonable lender ought to have carried out 
further, more in-depth checks. But considering Mr M hadnt taken out any prior loans with 
Sunny, I dont think it had yet reached the stage where Sunny needed to carry out further 
checks, such as verifying this information or enquiring into his wider financial circumstances.
I have seen, however, that Mr M has listed a number of outstanding debts he had with other 
providers at the time, which he felt ought to have led Sunny to complete further checks or 
refused his loan application. But there was no requirement on Sunny to have completed 
such an indebt financial view for Mr M for the first loan requested, and I havent seen any 
evidence or other information that Sunny collected at the time that shows its likely Sunny 
was made aware of any financial problems Mr M mightve been having. Or anything that 
wouldve prompted it to investigate Mr Ms circumstances further. So, I think it was 
reasonable for Sunny to rely on the information it obtained.
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the affordability assessment Sunny carried out for 
Mr Ms loan was proportionate. And I think its decision to lend Mr M in these circumstances 
was reasonable. So, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
I appreciate that this decision will come as a disappointment for Mr M, but I want to assure 
him that Ive thought about and considered all the evidence that has been made available to 
me.
final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont think complaint should be upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2020.
Sienna Mahboobani
Ombudsman