DRN-2204444
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that (Lloyds) hasnt dealt with a claim for storm damage to their 
home fairly.
What happened
After a storm in early 2020 Mr and Mrs Ps found that some of the render/dashing on the 
side of their home had come away, leaving the brickwork beneath exposed and damaging 
their car.
Mr and Mrs P contacted Lloyds which agreed to look at their claim.
Lloyds sent a surveyor to look at the damage and he concluded that properly applied 
render/dashing wouldnt have come away from the wall in a storm, especially as it was only 
applied about 6 years earlier. He also pointed out some damage (not caused by the storm) 
which meant an attached garage roof was leaking, and cracks in the remaining render.
Lloyds said it wouldnt meet the claim, relying on an exclusion in Mr and Mrs Ps policy that 
said it need not meet claims if the cause of the damage was poor workmanship. Mr and Mrs 
P got a builder to look at the work  he said he thought rain had got in behind the render and 
that had led to it becoming detached.
Lloyds said it still wouldnt meet the claim, so Mr and Mrs P complained. Lloyds didnt 
change its stance, so Mr and Mrs P asked us to review their complaint.
Our investigator said he thought Lloyds could fairly rely on the content of the surveyors 
report  and that it need not meet the claim.
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy about this so Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs P asked that I watch a particular TV programme before reaching my decision as 
it highlighted problems in the insurance industry. I can only reach a decision based on the 
particular facts of their complaint, so I havent done this. I dont think that prevents me from 
reaching a fair decision as a wide ranging programme about the insurance industry is 
unlikely to be relevant to Mr and Mrs Ps individual circumstances. 
Turning to Mr and Mrs Ps specific complaint, when I look at a complaint about storm 
damage, I ask three questions: was there a storm at the time, is the damage typically that 
caused by a storm and was this particular damage most likely caused by the storm in 
question.
Theres no suggestion there wasnt a storm immediately before Mr and Mrs P made their 
claim, so Im satisfied Lloyds was right to consider the claim under storm damage.
The damage caused  rendering coming away from a wall  could be caused by a storm, 
although its not a common type of damage.
The third question is often the one that causes most problems. For a claim for storm damage 
to succeed, Mr and Mrs P must show that the damage was caused by a particular event  in 
this case a named storm. For Lloyds to say it need not meet the claim, it must show that it 
can fairly apply an exclusion  in this case that poor workmanship contributed to the 
damage.
Ive read both reports on the damage, and I think Lloyds can rely on the report from its 
surveyor. Thats because I think the argument that properly applied render/dashing wouldnt 
come away from the wall only a few years after its been applied is a persuasive one.
Ive also noted that Mr and Mrs Ps builder thought that rain had got in behind the render and 
caused the problem. But weather reports from the area Mr and Mrs P live in say there wasnt 
much rain during this storm where Mr and Mrs P live  only about 5mm in 24 hours. If rain 
had caused the damage, it would more likely have been getting in over a long period of time, 
which suggests the render might not have been properly applied initially, despite the building 
regulations certificate that was issued at the time. I also think the cracks seen elsewhere in 
the render/dashing suggest its failing for some reason unrelated to this storm.
Taking everything into account I think its reasonable for Lloyds to say it wont meet this 
claim.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 November 2020.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman