DRN-4398204
The complaint
Mr W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) provided 
poor customer service after he fell victim to fraudulent activity on his account.
What happened
Mr Ws credit card account was temporarily blocked after Barclaycard noted some unusual 
transactions. They sent messages to Mr W about the payments which Mr W was suspicious 
about.
Mr W called Barclaycard about the messages hed received and confirmed that he didnt 
recognise several payments made from his account. Mr W was unhappy with his treatment 
during the call, he thought he was made to feel that his call was unnecessary. 
Barclaycard looked into the disputed transactions and refunded them to Mr W. In a later call, 
Mr W said he was told hed receive new credit cards for his account but not new Personal 
Identification Numbers (PINs). He later complained after receiving the new cards but was 
unable to use them because the new PINs hadnt turned up and hed wasted time off from 
work.
Barclaycard investigated Mr Ws complaints concerning the treatment he received and the 
issue of the cards and the PINs. They accepted theyd not dealt with his initial call well and 
apologised. But they didnt think that theyd done anything wrong when they replaced his 
cards and PINs. 
Mr W was left unhappy with Barclaycards handling of his complaint and brought it to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent review where it was assigned to an 
investigator. He considered submissions from both parties and issued his outcome, 
recommending that no further action be taken by Barclaycard.
The investigator concluded that Mr W had been asked about new cards and replacement 
PINs  although he thought Barclaycard could have been clearer with what was to happen 
when all cards associated with the account had new PINs issued. It was recognised that Mr 
Ws experience with Barclaycard was mixed, but no compensation was recommended.
Mr W disagreed with the investigators outcome and asked for a further review of his 
complaint which has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not recommending any further action be taken. Ill explain why.
Mr W suffered the compromise of his credit card resulting in several disputed transactions 
being made from his account. This was recognised early on by Barclaycard, and they were 
refunded back to the credit account, resulting in no financial loss to Mr W. As they were 
refunded, I dont need to further consider the disputed transactions.
Mr Ws main complaint is related to the information he says he was given and the way he 
was made to feel when he spoke with Barclaycard about the suspicious transactions. 
Theres no recording available of the call which Mr W complained about, but I dont doubt his 
version of events here. Barclaycard have system notes about the call made by another 
Barclaycard employee when it was raised by Mr W in a later call. 
Those notes support Mr Ws submission that he was made to feel as though his call was 
unnecessary. What Mr W was trying to do at the time was ensure the message hed 
received was a genuine one from Barclaycard and I was surprised that the call operator 
treated Mr W this way. Scam messages are prevalent, and I think Mr Ws approach was one 
to be applauded rather than treated the way he was. 
Having said that, Barclaycard recognised this poor service and apologised to Mr W, following 
this up with a written apology to him. Regarding this specific incident I think the apology was 
an appropriate way to deal with the lack of service to him.
Moving on to the issue of the card/PIN replacement, I have listened to the call where this 
was discussed. Mr W is informed about the new card and asked about a new PIN. He 
specifically agreed to the new PIN, although I understand the slight confusion about whether 
the other cards would also have new PINs.
I dont think that Barclaycard did anything particularly wrong here, although they could have 
been more specific regarding what was going to be replaced. I think, given the disputed 
transactions that had occurred on the account, that Barclaycards decision to replace all the 
cards and issue new PINs was a reasonable way to protect the account. Something Im sure 
Mr W would prefer rather than leave a potential compromise leading to more stress and 
worry.
I understand there was a small delay in receiving the cards/PINs, but Ive seen nothing that 
would persuade me that Mr W had to wait unusually long to receive them.  
Overall, I understand Mr W had a less than perfect interaction with Barclaycard, including 
variations in what he was told, although Im not persuaded that theres more required here 
than the apology hes already received. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman