DRN-3287195
The complaint
Mr T complains that Quadros Financial Solutions Limited (Quadros) provided him with 
unsuitable advice that resulted in the transfer of some pension benefits to a new 
self-invested personal pension (SIPP) in July 2017.
What happened
Mr T has been assisted in making his complaint by a firm of solicitors. But, for ease, in this 
decision I will generally refer to all communication as having been with, and from, Mr T 
himself.
Mr T says that he received a cold call offering him a review of his pension arrangements. He 
accepted that offer and was introduced to Quadros.
Mr T met with Quadros in May 2017. At that time he was aged 46 and lived with his partner 
and their two children. He was making regular contributions to a pension scheme provided 
by his then employer. And he held further pension savings invested in a with-profits 
arrangement. The advice he received from Quadros only related to his pension savings held 
in the with-profits plan.
Quadros recommended that Mr T move his pension savings into a new SIPP. It said that the 
transfer would allow him to better grow his pension savings through the use of a 
Discretionary Fund Manager (DFM). And it noted that his existing plan didnt offer the 
flexible retirement benefits Mr T would expect to need at retirement.
Quadros did note in its suitability report that the costs of using the SIPP arrangement, 
including its ongoing advice fee, would be greater than Mr T was already paying. But it says 
that those additional charges could have been recouped by better investment performance. 
Quadros measured Mr Ts attitude to risk as being high medium. Mr T accepted Quadros 
recommendation and moved his pension savings to the new SIPP.
Mr Ts complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. She didnt think the 
recommendation Quadros had given to Mr T had been suitable. She didnt see any 
reasoning to suggest why the investment approach offered by the existing plan was 
insufficient for Mr T. And given the extended period left until Mr Ts retirement she thought 
any decisions about flexibility would have been better taken nearer the time. So she thought 
that, had Quadros provided Mr T with suitable advice, hed have left his pension savings 
within the existing plan. Our investigator asked Quadros to pay Mr T some compensation.
Quadros didnt agree with that assessment. I said that its measurement of Mr Ts attitude to 
risk was in line with the investments it had recommended. And it said that Mr Ts more 
recent actions suggested that its original measure of his attitude to risk had been either 
correct, or close to being correct. It also said that it disagreed with how the investigator had 
proposed it should put things right. It said that, even if we thought its investment approach 
had been incorrect, Mr T would have still made the switch to the SIPP.
As the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, 
to decide. This is the last stage of our process. If Mr T accepts my decision it is legally 
binding on both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr T and by Quadros. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a 
consumer and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask 
the business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
The applicable rules, regulations, and requirements
Within the FCAs handbook, COBS 2.1.1R required a regulated business to act honestly, 
fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client.
The FCAs suitability rules and guidance that applied at the time Quadros advised Mr T were 
set out in COBS 9. The purpose of the rules and guidance is to ensure that regulated 
businesses, like Quadros, take reasonable steps to provide advice that is suitable for their 
clients needs and to ensure theyre not inappropriately exposed to a level of risk beyond 
their investment objective and risk profile.
Mr T was seeking advice, and a recommendation, from Quadros. It was Quadros that was 
the expert when looking at the pros and cons of the transfer, and how Mr T could best use 
his pension savings to provide for him when he retired. Whilst it needed to ensure that it 
gave full and detailed information to Mr T to support its recommendation, it was primarily 
responsible for ensuring that the advice it gave was suitable for Mr Ts circumstances. So 
regardless of whether Mr T might, have had some financial experience he was entitled to 
rely on the advice that Quadros gave to him when deciding how to proceed.
Quadros advised Mr T to move his pension savings into a new SIPP. It said that it advised 
Mr T that he should make use of a DFM to manage his pension investments. But I havent 
seen anything that sets out in any level of detail why Quadros thought that would be 
appropriate. Its notes from the time suggest that Mr Ts existing pension scheme was 
outperforming what might be considered a reasonable benchmark. It doesnt seem to me 
that there was anything unusual about Mr Ts circumstances that meant he might have 
needed more bespoke investment funds, or significant additional diversity.
By agreeing to transfer his pension savings, Mr T needed to pay a fee of 3% of their value to 
Quadros. I understand that fee was only due if he agreed to the transfer, so there was a 
clear conflict of interest in the advice that Quadros gave. Without recommending the transfer 
took place, Quadros would not receive a fee for its advice.Quadros analysis showed that the charges Mr T would need to pay following the transfer 
would be much higher than those he was paying on his current pension plan. On his current 
plan Quadros identified that Mr T was paying an annual management charge of 1%. If he 
agreed to the transfer to the SIPP Mr T would need to pay an annual platform charge of 
0.35% plus a charge of 0.63% to the DFM. And Quadros would add its own on-going 
management charge (in addition to the 3% initial advice charge) of 1% per annum. Overall 
Quadros calculated that, before taking account of its ongoing fees, Mr Ts pension 
investments would need to return an additional 0.4% per annum to recoup the additional 
investment charges.
I think it is reasonable to conclude that the information Quadros provided did make these 
charges differences clear. But I dont think that is the end of the matter. Quadros was 
providing Mr T with advice, and needed to ensure the approach it recommended would be in 
his best interests. I havent seen anything that persuades me Quadros had any evidence-
based expectation that the transfer to the SIPP would result in Mr T being better off. It is 
clear that the charges would be higher. I dont think there were any reasonable grounds to 
conclude that the alternative investment approach it was recommending would produce 
sufficient excess returns to justify those additional charges. 
Quadros also noted that the existing pension didnt offer the flexible retirement benefits Mr T 
might expect to need at retirement. Again, I havent seen any contemporaneous evidence to 
support that conclusion. Mr T was aged 46 at the time. I doubt that he had a clear 
understanding of when he would retire, let alone what form he might want his retirement 
benefits to take. I agree with our investigator that any decisions intended to provide the basis 
on which Mr T might take his retirement benefits would have been better taken nearer to the 
time of his retirement. At that point Mr T would be able to better articulate his needs in 
retirement, and the regulatory landscape would be set. I dont think that there was any need 
to transfer Mr Ts pension savings, for this reason, from the existing scheme at that time.
Overall I dont think it was appropriate for Quadros to advise Mr T to transfer his pension 
savings into the SIPP. I havent seen anything to persuade me that he needed the additional 
flexibility and investment funds that the SIPP would offer to him. And Im not persuaded that 
any investment performance improvements would have been sufficient to outweigh the  
significant additional charges Mr T would need to pay. So I think that Mr Ts complaint 
should be upheld and Quadros needs to put things right.
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr T should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr T would have remained with his previous provider. I am not satisfied 
that it is reasonable, as Quadros suggests, that there were any compelling reasons why 
Mr T would be persuaded to move his pension savings to the SIPP. Given that he has now 
complained about that transfer I dont think Quadros, or I, can draw any comfort from Mr Ts 
past apparent contentment with the information presented to him in the annual reviews.
However, I cannot be certain that a value will be obtainable for what the previous policy 
would have been worth. I am satisfied what I have set out below is fair and reasonable, 
taking this into account and given Mr T's circumstances and objectives when he was advised 
to make the transfer.
What must Quadros do?
To compensate Mr T fairly, Quadros must:Compare the performance of Mr T's investment with the notional value if it had 
remained with the previous provider. If the actual value is greater than the notional 
value, no compensation is payable. If the notional value is greater than the actual 
value, there is a loss and compensation is payable.
Quadros should add interest if necessary as set out below:
Quadros should pay into Mr T's pension plan to increase its value by the total amount 
of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Quadros is unable to pay the total amount into Mr T's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr T wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr T's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. I think that its reasonable to 
assume that Mr T is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, 
so the reduction would equal 20%. However, as Mr T would be able to take a tax-free 
lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation, resulting in 
an overall reduction of 15%.
Should this compensation not be paid with 28 days of Quadros being informed of 
Mr Ts acceptance of my final decision, simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum 
should be added to the compensation due from the date of my final decision to the 
date of settlement.
Pay Mr T an additional sum of £250 to reflect the inconvenience he has been caused 
by the disruption to his retirement planning.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Quadros deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr T how much has been taken off. Quadros should give Mr T a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr T asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus BenchmarkFrom 
(start date)To 
(end date)
Novia Still exists Date of
SIPP transferDate of my
final 
decisionNotional
value from
previous
provider
Actual value
This means the actual value of the investment at the end date.Notional Value
This is the value of Mr T's investment had it remained with the previous provider until the 
end date. Quadros should request that the previous provider calculate this value.
Any withdrawal from the Novia SIPP should be deducted from the notional value calculation 
at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that 
point on. If there are a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill 
accept if Quadros totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine 
the notional value instead of deducting periodically.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, Quadros will need to 
determine a fair value for Mr T's investment instead, using this benchmark: FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income Total Return Index. The adjustments above also apply to the calculation of 
a fair value using the benchmark, which is then used instead of the notional value in the 
calculation of compensation.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr T wanted Capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, then I consider the 
measure below is appropriate.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It would be a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr T's circumstances and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Quadros Financial Solutions Limited should pay 
the amount calculated as set out above. Quadros Financial Solutions Limited should provide 
details of its calculation to Mr T in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman