DRN-3466655
The complaint
Mr V has complained that Pinnacle Insurance Plc (Pinnacle) has rejected a claim he made 
under his pet insurance policy on the ground that the claim relates to a pre-existing 
condition, excluded by his policy.
What happened
Mr V insured his dog, who Ill refer to as T, through Pinnacle on 4 August 2021. On 16 and 
17 September 2021, T needed veterinary treatment for an ear disorder, and Mr V made a 
claim under his policy for the cost of this treatment. 
Pinnacle asked for a copy of Ts clinical history. This showed that on 12 December 2019 T 
was taken to the vet for ear problems. There was an entry stating, Ear pruritus likely part of 
general skin disease'. He was prescribed medication for this.
Further entries for 25 February and 15 September 2020 and 29 June 2021 show continuing 
treatment for Ts ears. It also showed that the treatment claimed for on 16 September 2021 
was due to vestibulocochlear nerve irritation and possible rupturing of the ear drum. It was 
noted that T may have experienced too exuberant ear cleaning.
Pinnacle says that Ts ear condition was noted in his clinical history prior to the inception of 
his insurance with it and is therefore not covered. Mr Vs policy states:
What is not insured?
Veterinary Fees
Any condition or symptom or anything related to it that you were aware of or has been 
noted by a vet before cover started or vet fees to treat an illness which occurred or 
showed symptoms within 14 days of cover starting.
Pinnacle says that when Mr V took out the policy, he confirmed that T had not had any sign 
or symptom of injury or illness, or been unwell, then or at any time in the past.
Pinnacle has also referred to another term of the policy which excludes cover for Related 
Conditions, which means
 if a number of illnesses, accidental injuries or symptoms are:
(a) diagnosed as one illness or accidental injury: or
(b) caused by, related to, or result from another illness, accidental injury or symptom. 
Ts vet wrote to Pinnacle and said that the results of a swab of Ts ear showed 
pseudomonas infection in his left ear. The only things that she could see in his previous 
history had been for pruritus. She said this wasnt related to the bacterial pseudomonas 
isolated in his ear so in her opinion it wasnt related to any of his previous history. There was 
no evidence of pruritus or erythema and therefore the ear infection wasnt related to his 
previously diagnosed allergic skin disease. 
Pinnacle maintained its position that Ts clinical history showed that he suffered from a pre-
existing allergy, and allergies can cause damage to the ear canal making it a good 
environment for an ear infection to develop. It says that allergies are a common underlying 
cause behind pseudomonas ear infections in pets. 
Mr V wasnt satisfied with Pinnacles rejection of his claim and brought his complaint to this 
service. Our investigator received further information from Ts vet. She stated that whilst she 
understood that allergies and narrowed ear canals can potentially increase the risk of ear 
infection,  in Ts case the allergic skin disease was well controlled and her view was that T 
had presented with a primary ear infection which was not secondary to an allergy, and 
therefore wasnt a pre-existing condition.
Having considered the conflicting opinions of Pinnacle and Ts vet, our investigator was 
initially of the view that Pinnacle hadnt acted fairly and that Mr Vs complaint should be 
upheld.
In response to our investigators view, Pinnacle provided the view of its consultant vet which 
included references to a number of veterinary resource materials. These supported 
Pinnacles position that there was a connection between Ts underlying allergic skin disease 
and the infection that was treated in September 2021. It concluded as follows:
So overall, chronic changes to the ear canal, mentioned on multiple occasions, 
which have been caused by ongoing allergic skin disease in this dog, have led to a 
secondary ear infection with pseudomonas. A normal, healthy ear would not have 
succumb (sic) to such an infection. This therefore should be a decline in line with the 
pre-existing allergic skin disease. 
Given the information from Pinnacles consultant vet, our investigator was persuaded that 
it was reasonable for it to have rejected Mr Vs claim and issued a second view to that 
effect.
As he doesnt agree with our investigators revised view, Mr V has asked that his 
complaint be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision from this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold Mr Vs complaint and Ill explain why.
As Mr V has fairly said in his most recent correspondence with this service, two veterinary 
experts have given their opinions on whether the condition for which T was treated in 
September 2021 was linked to a condition that he had before August 2021 when the 
policy was taken out. They have come to different conclusions. One vet has examined T  
and the other hasnt. 
I am not a vet, but I have to decide which view is the more persuasive. I also have to take 
into account the terms of the policy. Ultimately, I have to decide if Pinnacle has acted fairly 
in rejecting Mr Vs claim.
Having considered the report from Pinnacles consultant vet and what Ts vet has said, I find 
the report from Pinnacle the more persuasive. 
Whilst this vet didnt examine T, her conclusions were based on what Ts vet and others at 
the practice had recorded in Ts clinical history. It identifies discrepancies between what Ts notes say, and what Ts vet has said. For example, entries in Ts notes on 17 September 
2021 say ear canal narrowed and APoquel to open ear canal up. But Ts vet has said in 
her correspondence with Pinnacle there was no erythema or narrowing of the canal at the 
time... 
Pinnacle has explained the connection between a narrowing of the ear canal and infection 
as follows:
Prior to the policy starting the vet describes the left ear as "stenotic" and in chronic 
cases the ear canals become narrowed due to the chronic inflammation. A narrowed 
ear canal with no air flow is the perfect breeding ground for bacteria and persistent 
infections. 
Pinnacles consultant vet has said that allergic skin disease is the most common cause for 
an ear infection and has cited source material.  Ts vet has said that she agrees that the two 
conditions can be linked, and that an allergy and narrowed ear canals can potentially 
increase the risk of ear infection but in Ts case the allergic skin disease was well controlled. 
However Pinnacles consultant vet identified from Ts notes that T was seen two weeks prior 
to presentation for a recheck having had a flare up of skin disease. In her view a flare up so 
close to the ear infection does not demonstrate good control.
As a lay person, having considered the information provided by Pinnacles consultant vet, 
Im persuaded by her conclusion that A normal healthy ear would not have succumb (sic) to 
such an infection.
That conclusion leads me to the terms of Mr Vs policy, and specifically the exclusion of 
pre-existing and related conditions, a related condition being one that is caused by, 
related to, or result(s) from another illness, accidental injury or symptom.
In my opinion the infection for which T was treated, and for which Mr V has claimed, was 
more likely than not to be related to his pre-existing allergic skin condition that made him 
more susceptible to infection.
I appreciate that this isnt the decision Mr V was hoping for, but I dont consider that 
Pinnacle has acted unreasonably in relying upon the expert advice of its consultant vet. 
And as that advice was that there was a connection between Ts ear infection and a pre-
existing condition that would be excluded from cover, I dont consider it has acted 
unreasonably in rejecting Mr Vs claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im not upholding Mr Vs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman