DRN-4039813
The complaint
Ms S complains about the assistance provided by The Co-operative Bank Plc when she 
requested help recovering money she paid to a third-party in relation to a heating system. 
What happened
Ms S has a bank account with The Co-operative Bank Plc (The Co-Op). In 2018, she made 
payments from this account to purchase a heating system for her property. I understand she 
has had a number of issues with this system, including being left without heating for periods 
of time. She has said that in late 2022, she wrote to The Co-Op seeking help recovering this 
money, but did not receive a response. Having chased this up in early 2023, The Co-Op 
responding saying that it was unable to help in the circumstances. 
The Co-Op said that Ms S was unable to pursue this by making a claim under section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The reason The Co-Op gave was that the transaction had 
taken place too long ago. Also, as the payments were made to a genuine third-party 
company, and Ms S had received goods and services from this third-party, The Co-Op did 
not consider the transaction had been fraudulent. 
Ms S remained unhappy, and the complaint was referred to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. Our Investigator did not think the complaint should be upheld though. She explained 
that, as the transaction was not made using a form of credit, the Consumer Credit Act did not 
apply. And because the transaction was with a legitimate company and the contracted work 
was carried out, the matter would not fall into the category of fraud. 
Ms S remained unsatisfied and so her complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I appreciate the frustrations Ms S has apparently had with the system 
she purchased and with the actions of the supplier when she has tried to resolve these 
issues, I am not upholding her complaint about The Co-Op. Ill explain why.
Ms S didnt receive an initial response from The Co-Op. It isnt clear why, though it may not 
have received her letter. She was able to follow this up without material detriment though. 
From listening to Ms Ss conversation with The Co-Op, it seems she has been provided with 
advice to pursue this matter via the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Claims can be made under 
section 75 of this Act where, essentially, a customer has either been led into making a 
purchase due to a misrepresentation by the supplier or where there has been a breach of 
contract. However, crucially, this only applies where at least a proportion of the transaction 
has been paid for using credit. There are additional requirements, but I dont consider it 
necessary to set these out here. 
In Ms Ss case, it seems the transaction was paid for using money she had in her current 
account. So this was a debit-based transaction, rather than one involving a form of credit  
either a credit card or loan. Because no credit was involved, and therefore no 
debtor-creditor-supplier relationship exists as is required by the Act, Ms S does not have the 
ability to rely on any provisions in the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
I note that the reason The Co-Op gave Ms S, when it spoke to her, for not being able to 
pursue a section 75 claim under this Act was to do with the period of time that had elapsed 
since the transfer. Had the transaction involved credit, this would not seem to be accurate 
though  as Ms S would have had a minimum of six years to have raised the claim from the 
point of sale, and this took place less than six years ago. As the transaction did not involve 
credit however, this time limit is not relevant and so I dont think this error in communication 
by The Co-Op has led to any material detriment to Ms S. 
I think there was likely some confusion by the adviser at The Co-Op here, as there are time 
limits that relate to other ways a bank might be able to help. In some cases, a bank may be 
able to request a refund from the supplier through the chargeback scheme. This is a way in 
which payment settlement disputes are resolved between cardholders and 
suppliers/merchants. Requests under the chargeback scheme are dealt with under the 
relevant card scheme. 
In certain circumstances the process might provide a way for The Co-Op to ask for a 
payment Ms S made to be refunded. There is no obligation for a card issuer to raise a 
chargeback when a consumer asks for one. But I would consider it good practice for a 
chargeback to be attempted where the right exists and there is a reasonable chance of 
success. 
In this case though, it is likely the supplier would have defended any request that could have 
been made. It did supply the contracted goods, and has apparently not resolved the issues 
when contacted directly by Ms S. Also, significantly, the card scheme will have had a time 
limit for the request to have been made. These differ between the scheme providers, but are 
usually set at a matter of months. A request made several years after the transaction in 
question would certainly have been outside of the relevant time limit though. So, I dont think 
The Co-Op has acted inappropriately by not raising a chargeback claim in Ms Ss case. 
The final possibility for a bank to be obliged to provide a refund of a transaction, would be if 
the transaction had been made fraudulently. However, there is no real suggestion that this is 
the case here. As The Co-Op has said, the transaction was made to a legitimate company, 
Ms S willingly and knowingly carried out the transaction, and the goods and services being 
paid for were supplied. Ms S is, from what she has said, understandably unhappy with the 
quality of these goods and services. But that is a different issue from being defrauded into 
making the transaction. 
Ultimately, whilst I appreciate Ms S is unhappy with the goods and services that she has 
paid for, I am not persuaded that this is a matter for which The Co-Op is responsible for 
resolving. So, I dont consider I can fairly and reasonably as The Co-Op to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 Sam Thomas
Ombudsman