DRN-2878855
The complaint
Mr T complains that an electronic dog fence system did not operate as he was told it would. 
Because he used his credit card, issued by Lloyds Bank PLC, to pay for the system, he says 
that he has a claim against the bank.   
What happened
In May 2020 Mr T bought an electronic dog fence system. In summary, the system operates 
by means of an electric wire run under the dog owners land. The dog wears a special collar 
which gives the dog an audible and visual signal (and ultimately a small electric shock) when 
it approaches the wire. In this case the wire was run under Mr Ts driveway so that his dog 
would not get onto the road. 
The system also has a mobile phone app, and it is the features of the app that have led to 
this dispute. Mr T says he was led to believe that the app would tell him in real time if his dog 
had crossed the wire. The supplier says that the app does not have that feature; it does 
however indicate how many times the system has been activated. 
Before ordering the system. Mr T discussed his needs with the supplier  including the 
amount of wire required and the type of collar needed, which depends on the size of the dog. 
Mr T placed an order which included installation and training, so that his dog could get used 
to the system. He placed an order and paid using his Lloyds credit card.
Once the system was installed, Mr T asked the installer about the operation of the smart 
phone app and, in particular, the feature which would alert him if his dog breached the fence. 
He was told that it did not have that feature. The app would alert him if the wire was broken 
or if the collar battery needed replacing, for example, but not if his dog crossed the perimeter 
wire. 
Mr T contacted the supplier seeking a refund. He said that this feature was the most 
important for him. The supplier said that this was not a feature of the system and it was 
unclear why the installer had said that it was in development; since the system was designed 
to contain a dog within a certain area, it was not necessary to alert the owner if the dog was 
outside that area. The supplier said that Mr T could return the product if he wished, but that 
the cost of the cable and the installation fees were not refundable. 
Mr T returned the system and asked for a refund. The supplier declined to provide one, 
however, since the return was not made within 30 days, as its terms required. Mr T asked 
that the equipment be sent back to him. There was some confusion about that delivery, but it 
was sent back to him. 
Mr T referred the matter to Lloyds. It was satisfied however that Mr T had received what he 
had paid for and that it therefore was not liable to him. Mr T then complained to this service, 
where one of our investigators looked at his complaint. He similarly thought that Mr T had 
not been told that the app would track his dogs movements in the way he said he had been 
told it would. Mr T did not accept the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman 
review the case.            
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The effect of section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in this case is that, if Mr T has a 
claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation against the supplier of the system, he has a 
like claim against Lloyds. 
I must therefore consider whether Mr T was told by the supplier that the app, which was part 
of the overall dog containment system, had the feature he has described. If he was told that, 
I must then go on to consider whether it was a term of the contract that it had that feature or 
(if it was not a term) whether Mr T was induced into entering into the contract by a statement 
that the feature was available. 
There is nothing is the suppliers terms and conditions or other literature that says that the 
mobile app will track a dog and alert the owner if it crosses the fence. The receiver which is 
part of the system will indicate that a dog has challenged the boundary, so that the owner 
knows whether the systems settings need to be adjusted or the dog needs additional 
training. However, I do not understand the description of that feature to mean that it will alert 
the owner should the dog actually cross the boundary. 
I have listened to recordings of calls Mr T had with the supplier before he ordered the 
system. The supplier did discuss the app and told Mr T that he would be able to see what 
was happening on his phone. That statement was however a fairly broad one and could not, 
in my view, be taken to mean that it was possible to track the dog or that Mr T would be 
alerted if his dog actually crossed the boundary fence. I am not therefore persuaded that Mr 
T was told that. 
For these reasons I do not believe that Mr T was told that the app included the feature he 
has described. It follows that I am not persuaded he has a claim for breach of contract or for 
misrepresentation against the supplier and that Lloyds has treated that part of his complaint 
fairly.  
I have considered as well what happened when Mr T returned the product. The suppliers 
terms said that he could do so within 30 days if he was not satisfied. Such a term would not 
however affect any rights that Mr T might have if the product were faulty or not as described, 
for example. For the reasons I have indicated, I do not believe the product was faulty or that 
it had been incorrectly described. Mr T did not return it within the 30 days allowed and I am 
satisfied that it has now been returned to him. 
Lloyds initiated a chargeback procedure when Mr T sought a refund. That was not 
successful because it was challenged by the supplier. I do not believe that Lloyds can 
reasonably be expected to have done any more in the circumstances. 
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not require Lloyds Bank PLC to do anything 
more to resolve Mr Ts complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman