DRN-2020031
The complaint
Mr L complains that MBNA Limited was irresponsible in approving his application for a credit 
card.
What happened
Mr L applied for a credit card account with MBNA. His application was approved on            
27 June 2018 with a limit of £1,500. But Mr L says that MBNA didnt do enough checks to 
ensure the credit card was affordable for him. He says that if MBNA had checked his bank 
statements it would have been clear from his spending patterns on the account that he was 
in financial difficulties. 
MBNA says it correctly assessed Mr Ls application by considering information from Credit 
Reference Agencies (CRAs) and information Mr L provided about his financial 
circumstances in his application. It has also said that when Mr L requested an increase in his 
credit limit on 23 July 2018 this was declined 
Mr L was unhappy with MBNAs final response and referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didnt think MBNA had done anything 
wrong. He thought MBNA had carried out enough checks when it approved Mr Ls 
application.   
Mr L didnt agree. He maintained that MBNAs should have undertaken further checks 
especially as he applied for a money transfer with the credit card. He asked for the complaint 
to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final decision. So, his complaint has been passed to 
me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the loans were offered. Having done so, Ive come to the same overall 
conclusions as the investigator. I know Mr L will be disappointed, so Ill explain why.
MBNA is required to lend responsibly. It needs to conduct checks to make sure that the 
credit facility it was giving to Mr L was affordable and sustainable. Such checks need to be 
proportionate to things like the credit limit it offered Mr L, how much he had to repay 
(including interest and charges) each month, his borrowing history with it and what it knew 
about him. But there is no set list of checks it had to do. 
MBNA says it asked about Mr Ls employment, monthly income and expenditure before 
agreeing to lend to him. And I can see that Mr L provided information to say he was 
employed on an annual income of £39,600. 
 
It also said it carried out a credit search. And Ive looked at the information the credit search 
found and the copy of Mr Ls credit file which he has provided to us. And, like the 
investigator, I havent found anything that I think should have prompted MBNA to think Mr L 
was in financial difficulty or that further checks were needed at that time. 
While the credit search results and credit file show that Mr L had borrowed from other 
lenders, there is no adverse information recorded such as missed payments or defaults. 
Rather, the information indicates Mr Ls borrowing had been repaid on time and maintained 
well. I appreciate that Mr L went on to continue to borrow from other lenders after taking the 
credit card with MBNA, but this kind of information wouldnt have been available to MBNA 
when it assessed Mr Ls application. 
Overall, I havent found that MBNA lent irresponsibly when it approved Mr Ls credit card 
application. 
I note Mr L has said that MBNA should have done more checks because he requested a 
money transfer when applying for the card. But I dont think asking for a money transfer - in 
itself, is something that prompted further checks when the other checks undertaken didnt 
raise any concerns. 
I understand why Mr L thinks MBNA would not have lent to him if it had looked at his bank 
statements. I can see these show a spending pattern that may have concerned it. But I 
havent seen enough that would make me think MBNA should have been unduly concerned 
about Mr Ls financial situation at the time he applied for the credit card to the extent that it 
needed to do further checks  such as checking bank statements. I think the checks it did 
were proportionate at the time. 
Mr L has referred to other similar complaints he has with other lenders which have been 
upheld. But from what Ive seen, these relate to a different kind of borrowing. And Ive looked 
at this case on its own individual merits and I cant comment on the outcome of other 
complaints.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint or make any award against 
MBNA Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2021.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman