DRN-4197558
The complaint
Miss P complains that Covea Insurance Limited (Covea) declined a claim for treatment 
required by her dog, under her pet insurance policy.  
What happened
Miss P says she had several claims declined by Covea unfairly. She says her dog 
underwent cruciate ligament surgery in October 2020. Around a year later stiffness was 
observed in this leg. She says x-rays were performed and she was told the issue may be 
with her dogs hip. Pain relief was provided, and Miss P says no further issues were 
experienced for around a year. 
Miss P says her dog was subsequently diagnosed with a hip condition. This claim was 
declined as a pre-existing condition. Miss P says there was no diagnosis prior to this and 
believes this claim should be covered by her policy. 
Miss P says that subsequently her dogs left hind leg cruciate ligament required treatment. 
She says this was also declined by Covea because of the pre-existing cruciate ligament 
issue in her dogs right leg. Miss P says there is no link between the two, which is supported 
by the comments provided by the vet she saw.     
In its complaint responses Covea says Miss Ps dog presented with stiffness in its right hind 
leg in February 2021. This was prior to the policy incepting in May. This means the condition 
was pre-existing at the time the policy was taken out and is excluded from cover. 
Covea says Miss Ps dog was seen by a vet for lameness in its left hind leg in July 2020. As 
this was prior to the current policy inception date in May 2021 it declined this claim as pre-
existing. Covea says the cranial cruciate disease Miss Ps dog was diagnosed with was also 
declined, as her policy excludes cover where this is linked to another leg that has already 
had the same diagnosis. 
Miss P didnt think this was fair and referred the matter to our service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold her complaint. She says the conditions Miss P claimed for were correctly declined. 
She says the clinical records support Coveas decision that the conditions were pre-existing 
and not covered by its policy terms. 
Miss P didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to consider her complaint. It has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding Miss Ps complaint. Im sorry that her dog has been 
unwell. I understand how distressing this must be for her. However, I dont think Covea 
declined her claims unfairly and I will explain why. 
Ive read Miss Ps policy terms to understand the cover she has in place. The exclusions 
section says:
What is not covered under this section of your Policy 
1. Vet fees from a pre-existing condition. including vet fees arising from treatment for 
congenital and / or hereditary conditions that were diagnosed or first showed clinical signs 
before the start of cover for your pet.
The terms define pre-existing as:
Pre-existing condition 
Any injury or illness that: 
a) happened or first showed clinical signs; or 
b) has the same diagnosis or clinical signs as an injury, illness or clinical sign your pet had; 
or
c) is caused by or relates to, or results from an injury, illness or clinical sign your pet had 
before the start of cover for your pet, and regardless of whether the illness or clinical signs 
appear in the same or different parts of your pets body. 
A condition will cease to be a pre-existing condition if for twenty-four consecutive calendar 
months: 
a) your pet has shown no clinical signs or symptoms of the condition
b) you have not consulted a vet with respect to the condition
c) your pet has not received treatment for or in connection with the condition.
The policy terms also say:
Bilateral disorder(s) Any condition affecting body parts of which the pet has at least two, 
including, but not limited to: ears, eyes, elbows, shoulders, knees, hips or cruciate ligaments. 
Bilateral disorders are considered to be one condition.
Ive read the clinical history for Miss Ps dog. I can see she underwent surgery in October 
2020. This was to treat a right hind leg cruciate ligament condition. In February 2021 the 
records show Miss Ps dog was then seen for stiffness/lameness in her right hind leg. X-rays 
were taken at this time. The clinical records show the issue wasnt thought to be related to 
the cruciate ligament surgery. 
The records show that Miss Ps dog continued to suffer with lameness in her right hind leg. A 
diagnosis of hip dysplasia was subsequently confirmed. Miss P made a claim for the 
required treatment which was declined by Covea as there were signs of the disease present 
in February 2021. This was prior to the inception date for her policy.
Ive thought about whether Covea acted fairly when declining this claim. I think it did. Its 
policy terms are clear that a condition wont be covered for an injury or illness, where there 
was a clinical sign of this prior to cover being put in place. The records show there was a 
clinical sign of the issue prior to the policy incepting. Because of this I dont think Covea 
behaved unreasonably here. 
Ive thought about the subsequent claims Miss P made relating to her dogs left hind leg. The 
first was declined as Covea says treatment was provided for this issue prior to inception of 
the policy. I can see from the clinical records provided that in July 2020 Miss Ps dog was seen by the vet due to having lameness in its left hind leg. Covea says the claim that related 
to Hind Leg Cruciate Disease was declined because Miss Ps dog had received treatment 
for this issue prior to the policy inception, which is excluded under its policy terms. 
The next claim raised was declined by Covea in its letter dated in January 2023. It says this 
was declined because the clinical notes show the issue of Hind Leg Cranial Cruciate 
Disease is secondary to long term right hand lameness/stiffness after [Miss Ps dog] right 
cruciate disease which confirms the current condition is linked to the condition that was 
present prior to the inception of your policy.
I can see Miss Ps vet wrote to Covea after it declined Miss Ps claim for her dogs left hind 
cruciate ligament disease. In this letter the vet says Covea has relied on the following clinical 
notes to decline Mrs Js claim:
Rick CrCr ligament disease, secondary to long term RH lameness/stiffness after R cruciate 
disease. 
In the letter the vet says:
I do not believe this to be the case and there is no evidence to prove a common pathology 
causes bilateral cruciate disease. Cruciate ligament disease is a multifactorial condition 
which includes genetic, environmental and husbandry in the aetiopathogenesis. There is 
currently no evidence to prove cruciate ligament disease in one leg has the same cause in 
the same way breaking a bone in the left leg is not going to be the same as breaking a bone 
in the right leg. With this in mind could you please re-assess the claim accordingly. 
I note Miss Ps comments that Covea has unfairly declined her claim - given the vets view 
that the left-hand cruciate disease isnt connected via a common cause to the disease in her 
dogs right hind leg. 
Ive thought about the vets expert opinion and what this means in relation to Miss Ps claim. 
Covea says its policy terms exclude cover where there is a link between a previous condition 
and the one being claimed for, referred to as a bilateral condition. In this case it says the left 
hind cruciate condition is linked to the right-hind cruciate condition that was known about 
before the policy incepted. It says that Miss Ps dog was seen for both right and left hind 
lameness before and after the policy was in force. As a result, it says cover is excluded 
under its policy terms. 
I acknowledge the vets expert opinion as to the cause of the cruciate condition in the left 
hind leg. But Coveas policy terms say a condition affecting any body part, of which there are 
at least two (including cruciate ligaments) will be considered to be one condition. 
The clinical records show that Miss Ps dog had surgery for a cruciate condition with its right 
hind leg in October 2020. Ive thought about when the problem presented with the left hind 
leg and whether the time elapsed means this should be considered as a separate condition. 
However, there were clinical signs of an issue with the dogs left leg recorded around the 
time the right hind cruciate condition was noticed and operated on. This was prior to 
inception of Miss Ps policy in May 2021. 
Im sorry Miss Ps dog has been unwell and that this has been a very distressing time for 
her. But having considered all of the evidence and circumstances of her complaint I dont 
think Covea treated her unfairly when relying on its policy terms and declining her claims. 
So, I cant reasonably ask it to do anymore.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman