DRN-1596049
The complaint
Ms B says Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold her a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy. 
What happened
Ms B bought the policy in 2002 at the same as taking out a credit card. Our adjudicator didnt 
uphold the complaint. Ms B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the complaints been 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Bs case.
Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I know Ms B will find this disappointing, so Ill 
explain why.
Canada Square has shown us internal records which show the credit card was applied for 
using an internet application, and the PPI was added at the same time.
Canada Square had to make it clear to Ms B that PPI was optional and that she had a fair 
choice about whether to take it out. The policy was taken out as part of Ms Bs credit card 
application. Ive seen examples of the screens she most likely wouldve completed at the 
time, one of which included a PPI section. The PPI section includes equally prominent yes 
and no options for PPI. The online application could not have been progressed to the next 
stage unless Ms B had checked one of the boxes. I think its unlikely PPI wouldve been 
added to Ms Bs account unless she ticked the yes box.
Ive also seen some of the monthly credit card statements Ms B wouldve received. And I 
can see that the PPI premiums appear as purchases. For example, on Ms Bs first statement 
dated 24 June 2002 the PPI premium is described as Credit Card Repayment Protector. 
 So I think its likely Ms B wouldve noticed the additional product she was paying for. And if it 
wasnt something Ms B wanted, or chose to apply for, Id expect her to have questioned it at 
an early stage. But Ive not seen any evidence that she did.
Taking everything into account, I think Canada Square made it clear that Ms B didnt have to 
take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant 
remember this after so many years.
The application was made online. Ive seen no evidence that Ms B spoke to anyone from 
Canada Square during the application. So I think it is very unlikely that Canada Square gave 
Ms B personal advice to take out the policy. So Canada Square didnt have to check that the 
policy was suitable for her. However, it still had to give Ms B clear information about the 
policy so she could decide about whether it was right for her.Its possible the information Canada Square provided couldve been clearer but I dont think 
clearer information wouldve led to Ms B making a different decision. I say this because:
Ms B was eligible for the policy and she doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the 
main exclusions or limitations, for example, any that related to pre-existing medical 
conditions.
Ms B has told us that if she became too unwell to work she would be paid sick pay at the 
company directors discretion. So it wasnt guaranteed. The policy wouldve covered 10% of 
Ms Bs monthly balance for up to 12 months if she became unemployed or too ill to work. So 
I think Ms B would find it useful if she couldnt work. Particularly if she were unwell for a 
lengthy period. It would also mean Ms B didnt have to rely on friends or family to help her 
pay the monthly repayments.
I am aware Ms B has had other complaints about PPI upheld. But there are many different 
types of PPI with different terms and conditions. They were sold to cover varied products 
and were sold in different ways. Ive looked at the particular circumstances of this sale.
In summary, its possible the information Canada Square gave Ms B about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve been. But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type 
of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for her if she couldnt work or lost her 
job. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put Ms B off taking out the cover. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Bs complaint and make no award against Canada 
Square Operations Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2020.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman