DRN-2123577
The complaint
Miss D is unhappy Lloyds Bank PLC hasnt refunded her the money she lost as the result of 
a scam.
What happened
The details of this case have been clearly set out by our investigator - when she wrote to the 
bank upholding Miss Ds complaint. As such, the facts are well-known to both parties, so 
I dont need to repeat them at length here. In summary:
On 31 October 2019, Miss D was tricked into sending a scammer a Faster Payments 
transfer in the sum of £3,696.74, that being the full credit balance of her account at 
the time.
She did so in the belief that her Lloyds account was at risk and that she was acting to 
protect her money. This belief was based on a text message and telephone call shed 
received, both claiming to originate with Lloyds.
Miss D says that the text and call were just like those shed received previously from 
Lloyds genuine fraud team. The caller knew several specific details about her and 
her account, helping persuade Miss D that the call was genuinely from her bank. 
Lloyds says it displayed relevant scam warnings before Miss D made the transfer, 
but Miss D didnt recall seeing these.
Miss D used her own name as the intended recipients name, which she believed 
meant it couldnt be paid into another persons account. 
Miss D was told she would be able to see her money in the new account a few 
minutes after the call. When this didnt happen, she called Lloyds and the scam was 
uncovered. Lloyds attempted to retrieve the funds, but none remained in the recipient 
account. 
The case was considered under the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM). This is 
a voluntary scheme Lloyds has signed up to, designed to reimburse customers that have 
fallen victim to a scam. The starting position under the CRM Code is for a customer to be 
refunded. A firm might choose not to refund if it establishes that a customer hasnt met their 
requisite level of care under the CRM Code. In making such an assessment, a firm may 
consider whether it can establish that the customer:
ignored an effective warning;
made the payment without having a reasonable basis for believing that it was for 
legitimate purposes; or
has been grossly negligent.
Lloyds declined to refund Miss D. It felt Miss D had not done enough to check the legitimacy 
of the caller. It also thought she hadnt taken appropriate action in response to relevant scam 
warnings.
Miss D brought her complaint to our service as she was unhappy with Lloyds decision. One 
of our investigators looked into it and recommended the complaint be upheld. 
Our investigator didnt think Lloyds had established that Miss D had failed to meet her 
requisite level of care under the CRM Code. She considered the warnings Lloyds had 
referred to in its submissions. The investigator found Miss D would reasonably have thought 
the first warning Lloyds displayed didnt apply to her situation, given the specific 
circumstances of the scam  as it questioned if she was paying someone unexpected, while 
Miss D believed she was making a payment to herself. The investigator noted that Lloyds 
hadnt evidenced that a second more detailed warning had actually been displayed, and that 
Miss D didnt recall seeing it. So the investigator found Lloyds had not been able to establish 
that Miss D had ignored an effective warning.
The investigator also found that Miss D had a reasonable basis for believing she was 
transferring her money to a new account with her bank, and hadnt been grossly negligent. 
She thought this in part because the scammer had apparently provided detailed account 
information Miss D would have expected only her bank to know, and the call and text had 
apparently been similar to a previous genuine interaction Miss D had with Lloyds. She 
thought that overall this had been a persuasive and compelling scam, and found Miss D had 
reasonably believed she was speaking with, and following the instructions of, her bank to 
protect her money.
The investigator said Lloyds ought to have fully reimbursed Miss D at the time she made her 
claim. She said it should now settle the complaint by fully refunding the amount Miss D lost 
together with interest on this sum at the simple rate of 8% a year from the date it declined 
her claim to the date of settlement. 
The investigators findings were sent to both parties on 6 May 2020 with a deadline for 
responding of 20 May 2020. That deadline has now passed and, over three months later, the 
bank has still failed to respond. As such, the case has been escalated to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it.  
Our statutory rules provide  at DISP 3.5.8 to 3.5.15 of the Financial Conduct Authority 
Handbook  that we may give case-management directions and fix or extend deadlines; and 
that we may:
reach a decision on the basis of what has been supplied and take account of the 
failure by a party to provide information requested; 
And that
If a respondent fails to comply with a time limit, the Ombudsman may: (1) proceed 
with consideration of the complaint; and (2) include provision for any material distress 
or material inconvenience caused by that failure in any award which he decides to 
make.
Ive therefore concluded that, in the absence of a response from Lloyds to the investigators 
initial assessment, it is fair and reasonable to proceed on the basis of the evidence we 
already have and/or to take account of Lloyds failure to reply to the investigators opinion. Ive considered whether, under the CRM Code, Miss D ought to have been fully reimbursed 
when she notified Lloyds of the scam. In doing so, Ive considered whether or not she met 
her requisite level of care under the CRM Code. I believe she did, and for substantively the 
same reasons the investigator has already explained, so it would have been fair and 
reasonable for Miss D to have received a full refund at the time.
Although most of Miss Ds distress or inconvenience probably resulted from the criminal acts 
of the fraudsters, I think Lloyds could have done more to protect her from the impact of this 
given its obligations under the CRM Code and its statutory duty to co-operate with our 
complaints process (DISP Rule 1.4.4 of the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook). 
I therefore consider £250 compensation for distress or inconvenience to be appropriate. Im 
aware that compensation hasnt previously been awarded. But given where we are in the 
complaint journey, and the fact compensation for distress and inconvenience is a matter of 
discretion, I believe it should fairly be paid in this case.
Putting things right
For the reasons set out by the investigator and above, Ive decided that Miss D ought 
reasonably to have been fully refunded under the CRM. I therefore direct Lloyds to pay 
Miss D:
the full amount of the money she lost as a result of the scam, being £3696.74 less 
any sums Lloyds has already been able to return to Miss D. It should do so within 
28 days of receiving notification of Miss Ds acceptance of my final decision; plus,
interest at the simple rate of 8% per year on that amount (less any tax properly 
deductible) from the date Lloyds declined Miss Ds claim under the CRM to the date 
of settlement; and,
£250 compensation for distress or inconvenience  also within 28 days of receiving 
notification of her acceptance of my final decision, failing which interest will 
thereafter accrue at the same rate until payment.
My final decision
I uphold Miss Ds complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC, as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 September 2020.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman