DRN-2614382
The complaint
Mr G complains about the interest rates National Westminster Bank Plc offered him on his 
buy-to-let mortgage. He says his property was undervalued, and as a result NatWest said he 
wasnt eligible for some of its mortgage deals. 
Mr G also complains about NatWests mortgage interest rates more generally, and about the 
service he received.
What happened
In early 2016, Mr G took out a buy-to-let mortgage with NatWest. It was initially on a two-
year tracker interest rate. In January 2018, Mr G wanted a new rate. His property was valued 
at £430,000 by a surveyor, and Mr G switched to a two-year fixed interest rate until the end 
of April 2020. That fixed rate was available for mortgages with a loan-to-value (LTV) ratio of 
up to 75%.  
In early 2020, Mr G contacted NatWest because his fixed rate was due to end. He asked 
what rates it had available. NatWest used a house price index (HPI) to value the mortgaged 
property, and said the value was £480,285. Mr Gs mortgage balance at the time was around 
£304,000.
NatWest calculated Mr Gs LTV ratio at 63%, so it said it would only offer him the rates it had 
available to him on that basis. It wouldnt give him any of the rates it had available to 
borrowers with LTVs of 60% or less.
Mr G complained. NatWest said he could make an overpayment to the mortgage to bring the 
LTV down. Mr G didnt want to do that. He thought the property had been undervalued and 
wanted a surveyor to do a valuation. He also thought NatWests mortgage interest rates 
should be lower in the light of Bank of England base rate, and complained about NatWests 
service.
NatWest said it couldnt send out a surveyor because of government restrictions, which were 
in place in response to the Covid-19 pandemic. In the circumstances, it thought it was 
reasonable to rely on the information it had available in using the valuation it did for the 
purpose of offering Mr G a new rate. It also said it would have used the original valuation for 
the property if doing so had worked in Mr Gs favour, it felt its pricing was fair, and it set out 
some of its considerations in setting its rates. It offered Mr G £100 by way of apology for any 
service failings.
Our investigator thought NatWest had done nothing wrong in not instructing an in-person 
valuation in April 2020. But he thought a fair outcome would be for it to arrange for a 
surveyor to visit the property and provide a valuation once that was possible, and instruct the 
surveyor to backdate their valuation to April 2020. If the LTV were 60% or less, he said 
NatWest should backdate the more favourable interest rate for which Mr G would have been 
eligible. 
The investigator also said NatWest was entitled to decide for itself what fixed rates to offer 
borrowers, and concluded that its offer of £100 compensation for service delays was fair. 
Neither Mr G not NatWest accepted the investigators conclusions. Mr G didnt think he 
should have to pay for a valuation in the circumstances. He also said it would be speculative 
for a surveyor to try to value the property retrospectively to reflect a time when the housing 
market wasnt operating. NatWest said a surveyor couldnt value a property retrospectively.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint which said:
The LTV ratio
Ordinarily, Mr G would have been able to ask for a surveyor to visit his buy-to-let property in
person to provide a valuation if he disagreed with NatWests desktop valuation. He would
have been expected to pay the relevant fee for that service. However, government
restrictions in place in response to the Covid-19 pandemic meant it simply wasnt possible
for a surveyor to visit in April 2020.
Mr G is quite right to say that he shouldnt be disadvantaged as a result of the pandemic and
NatWest should be helping its customers  and I note that it put in place a payment holiday
for him in March 2020. It doesnt necessarily follow, though, that NatWest should
automatically have agreed to what Mr G asked for or accepted his view of how much his
property was worth. I dont think it should.
Against the unusual and difficult circumstances of the pandemic, I think NatWest took the
only reasonable approach that was open to it in relying on a valuation based on HPI. That
was far better than saying that it wouldnt offer any new rates at all, for example, and I cant
see that it had any other practical way of getting an independent valuation. It is also common
practice for lenders to rely on HPIs when a borrower is switching rate.
NatWest has pointed out that Mr Gs property would now need to be valued at around
£510,000 in order for the LTV ratio to fall to 60%. There is quite a difference between that
and the April 2020 HPI valuation of £480,285. So this isnt a situation where just a few
thousand pounds in the valuation would have made a difference to the rate Mr G got  and I
think it most unlikely that he has been disadvantaged as a result of the limited valuation
options available.
In the circumstances, I dont consider it practical or reasonable to require NatWest to instruct
a retrospective valuation  and, in any event, both Mr G and NatWest have pointed to
difficulties with the approach the investigator proposed.
Mr G wasnt eligible for a lower two-year fixed rate for mortgages with LTV ratios of 60% and
below. He took the rate that was available to him, of 2.13%. I can certainly understand Mr
Gs keenness to get the lowest rate he could. But I find nothing unreasonable or unusual in
NatWest setting eligibility criteria  including LTV limits  for its rates and as part of its
assessment and management of risk.
NatWests interest rates
The fixed rates NatWest offers dont have to track Bank of England base rate. They arent
linked to base rate and, as NatWest explained in its response to Mr Gs complaint, it  in
common with all lenders  takes into account a range of factors in setting its fixed rates.
Bank of England base rate is just one of those factors.Service
NatWest has said that it was dealing with a significant increase in calls to its service centres
at the time in question here, so many people experienced delays when trying to contact it. I
recognise that will have been frustrating for Mr G, who has said he struggled to get through.
However, I think some delays were to be expected in the early weeks of NatWest, in
common with other financial businesses, having to adjust to working differently as a result of
the pandemic.
NatWest has backdated Mr Gs fixed rate to 1 May 2020, so he hasnt had to pay its higher
standard variable rate as a result of its delays. It has also offered him £100 by way of
compensation. Overall, I think this is a fair offer.
Conclusion
In all the circumstances and given the background of the pandemic, I find I cant fairly
conclude that NatWest has done anything wrong or treated Mr G unfairly.
I didnt propose to uphold this complaint. NatWest accepted my provisional decision, but Mr 
G did not. He set out how he thought his complaint should be settled and said, in summary:
- I had misunderstood his position and made irrelevant points. The payment holiday he 
took is irrelevant, as in granting it NatWest was simply following regulatory guidance. 
Reference to a payment holiday should be removed from my decision.
- Movement in property values of £25-£30,000 in the area where the mortgaged property 
is isnt unusual. It was rash of me to suggest that this would be quite a difference given 
that I am not a qualified surveyor.
- I was wrong to say that he didnt want to make an overpayment in order to benefit from a 
lower LTV. He would have considered overpaying if an in-person valuation had valued 
the property accurately, even if it had meant the LTV ratio was above the 60% threshold 
for a lower interest rate. He gave NatWest the opportunity to do a valuation as soon as 
that was possible, but it refused.
- The pandemic meant he couldnt re-mortgage elsewhere. He had no real choice other 
than to accept the rate NatWest offered based on its desktop valuation; otherwise he 
would have had to pay considerably more on its standard variable rate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I realise Mr G will be disappointed, Ive reached the same conclusion I 
set out in my provisional decision.
I think the point I made in my provisional decision about the payment holiday NatWest put in 
place for Mr G is relevant, as it shows that NatWest helped Mr G when he asked. Im aware 
that this was in line with the Financial Conduct Authoritys guidance. 
Mr G is quite right to say that Im not a qualified surveyor. Nevertheless, I consider that an 
increase of around £30,000 against NatWests desktop valuation is quite a difference. That valuation of £480,285 wasnt simply an arbitrary number with no basis. It was based on HPI, 
a recognised and widely accepted measure of property prices. While that meant no physical 
valuation of Mr Gs property took place, HPI does take account of local price inflation and 
conditions.
Mr G has said himself that asking a surveyor to postulate on a property price when the 
property market was not operational for all intents and purposes is disingenuous and 
inappropriate. LTV ratios are based on the amount of a loan outstanding and the value of a 
property at a given point in time. Circumstances meant that Mr Gs property needed to be 
valued at a time when surveyors were unable legally to carry out valuations in person. In 
these circumstances, I think NatWest was reasonable in using HPI, which is commonly used 
in the mortgage industry. 
I note what Mr G has said about overpaying, although it is unclear how straightforward doing 
so might have been, given that he told us he was in financial difficulty when he initially 
contacted us in April 2020. I can understand why he went ahead with the rate he did with 
NatWest. 
I have to decide a fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this case. The 
circumstances here were difficult and exceptional, in the early stages of government 
restrictions. Against this background, I remain of the view that NatWest took a reasonable 
approach to valuing Mr Gs property and that he is most unlikely to have been 
disadvantaged as a result of that. I make no order or award.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman