DRN-3242291
Th complaint
Mrs K is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, has only partially refunded 
her, after she fell victim to a scam. Mrs K would like a full refund of her losses which total 
£7,182.79.
Mrs K is also unhappy that the communication from Halifax was unclear and she didnt know 
if she would be receiving a full refund, which she found distressing.
What happened
The investigator has set out the background to the complaint in detail and both parties are 
aware of the events, which dont appear to be in dispute, so I will summarise them here.
Mrs K received a call from someone pretending to be from HMRC, but who were in fact 
scammers. She was threatened and told the following:
-They had been trying to get hold of her for some time. Letters had been sent to her 
address but as she hadnt responded she was now at risk of being arrested if she 
didnt pay the tax she owed.
-She was instructed to make several payments for the tax and fines she owed.
-She was told by the scammers to select the reason for the payment as invoice and 
bills.
-She was told not to tell anyone what she was doing.
-After she made the first payment of £2,800.79 she attempted two further payments 
which were stopped by Halifax and her online banking was suspended.
-She called the bank to unblock her online banking and then went on to make two 
further payments of £1,893 and £2,489 to the scammers from a different account  
also held with Halifax.
-She had to borrow money to fund the payments.
-She was sent documents from the scammers, via WhatsApp which convinced her 
she was dealing with HMRC.
-Later that day she realised she had been the victim of a scam and called Halifax to 
explain what had happened.
Halifax credited Mrs Ks account with £2,191 (this equates to 50% of the second and third 
transactions) on 31 March 2021  this is the same day the scam occurred and was reported. 
Halifax then looked into Mrs Ks fraud claim and issued a final response on 19 April 2021 
and said it should have done more after it had been in contact with Mrs K  after the first 
payment had already debited her account and before the other payments had been made. It 
said, considering its obligations under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM), it 
decided to refund her £2,191 as the remainder of the claim and £13.06 in interest (totalling 
£2,204.06)  covering her total losses from the second and third payments. 
Halifax added it didnt think that Mrs K had a reasonable basis of belief for proceeding with 
the payments. It didnt think she did enough to verify the caller was genuine and there were 
several red flags about what she was being told to do that ought to have caused her to 
question what she was doing. But it was still willing to refund 100% of Mrs Ks losses for the 
second and third payments. 
Halifax said it didnt need to intervene with the first payment as it didnt think the payment 
was suspicious or one that ought to have caused it concern that Mrs K could be at risk of 
financial harm. This was why it wasnt considering this payment when deciding to refund 
Mrs K. 
Mrs K was unhappy with this outcome and brought her complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into the complaint and in summary said:
Halifax wasnt entitled to rely on the exemption not to refund (for the second and third 
payments) on the basis that Mrs K ignored an effective warning. Our investigator didnt think 
the warning was effective and so Halifax was liable for 50% of the transactions (excluding 
the first payment) made to the scammers.
But he went on to say he didnt think Mrs K had a reasonable basis of belief because: 
- The scammers didnt confirm any personal information about her; 
- they told her not to tell anyone about the call; 
- she was employed at the time and paid tax through her wages; 
- she didnt carry out any checks to validate the call was from HMRC;
- she didnt receive any literature before the first payment;
- she was being asked to make payments to individuals rather than HMRC; and  
- she was told to make a payments as an invoice or bill which didnt reflect what she 
was actually doing.
But he concluded the offer from Halifax to refund the second and third transactions in full, 
totalling £4,395.06 was fair.
Mrs K didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so Ive come to the same outcome as the investigator. Ill explain why. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. 
However, where the consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a 
fraudster, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer 
even though they authorised the payment. 
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether 
Halifax should have reimbursed Mrs K in line with the provisions of the CRM Code it has 
agreed to adhere to and whether it ought to have done more to protect Mrs K from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. Theres no dispute here that Mrs K was tricked into making the payment. She thought she 
was paying HMRC as she owed tax. But this isnt enough, in and of itself, for Mrs K to 
receive a refund of the money under the CRM Code. The Code places a level of care on 
Mrs K too. 
THE CRM CODE
Halifax has signed up to, and agreed to adhere to, the provisions of the Lending Standards 
Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code) which requires firms to reimburse 
customers who have been the victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams like this, in 
all but a limited number of circumstances. 
It is for Halifax to establish that a customer failed to meet a requisite level of care under one 
or more of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code. 
Those exceptions are:
The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made. 
The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that: the 
payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for genuine 
goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted was 
legitimate 
There are further exceptions within the CRM Code, but they do not apply in this case.
 
The first payment
Halifax says the first transaction Mrs K made wasnt unusual or suspicious, so it didnt need 
to intervene or give a warning, in line with its requirements under the CRM Code. As such it 
feels it isnt liable to refund Mrs K for this transaction. Ive thought about this and found the 
following: 
- Whilst the payment is larger than some other transactions on Mrs Ks account its not 
significantly so. Earlier in the month Mrs K made a transfer of £1,500 and the in the 
previous months there are transfers of £2,500 of £3,500.
- These larger payments are made to an account in Mrs Ks name and its one she 
makes regularly - so they are different but they do demonstrate payments of a similar 
or higher amount from her account. 
- The scam payment leaves the account with a balance of £100.21. Mrs Ks balance 
fluctuates each month. Her balance has been lower than this following other 
payments out of the account so this payment doesnt stand out as being unusual in 
that respect. Often her account balance is brought to zero following a transaction so 
the scam payment doesnt leave the account in an unusual position. 
- Mrs K appears to have paid several new payees across both of her accounts so I 
dont think the setting up of a new payee here was unusual either.
Considering the above factors, I agree with Halifax that the first payment isnt unusual 
enough for it to have intervened. 
Did Mr K have a reasonable basis for belief?
Ive also gone on to consider Mrs Ks actions here, to see if she ought to receive a refund for 
this first transaction. I agree with the investigators findings on this point. I dont believe Mrs K did have a 
reasonable basis for belief, and so this exception to reimbursement can fairly be relied on by 
Halifax when considering this first payment. 
I say this because:
- Mrs K wasnt provided with any personal information by the caller and didnt attempt 
to verify she was speaking with HMRC. So Im not sure what persuaded her that she 
had received a call from an official government body.
- Mrs K usually paid her taxes through her employer and hadnt had any tax issues 
previously, she wasnt aware she owed any tax, and wasnt expecting to pay tax. So 
the call seems to have been out of the blue and didnt relate to her personal tax 
circumstances. 
- Mrs K was given different individual payee names when she thought she was paying 
HMRC but she hasnt said if she was given any context for this and doesnt appear to 
have questioned it, even though she thought she was paying HMRC.
- Mrs K hasnt recalled exactly what was said during the calls with the scammer but 
says she was told which payment reason to select and coached through making the 
payments. A section in the warnings she received for each payment said If you were 
told this is for HMRC, its a scam. Cancel the payment. I think this wording ought to 
have caused her to question what she was doing, think about who she was being 
asked to pay, and why. Mrs K hasnt said anything about the warnings that she was 
presented with at the time. But I think this wording ought to have caused her to think 
about and question what she was doing. 
- She was told not to say anything to Halifax and told to say she was paying friends. 
But I think this ought to have caused her to question if she was dealing with the 
genuine HMRC.
Whilst I can appreciate being threatened with police action would have caused Mrs K 
distress and panic, I do think there were several red flags about what she was being asked 
to do, that ought to have caused her to stop. 
Having thought about Mrs Ks actions Im not persuaded she had a reasonable basis for 
believing that she was dealing with the genuine HMRC and that she owed tax or had to pay 
fines. 
Overall, I agree that Halifax doesnt need to refund Mrs K for the first transaction she made 
to the scammers totalling £2,800.79.
Refund of the second and third transactions
Halifax has considered its actions and the standards it needed to meet under the CRM code. 
Having done so, it offered to refund 100% of Mrs Ks losses for the second and third 
transactions. Due to the refund offered, and my findings regarding the first transaction I wont 
go on to comment on the firms (Halifaxs) standards under the CRM any further. 
Other considerations
The evidence shows Mrs K reported the scam at 16:57 and Halifax contacted the recipient 
banks just over an hour later. The recipient banks said that no funds remained, so Im 
persuaded Halifax took reasonable steps in a reasonable timeframe to recover Mrs Ks 
funds.Communication from Halifax
Mrs K has said she found the communication from Halifax confusing at times and as a result 
this had a huge and harrowing impact on her personal life.
 
I can see that Halifax credited Mrs Ks account with £2,191 on the same day as the scam. 
And it then went on to issue its final response on 19 April 2021, just a couple of weeks later, 
and refunded the remainder of her losses for the second and third transactions, plus interest.
Halifax needed time to investigate the complaint and contact the recipient bank and await a 
response. Halifax considered the claim under the Code in some detail before issuing its final 
response. Having thought about this, I dont think the time it took was unreasonable to 
investigate and provide a final answer to Mrs K. And I havent seen anything to show that 
Halifax communicated anything different to this to Mrs K, or that its communication was 
confusing. 
Mrs K says she didnt receive the final response letter from Halifax but did receive a letter 
with her referral rights to this service. Im not sure why she wouldnt have received the final 
response letter as it has her correct name and address. And Im not sure what letter Mrs K 
received with referral rights, to our service, if it wasnt the final response letter. There doesnt 
seem to be evidence of any other letter being sent to her. In any event I can see Halifax sent 
the letter correctly. So, Im of the opinion that Halifax hasnt made an error here, although I 
appreciate it would have been frustrating if Mrs K didnt receive the letter. 
I appreciate this was a confusing and stressful time for Mrs K and initially she didnt know if 
shed receive a full refund or not. Im also extremely sorry to hear of Mrs Ks personal 
circumstances at the time and extend my deepest sympathies to her and her family. But I 
think Halifax looked into things carefully before explaining its final thoughts on the matter and 
this communication was clear and timely. So, I dont think Halifax needs to make any further 
payments to Mrs K. 
Ultimately, its the scammers that caused the distress and upset to Mrs K here, but Im 
considering Halifaxs actions. I cant fairly ask Halifax to compensate Mrs K for her pain and 
suffering caused by the overall scam, only for its actions and any errors it made. I appreciate 
this isnt the outcome she was hoping for but I wont be recommending that Halifax make 
any further payments to her. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont think Halifax acted unfairly in deciding not to refund all of Mrs Ks 
losses under the Code. I think the offer and refunds she has already received are fair. I dont 
uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Sophia Smith
Ombudsman