DRN-2315770
The complaint
S, a limited company, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC took three months to open a 
business bank account. It asks for compensation for lost investment. 
S is represented by its director, Mr F. All references to Mr F will include information provided 
by a solicitor who is also representing S.
What happened
S secured an offer of funding from an overseas investor (the investor). A Memorandum of 
Understanding (MOU) was signed between the parties on 28 May 2019, which wasnt legally 
binding but was a statement of shared intent. S was incorporated two days later and the 
MOU said the investor anticipated providing the first tranche of funding to S between July 
and September 2019. S applied for a business bank account with Barclays on 11 June 2019 
and Mr F was told the process normally takes around three to four weeks.
On 3 July 2019 Barclays told Mr F its checks showed there was an error in the spelling of his 
name under Ss registered details. On checking, Mr F confirmed there wasnt any error. 
Nonetheless, Barclays asked Mr F to arrange for an accountant, or a solicitor, to complete a 
form (the form) to confirm Ss director and shareholder details. The form was submitted to 
Barclays on 15 July but due to a number of delays, Ss account wasnt opened until 
9 September. The investor withdrew their offer on 11 September.
Mr F complained to Barclays. He said if the account had been opened by 3 September 2019, 
the investor wouldnt have withdrawn their offer. On this date, the investor asked for Ss bank 
details but Ss account hadnt been opened at this point. Mr F said hed been able to mitigate 
some of the loss but still had a shortfall of around £345,000. He wanted Barclays to pay this 
as well as personal losses of £50,000. He also wanted Barclays to refund the solicitors fees 
of £200 for the form it asked for.
Barclays accepted the delays were unacceptable. It said the main issue after the initial 
checks, was that Ss application didnt automatically progress due to a systems error. 
Barclays increased its initial offer of £100 to £175 for the inconvenience caused to S. It said 
it wouldnt compensate S for the loss of investment funding as this type of loss was excluded 
under its terms and conditions.
In short, our investigator didnt think Barclays was the cause of Ss investment loss. And he 
was satisfied £175 was a fair reflection of the inconvenience caused to S by Barclays. Mr F 
disagreed. Amongst other things, he maintained the delays were a significant causative 
factor to the loss of investment. So the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
S, through its representatives, has made numerous points in support of its complaint. We are 
an informal service and our rules allow me to focus on what I consider relevant. So if theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it is not because Ive ignored anything  I havent. Ive looked 
at, and taken into account, everything thats been sent to us. Im satisfied Ive captured the 
essence of the complaint and I dont need to comment on every individual point in order to 
reach what I think is the fair outcome. Further, where there is a dispute or where the 
evidence is unclear, Ive made my decision based on a balance of probabilities.
Theres no dispute that Barclays caused delays to Ss account being opened. From all the 
evidence, Im satisfied that Barclays systems error did cause delays of around four weeks. 
Given the account was opened on 9 September 2019, I think its likely that without Barclays 
error, Ss account would have been opened by 3 September or earlier. So Ill focus the rest 
of my decision on the issue of redress.
In terms of Mr Fs personal losses and inconvenience, whilst I recognise the delays were 
upsetting for him, S is the banks client not Mr F. I can only reasonably require the bank to 
compensate S for any loss it suffered. In this respect, Barclays says it cant be held liable for 
Ss investment loss as this is excluded under its terms and conditions. But under our rules, I 
can still make an award if I think the evidence supports it would be fair to do so. 
From what I can see, the first time Mr F let Barclays know about a specific date was in an 
email dated 9 August 2019, where he said the investor would need to pay S the funds from 
1 September. At the start of the process Barclays was sent a copy of the MOU  but this 
didnt give a specific date. Instead it said the investor anticipated providing the funds to S 
between July and September 2019. And Ss account with Barclays was opened within this 
timeframe on 9 September 2019. But Mr F says the investor needed to pay the funds more 
urgently. This was due to a political crisis that happened in another country where the 
investors funds were held  he says this situation led to the investor wanting to transfer the 
funds more urgently than otherwise wouldve been the case.
Taking all of this into account, Im not persuaded that Barclays mistakes were the cause of 
Ss loss. I say this because the cause was the impact of an unexpected political situation on 
the investors decision. Theres nothing in the MOU or in the initial correspondence between 
Barclays and Mr F, that suggested the payment needed to be made on a particular date in 
September. Ss account was opened by Barclays in the early part of that month on 
9 September 2019 and it was only after this point, the investor decided to withdraw the offer 
of funding. So on balance, I dont think it was Barclays delays that caused the loss to S. And 
given the circumstances that led to the investor needing to make the payment more quickly, I 
dont think this was a reasonably foreseeable consequence of Barclays mistakes.
Mr F thinks the investor started to have doubts about his financial competency because of 
the delays. And says this was a key reason why the investor decided to withdraw the offer. 
But given many factors go into an assessment of an individuals financial competency and 
also on whether to invest in a particular way, I dont think I can fairly hold Barclays 
responsible for the investors decision to withdraw the offer on this basis.
Mr F says he relied on the timescales Barclays gave and without its assurances during the 
process, he would have opened a bank account elsewhere before the investor changed their 
mind. Whilst I can see Barclays gave estimates to Mr F of expected timescales, I havent 
seen anything that I would consider amounted to a firm commitment on its part to open the 
account by any specific date. Further, I can see by the time Mr F had spoken to the investor 
on 3 September 2019, he had started an application for an account on behalf of S with 
another bank. From what Mr F says the investor would only agree to transfer a much smaller 
amount into this account because of concerns about that particular bank. But again I cant 
fairly say this was a reasonably foreseeable consequence of Barclays errors.Mr F wants Barclays to refund S £200 for solicitors fees  this was the cost for completing 
the form to confirm Ss registered details were correct. I appreciate Mr Fs name was spelt 
correctly under Ss registered details. I also note what Mr F says about being a long-standing 
customer of Barclays. But Barclays received information from a legitimate source that it uses 
as part of its due diligence checks. And it was in response to this information that led it to 
request the completion of a particular form. Barclays, like any financial business, is entitled 
to adopt its own processes to ensure it meets its regulatory and business requirements. 
Overall, I think it acted fairly and reasonably when it requested the completion of the form.
Nonetheless, I accept Barclays caused inconvenience to S due to unreasonable delays. I 
can see Mr F as Ss director, chased Barclays several times before the account was 
eventually opened. But I must balance this with the fact I dont think the banks mistakes 
caused S financial loss, or that this disrupted its trading activities which hadnt started at this 
point. All in all, I think the £175 already offered by Barclays for the inconvenience caused, is 
fair and reasonable and I wont be asking it to pay anything more.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and order Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay S the £175 its already 
offered for the inconvenience it caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2021.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman