DRN-3277977
The complaint
Mrs R has complained about the settlement of her buildings insurance claim by Fairmead 
Insurance Limited.
Mrs Rs daughter has assisted her mother in bringing this complaint.
In this decision where I refer to the actions of Fairmead, this includes the actions of its 
agents handling the claim.
What happened
I have previously issued a provisional decision regarding this complaint. The following 
represents excerpts from my provisional decision, outlining the background to this complaint 
and my provisional findings, and forms part of this final decision:
In July 2018 there was a fire in the garden of Mrs Rs home, causing damage to the back of 
the house. It was reported that there was cracking on the inside and outside of external walls 
around the French doors and windows. Fairmead appointed a loss adjuster to provide a 
schedule of work (SOW) for the repairs, and to comment on the structural integrity of the 
property. The loss adjuster reported that there was no structural damage to the property.
In late 2018, Fairmead appointed a contractor to carry out repairs, which was in accordance 
with Mrs Rs request that it arrange for the works to be done. Having attended the property, 
the contractor asked that Mrs R arrange for her pets to be temporarily homed away from her 
house whilst it carried out repairs, and it also asked Mrs R to have her home cleaned before 
it started work there. Mrs R declined to do this, and after Fairmead liaised with the 
contractor, it stated that it would be offering a cash sum of £18,292 plus VAT (and minus the 
policy excess) to settle the claim, rather than arrange the repairs itself.
Mrs R did not accept the cash settlement offered, and instead reiterated her request that 
Fairmead arrange for its contractors to complete the repairs. She also complained at this 
time about the way in which Fairmeads contractor had spoken to her. Fairmead issued a 
complaint response to Mrs R dated 16 January 2019. I consider further the content of this 
letter in my findings below, in order to determine whether any elements of this complaint 
have been brought to this service outside the relevant time limits laid down in our rules. In 
summary, Fairmeads position was that if Mrs R did not agree to have her home cleaned, the 
only option was for her to receive a cash settlement of £18,292.
In February 2019, Mrs R questioned what the cleaning of her home would involve, and she 
confirmed that she still wanted Fairmead to arrange the repairs. In March 2019, she 
contacted Fairmead to say that no safety checks on electrics had taken place, and that she 
wanted VAT for the repairs to be paid up front. Mrs R also asked for a reassessment to be 
made relating to the scope of repairs. Fairmead responded that the cash settlement included 
a sum covering a safety check for the electrics, and that VAT would only be payable upon 
receipt of a VAT invoice. It confirmed again that it would not appoint its own contractor to 
carry out repairs.
Mrs R asked if Fairmead would pay a higher settlement if her contractor were to charge her 
more than that amount. Fairmead responded that Mrs R would need to forward the 
contractors quote to it so that it could consider whether it should pay a higher amount to 
settle the claim. In April 2019, Mrs R said that she would obtain quotes from contractors. 
Fairmeads internal records noted in October 2019 that Mrs R would not be submitting these 
quotes until her complaint about the costs of replacing a tree in her garden had been dealt 
with, and her contents claims had been settled.
In December 2019, Mrs R forwarded repair quotes from two contractors, with costs of 
£81,750 plus VAT and £85,270 plus VAT. Mrs R stated that these quotes were based on the 
SOW produced by Fairmead, aside from also including the replacement and rebuilding of 
two low brick walls sited on the patio.
Fairmead proposed that it would arrange for a further estimate of the scope of repairs to be 
carried out. Mrs R complained about Fairmeads offer to settle the buildings claim, and in 
response it issued a letter to Mrs R in March 2020 (which was dated 14 January 2020) 
stating that its contractors had calculated the repair costs to be £25,152 plus VAT. Fairmead 
confirmed it would be willing to increase this offer of settlement to £30,000, and it later 
clarified that it would also add VAT to this, subject to proof of payment via invoices. It 
suggested as an alternative that it could appoint a contractor to carry out the repairs.
Dissatisfied with the offers made by Fairmead in relation to settling the buildings insurance 
claim, Mrs R brought a complaint to this service in May 2020.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. She noted that the policy gave Fairmead the option to 
settle the claim by repairing the insured damage or by paying Mrs R a cash settlement. 
However in situations such as this one, where an insurer has chosen to cash settle a claim 
despite the policyholder requesting that it carry out the repairs, the investigator stated it was 
fair that the cash settlement should reflect the cost of repairs to the policyholder, rather than 
the insurer.
The investigator noted that the policy terms also confirmed that this was the approach 
Fairmead would take in these circumstances. She commented that Fairmeads stance in 
refusing to arrange the repairs did not appear to be reasonable.
The investigator proposed that if both parties agreed, Fairmead should appoint a contractor 
to carry out repairs. However, if the parties didnt agree, she proposed that Mrs R should 
submit two repair quotes from different contractors, with Fairmead settling the claim based 
on these quotes. The investigator asked that Fairmead consider whether the two low brick 
walls on the patio should be included in the scope of works.
Mrs Rs daughter responded to say that they no longer wanted a Fairmead contractor to 
carry out repairs, but they were willing to obtain two further quotes.
Fairmead responded stating that it considered the two quotes already obtained by Mrs R 
significantly overstated the cost of repairing the damage caused by the fire. It maintained 
that the cash offer it had made to settle the claim was a fair one. But it also offered to 
arrange for a further visit to Mrs Rs home to determine the scope of work required to cover 
the insured damage. Fairmead stated that it didnt see the benefit of Mrs R obtaining further 
quotes, and suggested it would not be fair to base settlement on quotes given to Mrs R.
Our investigator revised her proposal for resolving this complaint, stating that it would be 
fairer to ask Mrs R to obtain a further three repair quotations, and base the claim settlement 
on those.Fairmead responded by stating it was willing to appoint one of its contractors to attend the 
property and provide a further scope of works. This contractor would also confirm whether it 
was able to carry out the repairs, although it could not guarantee that it would then do so. 
Fairmead stated that this would provide Mrs R and her daughter with an accurate scope of 
work should they wish to obtain estimates.
Mrs Rs daughter responded to highlight that their preferred solution at the outset of the 
claim had been for Fairmead to appoint its own contractor to carry out repairs, and they had 
requested this on numerous occasions. However, Mrs R and her daughter had now lost trust 
in the ability of Fairmeads contractors to repair their home, meaning they were now only 
seeking a cash settlement. They considered the scope of work initially drawn up by 
Fairmead remained valid as a means to obtain further repair quotes.
Because agreement has not been reached about how to resolve this complaint, it has been 
passed to me for a final determination. Having reviewed the file, I asked Fairmead to clarify 
certain issues.
The first of these relates to which elements of the complaint this service has the power to 
look at. I noted that Mrs R had first complained in late 2018 about the way in which 
Fairmeads contractor had spoken to her. Fairmead issued a response on 16 January 2019, 
confirming that Mrs R had six months from that date to refer a complaint to this service if she 
wanted to.
Although I accepted that Mrs R had not brought a complaint here within six months of the 
January 2019 letter, I stated to Fairmead that the actual complaint made in late 2018 was 
about the behaviour of the contractor, and about a request from Mrs R to appoint an 
alternative contractor. Fairmeads January 2019 response referred to a complaint about the 
recent handling of the insurance claim.  I explained to Fairmead that my view was its 
January 2019 letter didnt actually respond to the complaint Mrs R had made at that time 
about the contractor acting in an inappropriate manner, or her request for an alternative 
contractor to be appointed.
Overall, my view was that although Mrs R came to this service more than six months after 
Fairmeads January 2019 letter was issued, this doesnt prevent this service investigating 
any aspect of her current complaint. Consequently, I explained that I intended to consider 
the handling of the claim back to its inception in 2018. In response, Fairmead accepted that 
Mrs Rs request that it appoint another contractor has been an ongoing issue. It stated that it 
had no objection to me considering this point at this stage.
With regard to the works required for the insured damage, I asked Fairmead to clarify why it 
was offering to send a contractor to provide a costed SOW when it seemed that a loss 
adjuster had already done this at the start of the claim. Fairmead responded to indicate that 
it was comfortable with the content of the existing SOW. However, it said it had offered to 
send a new contractor to produce another SOW because of the length of time since the last 
one had been drawn up, and also to demonstrate what work/costs another independent 
contractor would consider for this claim. In answer to my question about whether it 
considered it was liable for the removing and replacing of the two low brick walls on the 
patio, Fairmead said a contractor would need to attend to determine this.
In response to my request for an explanation about why Fairmead considers Mrs Rs quotes 
to be unreasonably high, it stated that because both its own and Mrs Rs potential 
contractors had used the same SOW, this demonstrates that Mrs Rs quotes are high. I 
asked if it could point to areas of Mrs Rs quotes where it considers the costing to be unfairly 
high, and Fairmead responded that there is nothing it can detail line by line.Fairmead stated that because Mrs R was seeking repair costs in the region of £100,000, this 
would likely lead to it referring matters to its underwriters and the requirement for the 
substantiation of worksfor the policy cover to continue.
A final element of the background that I should clarify is that a separate complaint was made 
to this service in relation to Mrs Rs claim that Fairmead should pay for the replacement of a 
tree in her garden that was damaged by the fire. That complaint has been dealt with under a 
separate reference number, and so I will not be addressing that issue under this complaint.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Initially I consider it is necessary for me to outline my view about whether any elements of 
this complaint are outside the relevant time limits for me to investigate them.
What elements of the complaint do we have the power to look at?
The rules applying to this service say that  where a business doesnt agree  I cant look 
into a complaint if its been referred to us more than six months after the business sends the 
consumer its final response letter, telling them they can refer their complaint to us. This is 
Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2 R(1)  and it can be found online in the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys handbook.
Mrs R complained in late 2018 about the behaviour of Fairmeads contractor, and about her 
request that Fairmead appoint an alternative contractor. Fairmead issued a complaint 
response in January 2019. However, this letter did not include any response to Mrs Rs 
allegations about the behaviour of the contractor.
Fairmead agrees that Mrs Rs request for the appointment of another contractor has 
remained an ongoing issue throughout the handling of the insurance claim, and it has no 
objection to this service considering this. In the absence of the January 2019 letter 
responding to Mrs Rs complaint about the contractors behaviour, as I have already outlined 
to Fairmead, my view is that no element of this complaint is time barred. I have therefore 
considered the handling of this insurance claim back to its inception in 2018.
Settlement of the buildings claim
There is no dispute between the parties that a fire in the garden of Mrs Rs property caused 
damage to the buildings. The issue for me to determine is whether Fairmead acted fairly 
when offering the settlement that it did for the claim.
At outset, Mrs R and her daughter made it clear to Fairmead that they wanted it to arrange 
the repairs for the insured damage to be carried out by one of its own contractors. The 
contractor who Fairmead appointed asked that the house be cleaned before it started 
working in it. Mrs R disputed that internal repair work was required, and she was also 
unhappy about how the contractor had spoken to her. The evidence forwarded shows that 
Mrs R repeatedly asked Fairmead to appoint another contractor to carry out the repairs.
It does not appear that Fairmead ever directly responded to Mrs Rs request for a new 
contractor to be appointed to carry out repairs. Instead, the stance it took was to say that if 
Mrs R did not arrange for her property to be cleaned, the only option it had was to settle the 
claim through payment of a cash settlement. But the suggestion that the property needed to 
be cleaned prior to repairs commencing was raised by Fairmeads contractor, and disputed by Mrs R. There does not seem to have been any attempt made by Fairmead to ask another 
contractor or loss adjuster to provide an opinion about whether the home did indeed need to 
be cleaned.
The policy conditions give Fairmead the option to appoint its own contractor to repair insured 
damage. Where a policyholder wishes to use their own repairer, the policy confirms that 
Fairmead will settle via a cash payment at an amount which does not exceed what it would 
pay its own contractor except when our supplier is unable to repair or replace the property.
In the circumstances of this claim, Fairmeads contractor decided it was unable, or at least 
unwilling, to repair the property. As it was Fairmead that then sought to settle the claim via a 
cash payment, I do not consider it was reasonable for it to also attempt to limit that payment 
to how much it would cost Fairmead to carry out repairs, taking into account that its network 
of suppliers allows it to utilise preferential rates available to it (but not to Mrs R). My 
understanding is that the settlement offers of £18,292 and £25,152 plus VAT that Fairmead 
put to Mrs R included deductions relating to the preferential rates it could obtain.
Since this complaint was referred to this service, Fairmead has offered for one of its 
contractors to both attend the property to provide a further SOW, and also to give an opinion 
about whether it could carry out the repairs. Mrs R has stated that she no longer wants one 
of Fairmeads contractors to repair her home. Bearing in mind that for a number of months 
after the fire it was Mrs R who wanted a Fairmead contractor to repair her home, and 
Fairmead who declined to appoint one, my view is that it is reasonable at this stage for Mrs 
R to request a cash payment settle the claim. Although under the policy terms the option to 
repair or cash settle is Fairmeads, it does not seem fair to me for Fairmead to seek to carry 
out repairs having insisted for many months that the claim could only be settled by a cash 
payment. And for the reasons explained above, my view is that that payment should be 
based on the cost of repairs to Mrs R.
Im also not persuaded that there is sufficient reason for a new SOW to be drawn up by one 
of Fairmeads contractors. Fairmead itself has indicated in its more recent correspondence 
that it is comfortable with the content of the existing SOW. Its therefore not clear to me why 
there would be a need to revise the SOW.
It seems that the only addition to the SOW that was included in the two quotes that Mrs R 
obtained was for removing and rebuilding two low brick walls on the patio. In response to my 
question to Fairmead about whether it considered it was liable for work relating to these 
walls, it stated that a contractor would need to attend to determine this. But on balance, 
having already had its contractor and loss adjusters inspect the fire damage, I would expect 
that Fairmead would by now know whether it was liable for these works. In the absence of 
any explanation as to why it is not, my current view is that Fairmead should cover the costs 
of removing/rebuilding these two patio walls.
Even when Fairmeads supplier discount is not included, its offer of £30,000 plus VAT 
represents less than half of the repair costs that Mrs R has been quoted. Due to these 
significant cost discrepancies, I asked Fairmead to explain the basis for its comments that 
Mrs Rs quotes are unreasonably high. In my view, Fairmeads response does not provide a 
persuasive answer. It has simply said that because both parties have used the same SOW, 
this demonstrates that Mrs Rs quotes are high. Equally, Fairmead has not been able to 
highlight particular parts of Mrs Rs quotes which it considers to be unreasonably high.
In the circumstances, with one lower quote for repairs and two much higher quotes, its 
difficult for me to conclude that the lower one produced by Fairmead of £30,000 represents a 
sufficient sum to reinstate the home in respect of the damage done by the fire. But with such disparity in the costs between Fairmeads repair estimate and Mrs Rs two quotations, I 
consider it is reasonable to now obtain three further quotes, as proposed by the investigator.
 
My current view therefore is that Mrs R should obtain three quotes for the repairs, based on 
the SOW produced by Fairmead, but also including the costs of removing/rebuilding the two 
patio walls. Fairmead should then pay Mrs R the lowest of these three quotes in settlement 
of the buildings insurance claim.
Fairmead has commented that if the repair costs are in the region of £100,000, it will need to 
refer matters to its underwriters and the works will need to be substantiated in order for 
policy cover to continue. The purpose of Mrs Rs policy is to provide cover for insured 
damage (in this case caused by fire) to the buildings. Fairmead accepts that a fire damaged 
the buildings, and that it should cover the cost of repairs. Im not clear why Fairmead has 
now raised the issue of ongoing policy cover. However, the key issue for me to determine in 
this case relates to the buildings settlement of the fire claim, and I have explained above my 
provisional conclusions on how this should be settled. If it wishes to do so, Fairmead can 
expand on the point it has made about its underwriters when responding to this provisional 
decision.
Distress and/or inconvenience caused by the handling of the claim
Mrs R and her daughter have expressed their dissatisfaction that this insurance claim still 
remains outstanding. They have highlighted their unhappiness with the way in which 
Fairmeads contractor who was appointed to repair the property spoke to them. They also 
consider that Fairmead ignored their request for an alternative contractor to be appointed to 
carry out the repairs.
In terms of the length of time taken for the claim to be resolved, it appears that Mrs R 
confirmed she would be obtaining repair quotes in April 2019, but these were not submitted 
to Fairmead until December 2019. I understand that Mrs R explained she wanted to resolve 
outstanding matters relating to the contents claim and the fire damaged tree before sending 
in the repair quotes, and so my view is that Fairmead is not entirely responsible for the time 
taken for the buildings claim to be settled. In terms of how the contractor spoke to Mrs R and 
her daughter, clearly I cannot know for certain what was said between the parties during the 
contractors visit to the property.
That said, my view is that Fairmead has handled this claim poorly, causing unnecessary 
difficulties to Mrs R over and above those which naturally arose as a result of the fire 
damage. When the contractor said that it would not carry out the repairs unless the home 
was cleaned, Mrs R was very clear in her request that another contractor be appointed. 
Fairmead insisted that the next step was for Mrs R to arrange a house clean, or it would pay 
a cash amount to settle the claim. In my view, it was reasonable for Mrs R to ask at this 
stage for a new contractor to be appointed by Fairmead. We dont know whether a new 
contractor would have had the same opinion about the house needing to be cleaned, and 
appointing a new contractor might have led to the home being repaired in a reasonable 
timescale.
Fairmead also elected to offer Mrs R a settlement for the buildings claim that was based on 
the repair costs it would have incurred at its preferential supplier rates, rather than the cost 
to Mrs R. As I have explained above, I consider it was unfair to offer settlement on that 
basis. Overall, my view is that Fairmeads handling of this claim has caused Mrs R 
significant unnecessary distress. Taking into account awards made on cases with similar 
circumstances, my current view is that Fairmead should pay Mrs R £500 compensation 
under this heading.Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs R and her daughter agreed with my provisional findings. They asked if there was a date 
to provide the new repair quotes by. They also asked if they could obtain updated quotes 
from the two contractors who had previously provided estimates to them, or whether all three 
new quotes would need to be from new contractors.
Fairmead stated that it had nothing further to add. It confirmed that it would consider the 
claim based on three new repair quotes that used the SOW that it had already provided, but 
also including the costs of removing/rebuilding the two low patio brick walls. Fairmead also 
agreed to pay £500 compensation in respect of distress caused by its handling of the claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on the responses to my provisional decision, I do not consider I have reason to depart 
from the conclusions I reached in that decision.
Separately to this decision I responded to the questions raised above by Mrs R and her 
daughter regarding the proposed redress. I confirmed that I consider the three new repair 
quotes should be obtained from three new contractors, rather than asking the two 
contractors who had already quoted to update their estimates. I explained that in my view, 
this would help ensure the settlement for the claim is fair.
I also explained that I had not proposed a deadline for Mrs R to obtain the three quotes, as 
the timescales for doing this were separate to the timescales relating to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service resolving this dispute. However I suggested that Mrs R might want to 
obtain the three quotes shortly, in order to progress the repairs to her home.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Fairmead Insurance Limited to 
carry out the following actions:-
Mrs R should obtain three new quotes for the repairs to the buildings from three 
different contractors, based on the SOW already provided by Fairmead, but also 
including the costs of removing/rebuilding the two low patio brick walls.
Fairmead Insurance Limited should then pay Mrs R an amount equal to the lowest of 
these quotes (minus the policy excess). VAT should be added subject to proof of its 
payment via invoices.
Pay Mrs R £500 compensation to reflect distress caused to her as a result of its 
handling of the claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2022. 
John Swain
Ombudsman