DRN-3942743
The complaint
Mr H and Mr S are unhappy Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) declined their 
legal expenses claim, misinterpreted the legal advice it received and delayed the claim.
All references to RSA includes its agents.
What happened
The facts of this case are well known to both parties so I will only provide a brief summary. 
Mr H was dismissed by his employer who Ill call C. Mr H contacted RSA to notify it of a 
claim for assistance with an employment dispute with C. C made an offer which was then 
withdrawn. RSA declined the claim after receiving advice from a solicitor Ill call S. After the 
complaint was referred to an ombudsman for a decision Mr H told us he and C agreed to 
settle the dispute.
The investigator didnt recommend upholding this complaint as he was satisfied it was 
reasonable for RSA to rely on the advice from S. He was also satisfied that the length of time 
it took RSA to deal with the claim was reasonable and he was not satisfied it caused Mr H to 
miss the offer.
Mr H disagreed. He said a financial pay-out was not the only outcome he wanted. He told us 
C engaged in post termination harassment. He wanted that harassment to stop and there to 
be a non-disparagement clause. He said C was also trying to claim back gifts and starting 
legal action to obtain his personal passwords etc. He was also concerned about a reference 
for future employers which was more important to him than the financial value. He asked 
whether it would have been reasonable for RSA to pay legal expenses up to the amount S 
stated he would have potentially won at tribunal. He also said that the proportionality clauses 
are only relevant when a financial sum is the only outcome sought which wasnt the case 
here.
 
After I raised some further questions Mr H let us know that with the help of a different 
solicitor he instructed directly, he was able to agree a settlement with C. 
He maintains the policy is unclear and that RSA should have funded his legal advice up to at 
least the value S thought he might win at an employment tribunal.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am really pleased to hear that Mr H and C agreed terms. I can understand how frustrating it 
must have been to Mr H to feel he had lost the offer. But as Ive explained below, I think that 
RSA acted reasonably when it declined the claim. And whilst I appreciate the frustration 
Mr H experienced I dont think RSA acted unreasonably in the time it took to handle his 
claim.
Reasonable Prospects is defined in the policy as:
In civil cases, to qualify as reasonable, the prospect that you will recover losses or damages 
(or obtain any other legal remedy that we have agreed to, including an enforcement of 
judgment), make a successful defence or make a successful appeal or defence of an 
appeal, must be at least 51%.
S thought that the prospects of winning part of the case were more than 51%. But they said 
that it was unlikely that Mr H would recover his losses  because they estimated he would be 
entitled to a reward of around £1,000 but thought the cost of pursuing this award would be 
much more than this (around £6,000). They set this out in a clear and well-reasoned way  
along with advice about why potential claim wasnt likely to succeed - and so I think RSA 
was entitled to rely on their advice. 
Mr H says that the proportionality clauses are only relevant when a financial sum is the only 
outcome sought which wasnt the case here. I dont agree. Mr H did want RSA to pursue 
other things as part of the settlement, but RSA didnt agree to do that, and the reasonable 
prospects clause refers to: any other legal remedy that we have agreed to. S has also said 
that some of the things that Mr H wanted werent reasonable and as S are experts in what 
an employment tribunal might award then I think it was reasonable for RSA to rely on its 
advice. I also dont think it would be reasonable to expect an insurer to pursue a claim that 
an individual acting reasonably and rationally wouldnt pursue themselves. The policy says 
the policyholder must: Take reasonable steps to avoid incurring unnecessary costs. In this 
case Mr H had received an offer of over £7,000 when S said a likely award would be just 
over £1,000 and the costs of taking the case to tribunal would be around £6,000. I dont think 
it would be reasonable to expect RSA to have funded the claim in these circumstances.
Mr H wanted RSA to provide financial support up to the value of the just over £1,000 that S 
had mentioned. He thinks it was unfair this was declined particularly as there is a clause in 
the contract which says:
We may decide to pay you the reasonable value of your claim, instead of starting or 
continuing legal action. 
He would now like RSA to pay the costs he did incur obtaining legal advice which led to his 
settlement with C. I can understand why Mr H feels this would be a fair solution. But I can 
only make an order if I think RSA did something wrong. RSA isnt obliged to give Mr H the 
reasonable value of his claim this is just something it could have opted to do. It didnt take 
that option and it wasnt wrong to do so.
As Mr H has now told us that he has accepted an offer from C that part of his complaint that 
relates to him missing out on the offer isnt relevant. I wont therefore go into detail about 
RSAs response times other than to say that like the investigator I think they were broadly 
acceptable and that they were unlikely to have caused Mr H to have missed out on agreeing 
an offer. 
I can understand why Mr H  at a particularly stressful time  wanted to hear back from the 
insurer more quickly but I still think the time it took was reasonable. As Mr H now knows, 
even when the deadlines elapsed there was still the opportunity to reach a settlement.
Mr H has asked about obtaining copies of phone calls. The phone calls could have been 
important if Mr H had not been able to settle with C as I would have needed to consider 
whether Mr H acted reasonably when he declined the offer from C. But as in the end Mr H 
did settle with C I dont think I need to hear them. My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Nicola Wood
Ombudsman