DRN-2314216
The complaint
Mr B complains that Pinnacle Insurance Plc trading as Cardif Pinnacle cancelled his 
Accidental Death policy.
What happened
Mr B took out an Accidental Death policy years ago which was provided by Pinnacle. Earlier 
this year Pinnacle wrote out to policyholders to say that it was no longer offering this policy 
and that it would be withdrawing from the market. This meant that Mr Bs policy would be 
cancelled. 
Mr B complained about this. He said that hed paid in for many years and now wont have 
the protection he wanted going forward. He doesnt think its fair that Pinnacle can just stop 
providing the policy when he would have to pay to cancel it. Mr B also said he wasnt told 
this could happen.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He explained that Pinnacles decision to 
withdraw from the market was something it could make as part of its commercial judgement. 
And it was in the terms of Mr Bs policy that Pinnacle could cancel it if it decided to no longer 
provide the insurance due to reasons of strategy and cost. As Pinnacle gave Mr B sufficient 
notice it was doing this, it wasnt something that was done unreasonably.
Mr B remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to reach a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same findings as the investigator for similar reasons. I dont think Pinnacle 
has acted unreasonably here.
Its not the role of this service to tell businesses how to run or what services it should 
provide. In this case, Pinnacle has decided to no longer provide accidental death policies 
due to certain reasons. This is a decision its entitled to make. But Ive considered whether it 
has acted fairly when cancelling Mr Bs policy and I think that it has.
The terms of Mr Bs policy give reasons that he can cancel his contract with Pinnacle and 
gives reasons for Pinnacle to cancel the contract. Specifically it says that Pinnacle may 
cancel the policy with 90 days notice if it decides to no longer provide the insurance due to 
reasons of strategy and cost. I can see in this case that it gave Mr B 120 days notice that it 
would be cancelling his policy for this reason. So, I think its acted in line with the terms of 
Mr Bs policy.
I do understand this wouldve come as a shock to Mr B after hed had the policy in place for 
so long. And when he took out this policy, its unlikely Pinnacle had thought that it would 
withdraw from this market. However, there are multiple reasons why businesses make 
decisions to stop providing services and it explained to Mr B why this was. And I dont think it 
has done anything wrong in doing so. I can see it gave Mr B sufficient notice that the cover 
was ending. 
Mr B has said hes unhappy he paid his premiums for cover he no longer has. But the 
premiums he paid provided the cover that was in place for a number of years. And if Mr B 
needed to claim whilst the policy was live then he couldve done so. So, I dont think 
Pinnacle has acted unreasonably.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2020.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman