DRN-3626781
The complaint
Mr B complained about the way Lloyds Bank PLC changed the terms of his packaged bank 
account. He says he has been treated unfairly. 
What happened
Mr B had had a Lloyds Platinum Account for several years. This is a packaged bank account 
which, in return for a monthly fee, gave a number of insurance and banking benefits. Until 
recently, if you kept a balance of at least £4,000 in the account, the monthly fee was waived.
In June 2021 Mr B received a letter from Lloyds, telling him it would soon stop the fee waiver 
scheme. This meant that, if he kept the package account, Lloyds would start charging him 
the full £21 monthly fee, regardless of how much money he kept in the account. It said that 
the charge would apply from 1 September 2021. 
Mr B discovered that one of his colleagues, who also had the same type of account, was 
given a full 12 months before the charges would start, instead of the two or so months given 
to Mr B. When he complained, Lloyds told him that some customers were given the longer 
notice period due to the products they hold with Lloyds Banking Group.
Our adjudicator said that, on their view, Lloyds hadnt done anything wrong. It was allowed to 
change the terms of the account and had given Mr B suitable notice. Mr B disagreed, and so 
the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr B feels aggrieved that his colleague was given a longer notice 
period than him, but I agree with the adjudicator that Lloyds has not acted wrongly. It was 
entitled to make the changes it did, and I think it gave reasonable notice. 
I dont know why specifically Lloyds chose to give a longer period to certain types of 
customer, but theres no suggestion that Lloyds treated Mr B as an individual differently from 
others similar to him. Lloyds is entitled to make assessments about what is fair, or 
commercially desirable, for different groups of customers who have certain similar 
circumstances. 
And the overall point is that Lloyds didnt act unreasonably towards Mr B, in the decision it 
made and the way it gave him notice of the change.   
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2022.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman