DRN-4213297
The complaint
Mr D says Suffolk Life Pensions Limited (Suffolk Life), failed to carry out its responsibilities 
as administrator of his Self-invested Personal Pension (SIPP). He says this poor service has 
caused him financial detriment and significant inconvenience and stress.
What happened
Mr D is a member of a group of investors (the Syndicate), who each hold shares in a 
commercial property (the property) within their SIPPs. The complaint is made by the 
Syndicate, but as shares in the property are held separately in members individual 
pensions, each has brought their own case to be considered by this Service.
I will generally refer to the Syndicate throughout my decision unless its appropriate to refer 
to specific members of the Syndicate, for example in determining any appropriate redress for 
complainants.
Its helpful to identify the group of companies that have had a role in what happened to the 
Syndicate. The legal title to the property is held by SLA Property Company Limited which 
acts for the landlord. Suffolk Life Annuities Limited is the SIPP provider. And Suffolk Life is 
the administrator of members SIPPs. It is an execution only administrator, with no autonomy 
of decision making, instead carrying out the instructions of the members. The issues arising 
in the Syndicates complaint relate to Suffolk Lifes administrative failings. All the entities 
mentioned here are part of the Curtis Banks Group.
On 21 March 2020 the tenant of the property (A), which operated a national chain of retail 
stores, wrote to Suffolk Life Annuities Limited seeking a three month cessation of rent. The 
Syndicate agreed the request and instructed a rent deferral agreement was put in place. 
This covered the period of 25 March until 23 June 2020. Provision was made for a review of
the position by the landlord at the end of the period.
Suffolk Life didnt undertake a review at the end of the rent deferral period. No contact was 
made with the tenant at that point. It didnt take any action until the Syndicate asked for an 
update on 7 August 2020. It then sent an email to the tenant seeking engagement on 10 
August 2020 but received no reply. Nothing further was done until the Syndicate asked for a 
further update on 28 August 2020. After some exchanges where Suffolk Life provided 
information on its arrears chasing procedure to the Syndicate, an invoice was produced and 
issued to the tenant on 1 September 2020.
Again, no further contact was made with the tenant until Suffolk Life received an email on 5 
October 2020 from an Administrator appointed for A. It included a letter, dated 12 August 
2020 addressed to Suffolk Life, which confirmed the tenant had gone into administration on 
4 August 2020. It advised that a new tenant (B) had been granted a licence to occupy and 
would meet any ongoing costs from 4 August 2020 onwards.
Its helpful to set out the relationship between the original and subsequent tenant 
businesses. Suffolk Life says the Administrator granted a licence to occupy to business B to 
allow for the company to continue and pay the obligations of the lease for business A. It says 
there was an established link between business A and business B, with the latter brand 
being a trading as business of A.
Suffolk Life didnt proactively contact the Syndicate and it was only on 11 November 2020, 
when a Syndicate member called in, it was made aware A had entered into administration 
and about the new tenant. From this point onwards there were a number of exchanges 
between Suffolk Life and the Syndicate and eventually the new tenants.
In December 2020 the Syndicate, having engaged the services of its own solicitor, served a 
Section 146 notice to the Administrator in response to an alleged breach of the tenancy 
agreement. Whilst this action was taken to safeguard the Syndicates position, no further 
legal action was pursued.
Instead, the Syndicate engaged in talks and negotiations with the new tenant directly which 
eventually led to a new agreement  this included a reduction in annual rent from £95,000 to 
£70,000. The Syndicate was also able to recover missing rent payments plus interest from 4 
August 2020 onwards (so, post the administration event). 
The Syndicate was unhappy with the service it received from Suffolk Life raising a complaint 
on 13 September 2022. Specifically, members expressed concerns that from 25 March 2020 
it had failed to:
- Take appropriate, timely and rigorous action to recover debt including a failure to 
assess, monitor and act on clear risks.
- To effectively communicate so that the Syndicate could take direct action in what was 
manifestly a situation of heightened risk.
- To maintain proper records including issuing timely invoices, reconciling accounts 
and correcting erroneous entries.
In setting out its position the Syndicate said:
We have considered these matters carefully and concluded that your systems, controls, 
record keeping and communication failed to safeguard our assets. We have suffered 
significant cash losses and the value of our investment has been damaged. These losses 
are further exacerbated by the substantial and unnecessary waste of our time because of 
systemic and prolonged failings in your organisation. In particular the failure to properly 
monitor and alert us immediately of unpaid rent denied us the opportunity to take the timely 
and decisive action which [Suffolk Life] clearly did not take. Your omission significantly 
compromised our negotiating position leaving us with little choice but to accept a lower rental 
with an inevitable reduction in the value of our property
In summary we believe we should be fully compensated for our direct cash loss, excess 
costs and lost interest together with the return of fees and compensation for time and skills 
we had to deploy because of the lack of service from Suffolk Life.
Suffolk Life responded to the Syndicate on 8 November 2022. It apologised for the service it 
had provided. It seemed to conclude the outstanding rent arrears had been recovered (this 
was incorrect), but noted it could only chase for rent and that any non-payment was a risk 
inherent with investment in commercial property. It went on to acknowledge failings in its 
administration and communication and it said to put things right it would waive two years of 
property administration fees, cover certain solicitors fees and pay each member of the 
Syndicate £200 for the trouble and upset it had caused.The Syndicate wasnt satisfied with Suffolk Lifes response. It felt it hadnt got to grips with its 
case. Members of the Syndicate brought their individual complaints to this Service. They 
identified five areas where they considered compensation was warranted:
- Cash losses - unpaid rent of just over £41k, plus interest.
- Lost value  impairment of the property by at least £400,000.
- Poor service.
- Ability to move on  cost barriers to exiting the relationship with Suffolk Life.
- The significant inconvenience and stress experienced.
An Investigator considered Mr Ds complaint and partially upheld it. She noted the failings 
which Suffolk Life had accepted and concluded these had more likely than not contributed to 
the Syndicates loss of some rental income prior to the tenant going into administration. She 
said it should be responsible for 50% of the potential lost income. She didnt find a strong 
case had been made by the Syndicate to demonstrate impairment of the property value, 
which she thought was more likely to relate to the unprecedented prevailing economic 
circumstances at the time.
Neither party agreed in full with the Investigators findings and conclusions.
For example, Suffolk Life said it was for the tenant to pay rent due and it cant be held 
responsible for its failure to do so  that was a risk inherent with the investment made by the 
Syndicate. While it acknowledged it shouldve been quicker to make contact with members 
after the end of the agreed rent deferral period on 23 June 2020, there was no evidence to 
suggest had it done so the tenant wouldve settled any further rent. Suffolk Life also said the 
approach taken by the Syndicate in relation to its negotiations with the new tenant effectively 
removed any possibility of a claim in relation to the debts of the former company.
On the other hand, with regard to the loss in value of the property, the Syndicate said:
We believe that contact with the Tenant at the cessation of the deferral would have created 
dialogue supportive of a better outcome. We would have engaged with the Tenant at this 
stage, our approach would likely have been conciliatory and understanding not aggressive. 
The dialogue we would have sought both regarding the outstanding debt and future rent 
would have enabled us to deal with these matters in an orderly fashion
As both parties couldnt agree with the Investigators view, Mr Ds complaint was passed to 
me to review afresh. I issued my provisional decision earlier this month. As neither party has 
provided any new evidence or arguments, I see no reason to depart from my initial findings 
and conclusions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As part of my provisional decision I requested further information from the parties to help me 
form a more rounded picture of what happened, about:
- The Syndicates negotiations and agreement with new tenant B, which I understand 
bought out tenant As business and appears to have had close connections with it. 
For example, what linkages were made, undertakings given, or matters agreed to, 
that had any relation to the pre-administration rent arrears?- Why the Syndicate decided not to pursue the pre-administration rent arrears with the 
Administrator or with the Guarantor? There was no instruction to Suffolk Life to do so. 
Was that avenue still available? If so, is it/will it be pursuing the matter? And if not, 
why?
- What information the Syndicate received from the commercial property agent it 
commissioned to review the market situation at the time it entered negotiations with 
tenant B?
I note no additional information has been provided.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr Ds complaint, but not to the extent hed like. Ill explain why.
Ive considered the extensive regulation around transactions like those performed by Suffolk 
Life for Mr D. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for businesses, which it says 
are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA Handbook). 
These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 3, which requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise and control its 
affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
- Principle 6 - which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7 - which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. As such, I need to have regard to them in deciding Mr Ds complaint.
Ill now consider each of the Syndicates claims for redress against Suffolk Life in the order 
listed earlier.
Cash losses - unpaid rent of just over £41k, plus interest (pre-administration period)
Its helpful to consider the terms and conditions of Syndicate members SIPPs. The following 
extract is of relevance:
Section 10.29  we [Suffolk Life] will be responsible for the following activities:
a. Maintaining records relating to the property;
b. Dealing with tenant and third parties enquiries;
i. Taking appropriate action where a breach of the tenancy agreement has been identified;
k. Invoicing and collecting rent and other sums due under the tenancy agreement and where 
required, pursuing any late payments;l. Managing all tenancy events and tenant transactions which require our consent under the 
tenancy agreement,
Suffolk Lifes administrative duties are clearly set out. It was responsible for collecting the 
rent, pursuing the tenant for any outstanding payments and dealing with other events and 
transactions with the tenant.
Suffolk Life has accepted its responsible for various administrative and communication 
failings. For example, with regard to the rent deferral agreement, provision was made for the 
landlord to review the concession at the end of the deferral period (23 June 2020). It would 
then decide whether or not to extend any agreement, for what period and on what terms.
Suffolk Life did not complete a review, did not contact the tenant to enquire about its 
situation or next steps, nor did it take action to recover the debt.
Suffolk Life said it was in the midst of the pandemic, and it was getting to grips with a new 
way of working as a consequence of the lockdowns. Government guidance for landlords was 
often vague and ever changing during that time, which only made it more difficult to take 
appropriate action. Whilst it acknowledges it did not follow its own processes, it maintains 
that this does not make it responsible for the loss of the rent. It said:
We agree that further action could have been taken following the end of the deferment 
period. That is not in dispute. I believe it is reasonable to refund property management fees 
for not undertaking the required level of administration and to award compensation for 
trouble and upset. It is however unreasonable to suggest that not informing the Syndicate or 
instigating our normal debt recovery process makes [Suffolk Life] financially liable for the 
tenants failure to settle rent due.
Suffolk Life pointed to the following section of its SIPP terms and conditions:
Section 10.42  we do not undertake credit checks on tenants and will not be liable for any 
losses associated with the failure of any tenant to meet the obligations contained within the 
tenancy agreement.
In broad terms its reasonable for Suffolk Life to point to its terms and conditions in support of 
its case. They are an important part of the contract it had with the Syndicate. But I dont think 
it can rely on such if it could be shown that through its negligence it was responsible for a 
financial loss. In those circumstances I would place more weight on what was fair and 
reasonable.
The Syndicates strong view is that Suffolk Lifes handling meant action to mitigate any 
potential losses wasnt taken. It said had the SIPP Administrator told members of the issue 
at an earlier time, then the chances of recovery wouldve been substantially higher.
The Syndicate comprised 9 members, all of whom were chartered accountants. They had 
substantial professional experience having held senior roles and could also have drawn on 
insolvency expertise. They had a good knowledge of landlord and tenant rights and a 
significant understanding of what was required for successful recoveries. The Syndicate 
maintains timely action may well have made a difference, something Suffolk Life denied 
them as they were not promptly informed.
The counter-argument advanced by Suffolk Life, was made in the following terms:
There is however no evidence to suggest that had we done so [acted in line with the 
provisions of the rent deferral agreement], the tenant would have settled any further rent. 
Clearly the business faced financial difficulty, hence the need for a rent deferment in the first place. This coupled with the subsequent administration application, shows it was unlikely the 
tenant would have been able to pay.
As we have established the responsibility was for the tenant to settle rent on quarter 
days. Those being,24 March, 24 June, 29 September and 25 December. With the agreed 
deferment period coming to an end on 23 June, the next quarter day would not have been 
until 29 September. As the tenant went into administration midway through the quarter, this 
would not constitute prolonged difficulties, nor would we have commenced our internal debt 
recovery process.
However, lets assume there had been no delay and we contacted the tenant immediately 
following the end of the initial deferment period, the steps taken would have been as follows:
24 June  email and letter to the tenant informing them the deferment period had ended, 
confirming rent had been reinstated, providing an invoice and requesting payment for the 
quarter. The cover letter would also have requested the tenant contact us with proposals, if 
they were continuing to experience financial difficulties. After 3 weeks without payment or 
contact from the tenant, it would be considered overdue and the internal debt recovery 
process would begin.
15 July  No payment received, inform Syndicate and issue 1st debt recovery letter.
29 July  Still no payment 2nd debt recovery letter would have been sent.
5 Aug  Attempt to call tenant.
12 Aug  3rd demand would have been sent in the last step of our internal recovery process, 
threatening letter before action. Also request instruction from Syndicate as to next steps. 
Taking the above into consideration, the tenant would have still entered administration on 4 
August. Which would have been before the internal debt recovery process would have been 
completed.
Suffolk Life went on to say:
It is unreasonable to expect [Suffolk Life] to compensate for the unpaid rent or any interest 
or growth the Syndicate members may have experienced had it been paid. The facts of the 
case show that the tenant would not have made a payment following the end of the 
deferment period, regardless of whether invoices or debt recovery letters had been sent.
The correct process of recovery would be to place a claim with the Administrator. An initial 
claim was submitted, however this was withdrawn at the request of Syndicate members in 
favour of instructing solicitors to issue a Section 146 Notice. It is our view that the investment 
decisions made by the Syndicate removed any possible avenue of claim against the tenant.
Subsequently the Syndicate entered into active negotiations with the new tenant. As part of 
those negotiations, the new company agreed to settle rent from the date the previous 
company entered administration, as they continued occupation of the building. It is however 
our view that the new company having acquired the previous tenant also accrued their 
arrears and were responsible for all outstanding sums.
It was the decision of the Syndicate not to pursue the arrears through the administrators for 
the pre-administration arrearsThe Syndicate wasinformed of Guarantors to the lease 
which could also be pursued. However they gave no instructions to do so.
The Syndicate doesnt argue that Suffolk Lifes debt recovery process wouldve had a good 
chance of success had it been followed proactively. Indeed, it says the process is irrelevant 
because it wouldnt have followed it. Rather, the Syndicate says it wasnt afforded the 
opportunity to bring its own considerable knowledge and experience to bear on the situation, 
which it asserts wouldve improved outcomes across the board.The Syndicate said:
There were significant arrears due from the Administration (c £100,000). I had to 
establish this figure myself because of [Suffolk Lifes] failure to maintain proper books and 
records with regard to our account (fully documented in my earlier submissions). The 
settlement of this debt was a requirement we placed on the new tenant prior to signing any 
lease for obvious reasons but was not part of the negotiation. We simply were not going to 
enter into any arrangement with a party who owed us £100k. You may recall from my earlier 
submissions that [Suffolk Life] recommended we left this debt outstanding until after the 
lease was signed so really they should know this was not part of any value negotiation.
The Syndicate acknowledges there was no guarantee it wouldve recovered the rent for the 
pre-administration period. But it went on to make the point:
we do not and would never see [Suffolk Life] as an insurance policy against debt 
recovery. We are not holding [it] to account for tenant failure we are holding [it] responsible 
for not taking reasonable and timely actions to inform [its] client so that action could be taken 
to protect assets when [it] ought reasonably to have known that the assets were at risk.
A member of the Syndicate made the following observation drawing on his own experience 
as an insolvency practitioner:
My career background is Insolvency Practitioner. I have advised both company directors 
and lenders (banks) on distressed situations and in particular the on short term cash 
management. In my experience the landlord claims are usually prioritised as their ability to 
distrain or lock up premises can cause reputational damage to the business. In my opinion 
the lack of communication on arrears from [Suffolk Life] put us in an ignorant position. We 
were a proper fee paying clientso they owed us a standard duty of care to appraise of any 
issues or arrears. I think on this occasion they fell asleep on the job. Otherwise their 
systems (and people) failed them.
Another member commented on Suffolk Lifes argument about the strategy adopted by the
Syndicate in negotiations with the new tenant B.
I really take exception to [Suffolk Life] stating the issuance of a section 146 notice "removed 
all avenues" of claim against the tenant. Upon legal advice, and with [its] knowledge, we 
were advised to issue the 146 notice to register we had not agreed to accept the new 
occupier installed by the Administrator as the new tenant. It was done to protect our interests 
should we wish to evict them later. Accepting rent is implied acceptance so legal advice was 
to instruct [Suffolk Life] not to pursue rent but this is the new rent due post 12 August 2020 
and not the outstanding pre-admin bad debt of c. £40k. The serving of the 146 notice and 
the pursuit of the outstanding rent are two completely separate and unconnected issues and 
would not have had any negative impact on any attempts to collect the arrears.
In responding to a question from the Investigator about what action the Syndicate wouldve 
taken had it been informed earlier about the tenants failure to pay rent from the end of the 
deferral period, it said:
We consider the pivotal point to be when the Deferral Agreement expired on 23 June 2020. 
Our position for both recovery of debt and renewal of the lease would have been 
considerably enhanced had we been informed immediately payment had not been made... 
If we had been informed, we would have taken control of the process and considered our 
options. As landlords we could have (i) sought to distrain on the assets in situ, (ii) Locked up 
the premises if the Tenant was not engaging constructively and make payment on time.
We understand the environment at the time placed constraints on certain direct action, but 
we do not accept that the situation could not have been influenced. Our experience is that outcomes can be considerably improved for creditors that take TIMELY action. We believe  
that our property was amongst the stronger performing [tenant A] outlets and that an 
established dialogue would likely have borne fruit. Im sure you will appreciate that even in a 
decline leading to Administration certain key suppliers would have been paid and if we were 
given the opportunity to put pressure on payment, we could have extracted some rental. The 
directors probably only paid those that shouted loudest.
The Investigator summarised on this matter in the following terms:
I think it likely that Suffolk Lifes failure to make any meaningful attempt of recovery, 
considerably reduced the syndicates chances to mitigate their lossesIts duties were to 
ensure timely collection of rent and to act accordingly if there were any issues. To say that 
its failure to do so had no impact on the loss is essentially saying that any action to recover 
debt is pointless. There is never a guarantee in these cases, but prompt and meaningful 
actions are very important in order to increase the chances of recovery.
The Investigator noted Suffolk Life had responsibility for overseeing the rent deferral 
agreement and shouldve conducted a review at the end of June 2020. She noted its normal 
process for debt recovery but given the circumstances found it more likely it wouldve 
contacted the Syndicate to discuss next steps:
And so the Syndicate would have been informed of the situation towards the end of June, 
allowing them to use their considerable experience and knowledge to take meaningful 
action. And whilst I cant say for certain whether this would have allowed the Syndicate to 
recover all of its losses, I think it quite likely that it would have improved their chances of 
recovery.
The Investigator went on to conclude that Suffolk Lifes failure to act promptly and 
meaningfully clearly reduced the likelihood of recovery and so effectively contributed to the 
Syndicates loss. And, because the parties agree there was no guarantee the rent would 
have been recovered she considered an award against Suffolk Life for 50% of the 
outstanding rent was a fair and reasonable outcome.
While I agree with many of the Investigators findings, for example in terms of Suffolk Lifes 
failings, I think she took a leap too far in concluding it was responsible for a financial loss 
here.
The Syndicate has set out a plausible argument that has some merit. It had significant 
expertise in matters relevant to the problems it was facing with the property. Had it brought 
this to bear at the end of June 2020, this might have made a difference. It might have 
secured all or some of the arrears. It has cited examples of its successful handling of a 
similar situation when in 2022 it had to chase B for late rental payments. It did so at pace 
and successfully. It also had to deal with B going into administration later in the same year.
However, Im mindful of the following matters, which I think are important to my
consideration:
- Both parties to the dispute knew about the parlous financial state of tenant A. In its 
letter of 21 March 2020 to Suffolk Life, it said:
oTo date, [A] has managed its affairs in a responsible manner and not had to 
implement a CVA [Company Voluntary Arrangement] or restructuring 
exercise. We have always paid our property outgoings timeously, but we 
need landlords support in these unprecedented times. We are already 
experiencing a catastrophic 60% sales reduction and expect some stores to 
close in the next few weeks due to UK lockdown.oGiven the significant drop in income we have carried out a forward projection 
and our ability to meet our future liabilities will be challenging unless we 
discuss payment terms with all our suppliers and landlords. Accordingly, we 
are seeking from yourselves a 3-month rent and service charge cessation 
from 25 March 2020 which is critical to the long-term viability of our business. 
We hope with your support, that we will not incur penalty charges or 
consultancy costs associated with this action.
- It took two months from receipt of the tenants request for a three-month period of 
rent cessation until a letter of agreement to terms with the landlord (and the 
Syndicate) was issued.
- Suffolk Life was providing an execution only service  it was reliant on instruction 
from the Syndicate where it was required to move away from established and agreed 
process. In respects of the rent deferral agreement, the agreed process was known 
by the Syndicate to have been:
oThe Concession will be reviewed by the Landlord at the end of the Period 
and the Landlord will use its sole discretion in deciding whether or not to 
extend the Concession and, if so, for what period and on what terms.
- Both parties knew the rent deferral period ended on 23 June 2020. We know Suffolk 
Life took no proactive action, and seems to suggest had it got things right it wouldve 
followed its usual debt management process. Im also mindful that the Syndicate 
didnt bring to bear its significant expertise at this time, only seeking an update from 
the SIPP administrator on 7 August 2020.
- The period between the end of the concession on 23 June 2020 and when business 
A entered administration on 4 August 2020 was short. If we assume it took a period 
of a few weeks to formulate and execute its strategy towards this point, the window 
within which the Syndicate couldve operated was very short.
- While I have no doubt about the skills and experience available to the Syndicate, as 
we know, the period in question and its impacts was without modern precedent.
- I cant see that the Syndicate instructed Suffolk Life to pursue the pre-administration 
arrears with the Administrator or through the Guarantor. It also had a responsibility to 
mitigate losses.
The Syndicate has suffered a loss of opportunity/expectation. But on balance, based on the 
evidence Ive seen so far, Ive concluded that had it been able to engage in direct 
discussions with tenant A from the end of June 2020 its more likely than not this wouldnt 
have resulted in it securing rent arrears from the pre-administration period.
I say this because of the financial status of tenant A at the time; the very short period of time 
available for negotiations prior to it going into administration; the unprecedented 
circumstances which were unfolding; and the absence of a telling rationale for A to have 
made good the arrears when it was already heading towards administration.
Lost value  impairment of the property by at least £400,000
The Syndicate has advanced an argument that as a result of Suffolk Lifes failings, its 
property has suffered impairment. Essentially, it says the capital value has been eroded 
because the yield it can command in terms of rent has fallen significantly. It says its earlier 
engagement in negotiations with tenants A and B wouldve put it in a much stronger position.
We would also have established interest amongst prospective tenantsThis would have 
placed us in a much stronger position when it came to renegotiating the lease. Essentially, 
we were deprived of this opportunity.On this point the Investigator said:
I dont think the causation is quite as strong with this point. I agree that the Syndicate should 
have been allowed to engage at an earlier point and, as above, I appreciate their experience 
and knowledge would have helped them to mitigate potential losses. And I dont disagree 
that it may have left them with more leverage during the subsequent lease negotiations.
However, I still think there would have been a number of factors which affected the 
reduction in rent, some of which would have stayed the same regardless of when any 
engagement began. For example, the fact that the administrators issued a licence to occupy 
to the new tenant as soon as the original tenant had gone into administration. Even if the 
Syndicate took action prior to the administration, there is nothing to indicate that the 
Administrator wouldnt have acted in the same way  effectively allowing the new tenant to 
occupy the property when no new agreement was yet in place. And so, the Syndicate would 
be left with the less favourable position to negotiate with a sitting tenant in the midst of the 
pandemic, regardless of anything [Suffolk Life] may have done differently.
I think more telling here is the unprecedented impact of COVID 19 on the economy which left 
a lot of commercial property landlords in a very difficult position. This came on top of 
declining footfall at bricks and mortar retail outlets, a pattern established for several prior 
years. There were concerns regarding tenant viability and whether they would find new 
tenants if there were business failures. As the Investigator noted, many landlords had to 
resort to providing incentives to retain existing tenants or secure new ones.
In responding to the Investigators view the Syndicate said:
You allude yourself to landlords incentives being used during this period. Had we had 
time to consider and established dialogue this would have been an option, i.e., they wanted 
to reduce rent and we did not want a diminution in value so an obvious solution would have 
been for us to forego some rent to support the tenant whilst retaining the underlying rental.
I note the Syndicates position on the possibility of foregoing rent, as a potential avenue in 
negotiations.
I think its instructive to consider exchanges between members of the Syndicate in January 
2021 when it was in negotiations with tenant B. These acknowledged difficulties in the 
sector. Having received a proposal from B, one member observed:
Few interesting facts emerge:
Guarantor expires this September - 15 years after commencement, I thought we were 
covered for the whole 25 years, obviously not.
[B] occupy the premises next door and have "knocked through" - does anyone recall us 
giving our permission, I don't but might have forgot.
Feels like a gun to our head but not sure we have much choice, reference to giving notice to 
break in September and trade from next door only. Also says terms have been agreed on 
similar terms with 108 other landlords- we should consult FHP for market comparatives.
Another member of the Syndicate said:
I spoke to [FHP] last week and got some initial feedback but he is considering a more 
location specific view which I think I will get tomorrow. However I am not sure these will 
materially change the more general view which is broadly that he thought we would struggle 
to get a better term of lease elsewhere in the current market (i.e. the best he would be able 
to get would be a 3 to 5 year term). However he also clearly felt that the discount on the 
lease proposed was well below what was happening generally (20 to 30%). Considering the potential downsides in seeking a new tenant (void period, rent free incentives) I think this 
gives a clear steer towards cautiously seeking to negotiate up the rent proposal - £60k to 
£65k (seems sensible to understand a bit more on the local dynamics to see if we do have a 
negotiating position) and keeping the tenant we have until times improve.
Im not persuaded by the case made by the Syndicate that its property has lost value as a 
result of the actions of Suffolk Life. Like very many other landlords it experienced the effect 
of the considerable financial stress on tenants resulting from the pandemic and its 
unprecedented financial, regulatory and social consequences.
Poor service
Theres no dispute Suffolk Life didnt provide the service it shouldve as SIPP administrator. 
As part of its proposal to put things right, it said it would refund two years of the Syndicates 
property administration fees. I think this is an appropriate element of the redress required. 
Ability to move on  cost barriers to exiting the relationship with Suffolk Life
In responding to the Investigator about its desire for Suffolk Life to meet the costs of it being 
able to find another SIPP provider, the Syndicate said:
The point on exit costs was made because we felt as clients that had lost confidence in 
Suffolk Life as a provider, we should be afforded the opportunity to move our business 
without the constraint of cost, i.e., essentially Suffolk Life should not retain poorly serviced 
clients purely because the barrier to exit is high. You say that the choice to remain or leave 
is entirely theirs whereas it does not feel that way.
Whilst this point was raised partly because we genuinely felt we should be afforded this 
opportunity it also has an eye to the regulatory environment. I may of course be wrong but 
my dealings with Suffolk Life, particularly in the initial complaint, led me to the view that as 
an organisation they would rather invest in resource to fight complaints than on resource to 
prevent the failings in the first place. I understand that running the organisation in this way is 
a business decision with the higher level of complaints being an occupational hazard but I 
dont think this is in the best interests of clients. It follows therefore that a deterrent (not a 
punishment) is needed to change behaviour. Facilitating exit of clients where they have 
clearly lost confidence (distinguishing from single service failures) would support better 
quality providers and improvement in the overall quality of provision rather than allowing 
inertia created by exit cost to support continuing poor service.
I do understand the Syndicates argument here. It would of course have been aware of the 
fees and charges levied by Suffolk Life when members entered into their respective SIPP 
arrangements. And, while I appreciate any fees charged on exit wouldnt have been 
something planned and would represent a drag on investment returns, Im not persuaded 
given the scale of investments held these costs represent a real barrier to exit if members 
remain unhappy with Suffolk Lifes service performance.
The role of this Service is to put customers back into the position they shouldve been in now 
had it not been for any failings of regulated firms that have been found. Directing a business 
to meet the costs associated with a complainant moving their custom to another provider, in 
the circumstances of this case, goes beyond what would be reasonable. 
Putting things right
The significant inconvenience and stress experienced.When Im considering a complaint like Mr Ds I think about whether its fair to award 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. This isnt intended to fine or punish a 
business  which is the job of the regulator. But when somethings gone wrong, recognition 
of the emotional and practical impact can make a real difference.
Were all inconvenienced at times in our day-to-day lives  and in our dealings with other 
people, businesses and organisations. When thinking about compensation, I need to decide 
that the impact of Suffolk Lifes acts and omissions were greater than just a minor 
inconvenience or upset. Its clear to me that this was the case here.
The Syndicate has suffered a loss of opportunity/expectation.
The Syndicate undertook a large part of the work required during the engagement with the 
tenants and the recovery of the post administration debt. Much of this work was not caused 
by Suffolk Life directly and it was its choice to be as involved as it was.
However, its also clear Suffolk Lifes poor service caused Mr D and the rest of the members 
of the Syndicate stress over a prolonged period. The failure to communicate promptly forced 
it to chase on many occasions, having to make many calls and send emails to ensure they 
were kept updated.
Additionally, there were considerable delays when asked to produce invoices and the 
completion statement, which the Syndicate required to recover the post administration rent 
and negotiate a new agreement. When the records were provided, they included a number 
of errors which forced certain members to spend a substantial amount of time in order to 
correct these.
The Investigator considered that Suffolk Lifes offer of £200 for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused didnt reflect the impact its failings on Mr D. She thought this should 
be increased to £300. I see no reason to disturb that recommendation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out, Im upholding Mr Ds complaint but not to the extent hed like. 
Suffolk Life Pensions Limited should now put matters right in the way Ive directed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman