DRN-2589195
The complaint
Ms C complains that The Carphone Warehouse Ltd mis-sold her mobile phone insurance 
policy.
What happened
Ms C took out mobile phone insurance to cover her phone in 2013, sold by Carphone
Warehouse. 
In 2014, Ms C made a successful claim on her policy. Then in 2015 she cancelled the policy 
as she was able to get free insurance cover from her mobile network provider.
Ms C complained to Carphone Warehouse in 2019 about the sale of the policy. The 
complaint was made on her behalf by solicitors. They said she was mis-sold the policy 
because:
she didnt want or need the insurance;
the sales person led her to believe she had no choice but to take out the policy;
she wasnt made aware that Carphone Warehouse could only sell one type of policy;
she was pressured into taking out insurance.
Carphone Warehouse issued its final response in January 2020. It said that Ms C had made 
her complaint outside the relevant time limits. 
When Ms C brought the complaint to this service, our investigator thought the complaint was 
made in time. He said Ms C only reasonably became aware of grounds to complain in March 
2019 after the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) published a report into the way Carphone 
Warehouse had sold these policies.
The investigator said it was likely there were failings in the way Carphone Warehouse 
assessed the suitability of this policy for Ms C. But he didnt think the policy was unsuitable 
for her. And he said even if Carphone Warehouse didnt provide her with appropriate 
information about the policy, it was unlikely having further details of what it covered would 
have affected her decision making. Finally, he said to show Ms C had been pressured into 
taking out the policy, hed need to be satisfied the way it was presented to her meant that, 
although she knew it was optional, in reality she had little choice but to take it out. He didnt 
think she had shown that. So he didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Carphone Warehouse accept the investigators view but Ms C didnt. 
She is represented by solicitors who brought the complaint on her behalf. In response to the 
investigators view, they have made a number of points, including:
To suggest that as long as the policy was suitable Ms C would have bought it had 
it been sold as optional is irrational when the complaint is that she only bought it 
because she had to.
The correct test is whether the customer would have bought the policy but for it 
being sold as mandatory, not whether it was likely to be suitable because it 
provided cover for an unknown later event  the fact that she was able to make a 
claim later isnt relevant to what happened at the point of sale.
Ms Cs evidence is that the sales information wasnt clear, she didnt want the policy, 
and if it had been made clear that she didnt have to buy the policy, she wouldnt 
have bought it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The FCA investigation found there were failings in how Carphone Warehouse sold insurance 
between 2008 and 2015. Ms Cs solicitors say the outcome of that investigation was that 
Carphone Warehouse agreed to provide redress to all affected customers and Ms C falls 
into that category, so she should automatically be refunded the premiums paid for this policy.
In its report, the FCA agreed to reduce the fine imposed on Carphone Warehouse because it
had agreed to redress affected customers. But that leaves the question of who is an affected
customer. In addressing this question our normal approach is to consider:
whether there has been a failing by a business and, if so,
whether (and how) the person bringing the complaint has been affected by that.
If I conclude that there were flaws in a sales process but a consumer would still have bought 
the policy anyway, they wont necessarily have lost out as a result of those failings. So I 
need to consider not just what Carphone Warehouse did, but whether Ms C would have 
acted differently but for any failing by Carphone Warehouse.
Was the policy suitable?
When selling the policy, Carphone Warehouse was required to provide customers with clear, 
fair and not misleading information about the policy. And as this was an advised sale, it was 
also required to take reasonable steps to ensure the policy was suitable for Ms C. This 
would include thinking about whether she had a need for it and whether she had cover 
elsewhere that could provide the same benefits.
The FCAs investigation concluded that sales consultants were not trained adequately to 
assess a customers needs to determine whether the insurance was suitable. So I think its 
likely there were failings in the way Carphone Warehouse assessed whether the policy was 
suitable for Ms C.  But even if thats the case I dont think the policy was in fact unsuitable for 
her needs. 
The policy was recommended to Ms C when she bought a new mobile phone. It provided 
cover for accidental damage, theft, loss and breakdown. Ive seen nothing to show Ms C had 
alternative cover elsewhere. This suggests she had a potential need for the cover provided 
by this policy. Ms Cs solicitors say she wouldnt have known when she bought the policy 
that she would later make a claim. That may be true, but the fact she did make a successful 
claim on the policy in 2014 shows it was of use to her. So she did have a potential need for 
the policy. It doesnt look like Ms C was significantly affected by any of the things the policy 
didnt cover or that the policy was unaffordable for her. 
For these reasons, I dont think the policy was unsuitable for Ms Cs needs or that it was 
wrong for Carphone Warehouse to recommend that she take it out. And for the same 
reasons even if Carphone Warehouse didnt provide her with clear, fair and not misleading 
information about the policy, I dont think having further details of what it covered would have 
affected her decision making.Was the optional nature of the policy made clear?
Ms C has said the sales consultant led her to believe the policy was compulsory; in other 
words, that she had to buy it if she wanted technical support for her phone. She hasnt 
provided any further evidence about what was said to make her think that. Carphone 
Warehouse says it would have provided leaflets which would have made it clear that 
standalone policies offering tech support were available.
The FCA report found that sales advisers focused on the technical support features offered 
by the insurance product. And they were trained in objection handling, which undermined 
the advised sales process. Given the findings of the report its possible Ms C was told she 
could only access technical services if she took out the policy, or that the adviser didnt make 
the distinction clear to her. And I think it likely she would have paid more attention to what 
she was told by the adviser than any leaflets available in store.
However, based on the evidence Ive seen Im satisfied Ms C would have gone ahead with 
insurance cover even if things had been made clear. She was buying a new phone and 
didnt have another policy to cover it. She also used the policy later on to make a claim. I 
havent seen evidence that the only reason she took the insurance was to get tech support 
and that she wouldnt have bought the policy if the sales process had been clearer.
Ive also considered whether Ms C knew she could buy a phone without getting insurance. 
Due to the length of time since the sale, Carphone Warehouse cant now provide a copy of 
the insurance sales documents, which would show what information she was given about 
this. However, I can see from its internal notes Ms C did receive a welcome pack at the time 
of sale. Although I havent seen the insurance certificate Ms C would have been required to 
sign at the time of sale, these documents did generally say the policy wasnt compulsory, 
and Ms C would have been required to sign alongside that to take out the policy. 
A signed insurance certificate doesnt necessarily mean the adviser made the optional 
nature of the policy clear. The solicitors have suggested the complaint should be upheld 
simply on the basis Ms C says the optional nature of the policy wasnt made clear. And the 
FCA report did refer to cancellation calls in which customers said theyd been told the 
insurance was compulsory. But Ms C hasnt provided detailed testimony to make me think 
this happened in her case. 
Based on the information available to me, I dont have enough evidence to show Carphone 
Warehouse has done something wrong here. Ms Cs representatives say she was pressured 
into taking out the policy. But they havent provided any detail as to what made her think 
that. To conclude that Ms C was pressured into taking out this policy, Id need to be satisfied 
that the way it was presented to her meant that, although she knew it was optional, in reality 
she had little choice but to take it out. I havent seen evidence to show that was the case 
here.
For these reasons, Im not satisfied Ms C was sold a policy that wasnt suitable for her or 
was inappropriately pressured into buying the policy, not knowing it was optional.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2021.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman