DRN-1608004
The complaint
Mr D complains that Lloyds Bank PLC shared information about him with the credit reference 
agencies without his direct consent.  
What happened
In December 2019 Mr D complained to Lloyds because he had found his information had 
been share with one of the credit reference agencies. Mr D said he didnt want his personal 
information to be released and was concerned that he hadnt directly consented to Lloyds 
sharing his details. Mr D has explained that he doesnt have any credit with Lloyds. 
Lloyds responded on 5 December 2019 and said the account terms allow it to share 
information with third parties and that it would continue to share details with the credit 
reference agencies whilst Mr D remained a customer. 
Mr D referred his complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. The 
investigator said the account terms allowed Lloyds to share Mr Ds information and didnt 
uphold the complaint. Mr D asked to appeal. He said, Lloyds had no control over the 
information it had shared and that he was concerned his address being made public. As Mr 
D asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In his cover letter to our service Mr D asked not to be referred back to lengthy terms as a 
justification for Lloyds actions. I appreciate that terms and conditions are lengthy and 
detailed in nature. But, the terms set out the Lloyds relationship with Mr D and the services it 
agrees to provide. The terms also set out the way Lloyds will treat Mr Ds information and 
who it can be shared with. 
I agree the terms and conditions are reasonably long, but that reflects the various topics it 
has to cover. I didn't find the relevant section difficult to find and thought it explained Lloyds' 
position clearly. Im not going to quote the terms again, both Lloyds and the investigator 
have done that in full. But, as both Lloyds and the investigator have said, the terms do allow 
Lloyds to share Mr Ds information with the credit reference agencies without obtaining his 
direct consent. 
Mr D says there is no reason for his details to be shared with the credit reference agencies 
as he doesnt have any credit with Lloyds. But he has an overdraft facility of £260 on a 
current account. Whilst Mr D may not always use the overdraft, it is a credit facility that 
allows him to borrow money from Lloyds. I appreciate Lloyds says it can share information 
with the credit reference agencies whilst Mr D remains a customer, but I wanted to note that 
at the time his complaint was made Mr D did appear to have a credit facility with Lloyds. I can see that Mr D has very strong feelings about how his information is used and shared. 
Lloyds has confirmed it wont stop sharing Mr D's information whilst hes a customer. 
Ultimately, Mr D can consider whether the way Lloyds operates is right for him. Im very 
sorry to disappoint Mr D but Lloyds has acted in line with the terms and hasnt made a 
mistake. Im satisfied its dealt with Mr Ds complaint fairly so, Im not telling Lloyds to take 
any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman