DRN-3736308
The complaint
Mr J says that he and his wife were misled into buying a holiday club membership. Because 
their purchase was funded by a loan provided to Mr J by Clydesdale Financial Services 
Limited, he says that it is liable under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in the 
same way as the seller. Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trades as Barclays Partner 
Finance and I shall refer to it as BPF. Mr J is represented by a claims management 
business, which I shall refer to as S.
What happened
In the summer of 2009 Mr and Mrs J bought a holiday club membership from a company 
which Ill call C. They say they did so after a long and pressured sales presentation. The 
purchase was funded in part by a loan from BPF, which was arranged through C.
The loan was repaid at the end of 2010 but remained open until October 2015. 
In or about November 2020 Mr J, through S, contacted BPF to say that he thought the 
membership had been misrepresented to him and his wife. The specific issues he mentioned 
included:
They were told they would be able to sell membership points, but that was not true.
Over the years, the choice of available resorts and accommodation has reduced. 
The management fees have risen year on year.  
Because the holiday club membership was bought with credit provided under arrangements 
between C and BPF, S says that it is liable to its client. In addition, S has said that the loan 
agreement itself created an unfair relationship under section 140A of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 and that BPF did not carry out a proper credit assessment before it agreed to the 
loan. It says too that the nature of the holiday club membership means that it, and the loan 
agreement, were both null and void. 
My provisional conclusions
The complaints were referred to this service where one of our investigators considered what  
had happened. The investigator thought however that BPFs response had been reasonable
 primarily because of the time which had passed since the sale of the membership. S asked 
that an ombudsman review the case.
I did that and issued a provisional decision. I said, in summary:
The Financial Ombudsman Service had no power to consider the complaint about the 
credit assessment. We cannot consider a complaint unless it is referred to us within six 
years of the event complained of or, if later, within three years of the date on which the 
complainant knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that he had cause for complaint. 
Mr J had not suggested that he had had any difficulty in making payments when the 
loan was live and had not complained about the credit assessment until more than ten 
years after the loan was granted. 
I thought it likely that the same consideration applied to the claim that the loan created 
an unfair relationship under section 104A of the Consumer Credit Act. Mr J would have 
known about the features of the loan when, or soon after, he took it out, but did not 
raise any complaint for more than ten years. 
In any event, the effect of the Limitation Act 2010 was that any court claim for relief 
under section 104A and 104B needed to be brought within six years from the date on 
which the credit agreement ended. It was arguable that this was in October 2010, when 
the account balance was reduced to nil. 
The likely effect of section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act in this case was that, if Mr J 
had a claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation against C, he had a like claim 
against BPF. 
Mr J had said he had a claim for misrepresentation against C. I thought however it was 
likely that a court would conclude that any such claim would be out of time under the 
Limitation Act. 
In conclusion I said in my provisional decision that it was reasonable of BPF to conclude that 
any claim against C was likely to be unsuccessful, because of the effect of the Limitation Act. 
In the circumstances it was reasonable too for BPF not to uphold Mr Js complaint. I 
indicated that I was not minded to do so either. 
Response to my provisional decision 
S made further submissions in response to my provisional decision, as I had invited the 
parties to do.    
S said that C was in breach of the Timeshare Act 1992, the Timeshare Regulations 1997 
and the Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010, 
which repealed the 1992 Act. The two sets of regulations implemented EU Directives. 
S said that the 1992 Act applied in this case. The 1992 Act required C to provide details of 
the accommodation which was the subject of a timeshare agreement and the exact period 
within which the right to occupy the accommodation could be exercised. C had not provided 
that information. 
S also said that, because the necessary information had not been provided, one effect of the 
1992 Act was that Mr J had three months and ten days in which to withdraw from the 
agreement. And C was not entitled to request any payment from Mr J during the cancellation 
period. 
S said that a person who was in contravention of the provisions relating to cancellation and 
advance payments was guilty of an offence. S also submitted that a contravention of the 
provisions of the 1992 Act constituted a breach of contract of both the purchase agreement 
and of the loan agreement. It said too that BPF owed Mr J a duty of care to ensure that C did 
not breach the 1992 Act. 
On the issue of time limits, S said that Mr J did not know about the breaches of the 
Timeshare Act until he had taken legal advice. For that reason, section 14A of the Limitation 
Act applied. The relevant limitation period under that section runs from the date on which the 
claimant knew he had a cause of action. S also submitted in response to my provisional decision a decision of the Upper Tribunal 
involving BPF, a large number of its customers, and the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
BPF had entered into credit agreements to finance the purchase of timeshares in Malta in 
2014 to 2016. The loans had been brokered by a company which did not have the necessary 
authorisation to do so from the regulator. BPF had applied to FCA under the relevant 
provisions of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) for a validation order so 
that  notwithstanding the brokers lack of authorisation  it could enforce nearly 1,500 loan 
agreements which that broker had arranged. 
The FCA granted that authorisation, and the borrowers appealed. Before the Upper Tribunal 
could hear the appeal, BPF agreed to refund interest and charges on the loans and, later, to 
refund all payments made. The Upper Tribunals decision dealt with the procedural issue of 
how any further claims for compensation (in addition to refunds under the loan agreements) 
should be handled. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The complaint about the credit assessment
The loan statements indicate that a large lump sum payment was made in October 2010, the 
account balance was reduced to zero shortly after that and that some minor administrative 
adjustments were made to the account before the account was closed in October 2015. It is 
not clear then on what basis S says that BPF did not carry out proper credit checks.
Be that as it may, our rules say that we cannot consider a complaint unless it is referred to 
us within six years of the event complained of or, if later, within three years of the date on 
which the complainant knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that he had cause for 
complaint.
The event complained of in this case is the credit assessment that BPF carried out (or did 
not carry out) in August 2009. Mr J did not suggest at any point when the loan was live that 
he was having difficulty making repayments. If he was, he would have known by the end of 
2010, when the account balance was reduced to nil. It follows that this part of the complaint 
should have been referred to this service by no later than August 2015. Because it was not, 
we have no power to consider it.
Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 
One effect of section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act is that a customer who has a claim for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions, 
bring that claim against a lender. 
I indicated in my provisional decision that, whilst the exact relationship between C and BPF 
was not clear, I had approached this case on the basis that the necessary conditions were 
met. 
I should add however that I have also approached the case on the basis that sections 19 
and 56 of the Consumer Credit Act apply. That is, the contract with C and the loan 
agreement were linked agreements (section 19), and, in negotiating with Mr J, C was 
acting as agent for BPF.
Misrepresentation claimsA misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party 
to a contract, which is untrue, and which induces the other party into a contract. Mr J has set 
out the various statements made to him and his wife and which led them to agree to buy the 
holiday club membership. They were all made on or before 28 August 2009, so that is the 
date on which any cause of action accrued.
Under the Limitation Act an action (that is, court action) based on misrepresentation cannot 
generally be brought after six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued. 
No claim was made until S wrote to BPF, more than ten years later. I think it very likely 
therefore that a court would conclude that any claim made now would be outside the time 
limit in the Limitation Act.
S says that, where the claim is in negligence, under section 14A of the Limitation Act the six 
year period is extended by up to three years from the point at which the claimant had the 
knowledge needed to bring a claim. S says that Mr J did not know he had a claim until he 
sought advice from S.
Section 14A is mainly relevant where damage is not apparent until some time after the 
negligent act. That might apply where, for example, negligent investment advice is given but 
losses do not arise until many years later. 
In presenting his case, Mr J said that he had been told several years into the membership 
that the membership points could not be sold. He said too that the available resorts had 
reduced over the years. And he said that the management fees had risen over the years. In 
my view, that does not indicate that he and his wife noticed after many years that (on their 
case at least) they had been misled at the point of sale. Rather, it suggests that the issues 
had arisen over and been present for several years  and that they knew about them.
In the circumstances, I think it likely that a court would conclude that any misrepresentation 
claim that might be brought was made outside the relevant limitation period.
Section 104A claims
Under section 104A and section 104B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to 
consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make 
appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the 
parties and refunding payments.
As I have indicated, this service cannot usually consider a complaint which is referred to us 
more than six years after the event complained of or, if later, more than three years after the 
complainant knew he had cause for complaint. S has not really explained why the loan 
agreement creates an unfair relationship here, other than referring to a failure to disclose the 
commission, if any, paid to C. Of course, Mr J would have known that he had not been told 
about any commission when he took out the loan. He would also have known what the loan 
terms were, including the payments required, its term, and the interest rate. It is possible 
therefore that this service has no power to consider this part of the complaint.
Under the Limitation Act 2010, a claim of this nature can be brought up to six years from the 
date on which the credit agreement ended. In this case, the loan was repaid and the balance 
reduced to nil in October 2010. The adjustments made in October 2015 were matching credit 
and debit entries of £2.90 only. It is arguable therefore that the debtor-creditor relationship 
between Mr J and BPF effectively ended in October 2010; certainly, any alleged unfairness 
could not have continued after that date. I do not therefore believe that this service has any power to consider this part of the 
complaint. I also think it likely that a court would conclude that any claim brought now would 
be out of time under the relevant parts of the Limitation Act. In any event, I have seen 
nothing that would persuade me that the loan agreement did create an unfair relationship 
between Mr J and BPF. 
Timeshare Act claims
S says that C was in breach of certain provisions of the Timeshare Act and that, as a 
consequence, both the contract with C and the loan agreement are void. S also argues that 
any breach of the Act on the part of C was a breach of contract and that BPF owed Mr J a 
duty of care to ensure C complied with the Act  and was negligent in not doing so. 
S says that Mr J would not have known about any breaches of the Timeshare Act until S 
advised him about its provisions. Any limitation period is therefore subject to section 14A of 
the Limitation Act. 
Mr Js contract with C was for the purchase of a points-based club membership. Ss 
submissions say that the membership did not meet the definition of a timeshare. I agree with 
that assessment. The definition of timeshare accommodation in the Timeshare Act refers to 
specific accommodation or a pool of accommodation to which that accommodation belongs. 
There was no specific property or pool of property attached to Mr Js agreement with C; nor 
did Mr and Mrs J have specified times at which they could use accommodation. Rather, their 
membership entitled them to book a range of accommodation at a large number of resorts at 
different times of the year. 
The effect of that is not, in my view, that the contract had to comply with the Timeshare Act 
but did not do so. Rather, it was that the Timeshare Act did not cover the contract, so that 
the contract did not have to comply with it. It seems to me as well that Mr and Mrs J did not 
believe that there was a particular property or time attached to the contract. Indeed, part of 
their original complaint was that the choice of destinations and accommodation had been 
reduced. 
The 2010 Regulations replaced the 1992 Act and cover a wider range of holiday 
accommodation. They did not however apply when Mr J entered into the contract with C.  
In the circumstances, I do not need to discuss the 1992 Act any further. I would simply note 
however that a breach of regulations which carry a criminal sanction (as the Timeshare Act 
did) does not automatically give rise to a breach of contract or make a contract void. The 
consequences of a breach of regulations are generally set out in those regulations, 
especially where a third party is involved. An example of that is shown by the Upper Tribunal 
decision which I discuss below.  
In addition, I am not persuaded that BPF owed Cs customers a duty of care to ensure that C 
complied with any relevant regulations. 
The Upper Tribunal Decision 
I have summarised above the decision which S submitted as part of its response to my 
provisional decision. It stems from the brokering by an unauthorised entity of a large number 
of BPF loans. In such circumstances, FSMA provides that a loan is unenforceable  
although the lender can seek permission to enforce it, as BPF did.     
At the time of the loan which is the subject of this complaint, however, C did not need to be 
authorised by the FCA. It did however have the necessary consumer credit licence, issued by the Office of Fair Trading. And, as I have indicated, the Tribunals decision was 
concerned primarily with procedural matters after BPF had agreed to provide refunds to all 
affected customers. 
I would however note that there does not appear to have been any suggestion that BPF 
owed borrowers a duty of care to ensure the broker was authorised. Rather, FSMA allowed 
BPF to apply to the FCA so that it could enforce the agreements  an application which was 
successful. That is, FSMA sets out the consequences for BPF and customers of that 
particular breach on the part of a broker.  
Conclusions 
I stress that it is not for me to say whether Mr J has a justifiable claim or claims against C  
whether for breach of contract, misrepresentation or under any relevant regulations. Nor is it 
for me to say whether any such claims might be out of time under the Limitation Act. That is 
a matter for a court to decide if any action is started. Rather, I must consider BPFs response 
to the complaints made on behalf of Mr J. 
I have concluded that the complaint about the credit assessment was made outside our own 
time limits. I have no power to consider it. 
Given the passage of time and other issues I have discussed above, I believe that BPF 
acted reasonably in declining to uphold Mr Js complaints about other matters.       
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not require Clydesdale Financial Services 
Limited to take any further steps to resolve Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman