DRN-2122630
The complaint
Mr W has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) advised him 
incorrectly, on several occasions, about the steps he needed to take to amend his joint 
business bank account. 
What happened
Mr Ws business partner, unfortunately, passed away in May 2019. Mr W and his former 
business partner had a joint bank account with NatWest. Mr W first contacted NatWest on 9 
July 2019 with a view to making the necessary amendments to the account. Mr W then 
contacted NatWest on 17 July 2019, as a stop marker had been placed on the account by 
NatWest and he was unable to use or view it. Mr W was not told in advance that this would 
happen. Mr W was given instructions about how to amend the account and add his wife as a  
signatory. 
Mr W visited his local branch on 19 July 2019 and was assisted by a member of staff for a 
number of hours. He completed a mandate to take his business partner off the account and 
to add his wife as a new partner. Mr W was also then told he could not retain the same 
account. So enquiries were made about whether a new account could be opened on the 
same day. He was told it would take five to seven days for a new account to be set up.
Mr W submitted a complaint on the same day, about being given inconsistent information 
about what changes would need to be made to his account in light of his business partners 
death. Mr W complained that if hed been given the correct information when he first 
contacted NatWest, then he could have avoided being in a position where he was without a 
business bank account for a period of time.
Nat West responded to Mr Ws complaint and upheld it. It said Mr W complained that staff at 
NatWest provided inconsistent information about what would happen next, after NatWest 
correctly applied a Stop Marker to the business account. NatWest apologised for the trouble 
Mr W had been caused. NatWest confirmed the account had an overdraft outstanding and 
said Mr W would need to clear this and then the account can be closed. NatWest said it 
refunded the £150 overdraft renewal fee and a further £5 that debited at the end of July. 
Mr W responded and said Nat Wests understanding of the complaint was wrong. He said he 
was told, when he first contacted the bank, that he should continue to use the account as 
normal and the business team would be in contact with him in the next 10 days. Mr W said 
no contact was made, and the account was put on hold with no warning. Mr W said he then 
had to contact NatWest to see what was happening, including spending around three hours 
in his local branch. He said the member of staff who assisted him struggled to get a sensible 
answer from colleagues in the business team. Mr W said NatWest incorrectly said the 
partnership had ceased, but that wasnt the case and there were three partners and the 
remaining two continued to trade. Mr W said this dispute has arisen because of incorrect 
information time and time again from NatWest. He said this has cost him around £960 in lost 
earnings. 
Mr W then complained to this service. He said if he had been told when he first phoned 
NatWest that the partnership account needed to be closed and another account opened in 
just his name then he would have done that. Mr W said Nat West has refunded an overdraft 
fee from April because he complained about not being able to use the overdraft and so this 
was not compensation. 
When this service contacted NatWest, it told us it refunded the overdraft fee and charge as a 
gesture of goodwill. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. He said there isnt evidence Mr W was told 
on 9 July 2019 that everything would operate as normal. Our investigator said NatWest tried 
to phone Mr W when the account was suspended on 17 July 2019, but the account was 
always going to be blocked regardless. Mr W was told he could resolve the issue by 
completing a new mandate and adding a new person to the account and was then told this 
was not the case when he went into his local branch on 19 July 2019  when he was told he 
would need a new account. Our investigator said NatWest confirmed to this service that Mr 
W wouldve been able to continue with the account with another signatory added.  
Our investigator said the £155 already awarded represents reasonable compensation for the 
potential inconsistent information. He said hes aware Mr W had to spend a lot of time 
dealing with this matter, but to an extent there was always going to be some inconvenience 
resolving this issue. He also said NatWest told Mr W he didnt need to go to the branch to 
deal with the matter, so he wouldnt award compensation for this inconvenience. 
Mr W responded and said NatWest initially told him, after he spoke to the bereavement 
team, that the death certificate had only been received two days previously and so the 
account would continue as normal and someone would be in contact within the next ten 
days. He said hes concerned call logs supporting his version of events cant be found by 
NatWest. Mr W said most recently NatWest told him categorically that the account could not 
continue and must be closed. 
Mr W didnt agree with our investigators assessment and so this case has come to me to 
review. 
I issued a provisional decision on 31 July 2020. I indicated that I intended to uphold Mr Ws 
complaint and ask NatWest to pay £300 compensation for the inconvenience experienced by 
Mr W, in addition to any amount already paid. I gave both parties until 30 August 2020 to 
respond. 
NatWest responded and said it had no further comments to make and it accepted the 
recommendation to pay a further £300 compensation. 
Mr W also responded and agreed with the outcome. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Mr Ws complaint.  
Mr W contacted NatWest to see what steps he needed to take to amend his joint business 
bank account following his business partners death. Mr W was willing to take whatever 
steps NatWest considered necessary  whether this was adding a new signatory to the 
existing account or setting up a new account. Mr Ws aim was to try and avoid any unnecessary inconvenience to both him and his business customers. So Mr Ws complaint is 
that NatWest gave him conflicting information about the steps he needed to take to amend 
the account. And this led to him spending more time than was necessary dealing with this 
issue and caused him some inconvenience when he was without a business bank account 
for some time. 
NatWest has already acknowledged it provided Mr W with inconsistent information, has 
apologised and said it refunded an overdraft renewal fee of £150, paid at the end of March 
2019, as well as a further £5 charge. From what I can see, this was not compensation for the 
inconvenience caused to Mr W. It was a refund of an amount paid by Mr W to have an 
overdraft facility on the business bank account  a facility he now cant use because he has 
had to open a new business bank account. So I think a significant amount of this fee would 
most likely have been refunded, even if Mr W hadnt made this complaint. And the £5 fee 
debited at the end of July was most likely refunded because the account had a stop marker 
on it at that stage and there should have been no activity on the account. So I dont think its 
fair to say this is compensation for the inconvenience Mr W experienced. 
So I now need to look at whether NatWest should have awarded Mr W compensation, 
separate to the refund of the overdraft fee and charge, for the inconvenience he 
experienced. And I think it should have. Ill explain why. 
Ive listened to the call made by Mr W to NatWest on 9 July 2019. The member of staff 
originally provided him with some advice about completing a new mandate and emailed the 
mandate to Mr W. But the advice was withdrawn when the member of staff became aware 
that Mr Ws business partner had passed away. So Mr W was transferred to the 
bereavement team and that call recording ended. Mr W was then on hold for around seven 
minutes. NatWest hasnt been able to locate a recording of the conversation Mr W said he 
had with the bereavement team. Mr W said he was told by that team to carry on using the 
account and someone would be in contact within 10 days. 
Although I dont have any evidence that Mr W spoke to the bereavement team, what he says 
he was told would happen did happen. Namely, he carried on using the account and 
someone tried to get in contact with him by phone on 17 July 2019. I suspect Mr W thought 
someone would get in contact to advise him of the next steps, rather than putting the stop 
marker on the account. But without the call recording and without Mr W being able to provide 
a call log, I have no way of knowing what, if anything, was said. And so I cant be sure if Mr 
W was provided with contradictory advice at this stage. 
 
But Im satisfied he was provided with contradictory information afterwards. Mr W phoned 
NatWest on 17 July 2019 when he was unable to use or view his account. He was then told 
about the stop marker on the account. The advice he was given at this stage was to add 
another signatory to the account and he was told this would take two to three days to 
process. 
Mr W then visited his local branch on 19 July 2019 because he said he needed some 
assistance with completing the mandate. It seems Mr W was helped to complete the 
mandate but when staff made enquiries, they were told Mr W could not add a signatory and 
needed to open a new account. And he was told this would take five to seven working days. 
This means Mr W was told he could simply add someone to the account when this wasnt 
the case. He needed to open a new bank account, which is a lengthier process. If Mr W had 
been told on 17 July 2019 that he needed to open a new account, Im satisfied he would 
have done so as quickly as possible. So Im satisfied NatWest provided him with conflicting 
information on 17 and 19 July 2019 that caused a delay in Mr W opening the new account. When looking at how much compensation to award, Ive taken into account that Mr W would 
always have experienced some level of inconvenience in relation to amending the account, 
irrespective of the advice given by NatWest. So he would always have needed to get in 
contact with the bank to get advice about what to do next; a stop marker would always have 
been placed on the account in order to limit his deceased partners liability in relation to the 
overdraft; he would have needed to pay off the overdraft before the account could be closed; 
and he would have needed to contact his customers and suppliers to let them know his bank 
account had changed. 
Although Im aware Mr W was told not to go into branch, I think if he had been given the 
correct advice and was told he needed to close the account and open another, he wouldnt 
have felt he needed to make this trip to get help with the mandate. So given the delay with 
Mr W opening a new account, the inconvenience caused during those additional days when 
he didnt have access to an account and the trip to the branch, I think an appropriate amount 
of compensation in this case is £300. I know Mr W would like us to calculate compensation 
in line with his hourly working rate, but that isnt how we award compensation. 
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and require National Westminster Bank Plc 
to pay Mr W £300 compensation, in addition to any amount already paid. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2020.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman