DRN-2197197
The complaint
Mr F complains that NewDay Ltd didn't process a payment he needed to make to buy a new 
boiler. This caused him significant inconvenience and the loss of reward points on his credit 
card account.
What happened
Mr F has explained that he needed to buy a new boiler for a property which he let out. The
existing boiler had broken down, and so he'd arranged for an engineer to fit the replacement
the following day.
Mr F says he initially ordered the replacement boiler by telephone through a merchant, S, 
and was told that the order was confirmed. He expected the boiler to be delivered the 
following morning. When it didn't arrive, Mr F contacted S and was told that it hadn't received 
payment for the order.
Mr F therefore contacted a different merchant, C, to order the boiler he needed. Although he 
tried twice to place the order, the payment was declined on both occasions. He has 
explained however that he was able to complete the order using a card from a different 
provider.  
Mr F contacted NewDay to find out why the payments hadn't been processed. NewDay was
unable to provide an answer, and Mr F has said that he made several calls to try to find out
what the problem was. NewDay later told him that it was longer possible to make payments
if the merchant keyed in the transaction; such payments were only possible if the card chip
was read, indicating that the card was present.
NewDay said that it had identified an unusual transaction on 2 March 2020 and had
therefore placed a temporary hold on Mr F's card. Because it didn't hold a mobile phone
number for Mr F, it was unable to send a text message to confirm the transaction. Instead, it
tried to call him on the morning of 4 March. It didn't consider it had done anything wrong by
taking the measures it had in the light of what it considered to be a security risk. It did
however pay Mr F £10 in compensation and awarded him 500 loyalty points.
Mr F didn't think that explanation was satisfactory and referred the matter to this service.
One of our investigators considered what had happened, but agreed that NewDay was
entitled to place a hold on Mr F's card if it considered there was a security risk. She thought
as well that it was reasonable for NewDay to contact Mr F within 24 hours to discuss the
issue.
Mr F asked that an ombudsman review the complaint. I did that and issued a provisional 
decision. Whilst my overall conclusions were the same as the investigators, I wanted to give 
the parties an opportunity to clarify certain matters  which Mr F has now done and for which 
Im grateful. Ive now reviewed the case again in the light of Mr Fs further comments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F ordered the boiler by telephone from S on the evening of 2 March, for delivery the 
following morning. He was told the order was confirmed. In fact, payment hadnt been 
processed, because the transaction had triggered a security alert. This was also the reason 
why the attempted payments to C the following morning were unsuccessful. 
The first issue I need to consider therefore is whether NewDay was within its rights to 
decline the payment to S and to suspend use of Mr Fs account  which in turn meant he 
couldnt use his NewDay card to make payment to C.
The account terms do say that NewDay can refuse to authorise a transaction or suspend
use of the account if it reasonably suspects fraudulent or unauthorised use of it. I can see
why a telephone order (where the merchant manually keys in the card details) might cause
an alert in NewDay's systems. On the face of it, therefore, NewDay was within its rights to
suspend the account and to block the payments which are the subject of this complaint.
I dont believe however that it was right of NewDay to suggest that customers could no 
longer make payments unless the card was present. That would mean it couldnt be used for 
online or telephone transactions. I can understand however why it might need to carry out 
extra security checks before completing a payment on the basis only of card details provided 
by telephone. 
NewDay has said that it didnt hold a mobile phone number for Mr F, so was unable to 
confirm transactions by text message. Mr F has pointed out that its possible to send text 
messages over a land-line and that NewDay did have his land-line number. However, land-
line handsets are not generally password-protected in the same way as mobile phones and 
are routinely used by more than one person; they dont provide the same level of security as 
mobile phones. I dont believe I can fairly conclude that NewDay should have tried to verify 
the payment to S by using Mr Fs land-line. 
However, I note that NewDay didn't attempt to contact Mr F until 4 March, the day after the
payments to C were declined. Since Mr F had been in touch the previous day to confirm the 
payments were genuine, I can see why he feels it should have been possible to resolve 
things then. I note too that NewDay said in its final response to the complaint that it would 
contact customers within 24 hours of a declined transaction; the morning of 4 March was, 
however, outside this timeframe. But, even if NewDay had tried to contact Mr F at some 
point on 3 March, its far from certain that he would have been able to use his card to pay for 
the boiler.  
As Mr F has explained, however, he was able to buy the boiler and pay using a different 
card. In addition, NewDay refunded the loyalty points Mr F says he lost as a result of the 
suspension and paid him a small amount in compensation. 
For the reasons Ive explained, I believe that NewDay was within its rights to suspend Mr Fs 
card. There was a delay in contacting Mr F to discuss matters with him, but Im not 
persuaded that it made any significant difference. In any event, I think the award of loyalty 
points and the financial compensation NewDay paid is a fair resolution of Mr Fs complaint.      My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require NewDay Ltd to take any further steps to resolve Mr 
Fs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2020. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman