DRN-2069692
The complaint
Mr K complains that Countrywide Principal Services Limited mis-sold him a contents 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr K applied for a mortgage through Countrywide in 2012. Alongside the mortgage, he was 
advised to take out buildings and contents insurance too. Mr K took out separate buildings 
and contents insurance policies, which were arranged by Countrywides adviser.
In 2016, Mr K got back in touch with Countrywides adviser to check whether home 
insurance policies were compulsory parts of the mortgage. The adviser told Mr K that they 
were. So Mr K continued to renew separate buildings and contents policies through 
Countrywide.
Mr K visited a bank to discuss potentially re-mortgaging his property. During the meeting, he 
learned that while it was compulsory to have buildings insurance as part of a mortgage 
contract, it wasnt compulsory to have contents insurance too. So Mr K cancelled his policy 
and complained to Countrywide. He said hed been mis-sold the contents insurance policy, 
as if hed hadnt been told it was compulsory, hed never have taken it out. He asked 
Countrywide to refund him for all of the premiums hed paid for contents insurance since 
2012.
Countywide didnt agree. It said its adviser had gone through a mortgage planner with Mr K 
and hed told the adviser that protecting his contents was important to him. And it said Mr K 
had been provided with a key facts illustration which stated that only buildings insurance was 
compulsory, although it didnt have be arranged by Countrywide. So it didnt think the 
contents insurance policy had been mis-sold to him.
Mr K wasnt happy with Countrywides decision and he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator thought Mr Ks complaint should be upheld in part. She thought 
Countrywide had made it clear enough in 2012 that only buildings insurance was compulsory 
as a condition of Mr Ks mortgage. So she didnt think it needed to refund the premiums hed 
paid between 2012 and 2016. 
But the investigator thought that the email the adviser had sent Mr K in 2016 implied that he 
did need to have both buildings and contents insurance policies in place as a condition of his 
mortgage. And she thought hed have likely cancelled the contents policy in 2016 if hed 
been aware that this wasnt the case. So she recommended that Countrywide should refund 
Mr K the premiums hed paid after 21 September 2016, together with interest.
Countrywide disagreed. It said Mr K had re-mortgaged in 2014 and 2016, through the same 
adviser and had increased his contents cover at the latter point. It considered Mr K and its 
adviser wouldve built up a good rapport. It felt he couldve checked his renewal documents 
and shopped around if he wanted a cheaper policy. And if it refunded his premiums, hed 
have had insurance cover for free. It calculated that it if it refunded the premiums Mr K paid 
between September 2016 and November 2018, together with interest, the refund amount 
would be £416.39. It decided to offer Mr K a settlement of £216.39 - £200 less than the total 
refund amount itd calculated.
Our investigator put Countrywides offer to Mr K. He wasnt happy to accept it though. He did 
agree with the investigators opinion of his complaint that he should be refunded for the 
premiums hed paid since September 2016. 
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Countrywide has treated Mr K fairly. Ill explain why.
It seems Mr K accepted the investigators finding that Countrywide had made the fact 
contents insurance wasnt a compulsory part of the mortgage sufficiently clear in 2012. For 
completeness though, Ive also considered the documents Mr K was given when he applied 
for a mortgage in 2012.
First, Ive looked at the letter the adviser sent Mr K explaining the reasons for the product 
recommendations he made during the sale of the mortgage. This states that Mr K wanted to 
protect his contents and so the adviser had recommended a contents insurance policy. It 
seems Mr K had accepted this recommendation. And Ive then looked closely at the 
mortgage Key Facts Illustration which was produced on 22 June 2012. This includes a 
section called Insurance. It says: Insurance that you must take out as a condition of this 
mortgage but that you do not have to take out throughCountrywide.  Buildings.
Im satisfied that Countrywides paperwork made it clear enough that Mr K didnt need to 
take out contents insurance as a condition of his mortgage. So Im not directing Countrywide 
to refund the premiums Mr K paid between 2012 and September 2016.
However, Ive then turned to consider the email correspondence between Mr K and 
Countrywides adviser during September 2016. Mr K asked the adviser whether hed 
correctly understood that life cover and home insurance policies were compulsory elements 
of the mortgage. The adviser emailed Mr K to say:
Ever (sic) lender requires that you have a home insurance policy in place, they want to 
make sure that the asset the mortgage is secured against is protected. This forms part of the 
mortgages conditions. With regards to life insurance, this is a personal choice and not 
required as the home insurance is. (Bold text is my emphasis).
I agree with the investigator that this email doesnt specify that only buildings insurance was 
required. Countrywides adviser was an expert in advising on and arranging mortgages and 
associated products, including insurance policies. I think hed have likely known that Mr K 
was relying on him for advice and information. I think it wouldve been appropriate for the 
adviser to clearly inform Mr K that he only needed buildings insurance as a condition of his 
mortgage contract. Especially given that home insurance is often used to describe a 
combination of both buildings and contents insurance policies. So I think it was reasonable 
for Mr K to conclude from this email that he did need contents insurance as well as buildings 
cover. Ive then gone on to consider what I think Mr K wouldve most likely done if hed been 
correctly told that contents insurance wasnt a compulsory part of his mortgage at this point. 
From the email correspondence, it appears to me that Mr K was considering what his 
options regarding insurance policies were and whether he was required to retain them. Hes 
told us he was looking to keep costs down. Mr K cancelled the contents policy with 
Countrywide when he learned he didnt need to have it and went on to continue with 
buildings cover only. So Im persuaded that if Mr K had been correctly advised about 
compulsory cover on 21 September 2016, he wouldve most likely cancelled his policy and 
wouldnt have entered into any further renewals.
While I accept Mr K couldve looked elsewhere for cheaper contents cover at each renewal, I 
dont think this makes a difference here. Thats because Im simply not persuaded that Mr K 
wouldve continued to buy contents insurance at all if he hadnt thought it was compulsory.
So overall, Im satisfied that Countrywide must refund Mr K the premiums he paid for his 
contents insurance policy after 21 September 2016 up until the date he cancelled the policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Ks complaint.
I direct Countrywide Principal Services Limited to refund Mr K the premiums he paid for his 
contents insurance policy between 21 September 2016 and the date he cancelled the policy. 
Countrywide must add interest to the settlement at an annual rate of 8% simple.
Countrywide must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we
tell it Mr K accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year
simple.
*If Countrywide considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr K how much its taken off. It should also give
Mr K a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman