DRN-1655410
Complaint
Mr C says Bank of Scotland PLC (BOS) mis-sold him a credit card payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
Mr C bought the PPI policy alongside a credit card in 2002 to help him with his credit card 
repayments if he was unable to work because of accident, sickness or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt think we should uphold the complaint. But Mr C disagreed so the 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mr C says that he never agreed to take the PPI. But BOS says the optional nature of the PPI 
was made clear and only added to his account after hed agreed to take it. Where there is a 
dispute like this, I have to decide what I think is more likely based on the available evidence 
which includes Mr Cs testimony. 
BOS has sent us a copy of Mr Cs printed application form that was produced when he 
applied for his credit card and PPI. On the first page, there is a box that had to be selected 
for PPI (called Credit Card Repayments Cover at the time). I can see this box has had an 
electronic tick placed in it. There was another product that Mr C couldve taken, but the box 
for that product was left blank  so I think its clear that if Mr C didnt want the PPI, he could 
also have declined cover and the PPI box could also have been left blank. 
Mr C says he didnt complete this box as the X was placed there electronically - so BOS 
must have selected it. I think he is likely to be right and, like the PPI box, the rest of the form 
was also completed electronically. While it may be that the bank employee completed the 
form, I think its likely the completed application form represents the information and answers 
Mr C gave BOS at the time  which is how these forms tended to be completed. In any 
event, I wouldve expected Mr C to have looked over this form before signing it and 
confirming he wanted PPI. Had he not wanted PPI, he couldve questioned this before 
signing and agreeing to take it. 
Although Ive thought carefully about Mr Cs testimony, based on what Ive seen, I think its 
more likely the policy was presented as optional to Mr C and he agreed to take it knowing he 
had a choice. 
BOS recommended the PPI to Mr C so it should have made sure the PPI was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, he 
was eligible for the policy and wasnt affected by any of the main exclusions to or limits on 
the PPI cover. He also seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Mr C was employed so he says he had some sick pay provided by his employer  although 
he cant recall how much. He also adds that he wouldve had some savings but again cant 
recall how much. Given how long ago this policy was sold, its understandable that Mr C 
doesnt remember the exact details of his wider financial situation. But, like he says, I believe 
he wouldve had some other means available to him.
But this policy wouldve paid out on top of any sick pay he mightve had for up to 12 months 
if he was off work for illness or injury  so I think he couldve found it useful especially for the 
period after his full sick pay (if he had any) ran out. It also provided cover for up to 12 
months for unemployment, leavings his savings available to use on other essential 
expenditure at what couldve been a difficult time financially. 
Its possible the information BOS gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But, as Ive said above, I think he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this 
type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something went wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So, I dont think better information about the PPI would have 
put him off taking out the cover. 
So, I dont think this policy was mis-sold - which means BOS doesnt have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2020.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman