DRN-2440029
The complaint
Miss K complains about how Aviva Insurance Limited administered her motor insurance 
policy. She wants further compensation for the effect this had. 
What happened
Miss K was involved in an accident where the liability was settled as split liability. But when 
Miss K received her renewal documents from Aviva, she saw that this claim had been 
recorded as non-fault. Miss K complained to Aviva and felt that she couldnt change to 
another insurer with a cheaper policy until this was corrected. 
Aviva eventually corrected the mistake and paid Miss K £100 compensation. It said the claim 
had been correctly recorded on its database, but not on Miss Ks documentation. It offered 
Miss K £100 further compensation and said she could cancel her policy without a fee within 
the next few months if she so wished. But Miss K was unhappy with this. She thought her 
policy would have been avoided if shed had an accident. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Aviva 
had made a mistake, but it had corrected this. She thought Aviva wouldnt have refused a 
claim as the error wasnt Miss Ks fault. She thought its offer of compensation and free 
cancellation was fair and reasonable.
Miss K replied that she thought incorrect information on her policy could invalidate her 
insurance. She said shed had to raise the matter twice with Aviva. And as it didnt respond 
promptly, shed had to stay with it at greater cost than other policies shed found. She didnt 
want to cancel part way through a policy year as shed lose some months towards her years 
No Claims Discount (NCD).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Miss Ks worry that Aviva had recorded the claim incorrectly and her 
frustration that this took some time to fix. Ive looked at what went wrong, and I can see that 
Aviva made a mistake when it noted on Miss Ks policy documents that the claim was not at 
fault. But it had recorded it correctly on internal and external databases as both parties at 
fault. 
When a business makes a mistake, as Aviva accepts it has done here, we expect it to 
restore the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact 
the error had on the consumer. 
I can see that the claim is now correctly recorded on Miss Ks policy documentation. But it 
took Miss K two attempts to have this corrected. She then contacted Aviva two weeks before 
her renewal, but it didnt get back to her promptly. And so Miss K felt she had to stay with 
Aviva, at an increased cost than cover elsewhere. And she was worried that a future claim 
may be refused.
I can understand that Miss K felt anxious that the claim was incorrectly noted on her policy 
documents. But I think Miss K hadnt made a mistake as she didnt withhold information 
about her claim. And I think Aviva has confirmed it wouldnt have refused a further claim for 
this reason. As it was, fortunately no claim was made. 
I also think it was Miss Ks decision to stay with Aviva. I think she could have taken cover 
elsewhere and declared her correct claims history. This would have been confirmed by any 
checks on external databases made by the insurer. So I cant reasonably hold Aviva 
responsible for Miss Ks decision to renew her policy with it. 
Aviva agreed that its level of service had been poor. It made an initial mistake by noting the 
claim incorrectly on the policy documents. It didnt then correct this promptly and Miss K had 
to raise her concern again. And then Aviva didnt return Miss Ks call as it said it would. 
Aviva paid Miss K £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused by the initial error and 
then offered her a further £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its level of 
customer service. It also said that she could cancel her policy within a period without 
incurring charges. I can understand Miss Ks reluctance to cancel mid-term. But I think this 
compensation is fair and reasonable as its in keeping with what Id require in similar 
circumstances. And so I dont require Aviva to increase this.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 May 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman