DRN-3737293
The complaint
Mr C wants Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money, to refund interest and fees of 
£567 that it charged after he says it unfairly withdrew the promotional 0% interest rate on his 
credit card.
What happened
When Mr Cs direct debit payment failed in July 2021 Virgin Money withdrew his promotional 
interest rate in line with the terms of the account. Mr C made the payment manually a few 
days later. His August payment also failed as the amount due was higher that the money he 
had available in his current account. He says this was because the 0% interest rate had 
been removed. Mr C called Virgin Money to explain that his payday had changed causing 
the initial problem  he had needed to change jobs several times due to the pandemic. 
Virgin Money said if he sent in evidence of the job and payday change it would consider    
re-instating his promotional rate. Mr C says he did this on 1 September 2021, but interest 
was still charged that month which took his balance over his credit limit. Virgin Money says it 
never received the evidence it requested. Mr C made a manual payment to correct being 
overlimit. Virgin Money waived the fee. 
Mr C then complained on the basis he had heard nothing about the re-instatement of his 
promotional rate. He was told when he raised the complaint that this would be followed up 
with the promotions team and a 30-day breathing space hold would be placed on his 
account. But on 7 October 2021 a direct debit was taken. On 21 October 2021 Virgin Money 
called Mr C prior to the 30-day hold expiring. It offered a second hold, but this time said the 
monthly repayment would be collected, contrary to the advice it had previously given. On 14 
November it gave Mr C his referral right to this service, explaining there were delays in its 
complaint investigation. 
Mr C says he was led to believe the interest rate would be reinstated and that the interest 
charged would be refunded. So this is what he seeks. He has continued to incur interest as 
his complaint was ongoing, and Virgin Money were slow to investigate. He was told 
repeatedly the promotions team would contact him  it never did. He now has two missed 
payments on his credit report. This first was down to his genuine mistake but the second 
was as the 0% rate had been removed and no-one had told him about this.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Cs complaint. He said Virgin was entitled to remove the 
promotional rate when it did not receive the minimum payment in July. There was no record 
it had ever received the evidence it needed to consider reinstatement. He accepted Virgin 
had given contradictory information about the 30-day hold but did not think that merited any 
further action. If Mr C needed and wanted to do so he said Virgin Money must work with him 
to agree an affordable repayment plan.
Unhappy with this assessment Mr C asked for an ombudsmans review. He said Virgin 
Money were at fault as each time he called he was told a message would be sent to the 
promotions team and they never contacted him. He could have resent the paperwork, or had 
he known the rate would not be reinstated he would have found a different solution. He has 
been treated unfairly.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the same conclusion as the investigator  that Virgin Money 
wasnt wrong to remove the promotional rate. But I am making a compensatory award to    
Mr C as I think there were instances of poor service that caused Mr C some avoidable 
trouble and inconvenience. Ill explain why.
One of the conditions of the promotional interest rate was that the account had to be kept 
up-to-date. The terms said: 
7.5. If we do not receive the Minimum Payment when it is due or you go over your credit
limit, we will withdraw the promotional rate with effect from the start of that statement period.
When a promotional rate ends or is withdrawn, we charge the current standard interest rate
that applies to that transaction.
Mr C did not manage his account as required. He says this was a genuine error in July 2021, 
but that doesnt change the banks rights or mean that it acted in error. He then missed a 
second payment, and says he hadnt been told the promotional rate had been withdrawn. 
His repayment was therefore higher than he expected which is why the direct debit failed.
But he was receiving monthly statements and I can see the 8 August 2021 statement 
showed the value of the interest being applied, as well as the total that would be collected by 
direct debt that month. So I find Mr C was made aware of what would be taken from his bank 
account. 
I have looked at the call notes from 1 September 2021 and dont agree it was presented as a 
formality that after he sent in the requested information the rate would be reinstated. He was 
told they would see if there was anything they could do. I dont doubt that Mr C sent in the 
paperwork needed, but Virgin Money has supplied information to show the post is not listed 
as it would have been had it arrived. I cant fairly hold the bank liable for the non-receipt. 
Mr C says if asked he would have resent it, but this does not change my finding that Virgin 
Money was entitled to withdraw the rate as Mr C had missed payments.
Virgin does accept however that it seems it gave Mr C conflicting information about the 
breathing space holds on his account, and whether minimum payment was still due or not. 
This meant the October direct debit was collected when he was not expecting it to be. 
And I find the communications between the agents Mr C spoke to and the promotions team 
were poor. The banks contact notes show it told Mr C the team would call him but that did 
not happen. For these service failures that caused Mr C avoidable stress and inconvenience 
Virgin Money must pay Mr C £75 compensation. 
I know Mr C feels that Virgin Moneys lack of communication about the rate left him in the 
dark whilst interest mounted up. I have considered that when making my award. But as I 
dont think Virgin did anything wrong when it removed the promotional rate and there was 
never any guarantee it would be reinstated, I cant fairly ask it to waive all interest charged 
as a result. Mr C could have turned to his alternative solution at any stage if he wanted to 
prevent further interest charges  which were legitimate under the terms of the account. I am 
sorry his employment has been so impacted by the pandemic. If Mr C is having financial difficulties he should contact Virgin Money, as it has previously offered, so it can understand 
his current financial position and look at his repayment options. 
 
Putting things right
Virgin Money must pay Mr C £75 in full and final settlement of this complaint.
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Cs complaint in part. Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money must 
put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman