DRN-3410759
The complaint
Ms S complains that Starling Bank Limited unnecessarily blocked her bank account for 
around two weeks. 
What happened
On 22 April 2021 Starling Bank contacted Ms S via its app to as her account had been 
blocked. Starling Bank asked Ms S to provide information about a disputed payment that had 
been made to her account. The individual who had made a payment of £58 asked their bank 
to recover it which led Starling Bank to get in contact with Ms S. Starling Bank asked Ms S to 
provide information to confirm the transaction was genuine. 
Ms S contacted Starling Bank on 28 April 2021 and explained the payment was in relation to 
a client. Ms S also explained that other clients were having difficulties making payments into 
her account. 
On 6 May 2021 Starling Bank messaged Ms S to confirm the account blocks had been 
removed. 
Ms S went on to raise a complaint and said Starling Bank had blocked her account without 
good reason. Starling Bank didnt uphold Ms S complaint and said the account restrictions 
were fairly applied. Ms S referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to an 
investigator. During the investigation, Starling Bank made an offer of £50 in recognition of 
the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Ms S asked to appeal and said Starling Banks suspicions over a £58 payment didnt justify 
the restrictions it placed on her account. Ms S said she thinks Starling Bank should only 
apply account restrictions to stop suspected serious fraud rather than a miscalculation. Ms S 
also said the communication from Starling Bank was poor. As Ms S has asked to appeal, her 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Starling Banks account terms and conditions set out the provisions for restricting access to 
a customers bank account. It says Starling bank can restrict or suspend the use of an 
account where it has concerns about potential fraud. I appreciate Ms S view that Starling 
Bank should only take that step in serious cases, but Im satisfied there is a provision in its 
terms that allow it to suspend access to an account. And whilst I understand Ms S point that 
the payment in question was for a low amount, I havent been persuaded that in itself meant 
Starling Bank didnt need to investigate it. 
The payment in question was disputed by the payer which is why Starling Bank contacted 
Ms S. The dispute has been explained as a genuine mistake by the payer and I can see the 
account restrictions were removed after a period of around two weeks. Ms S complains it 
took Starling Bank too long to resolve the restrictions. I can see there was some 
inconvenience to Ms S and shes told us clients had to use a different payment method while 
the account restrictions remain. 
Im sorry to disappoint Ms S but I havent been persuaded it was unreasonable for Starling 
Bank to restrict her account while it investigated the disputed payment. 
Starling Bank has offered Ms S £50 to apologise for the trouble and upset caused. In my 
view, Starling Banks offer is a fair way to resolve Ms S complaint and reflects the level of 
inconvenience caused. As Im satisfied Starling Bank has made an offer that is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances Im not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Starling Bank Limited to pay Ms S £50. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman