DRN-4126720
The complaint
Mr K complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money unfairly charged him cash 
advance fees and cash interest on payments he made to e-money accounts.
What happened
Mr K says that he opened a credit card with Virgin Money in September 2019, and he has 
used the account in the same way for almost three years incurring no charges or having any 
issues before Virgin Money suddenly changed their terms. He says he made five payments 
to third party accounts in July and August 2022 totalling £39,480, but these incurred cash 
advance fees of £1,974 and a further £656.95 without appropriate pre-warning. He said 
Virgin Money also offered to increase his credit limit in July 2022 without him asking for this 
or needing this. Mr K said the terms regarding cash advances need to be properly explained 
and the email Virgin Money sent him was delivered to a mailbox for junk. 
Mr K says that he had been charged interest despite the funds not being paid to his own 
third party e-money account as this was paid into another persons account. Mr K says that 
in July 2022, Virgin Money offered to increase his credit limit even without him asking for this 
or requiring a higher credit limit. Mr K made a complaint to Virgin Money.
Virgin Money did not uphold Mr Ks complaint, but they refunded £100 of interest to his 
account as a gesture of goodwill. They said that their terms were updated in August 2021 
which made it clear that a cash advance also includes adding money to a prepaid card, 
virtual card or e-money account. Virgin Money said in July 2022 they sent him a reminder 
about the terms. This confirmed some of the changes to the cash advance fees didnt 
happen, but they would be going live from July 2022. They said on page four of his 
statement, it displays the daily and annual interest rates and it was his responsibility to 
review his statements, and to let them know if he disagreed with any information on his 
statements. Virgin Money said that as there are many providers which offer e-money 
accounts, it would be impractical to include all brand named services in this category.
Mr K brought his complaint to our service. He said Virgin Money did not engage with further 
communication he sent them regarding his complaint. Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ks 
complaint. She said Virgin Money fulfilled the requirement to send notification of changes to 
the terms and they sent a further communication before the delayed change came into 
effect. She said although the payments Mr K made werent to his e-money account, the 
account Mr K sent the money to was an e-money account, irrespective of whose name its 
in, and the terms dont specify that a cash advance would only be to the cardholder, so the 
payments were still classed as cash advances under the revised terms.
Mr K asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In 
summary, he said Virgin Money did not respond to his complaint dated 4 January 2023. He 
said in a lay persons use of language, adding money to their own account would be termed 
as adding money, whereas paying or sending money to a third party is called paying or 
sending money, and not adding money to their account. He said the terms do not specify 
that a payment to a third party e-money account would be classed as a cash advance. He 
said cash advance terms need to be better explained, and he was never in need of a cash 
advance or loans around the time that he had been charged the fees and interest.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware that Ive only summarised Mr Ks complaint points. And Im not going to 
respond to every single point made by him. No discourtesy is intended by this. Our rules 
allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point to be able 
to reach what I think is a fair outcome. 
Id like to explain to Mr K that it is not within this services remit to tell a business what their 
terms and conditions should say and how this is communicated to customers. Or to tell them 
to display warnings for any transactions which may incur a cash advance fee and cash 
interest. It would be the role of the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority, who have the 
power to instruct Virgin Money to make changes to their policies and procedures, if 
necessary. 
I asked Virgin Money why they didnt respond to Mr Ks complaint in January 2023. They told 
me that they couldnt see any records to show Mr K had registered a second complaint in 
January 2023, as such no response was issued. While this would be disappointing for Mr K 
to hear, Im not persuaded that this impacted his ability to bring his complaint to our service. 
As Virgin Money had already provided a final response to Mr Ks original complaint, they are 
not obliged to respond to further points made by Mr K even if they would have received his 
second complaint when they had provided referral rights to our service. 
I have looked at the email that Mr K received dated 24 June 2021. This sets out that his 
terms on the account are changing. It tells him the terms come into effect on 5 August 2021, 
so Im satisfied that they provided the required notice here. The email also informs Mr K that 
if they dont hear from him, theyll assume hes happy with the new terms. It also mentions 
that if he is unsure of anything or has a question for them to check out their online help, and 
they provided a link for him to do this. Ive copied the relevant new term below:
Cash Advances
We're updating the definition of a Cash Advance. This still includes cash you withdraw using 
your credit card and buying foreign currency or traveller's cheques - but we've made it clear 
that a Cash Advance also includes:
adding money to a prepaid card, virtual card or e-money account.
Ive considered what Mr K has said about this wording. But Im not persuaded the wording is 
misleading or inaccurate. The term adding money would be accurate in the sense that Mr K 
was adding money to a third partys e-money account. The wording used does not lead me 
to believe that a lay person would assume that adding money to a prepaid card, virtual card 
or e-money account would only be applicable to any e-money accounts in the Virgin Money 
account holders name only, so I cant agree with what Mr K has said about the wording here. 
And due to the multiple e-money accounts available with third party providers, it would be 
impractical for them to list the different e-money account providers in this section So Im 
satisfied that Virgin Money were clear that adding money to an e-money account would be 
classed as a cash advance from 5 August 2021, even if Mr K was not in need of a cash 
advance or loan around the time that he had been charged the fees and interest.Virgin Money sent Mr K an email dated 15 July 2022 and the email stated The changes we 
were making to Cash Advance fees didnt happen at that time, and they will now be live from 
this month. The email reminded Mr K what was included in a cash advance such as adding 
money to an e-money account. It mentioned that this meant for some transactions that he 
may have made in the past, he could now see a cash advance fee on his statement and 
interest applied in line with the cash advance annual interest rate. There was also a section 
on the email if he was unsure of anything or had a question for them, then he could click on 
the link provided. 
Looking at Mr Ks statements, he wasnt charged a cash advance fee for adding money to an 
e-money account prior to the 15 July 2022 email they sent him. And they informed him that it 
would be live from that month. So when Mr K added money to an e-money account on 17 
July 2022  even though this wasnt his account, then the cash advance fee and associated 
interest was applied. As Mr K was told about the change to the terms on 24 June 2021, then 
Im satisfied that he had time to ask Virgin Money about the changes prior to them being 
implemented if he was unsure about the wording.
Mr K has said the email from Virgin Money was delivered to his junk mail. But I cant hold 
Virgin Money responsible for this when they have emailed the registered contact email 
address. If Mr K was receiving marketing emails from Virgin Money which he considered to 
be junk, he would have been able to opt out of marketing at any time. I dont doubt that Mr K 
didnt open the email sent in July 2022 when it was delivered to him as Virgin Money have 
been able to send me information which shows that Mr K first opened this email on 23 
September 2022 at 13:12pm. But as Virgin Money had sent Mr K an email reminding him 
about the cash advance fee and what transactions are included in this, then I cant hold them 
responsible if Mr K did not view this email when it was delivered to him.
Virgin Money also made monthly statements available to Mr K. So he would have been able 
to see that adding money to an e-money account in July 2022 attracted a cash advance fee 
and interest. But despite this, he continued to add money into an e-money account after this 
statement. It would be Mr Ks responsibility to check his statements. If there was an issue 
receiving statements then it would be proportionate for him to contact Virgin Money about 
this, or if there was something wrong on his statements to contact them. So Mr K ought to 
have been aware that the two payments he made in July 2022 were classed as cash 
advance transactions. And despite his statement showing these as cash advances, he 
continued to make payments to e-money accounts after the statement was issued.
Ive considered what Mr K has said about Virgin Money offering to increase his credit limit. 
But Mr K is not obliged to accept any credit limit increase offered. If he does not want Virgin 
Money to offer to increase his credit limit, then he may wish to contact them to see if he can 
opt out of credit limit increases. But it follows I dont require Virgin Money to do anything 
further here. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman