DRN-3483562
The complaint
Mr P has complained that Covea Insurance plc (Covea) has unfairly turned down a claim 
made under a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr P took out a PPI policy to protect his mortgage repayments should he become 
unemployed. Covea became the policy insurer, so it was responsible for paying any 
successful claim.
In 2020, Mr P made a claim under his policy as he was out of work due to the COVID-19 
pandemic. At this time he had been self-employed and claimed as he was unable to find 
work.
Covea asked for information to show Mr P was in receipt of Government benefits or 
confirmation that he wasnt eligible for them. It also asked for evidence Mr Ps business had 
ceased or suspended trading because he couldnt find enough work to meet all of his 
reasonable business and living expenses, which it said was in line with the policy 
requirements. 
Mr P provided information to Covea, but it said the information showed he had not 
permanently ceased to trade, had not registered with the Job Centre and that his accountant 
confirmed his business had only suspended trading. Covea declined the claim as it said 
Mr P did not meet the definition of unemployed as set out in the policy. It said he needed to 
demonstrate that he was not in work, registered as unemployed with the appropriate 
government agency and prove that he had involuntarily and permanently ceased trading. But 
it thought Mr P was only temporarily out of work as he had said he had a job to return to 
when allowed to work by government rules. Covea justified its decision by stating that the 
policy was designed to cover business failure for the self-employed rather than for short 
periods of unemployment. 
Unhappy with Coveas response, Mr P referred a complaint about the claim to our service. 
He said the claim should have been paid or, in the alternative, that the PPI policy had been 
mis-sold so he should receive a refund of the premiums paid. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and thought that Covea had acted fairly. 
They said that it had applied its policy terms to Mr Ps claim and, as he was only temporarily 
out of work, he was not covered for claim he made.
But after that, Mr Ps complaint was reviewed again by someone else at our service. They 
asked Mr P to provide some more information, which he did. He explained that his self-
employed business didnt trade again, but from March 2021 he was effectively employed for 
six months. Since then he worked for some periods in 2022, but not continuously. Mr P said 
he received no help from the Government as he was told that he was not eligible due to 
having some savings.
After that, a second view was issued where the reviewing adjudicator thought that Covea 
had not acted fairly. They thought the terms concerning self-employed people were onerous 
and that they should not have been applied in the way they were. The adjudicator pointed to 
both the Association of British Insurers (ABI) guidance in Consistent Policy Interpretations 
Payment Protection Insurance  Statement of Principles for the Payment Protection Industry 
and the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) statement Insurance and coronavirus (Covid- 
19): our expectation of firms. They said that although Mr P may not have been looking for 
alternate work, based on the evidence available, it appeared that he was ready to restart 
work as soon as allowed. The recommendation was for Covea to reassess the claim, taking 
into account that industry specific guidance.
Mr P accepted the second view, but Covea asked for the matter to be passed to an 
ombudsman for a decision. It didnt provide any reasons why it disagreed, beyond what had 
been provided prior to the view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, I think this complaint should be upheld. I will set out why I 
think that, looking at first the policy terms, then how I think they should be interpreted and 
finally how this affects Mr Ps claim.
The policy terms
Mr Ps policy was called Mortgage Protector and was set up to pay a set monthly benefit for 
up to twelve months if he was made unemployed.
Unemployment was a defined term under the policy, which meant:
Having no paid work or temporary work and having a Jobseekers Agreement with 
the Department for Work and Pensions in the UK. If you are ineligible for a 
Jobseekers Agreement you must be able to provide alternative proof acceptable to 
us that you are actively seeking work.
Work was also a defined term and it included self-employed work. If a policy holder wished 
to make a claim for unemployment, the claims process differed depending on whether they 
were employed or self-employed. For someone who was self-employed, like Mr P, they 
could make a claim:
If you are self-employed and you have involuntarily and permanently ceased trading 
because you could not find enough work to meet all your reasonable business and 
living expenses and have declared this to HM Revenue & Customs, you will be 
entitled to claim for unemployment benefit.
In addition, Mr P had to provide certain information to show he was able to make a claim. 
That information included:
evidence that your business has ceased or suspended trading because you could 
not find enough work to meet all your reasonable business and living expenses. We 
may require evidence such as that you have declared this to HM Revenue and 
Customs, bank statements, accounts, or a letter from your accountant with evidence 
that your business was no longer viable, that your business has ceased or 
suspended trading and that you are not receiving an income from the businessWhat the policy terms mean
Ive read the guidance from the ABI and the FCA to which our adjudicator referred. I think 
this is reflective of good industry practice and it relevant when interpreting the terms of 
Mr Ps policy, especially where they are unclear or contradictory.
The latest version of the ABI guidance was published in August 2013. It was designed to set 
out the minimum principles insurers will follow in a range of common claim situations. The 
guidance reflected that different insurers policy wording may differ across policies, but the 
overriding principles contained in [the ABI guidance] reflect insurers' intent that the customer 
can be confident that their claim will be dealt with consistently regardless of insurer.
For self-employed policy holders, the following guidance was given (at 1.8):
Where insurers provide cover for the self-employed, insurers will include a statement 
in the policy wording directing those who are self-employed to the part of the policy 
detailing what cover is available to them and what evidence will be required to 
substantiate any claim.
The self-employed are customers who own their own business as sole traders or are 
able to control the affairs of their company. Claims will be accepted if they have 
involuntarily ceased trading because they could not find enough work to meet all their 
reasonable business and living expenses and have declared this to HM Revenue and 
Customs.
If a company or business has not ceased to trade then the policyholder will be asked 
to provide alternative evidence of unemployment, which may include:
written notice from an accountant that they are not generating revenue 
through their business,
evidence that a main contractor has ceased to trade where the policyholder 
entirely relied on being a sub-contractor to that firm.
It appears to me that there is an uncertainty in the policy wording  in the section that 
explained when a self-employed person could claim it says they had to have involuntarily 
and permanently ceased trading, whereas in the section that explained the evidence 
needed to make a claim, it said evidence that your business has ceased or suspended 
trading. In one section it states that a policy holder needed to have permanently ceased 
trading, however the use of the word suspended in the other section implies people are also 
covered where a business had stopped trading for an indefinite period of time.
I have also considered the other parts of the PPI policy, including the other pieces of 
evidence that could be asked for to validate a claim. It mentions a letter from your 
accountant with evidence that your business was no longer viable, that your business has 
ceased or suspended trading and that you are not receiving an income from the business1. 
Again, I think the use of the word suspended implies that any stopping in trading could be 
for an indefinite period of time, rather than a permanent end of trading. This also fits with the 
evidence suggested by the ABI to substantiate a claim where a policy holder has not ceased 
to trade. Taken as a whole, I think the policy is set up to cover situations where a policy 
holder may be able to make a claim without permanently ceasing to trade and declaring the 
same to HM Revenue & Customs.
1 This is similar to the evidence requested in the letter of 8 April 2020To make a claim, I think a policy holder would have to show that they had involuntarily 
ceased or suspended trading and had declared this to HM Revenue & Customs or were able 
to show that they were not receiving an income from the business.
Mr Ps claim
Ive seen a note from a conversation between Covea and Mr P from the time of the claim. 
That note sets out details of the claim and that he had not registered with the Job Centre at 
the time of the claim. But in answer to the question, it is recorded:
Not yet, awaiting gov and my accountant clarifying the position for self employed  
Either way this insurance paid for a long time was to cover my mortgage payments  
The rest of my bills I need to work out what best option is in lieu of being able to work 
or get a client contract, which I am looking daily but IT contract market is devastated  
No (I will await the advice per above in coming few days before applying for UC  
Expect this week)
And in making his claim, Mr P said:
On the Jobseeker's allowance, as I am still a Limited Company Director/Owner, I 
have not applied for UC, as I would not receive anything I was informed, unless I 
close/dissolve my company completely, which I don't want to do, as I am expecting to 
return to business as soon as possible but it will be very difficult until the market is 
functioning properly again and we are out of lockdown at least.
Ive also seen a letter from Mr Ps accountant confirming that he suspended his business on 
1 March 2020 and at the date of the letter (12 May 2020), he had not earned anything since 
then.
Covea initially turned down Mr Ps claim as he had not permanently ceased trading. For the 
reasons already explained, I agree that this interpretation of the policy terms was onerous 
and unfair to Mr P. So I think Covea needs to reassess Mr Ps claim, but on the basis of the 
interpretation of the policy terms I have set out above. 
I think Mr P has provided sufficient evidence to suggest that his business suspended trading 
as he wasnt able to work at the time  had I not seen this I wouldnt have directed Covea to 
reassess the claim. But for the avoidance of doubt, in this decision, Ive not directed it to pay 
the claim. Thats because the complaint is about Coveas position that Mr P wasnt eligible to 
claim. I disagree with that, but I make no finding on whether I think the claim should 
succeed, although I expect Covea to take into account the evidence Mr P has already 
provided as detailed above. 
Was the policy mis-sold?
Mr P has said that, if his claim was not accepted, he thought it likely the policy was mis-sold. 
In this case Covea didnt sell the PPI policy, rather it underwrote the policy at some stage 
after the sale took place. So Im unable to consider the sale in this complaint. If Mr P wishes 
to complain about the sale of the policy, he would need to speak to the business that 
originally sold it.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ps complaint against Covea Insurance plc and direct it reassesses the claim, 
interpreting the policy conditions as set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Mark Hutchings
Ombudsman