DRN-1866867
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain about The Claims Guys Limted (TCG) and their failure to progress 
their claim for mis-sold Payment Protection Insurance (PPI).
What happened
In May 2019, Mr and Mrs S instructed TCG to pursue their claim for mis-sold PPI against 
Lender N. When they hadnt received a response within 8 weeks, they contacted TCG, 
requesting an update. They did this again in August and TCG explained on both occasions 
they were waiting for a response from the lender. 
TCG chased Lender N in October and December. In January 2020, Lender N responded to 
TCG explaining theyd previously issued a decision in June 2019. This decision didnt uphold 
Mr and Mrs Ss claim. As this decision had been issued more than 6 months earlier, this 
prevented Mr and Mrs S from escalating their claim to the Financial Ombudsman Service 
(FOS). Mr and Mrs S were unhappy theyd lost this opportunity, so they raised a complaint.
Mr and Mrs S didnt think TCG had handled their claim fairly. When they initially raised their 
complaint, they were unaware that Lender N had already issued a response which meant 
their claim fell outside of the FOS timescales. So, they complaint about the length of time the 
claim had been ongoing and the lack of updates theyd received.
TCG upheld this complaint. They agreed theyd contributed to delays in the claim process 
and that Mr and Mrs S had spent time on phone calls chasing them for updates. So, they 
offered Mr and Mrs S £55 to recognise this. Mr and Mrs S were unhappy with this response 
so they referred their complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and initially, she didnt uphold it. She thought the 
£55 TCG offered was fair amount to recognise the trouble and upset Mr and Mrs S had 
experienced. So, didnt think they needed to do anything further.
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree. Its at this point Mr and Mrs S provided a letter from Lender N 
explaining a decision had been sent to TCG in June 2019. Mr and Mrs S explained theyd 
now been told by FOS that the claim fell outside of their timescales so they couldnt look into 
it further. So, Mr and Mrs S explained they thought theyd lost out financially and wanted this 
to be considered. Our investigator gave TCG the opportunity to comment on the new 
information. TCG explained they hadnt received the decision from Lender N in June 2019, 
so didnt think it was fair for them to be held liable for this. They also didnt think it was fair for 
them to be held liable for FOS and Lender Ns decision not to allow it to be considered on 
the grounds of exceptional circumstances.
Our investigator considered this new information and thought it changed her view. She 
thought it was likely that, if TCG had chased Lender N for an update in July and August, a 
copy of Lender Ns original decision wouldve been received sooner. And if it had, Mr and 
Mrs S wouldve been able to refer their claim to FOS within the timescales set. So, she thought Mr and Mrs S had lost an opportunity to do so. But, she didnt think she was able to 
say whether or not the claim wouldve been upheld by FOS. So, she didnt think it would be 
fair to ask TCG to compensate Mr and Mrs S for the amount they felt the claim was worth. 
For these reasons, the investigator thought TCG should pay Mr and Mrs S £200 to recognise 
their loss of opportunity to escalate their claim. 
TCG agreed with this view. Mr and Mrs S didnt agree. They maintained their belief that the 
claim wouldve been upheld so thought TCG should compensate them for the amount they 
felt they were likely to receive. As Mr and Mrs S didnt agree, the complaint has been passed 
to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im upholding the 
complaint for broadly the same reasons as the investigator.
Its not in dispute that the actions of TCG led to unnecessary delays in the claim process. 
Whilst lenders were taking longer than the set eight weeks to respond as the PPI deadline 
approached, Id still have expected TCG to chase them with a reasonable time frame. Mr 
and Mrs S contacted TCG in both July and August to request an update and on both 
occasions, TCG explained they were waiting for a response from Lender N. But, on neither 
occasions did they chase Lender N directly. I can see they didnt contact Lender N after the 
original claim submission until October 2019 and then again in December 2019. Its due to 
these chase attempts that Lender N responded in January 2020, with a copy of the decision 
originally issued in June 2019.
Im unable to say why TCG didnt receive the original decision, which was addressed 
correctly to them. But, I dont think theyd have chased Lender N if they had received it. So, 
on balance, I think its likely they didnt and I dont think itd be fair for me to hold them 
responsible for this. But, I do think that if TCG had chased Lender N immediately after the 8 
week deadline had passed, or after theyd received contact from Mr and Mrs S, they 
wouldve been made aware of the original decision sooner. And I think its likely it wouldve 
been within the six month time frame Mr and Mrs S were given to escalate their complaint to 
FOS. So, I think TCGs failure to progress the claim effectively have left Mr and Mrs S 
unable to escalate their claim to FOS through no fault of their own.
And I can understand how frustrated Mr and Mrs must feel having lost out on this 
opportunity. I understand they believe the facts of their claim make it clear the PPI was mis-
sold, so feel TCG have left them financially out of pocket. But, at the Claims Management 
Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman service), Im unable to assess Mr and Mrs Ss PPI 
claim and decide whether it would or would not have been successful with FOS.  Its our role 
to look at the service TCG provided and consider the direct impact Mr and Mrs S have 
suffered. Were unable to compensate customers for prospective financial losses based on 
what may have happened, as we cant be sure for certain of how the claim wouldve been 
unsettled. So, it wouldnt be fair for us to direct TCG to compensate Mr and Mrs S for this.
But, I do think Mr and Mrs S have been left upset and frustrated by missing out on the 
opportunity to have their claim reviewed. Its clearly been distressing for Mr and Mrs S, and 
has led to them progressing a complaint through TCG and ourselves. And I think TCG 
should compensate Mr and Mrs S for this. Our investigator suggested a payment of £200, 
and I think this is a fair amount that falls in line with compensatory amounts we award in 
similar circumstances. So, I think TCG should pay Mr and Mrs S £200 to recognise the 
opportunity theyve lost and the upset this has caused.I understand this isnt the outcome Mr and Mrs S were hoping for. But I hope this decision 
explains why were unable to consider the merits of their actual PPI claim, and shows our 
recognition of the seriousness of their situation and the impact its had.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint about The Claims Guys 
Limited and direct them to make a payment of £200 to recognise the upset Mr and Mrs S 
has suffered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 July 2020.
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman