DRN-1394358
The complaint
Mr D complains that the vehicle supplied to him by Motability Operations Limited through a 
hire agreement wasnt of satisfactory quality. He also complains about it failing to tax a 
previous vehicle. He wants a replacement vehicle and compensation.
What happened
Mr D tells us that in July 2019 he acquired the vehicle which is the subject of this complaint. 
He says hes had a number of previous vehicles from Motability which have proved not to be 
of satisfactory quality, and which have been returned and replaced. Mr D states that the 
latest vehicle had various faults including with the power steering unit, media system, aerial, 
windscreen wipers and tyre pressures. He feels the vehicle wasnt fit for purpose. 
Mr D also complains that Motability had failed to tax his previous vehicle and hed 
unknowingly been driving it for about three weeks without tax. He feels this could have had 
serious consequences if hed been stopped by the police.
Motability told us that Mr Ds vehicle had been extensively tested by a main dealer of the 
manufacturer. And was found not be faulty. It said that since May 2018 Mr D had terminated 
four previous lease agreements. And that in September 2019 hed terminated the present 
hire agreement on this vehicle. It accepted an error had been made with the previous vehicle 
not being taxed. But said the mistake had been corrected within a couple of hours of being 
discovered.
Our investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld but only in part. He didnt 
think there was anything to show the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory quality. But he felt that Mr 
D wouldve experienced distress and inconvenience after learning his previous vehicle had 
been untaxed during a period hed used it on the road. And that Motability should pay £50 
compensation.
Neither party agreed with the investigators view. Mr D didnt think the compensation was 
sufficient. Motability didnt agree that any compensation should be awarded as Mr D hadnt 
suffered any financial loss. But it said it would accept the view in order to settle the 
complaint. As its not been possible to resolve the complaint an ombudsmans been asked to 
make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that Mr D has been unable to obtain a vehicle with which hes been completely 
satisfied in the last couple of years. And I accept that must be very frustrating and 
inconvenient.
Although Mr D has mentioned several faults with the latest vehicle, Ive not seen any other 
information to confirm the presence of any such issues. The vehicle has been examined by a 
main dealer and other than clearing a fault code relating to the steering unit no other 
problems have been identified.
Where there is a dispute of fact  as is partly the case here - I reach my conclusions on the 
balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
It is possible that faults with vehicles can be intermittent but its unlikely that so many issues 
would be present without any of them being able to be replicated. Im unable to find that the 
vehicle was not of satisfactory quality when supplied.
Motability has accepted an error was made in relation to Mr Ds previous vehicle which 
became untaxed. It explained this arose due to a system error. And that it had arranged for 
the omission to be corrected immediately it became aware of the situation.
I accept that upon discovering this circumstance Mr D wouldve been concerned at potential 
consequences. But fortunately, he wasnt stopped by police and suffered no financial loss. 
Compensation is not awarded on the basis of what mightve happened rather than the actual
outcome. And its purpose is not to penalise a business rather than to offer some redress to a 
consumer.
Here the mistake amounted to an administrative error which didnt result in any further 
adverse consequences or loss. And Motability put things right as quickly as it reasonably 
could upon discovering the mistake.
Although Mr D doesnt agree, I think the award recommended by our investigator is at the 
top end of what I would normally consider appropriate in like circumstances. Any greater 
award would be disproportionate and would have the appearance of a penalty. 
As Mr D has now terminated the agreement, I shant be asking Motability to do anything else 
in this respect. As there was insufficient information to show the vehicle was not of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Its indicated that Mr D wont be eligible to apply for a 
further vehicle through its scheme until 2021. It wouldnt be fair and reasonable of me to 
interfere with this.
In summary, I uphold the complaint on the limited basis that the previous vehicle remained 
untaxed for a short period of time. And that this resulted in some distress and inconvenience 
to Mr D in seeking to have the error corrected. 
Putting things right
Motability Operations Limited should pay £50 to Mr D in full and final settlement of this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision that Im upholding this complaint but only in 
part.
Motability Operations Limited should now take the action Ive outlined in the immediately 
preceding paragraphUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2020.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman