DRN-3579159
The complaint
Miss B complains that her advisers, WPS ADVISORY Ltd (WPS), made errors and caused 
delays in the transfer of her defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal 
pension (PP). 
What happened
As the events are well known to both parties, Ill only set out what I think is key to reaching 
my decision here. 
In mid-January 2021, Miss B obtained a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) from her DB 
administrator, guaranteed until 14 April 2021. And, on 31 March 2021, Miss B made an 
appointment with WPS for advice on transferring her DB scheme to a PP. This appointment 
was scheduled for 6 May 2021 and paid for by her scheme administrator. Miss B wanted to 
take £50,436.50 in tax-free cash (TFC) and an ad-hoc payment of £40,000. 
Due to the adviser being unwell the appointment took place on 12 May 2021. The adviser 
completed a fact find with Miss B and confirmed her risk profile with her the next day. Miss B 
didnt hear anything further, so she chased the adviser on 19, 21 and 24 May 2021, 
explaining she wanted to complete the transfer before moving abroad on 5 July 2021. And, 
on 25 May 2021, Miss B got in contact with WPS directly and found out her adviser was on 
long term leave. She spoke with a new adviser three days later, explained the urgency and 
was told shed need another CETV, which she obtained on or around 4 June 2021. 
On 15 June 2021, WPS received the transfer value analysis to help form its advice. And, on 
24 June 2021, WPS issued its advice report and Miss B signed and returned the forms to go 
ahead with the transfer the same day. On 28 June 2021, Miss B asked WPS for an update. 
And, by 6 July 2021, WPS had completed the outstanding requirements and sent the 
transfer documents to Miss Bs ceding and receiving schemes.  
On 12 July 2021, Miss Bs ceding scheme confirmed her transfer request had been 
processed. On 20 July 2021, the funds had been received and cleared with Miss Bs 
receiving scheme. And the next day it transferred the TFC and ad-hoc payment to the 
account details it had been provided with for Miss B on the receiving scheme application 
form. But two digits of the account number given on this were incorrect, so the funds were 
sent to someone elses account. 
In September 2021, Miss B raised a complaint with WPS, unhappy she had to wait six 
weeks for an appointment, which was then delayed by a week as her adviser was unwell. 
Miss B said she had to pay for another CETV, as hers expired and the transfer value 
dropped. And that as WPS gave her receiving scheme incorrect bank details she didnt have 
the TFC and ad-hoc payment she needed when she moved abroad in early July 2021, which 
caused her a great deal of stress, upset and inconvenience. Miss B said she and her son 
depend on her pension, she had to borrow funds and couldnt afford a car to get a job.    
Miss B also said shes lost out on interest and that the drop in exchange rate means shell 
lose out when transferring the funds abroad. 
Throughout September 2021, Miss B sent WPS multiple emails chasing the payment issue. 
And WPS told her the transfer should have completed and it was still investigating. When 
Miss B didnt receive a further response from WPS she brought her complaint to our Service. 
And she received the outstanding funds in September and October 2021.
One of our Investigators looked into Miss Bs complaint and, after initially upholding it, he 
said he didnt think WPS had caused any real delays. And that an email Miss B sent to WPS 
shows she added incorrect bank details to the receiving scheme application form. He said 
this was the main reason for the time taken for her to receive payment, which we cant hold 
WPS responsible for. But he said WPS should pay Miss B £100 in compensation for the lack 
of updates and poor customer service.
Miss B didnt agree, she said the only form she completed was for her ceding scheme. She 
said WPS completed the receiving scheme application form, including her bank details which 
were typed rather than handwritten by her. She also said she wasnt referring to having 
added these to the form in her email  she was referring to having attached a certified bank 
statement containing her bank details. Miss B said WPS error and lack of help meant she 
spent a lot of time on long distance calls and it took months for her funds to be retrieved. 
And that her receiving scheme was the only one that helped, by lending her the money 
against the funds that were pending deposit. 
So the complaints been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached much the same conclusion as our Investigator, for largely the 
same reasons. 
Ive only briefly considered whether WPS caused delays, as I think the crux of Miss Bs 
complaint is the issue with the incorrect bank details. Having done so, I can see WPS made 
Miss B aware how long it was before she could have an initial appointment with it and she 
chose to wait, so I cant fairly say it caused a delay here. Miss Bs adviser being unwell 
caused a few weeks delay, but when she contacted WPS directly it quickly gave her a new 
adviser. And I think WPS made up for this as it still gave Miss B its advice and completed its 
responsibilities within seven weeks of her initial scheduled appointment with it. It isnt 
unusual for such a process to take several weeks and I think Miss B was aware of this as 
her CETV from January 2021 made it clear this could take eight weeks.
Even if I thought otherwise, I cant fairly hold WPS responsible for Miss B having to obtain 
and pay for a new CETV or any drop in the transfer value. This is because she would have 
always needed to do this given her first CETV expired within a few weeks of her first 
approaching WPS and before her first scheduled appointment with it. 
And I think Miss B receiving the TFC and ad-hoc payment would have always been 
significantly delayed beyond when she needed it at the start of July 2021 as it was sent to 
the wrong bank account, which I cant reasonably hold WPS responsible for. Ill explain why.
Miss B says WPS incorrectly filled out her bank account details on the receiving scheme 
form, while WPS says it wasnt responsible for this. So, Ive had to consider the available 
evidence to decide what I think is most likely to have happened in the circumstances.I can see WPS sent Miss B an email on 24 June 2021 asking her to complete, sign and 
return the attached documents, including its advice report and the application forms for her 
ceding and receiving schemes. Looking at these attachments I can see the bank details 
section for Miss B on the receiving scheme application form was blank. Whereas when   
Miss B replied to WPS she said:
Ive looked through everything, may I just confirm that the documents I need to sign are the 
advice report and the [receiving scheme] App, Ive updated what I can, I changed my email 
to my personal email...
I also added my bank account details. [my emphasis]
Ive attached both forms, would you mind taking a look and confirm all I need to do is sign 
them. 
Ive already provided the bank statement, do I need to provide certified identification 
again?...
Having considered this, Im not persuaded Miss B was referring to having included her 
certified bank statement when saying shed added her bank account details in this email. 
The receiving scheme application form was the only one that had a section for her bank 
account details. And I think Miss B was saying shed added these to it, given she said it in 
the context of explaining which parts of this form shed updated. It was only after Miss B then 
said shed attached the forms and queried next steps with these that she mentioned the 
bank statement.  
While Miss B says WPS completed the receiving scheme application form, the advice report 
said she still needed to complete the parts of the forms WPS had indicated. And it seems 
reasonable to think it was referring to those highlighted in yellow, which I can see included 
the section for Miss Bs bank account details. The email address Miss B acknowledges 
updating on the forms was typed by her, so I dont think that the bank details being typed 
rather than handwritten shows WPS filled these in. And, as mentioned, the evidence 
suggests Miss Bs bank details were blank when WPS emailed her the form and that she 
filled these in. 
In summary, I think its likely on balance that Miss B incorrectly added her bank account 
details to the receiving scheme form. While I understand Miss B found herself in a very 
difficult and worrying position as a result of this unfortunate error, for the reasons set out 
above I cant hold WPS responsible for her TFC and ad-hoc payment being paid to the 
wrong bank account or the impact she experienced as a result. 
Turning to compensation, while WPS could have provided Miss B with better customer 
service, for example shes had to chase it, I think the funds not arriving in her bank account  
which Ive explained I dont think WPS is responsible for  is whats caused her the most 
distress and inconvenience in the circumstances. Miss B had already raised this with the 
relevant parties though, being her receiving scheme and bank. And I can see that much of 
the time Miss B spent chasing WPS was after shed already raised her complaint with it. So, 
taking everything into account, I think £100 in compensation is a fair and reasonable amount 
for WPS to pay Miss B to make up for any distress and inconvenience it caused her. Im not 
asking it to do any more than this.   
Putting things right
WPS should pay Miss B £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to 
her.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, WPS ADVISORY LTD is required to pay Miss B £100 in 
compensation for distress and inconvenience caused to her by this matter. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 March 2023.
 
Holly Jackson
Ombudsman