DRN-1814622
 
The complaint
Mrs E and Mr E are unhappy with the service provided by MLFL Collections Limited 
(formerly known as ME Legal and Financial Limited trading as Mortgage Claims) when 
dealing with a mortgage claim for overcharged interest. 
What happened
In February 2019 Mr B contacted Mortgage Claims to enquire about making a claim for 
overcharged interest on a mortgage held with lender B. Mr B was sent an email saying you 
should receive our full and free mortgage assessment pack in the post in a few days.
Mrs E and Mr E completed the mortgage assessment pack and sent this to Mortgage 
Claims. Mortgage Claims advised that lender B had asked for Mrs E and Mr E to go in 
branch and verify their address, before they could progress the claim. Mrs E and Mr E 
provided this information to lender B, and also completed additional information requests as 
directed by Mortgage Claims. 
In July Mortgage Claims advised that as the mortgage had been redeemed in 2003 they 
wouldnt be able to assess Mrs E and Mr Es claim. Mrs E and Mr E complained to Mortgage 
Claims about the delay in providing this update. 
Mortgage Claims reviewed the complaint and said that they wouldnt be able to progress the 
claim further. As a gesture of goodwill they offered £50 for the upset and inconvenience 
caused to Mrs E and Mr E.
Unhappy with this response, Mrs E and Mr E referred their complaint to the Claims 
Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman service) for investigation. 
The investigator found that the impact on Mrs E and Mr E was greater than what Mortgage 
Claims had recognised when offering £50. The investigator said the compensation amount 
should be increased to £150 (minus any compensation already paid). Mortgage Claims 
didnt respond to the investigators findings. As the complaint couldnt be resolved its been 
passed to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that this has been an upsetting time for Mrs E and Mr E Having reviewed the 
case, I agree with the investigators findings, for broadly the same reasons. Ive focused my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific point its 
because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.Its not disputed that Mortgage Claims couldve handled this claim better. If Mortgage Claims 
had told Mrs E and Mr E from the outset that they wouldnt be able to help with their claim, it 
couldve avoided the additional stress and upset caused to Mrs E and Mr E. The dispute now 
relates to the award of compensation that should be paid by Mortgage Claims in recognition 
of what went wrong, and impact on Mrs E and Mr E. 
Mr and Mrs E are unhappy with the decision that their claim can no longer be looked at by 
lender B. Although I can appreciate Mrs E and Mr Es disappointment with this, its not 
something I can hold Mortgage Claims responsible for. Even if Mortgage Claims had acted 
in a timely way, the outcome of the claim wouldve remained the same. Because of the 
amount of time that had passed since Mrs E and Mr Es mortgage had been redeemed, 
Mortgage Claims wouldnt have been able to help with the claim. So Mr and Mrs E wouldve 
found themselves in the same position theyre in now. 
But some of the stress and upset couldve been avoided if this update had been provided 
sooner in the process. As Mortgage Claims havent responded to any information requests 
sent by this service, the decision on what fair compensation should look like is largely based 
on the limited evidence provided by Mrs E and Mr E. When responding to the complaint 
Mortgage Claims made an offer to put things right. Having considered what Mrs E and Mr E 
have explained about the upset and inconvenience caused by the delay in Mortgage Claims 
updating them, I think its fair that this compensation is increased to £150. 
This amount recognises the cost of making phone calls, going in branch, and sending 
information recorded delivery as requested by Mortgage Claims. It also recognises the delay 
in Mr and Mrs E being told that Mortgage Claims couldnt help them. From reviewing 
Mortgage Claims response to the complaint, on balance, its fair to say that this is something 
they acknowledge couldve been done sooner than it was. 
Putting things right
While Mortgage Claims are no longer a regulated CMC, they were regulated throughout the 
entire period of time they actually acted for Mrs E and Mr E. So its for this reason Im able to 
consider their actions, or lack of actions, and direct them to do something to remedy this.
While Mortgage Claims arent responsible for lender B no longer being able to consider Mrs 
E and Mr Es claim against lender B, they did cause Mrs E and Mr E frustration and 
inconvenience by their lack of timely update on the claim. The investigator has 
recommended a payment of £150 (minus any compensation already paid) to recognise this.
I think this compensation is fair and in line with what I would direct in similar circumstances. 
So, I direct Mortgage Claims to pay Mrs E and Mr E £150 (minus any compensation already 
paid) in recognition of the impact on them. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold Mrs E and Mr Es complaint. 
MLFL Collections Limited (formerly known as ME Legal and Financial Limited trading as 
Mortgage Claims) must follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E and Mr E to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 August 2020.
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman