DRN-2138421
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain about the settlement Ageas Insurance Limited has offered them for a 
claim they made on their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs F took out their home insurance policy through a broker. The policy was 
underwritten by Ageas. Mrs F lost a diamond from her engagement ring. So she made a 
claim on her home insurance policy.
Ageas accepted the claim and passed it to its jewellery specialist, L, to validate. L said it 
could replace the lost diamond with a diamond of similar quality and repair Mrs Fs ring. Mrs 
L was unhappy with Ls proposed repair as she said independent jewellers shed 
approached had told her the ring couldnt be repaired. So Ageas offered Mr and Mrs F a 
cash settlement for their claim of around £1395 (to represent a new diamond and fitting 
cost), which would be the discounted cost to it of L replacing the diamond and repairing the 
ring. 
Mr and Mrs F werent happy with Ageas offer. They said their policy had been marketed as 
providing new for old cover. Theyd obtained quotations for replacing the ring at around 
£3250 from a jeweller, so the cash settlement was nowhere near enough. And they didnt 
think it was reasonable for Ageas to take into account supplier discounts when calculating a 
cash settlement. They asked us to look into their complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Fs complaint should be upheld. She felt that the 
cash settlement Ageas had offered was in line with the policy terms. And she was satisfied 
that L had confirmed it would guarantee any repairs it carried out on the ring. So she thought 
Ageas offer was fair.
Mr and Mrs F disagreed and Ive summarised their response. They felt Ageas had acted 
immorally and had conned them. The broker had laid out the policy terms differently and 
hadnt sent them a copy of the terms and conditions at renewal. They thought theyd taken a 
policy that covered every eventuality and theyd specified the ring for effectively no reason. 
They hadnt asked for a cash settlement  theyd have been happy to accept an exact 
equivalent of the ring, but the jewellers theyd visited couldnt offer this. The ring suggested 
to them was of a lesser quality and value. They didnt feel any discounts available to Ageas 
had a bearing on their claim.  L hadnt given them a say in how the repairs were done and as 
it was Mrs Fs ring, she ought to have had an input. 
The complaints been passed to me to decide. I should make it clear that in this decision, Im 
only considering whether Ageas offer of settlement is fair and reasonable. Mr and Mrs F 
have also mentioned feeling that the policy wasnt properly explained to them, that their 
renewal premiums went up and that they didnt get the policy documents through at renewal. 
The sale of the policy and the sending of policy documentation was down to their broker. 
Ageas wasnt responsible for the actions of the broker, it was responsible here for dealing 
with the claim. So if Mr and Mrs F are unhappy with any actions by their broker, theyd need 
to complain directly to it before we could potentially help. 
Mr and Mrs F have also told us that L has returned the ring mount to them and informed 
them their case is closed. Ageas has let me know that the claim is still open and that it will 
arrange for L to reopen its file if necessary.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Ageas offer of settlement is fair and reasonable. Ill explain why.
Its clear Mr and Mr F feel very strongly about their complaint. I appreciate how important the 
ring is to Mrs F and Im sorry to hear how upsetting dealing with this claim has been for her. 
But in making my decision, I need to consider what the policy covers, as this sets out the 
contract between Mr and Mrs F and Ageas. 
Mr and Mrs F did specify the ring on their insurance policy, under an optional add-on to the 
policy  Higher Value Personal Belongings cover. This extends cover to include lost, stolen 
or damaged high value personal items regardless of where theyre lost in the world. Its this 
section of the policy that the claims been considered under. This isnt a standard part of the 
policy. As Mrs F lost the diamond from her engagement ring, I think it was appropriate for 
Ageas to deal with the claim under this section of the policy.
Ive then turned to consider how Ageas deals with claims made on the policy. It explains how 
it will settle claims. The policy says:
If we approve your claim, we'll ask you to pay the excess. We'll then repair or replace your 
damaged, lost or stolen items, or rebuild your property, depending on the type of claim. 
Alternatively, we may make you a cash offer. We'll decide which way of paying your claim is 
most appropriate
If we suggest a repair, rebuild or replacement, we may offer to use one of our own partners. 
However, if you wish to use someone else, you're free to do so, but if this is more expensive 
than the rate we can get from one of our partners, we won't pay for the extra cost.
I think the terms of the contract make it clear that its for Ageas to decide how it wishes to 
settle a claim. The terms dont require it to seek input from a policyholder. In this case, 
Ageas appointed L, its jewellery specialist supplier, to investigate Mr and Mrs Fs claim and 
to decide whether the ring could be repaired using a new, like-for-like diamond. And I think 
that course of action was in line with the policy terms.
Ive seen evidence from both L and from Ageas to show what it took into account when 
deciding whether Mrs Fs ring could be repaired by replacing the lost diamond and fitting it 
into the setting. L considered the insurance valuation Mrs F had provided for her ring. This 
showed the lost diamond was 0.52 carat, F/G grade and I1. The replacement diamond L 
quoted to supply to repair the ring was exactly the same specification. L also told Ageas that 
there is little damage to the ring and it can be fully restored.
Mr and Mrs F have provided further estimates for the ring from other jewellers. One valuation 
included a bigger diamond, which was of significantly higher clarity. But the evidence Ive 
seen suggests that L was able to provide a like-for-like replacement (new-for-old) diamond. 
And it confirmed it was able to repair the ring using the original setting. L was prepared to 
guarantee its work. So Im satisfied it was fair for Ageas to decide to settle the claim by 
repairing Mrs Fs ring.I appreciate Mr and Mrs F werent happy to accept this proposed course of action, because 
they said other jewellers had indicated a repair wasnt possible, although I havent seen 
enough expert evidence to show me its most likely this was the case. So it was open to 
them to decide against getting the ring repaired by L. Im satisfied the policy terms make it 
clear that if a policyholder decides not to accept Ageas preferred settlement method, they 
can choose a cash settlement instead to get the repairs or replacement done by their own 
preferred supplier. But that that settlement will be limited to the amount it wouldve cost 
Ageas to use its own partner to settle the claim.
In this case, L said the cost of replacing Mrs Fs diamond and repairing the ring would cost 
Ageas £1394.90, less the applicable policy excess. So while this is significantly less than the 
quotes Mr and Mrs F have obtained elsewhere for replacing the whole ring, I think this is the 
limit of Ageas liability under the policy. This means I think it was fair for it to limit a cash 
settlement to this amount. I understand Mr and Mrs F feel strongly that this is unfair. But this 
isnt an unusual term in home insurance policies and many other insurers include the same 
or similar terms in their insurance contracts.
Overall, Im satisfied Ageas has offered to settle Mr and Mrs Fs claim fairly and reasonably 
and in line with the policy terms and conditions. Its now open to Mr and Mrs F to decide 
whether to have the ring repaired by L or for Ageas to pay a cash settlement and to let 
Ageas know which option theyve chosen.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Fs 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 December 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman