DRN-3359110
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy with the service hes received from Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) 
surrounding the changes that YBS are making to his account.
What happened
In September 2021, YBS wrote to Mr N and gave him notice that they would be making 
changes to the type of savings account he held with them which would reduce the 
functionality of the account and later result in the accounts being transferred to different 
types of YBS savings accounts with similarly reduced functionality.
Mr N used his YBS accounts for direct debits and standing orders, which wouldnt be 
available following the changes. So YBS advised Mr N to make alternative arrangements 
with another account provider and transfer his direct debits and standing orders accordingly.
Mr N wasnt happy that YBS were making the changes to the savings accounts that they 
were, and he also wasnt happy that he couldnt use an automatic account switching process 
to transfer his direct debits and standing orders to a new account, but had to arrange for this 
to be done manually. So, he raised a complaint.
YBS looked at Mr Ns complaint. They explained that theyd made a commercial decision to 
implement the account changes and they confirmed that an automatic account switching 
service wasnt available for Mr Ns accounts. 
Mr N wasnt satisfied with YBSs response, so he referred his complaint to this service. One 
of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they didnt feel that YBS had acted unfairly 
or unreasonably towards Mr N, and so they didnt uphold Mr Ns complaint.
Mr N remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how it must have been frustrating for Mr N to have learned that YBS were 
making changes to the types of savings accounts he holds with them which meant that he 
would no longer be able to use the accounts for direct debits or standing orders and so 
would have to make alternative arrangements elsewhere.
However, businesses such as YBS are entitled to make changes to the accounts that they 
offer and having reviewed the terms and conditions of the accounts Im satisfied that YBS 
have acted in accordance with those terms.
When a business such as YBS does make changes to its existing products, as is the case in 
this instance, it would be expected that the business would give its customers fair notice of 
any impending changes it had decided to make. And I note the account terms and conditions 
for the YBS savings accounts include that affected account holders must be provided with at 
least 30-days notice of any changes to the accounts, such as those that YBS made.
In this instance, YBS wrote to Mr N in September 2021 to advise him of changes that would 
be implemented in December 2021. This is effectively a three-month notice period, and so 
Im satisfied that YBS have given Mr N fair and reasonable notice of the impending changes.
Mr N has also complained that YBS savings accounts dont allow for the direct debits and 
standing orders to be transferred automatically, but instead these transfers must be 
completed manually, which Im aware Mr N considers to be a significant inconvenience.
I can appreciate Mr Ns position here, but the automatic account switching process to which 
he refers is the Current Account Switching Service, which is only available on current 
account switches between providers who have enrolled into the service. But YBS dont offer 
current accounts, and the accounts that Mr N holds with YBS arent current accounts, and so 
this service would never have been available to Mr N in this instance. 
In their letters to Mr N, YBS have explained to Mr N of the manual processes he would need 
to follow in order to switch any direct debits and standing orders to a new provider. I accept 
Mr Ns position that having to follow this process is an inconvenience for him, but 
unfortunately, in situations such as this, a certain degree of unavoidable inconvenience can 
be necessary. And I feel that this is the case here.
Ultimately, Im satisfied that YBS are entitled to make the changes to their accounts that they 
have, and Im satisfied that theyve provided Mr N with fair notice of the impending changes, 
as well as information to assist Mr N complete the transfer of his direct debits to another 
account provider. As such, Im satisfied that YBS have done all that is reasonably required of 
them to assist Mr N here, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr N was wanting, but I trust that hell understand, given 
all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman