DRN-3330793
The complaint
Mr S complains about a payment sent by HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) to a third-party bank 
overseas.
What happened
Mr S used HSBC to send a £20,000 sterling payment to a third-party bank overseas. As 
HSBC didnt have a relationship with the receiving bank, HSBC had to use an intermediary 
bank to get the payment to the beneficiary. The payment instruction was completed correctly 
by Mr S and the instruction was clear that the amount was to remain in sterling, but when it 
reached the intermediary bank, it was converted to Euros instead. Mr S says he wanted the 
payment to be converted by the receiving bank due to beneficial rates he received  so he is 
now claiming for a loss. 
HSBC looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. It said the intermediary was working for 
the receiving bank, so Mr S would need to raise a complaint with them. Mr S remained 
unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. Our investigator said Mr S 
would need to raise a complaint against the intermediary bank as this is where the mistake 
was made. 
Mr S didnt agree with the investigators view, so the complaints been passed to me for a 
final decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 15 February 2022. This is what I said. 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since the original investigator issued his view, theres been a lot communicated between 
HSBC and a new investigator regarding who the intermediary was working for in the 
payment transaction. Up to this point, HSBC havent been unable to evidence that the 
intermediary wasnt working for them.  So, Ive had to make my decision based on the 
information we do have and what I think most likely.
What I have found is that Mr S is a customer of HSBC and tasked the bank with sending a 
payment, that didnt get to the beneficiary bank correctly. Its clear from the information 
weve got that this was also through no fault of Mr S. The instruction originated from HSBC, 
so Im satisfied HSBC should take responsibility for getting it to the beneficiary correctly.
That didnt happen, so in this situation Im satisfied that HSBC should compensate Mr S for 
the loss of funds, due to the exchange rate used incorrectly by the intermediary bank. At 
present that loss amounts to around 920 Euros after any fees are deducted, based on the 
rate Mr S wouldve received at the beneficiary bank on the date in question. Mr S has 
supplied evidence to our service that he wouldve got the market rate from the receiving 
bank on any conversion. 
Its worth noting that this type of payment error has been made before and HSBC 
compensated Mr S for his loss.
In summary, where Mr S has instructed HSBC to make a payment, and its been accepted 
without caveat (and he has every reason to believe it would get there as it had done many 
times before), Then I think HSBC need to take the lead in sorting it out for him- and if 
necessary recovering the loss from the intermediary bank. 
Responses to provisional decision
Mr S was happy with the outcome. 
HSBC didnt respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
HSBC should pay Mr S for the loss he got in the exchange rate used by the intermediary 
bank when the payment was incorrectly converted. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay Mr S 
920 Euros. 
Any fees incurred in sending this to Mr S bank should not be deducted from this amount and 
should be paid by HSBC. 
HSBC will also need to pay Mr S 8% annual simple interest from the date of the payment to 
the date the compensation payment is made.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Tom Wagstaff
Ombudsman