DRN-3084613
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with how Startline Motor Finance Limited dealt with his request for 
assistance as a result of the Coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic.
What happened
In August 2018, Mr W was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement with 
Startline. The agreement was for £19,732 over 60 months; with 59 monthly repayments of 
£328.71, and a final payment of £338.71.
In April 2020 Mr W contacted Startline to ask about a payment deferral as his income had 
reduced due to the Covid-19 pandemic.  He said Startline agreed a one-month deferral and 
he had to contact them again to agree a second month. He said his request for a third month 
deferral was declined, with Startline instead moving his payment date back towards the end 
of the month.
In July 2020, he called Startline to ask about a further deferral. He said he was told this 
would only happen if he gave Startline immediate access to his bank accounts through an 
open banking application. He didnt want to do this as he felt they would unfairly use the 
bank account information to decline the request and add interest to his payments.
He said he told them he wouldnt be making any payments until theyd resolved his 
complaint  and this meant he missed the August 2020 payment.
He said he felt that Startline were aggressive in their approach, and not helpful, even though 
hed explained his salary had been reduced by 20% and he was no longer receiving any 
bonus. He also said that his mortgage provider had granted him a payment holiday following 
the loss of his income due to Covid 19.
He said they only gave him two options  pay around £3,000 to exit the agreement, or return 
the vehicle to Startline and pay any shortfall due after Startline had sold it at auction.
Startline said they granted Mr W a one-month deferral for his May 2020 payment and agreed 
to review the situation at the end of May 2020. This led to a second payment deferral for 
June 2020. They said a third deferral wasnt possible but agreed to move the payment date 
back from 1st of the month to 23rd to allow more time for payment.
They said Mr W contacted them again on 21 July 2020, after the latest guidance from the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) for the motor finance industry had been issued. They said 
they offered to do an affordability check via a third-party open banking app. They said that 
they were looking for changes in his income so that they could consider the most suitable 
option for him. But they said Mr W refused to do any form of affordability check.
They said without this they were limited in the options they could provide to help Mr W. They 
said they were willing to consider a plan to include the repayment of the missed payments, 
but they couldnt agree to defer any more payments without an affordability assessment. 
Mr W was unhappy with their response, so he brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator didnt think Startline had acted fairly. She accepted that Startline were 
entitled to make enquiries into Mr Ws circumstances. But she didnt think it was reasonable 
for them not to accept other evidence from Mr W that his income had been reduced, such as 
payslips, especially when hed requested a deferral for four consecutive months. She didnt 
think this was in the spirit of the FCA guidance.
Startline disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. They asked for more time to 
respond: that deadline has passed, and they still havent provided any reasons, evidence or 
information.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
I think its important that I explain my role isnt to punish businesses  thats the role of the 
regulator. My role is to look at issues that a consumer  in this case Mr W  may have 
experienced and see if the business  in this case Startline  has done anything wrong. If it 
has, I look to put the consumer back in the position they wouldve been in if the mistakes 
hadnt happened.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr W was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to look into complaints about it. 
As stated above, the FCA issued temporary guidance, that came into effect on 27 April 
2020, for customers who were faced with payment difficulties as a result of Covid-19. The 
purpose of the guidance was to provide exceptional and immediate support to customers 
facing payment difficulties due to circumstances arising out of coronavirus.
The guidance also advised businesses, like Startline, that there was no expectation that they 
must make enquiries with each customer to determine the circumstances surrounding a 
request for a payment deferral, or whether this is not in the customers interests. Firms can, 
however, choose to make the enquiries they consider necessary in order to satisfy 
themselves that the customer is eligible for support and to identify whether the customer 
would benefit from any additional support, provided that this does not delay the provision of 
timely support.
Ive highlighted these two paragraphs as I think they clearly set out the purpose and spirit of 
the guidance: to provide exceptional and immediate support to allow consumers breathing 
space while the pandemic unfolded.
The initial deferral request
The guidance says a firm providing motor finance agreements should grant a payment 
deferral for 3 months unless the firm determines (acting reasonably) that it is obviously not in the customers interest to do so. 
The guidance gives examples of where this might be the case. It seems to me that its in 
circumstances where it will leave customers with a greater overall debt burden compared to 
other solutions. The guidance says that a firm may give a shorter payment deferral period if 
the loss of income is for a shorter period. Startline said they only offered a deferral on a 
month to month basis, because of uncertainty when payment would be made under the 
government grant scheme.
Mr W sought a payment deferral under the guidance published by the FCA. He explained 
hed been furloughed, so it seems clear to me that he was eligible for a payment deferral, as 
intended by the FCA guidance. I havent seen any reasonable explanation why Startline 
considered that a three-month deferral wasnt appropriate in these circumstances. So I dont 
think they acted fairly when refusing to grant a three-month deferral. 
When it reviewed the request in May 2020, the FCA had published its guidance so there was 
an opportunity here for Startline to grant a three-month deferral. But it didnt take that 
opportunity, and I can see no reason why that didnt happen.
The second deferral request
Startline said they were prepared to offer a further deferral, but only if Mr W agreed to an 
affordability check through a third-party open banking application.
Where a customer is unable to resume full payments, the guidance states:
Where, after an initial payment deferral, and at any time before their first payment is 
due, a customer indicates they remain in temporary payment difficulties and cannot 
resume full payments immediately, a firm should offer a full or partial payment 
deferral to reduce payments for a period of 3 months to a level the customer 
indicates they can afford. If the customer is in temporary payment difficulties but is 
unable to afford any payments, the firm should offer them a full payment deferral 
where this is in the customers interests.
Startline explained that it wanted to assess Mr Ws affordability to ensure it was providing the 
right option for him. They said they believed theyd implemented and applied the FCA 
guidance correctly. They said the guidance allowed them to use other sources, such as open 
banking sources to understand the customers circumstances. That is true, but the same 
paragraph in the guidance also makes clear that they arent required to do this. And they 
ignore the point that if they do choose to use other information, they can use information 
held by the firm  they already had Mr Ws payment history, showing he hadnt missed any 
payment prior to the Covid situation.
The guidance also says that where a customer like Mr W tells them that theyre still in 
temporary financial difficulty, they should offer a further deferral for three months. And they 
should consider the same question as at the first request  is it in the customers best 
interests. There was no information or evidence that Ive seen that would give Startline any 
indication that a three-month deferral would not be in Mr Ws best interests.
I can see that Startline told Mr W that they needed to verify his lost income  and that if they 
felt the payment was still affordable they would expect the payments to be maintained. It 
appears to me that the overall intention of the guidance was to provide prompt assistance to 
customers in short term difficulty without the need for prolonged discussions or detailed 
additional checks before agreeing a payment deferral.So I dont think it was fair or reasonable for Startline to insist on Mr W signing up to an 
opening banking app before considering granting him a payment deferral. They had other 
information available to them they couldve relied on.
Mr W has said he didnt trust Startline. Ive no reason to doubt their intentions were good, but 
as Ive explained I dont think what they required of Mr W was necessary under the 
guidance. I appreciate that Startline wanted to ensure that Mr Ws future higher payments 
were affordable. But as I said above, the guidance was directed at firms so that they could 
help customers like Mr W, who had been furloughed because of the Covid-19 pandemic and 
sought a deferral to help him through this difficult, and temporary period of reduced income.
I think once the FCA guidance was published, Startline couldve allowed Mr W to take a 
three-month payment deferral, and then granted a second deferral period. This wouldve 
likely been of great help to him and would be fully in line with purpose of the guidance.
Putting things right
Startline terminated the agreement, and repossessed the car, despite Mr Ws apparent 
willingness and ability to resume payments, and to discuss an appropriate plan for 
repayment of the arrears. So I cant put him back in the position he wouldve been in had 
Startline treated him fairly and in line with the FCA guidance.
Im satisfied its more likely than not that had Startline provided Mr W with the payment 
deferrals requested, he would not have missed further payments and accrued the arrears 
that led to Startline terminating the agreement. 
I think Mr W should make the payments for the time he had the car. This to reflect the usage 
he had of the car. I appreciate that he says he didnt use the car, but he had the opportunity 
to do so, and I think its fair he pays for that.
To put things right Startline must:
Remove any arrears or payments owed from the date they repossessed the car:
Remove any adverse credit relating to the agreement from Mr Ws credit file:
Pay Mr W £150 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience they caused 
him.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Ws complaint. Startline Motor Finance Limited must 
follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman