DRN-1636492
The complaint
Mr A complains that a hire purchase agreement he entered with Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited trading as Mercedes Benz Financial Services (MBFS) was 
misrepresented to him.
What happened
In April 2019, Mrs A acquired a vehicle on a Hire Purchase agreement with MBFS. He says 
he made it clear to the sales representative that he didn't want to go for the PCP option as 
he didn't want a mileage cap on the vehicle. Mr A says he was given a document which he 
understood to be identical to the electronic copy of the agreement. On the document 
provided by the dealership there is no mileage cap detailed.
Mr A says he wasn't given all the post-sale documents. He says when he received all the 
documents from MBFS he found then to be different to the copes he was given at the time of 
the sale and so he complained to MBFS.
In September 2019, MBFS issued its final response. It didnt uphold Mr As complaint. It said 
the document provided by the Retailer is not an MBFS document and as Mr A signed the 
MBFS agreement, which clearly states the 20,000 annual permitted mileage, he has agreed 
to the mileage cap.
Dissatisfied Mr A brought his complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into things for Mr A. She looked at the evidence Mr A provided from 
the retailer. The declaration provided by the dealership shows that there was no contractual 
mileage and no annual mileage. She found this to be consistent with Mr As testimony. She 
then compared the dealership document with the MBFS hire purchase agreement. She 
found the financial figures matched and the only aspect that is different is the mileage limit. 
In her view she found it more likely the dealership document was representative of what Mr 
A understood he was aggressing to and on that basis, she asked MBFS to honour it. She 
said it should:
 
Amend the credit agreement by removing the mileage cap, this should be reflective 
of what Mr A agreed with the dealership who acted as a broker and persuaded Mr A 
to enter into a contract by something that was said, which wasn't in the Credit 
Agreement.
Once this has been done, Mercedes should issue a new Credit Agreement that
            reflects the changes above.
Pay £75 to compensate Mr A for the distress and inconvenience caused and the time 
he spent on calls and emails to fix this issue.
MBFS disagreed. It said Mr A signed an agreement with MBFS that clearly details a mileage
allowance of 20,000 miles. The document was electronically signed and in order to sign he
would have to go through the full document first. As such he had the opportunity to read the
terms to which he was agreeing. It said he could have chosen not to sign it but as he did, he 
was bound by the terms and conditions including the mileage cap. It asked for an 
ombudsman review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at all the information provided by both parties afresh. Having done so, Ive 
reached the same view as the investigator. Ill explain why.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Im aware MBFS has made submissions about a number of other complaints Mr A has 
made. For clarity, I have only considered the details in this complaint which relate to the 
annual contractual mileage.
In my view, the crux of this complaint boils down to Mr A saying he did not get what he was 
led to believe by the dealership he was going to get. In other words, he is saying the hire 
purchase agreement was misrepresented by dealership regarding any annual mileage 
allowance. Specifically, misrepresentation here, means a false statement of fact that the 
consumer relied on to his detriment. 
I accept MBFSs point that by their very nature such alleged verbal assurances are hard to 
substantiate, especially when the hire purchase agreement Mr A has signed electronically 
does state an annual mileage allowance. But Mr A doesnt just rely on verbal assurance as 
he has provided a copy of the document given to him be the dealership which is clearly 
contrary to the agreement he has signed. So, Im not in agreement that there isnt enough 
information to say that such a misrepresentation was most likely made.
Mr A has provided a customer credit agreement evidence that clearly shows there is no 
contractual annual mileage. I can see from the electronic document provided by MBFS all 
the information contained within both documents is the same except for the annual mileage 
cap. I think any differences between the two documents should have been brought to Mr As 
attention  and I cant see that it was.
From what Ive seen Mr A entered into the agreement on the understanding there was no 
annual mileage cap and Im going to ask MBFS to honour the agreement made by the 
dealership and detailed in the customer credit agreement. I also appreciate this matter has 
caused Mr A stress and inconvenience and Ive made an award to reflect the trouble and 
upset this matter has caused.
My final decisionFor the reasons I have given I uphold this complaint and direct Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited trading as Mercedes Benz Financial Services to:
Amend the credit agreement by removing the mileage cap.
Issue a new Credit Agreement that reflects the change to the mileage cap.
Pay £75 to compensate Mr A for the distress and inconvenience caused and the time 
he spent on calls and emails to fix this issue.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2020.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman