DRN-2888775
The complaint
Miss C complains that she was given incorrect information by Scottish Widows (SW) about 
transferring her public sector pension into her existing plan. She also said they delayed the 
transfer and she lost out financially.
What happened
Miss C said that she contacted SW to ask about transferring her public sector pension into 
her existing SW pension. She was told that she could make a transfer from her public sector 
pension into the SW pension. Shed applied online in December 2019, but the request was 
rejected and told she needed to take financial advice, and this was a legal requirement. 
Later SW told her it was their requirement. In fact, she didnt need to take financial advice at 
all, and this caused delay. Her pension was eventually transferred to SW in June 2020, but 
she wasnt told this was happening until after the event. She was also told that she couldnt 
transfer as her policy had section 9(2B) rights which SW couldnt accept. However, she said 
her public sector pension scheme wrote on 26 February 2020 to confirm there werent any 
such rights in her transfer payment and confirmed this again on 15 May 2020. She felt SW 
had caused a delay and she had lost out.
SW said that it initially dealt with a complaint from Miss C in December 2019. It upheld that 
complaint and agreed to send a cheque for £75, later increased to £100 because it made an 
error in the spelling of her name in an email it sent her in early 2020. It didnt think it had 
caused a delay in the transfer.
I issued a provisional decision and said the following.
Miss C had been a member of a public sector pension scheme. She had left the employment 
related to that scheme with less than 2 years pensionable service. This meant she wasnt 
entitled to a deferred pension in the public sector scheme, but she was entitled to a refund 
that could be paid as a transfer to a new arrangement. 
I had listened to various call recordings in October and December 2019. She was told that 
she could use the online transfer system to request a transfer. She was advised that this 
could take 2 to 3 weeks or 4 to 6 weeks if the ceding scheme wasnt on the Origo transfer 
system. There was no suggestion that she might need financial advice nor that it might not 
be possible to transfer at all.
I was told Miss C duly completed a transfer request on 17 December 2019. SW requested 
papers and then told her she needed to get financial advice before transferring. Miss C 
checked this and said that as the fund was worth less than £30,000 this wasnt needed. 
Later it became clear this was SW policy and not a legal requirement. It also wrote to Miss C 
on 16 January to say that due to potential protected rights the transfer could not be 
completed on a non advised basis. SW said it paid £75 on the basis it had said financial 
advice was a legal requirement when it wasnt. It also said it paid £100 due to poor customer 
experience and mis-spelling her name.
I had seen the papers from the public sector scheme, copies of which SW had seen. Having 
reviewed these, I didnt think they made it clear Miss C was entitled to a refund and there 
were no section 9(2B) rights. I said that because they referred to a cash equivalent transfer 
value (CETV) of around £8,000 that is attributed solely to section 9(2B) rights. Such rights 
can offer valuable guaranteed benefits, so it wasnt untypical for a receiving scheme to 
require customers to take financial advice before transferring.
So, while it was wrong to suggest financial advice was a legal requirement, I didnt think it 
was unreasonable for SW to suggest such advice would been needed before it would accept 
a transfer.
However, on 26 February 2020 the public sector scheme wrote directly to SW. It explained 
that if a member didnt have 2 years service, they could get a refund subject to a deduction 
to reinstate them in the state second pension, if they had service up to 2016 or they may be 
able to transfer if they had been a member for at least 3 months. It further said, As they do 
not meet the 2-year vesting period, no pension benefits are payable they are only entitled to 
a refund or a transfer.
I might reasonably have expected a business who worked in the pension sector to 
understand this meant Miss C was entitled to a cash transfer sum with no protected rights. I 
say that because it was clear from the information provided that her service started in 2017 
(so after the 2016 date prior to which state second pension reinstatement was relevant) and 
that she had more than 3 months but less than 2 years service. Even if it felt this was 
unclear it could have requested further confirmation from the public sector scheme, but it 
didnt seem that it did. I said that because as late as 8 May 2020 SW was writing to the 
public sector scheme to say it would not accept the transfer until Miss C had provided 
evidence, she had taken financial advice and it had written to tell her that in mid-January 
2020.
SW told this service that the public sector fund also wrote to it on 8, 21 and 30 April and 11 
May each time referring to the letter of 26 February. The public sector fund wrote again on 
15 May 2020 this time expressly confirming this. It said I can confirm that the member does 
not have section 9(2B) rights. It seems that following this final letter SW allowed the transfer 
to proceed so that the funds were finally received on 11 June 2020 (the letter confirming it 
being sent was dated 4 June 2020).
Given this it seemed to me that SW should reasonably have understood in February that 
there were no 9(2B) rights and the transfer was around £8,000, so there was no need for 
financial advice and no potentially guaranteed rights that would prevent it receiving the 
transfer. 
In the light of this I thought it made a mistake which caused a delay.
Where there was a mistake the law says that Miss C is entitled to be put back in the position, 
she wouldve been had the mistake not been made. I didnt think that meant the original 
request made on 17 December would have proceeded at that time. I said that because the 
papers from the public sector scheme at that stage suggested there were 9(2B) rights. But 
with effect from receipt of the 26 February 2020 letter it should have been clear to SW that 
the transfer could proceed. SW said it might take 2 to 4 or 4 to 6 weeks. I proposed to take 
the mid-point and assume it would have taken 4 weeks from 26 February to complete the 
transfer such that the transfer value would have been received by SW on 25 March 2020.
I thought it was reasonable to assume that the amount transferred would be the amount 
shown in the original public sector statement which showed a transfer value of £8691.41 and was guaranteed until 5 March 2020. Miss C had indicated on one of the calls that she would 
invest in the same manner as to date.
I noted that it was possible that Miss C may not be worse off due to the delay. It wasnt 
possible to be certain until the calculations were completed. I said that because at the earlier 
date in March the markets had started to fall but not reached their lowest level and because 
the amount later transferred (around £9018.93) was slightly higher due to the delay. It may 
be that the result of falling markets and an increased transfer payment means that Miss C 
may not have been worse off.
My aim in awarding fair compensation is to put Miss C back into the position she would likely 
have been in, had it not been for SWs error. I thought this would have meant she invested in 
the same fund/s as the remainder of her fund that was already with SW.
Any loss Miss C had suffered should be determined by obtaining the notional value at the 
date of calculation of the pension from SW on the basis that the transfer value of £8691.41 
had been invested in the those fund/s from 25 March 2020, and subtracting the current value 
of her pension at the date of calculation (excluding any other contributions (if any) and the 
investment return thereon paid into the scheme since 25 March 2020) from this notional 
current value. If the answer is negative, theres a gain and no redress is payable. For these 
purposes the date of calculation must be a date no more than 2 working days before the 
compensation is paid into Miss Cs pension scheme or to her depending on what is possible.
The compensation amount should if possible be paid into Miss Cs pension plan. The 
payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The 
compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension wasnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Miss C as a lump sum after making a notional reduction to allow 
for future income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
If Miss C hasnt yet taken any tax-free cash from their plan, 25% of the loss would be tax-
free and 75% would have been taxed according to their likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional reduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this.
I considered an award for distress and inconvenience. I thought Miss C was put to 
inconvenience and lost time due to the incorrect advice. I thought this mustve have been 
time consuming and stressful. I also noted the transfer went ahead after a long delay and 
she wasnt advised this was happening. While I dont think that was unreasonable given her 
past request, I thought it would have been good to have advance warning. On balance I 
thought an award of £350 would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. However, the 
amount already paid should be deducted so that SW need only pay such amount as is 
needed to increase the award to that amount. (I note that Miss C says she has not received 
the full £175. SW will need to provide evidence to Miss C of the amount actually paid).
I propose to uphold this complaint and make an award for financial loss and distress and 
inconvenience on the basis set out above.
Miss confirmed that she had only ever received £100 from SW.
SW accepted my findings. It calculated the loss to be about £1,200 and said it could arrange 
to make payment direct to Miss Cs account. It also confirmed it paid £100 not £175 as previously noted. The cheque for £100 had been cashed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted my provisional decision, I have not changed my mind.  
Putting things right
As I have not changed my mind, I will uphold the complaint on the basis proposed.
Any loss Miss C has suffered should be determined by obtaining the notional value at the 
date of calculation of the pension from SW on the basis that the transfer value of £8691.41 
had been invested in the those fund/s from 25 March 2020, and subtracting the current value 
of her pension at the date of calculation (excluding any other contributions (if any) and the 
investment return thereon paid into the scheme since 25 March 2020) from this notional 
current value. If the answer is negative, theres a gain and no redress is payable. For these 
purposes the date of calculation must be a date no more than 2 working days before the 
compensation is paid into Miss Cs pension scheme or to her depending on what is possible.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I direct that Scottish Widows Limited should within 30 days of this service notifying it that 
Miss C has accepted my final decision, pay Miss C £350 (less the £100 paid to date) and 
compensation for financial loss on the basis set out above and in my provisional decision.
The compensation for financial loss amount should if possible be paid into Miss Cs pension 
plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The 
compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Miss C as a lump sum after making a notional reduction to allow 
for future income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
If Miss C hasnt yet taken any tax-free cash from their plan, 25% of the loss would be tax-
free and 75% would have been taxed according to their likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional reduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this.
If there is a delay in paying the remaining £250 for distress and inconvenience such that it is 
not paid to Mrs C within 30 days of Scottish Widows Limited being notified by this service 
that Miss C has accepted this decision it should be increased further by of 8% per annum 
simple from the date of my final decision to the date of actual payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 July 2021.
 Colette Bewley
Ombudsman