DRN-3391762
The complaint
Mrs R, through her representative, complains that the advice she was given by
The Prudential Assurance Company Limited to contract out of the State Earnings Related
Pension Scheme (SERPS) was unsuitable.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 28 February 2022. The background 
and circumstances to the complaint and the reasons why I wasnt provisionally minded to 
uphold it were set out in that decision. Ive re-produced the relevant sections of it below, and 
it forms part of this final decision. 
Mrs R was advised to contract out of SERPS sometime around the end of 1988. She was
contracted out as from April 1987.
Prudential has said that it received two years worth of rebates into the policy. And that
Mrs R took the benefits from it in 2006, including tax-free cash. This was several years
before she could have taken the benefits from SERPS.
In 2020 Mrs R complained, through her representative, about the suitability of the advice that
shed been given. It said, in summary, that the advice to contract out of SERPS was
unsuitable. It said it exposed Mrs R to the risks of a significantly lower pension. The
representative said that Mrs R wasnt properly informed of the inherent risks in the product
recommended, or of all the costs associated with the policy. It said if Mrs R had been
warned of the risks she wouldnt have accepted the advice to contract out.
Prudential didnt uphold Mrs Rs complaint and it was referred to us. One of our
investigators considered it. The investigator said that there were two key factors in deciding
whether contracting out was favourable  the investors age and their earnings. He said
Mrs R was below the relevant age, and her earnings were above the minimum amount such
that it was considered it would likely be beneficial for her to contract out. He said Mrs R had
been invested in a with-profits fund which he noted was itself invested in a spread of asset
classes. He thought the fund presented relatively lower risks, and overall he didnt think the
advice to contract out was unsuitable.
The investigator said the personal pension members scheme booklet highlighted the cost of
running the scheme, and the charges that applied. He said the booklet went onto explain
there was a policy fee, and provided a breakdown of that fee. The investigator wasnt
persuaded that Mrs R wasnt made aware of the plans costs.
Overall, the investigator thought the advice to contract out had been suitable, and he didnt
think Prudential had treated Mrs R unfairly. Therefore he said he wouldnt be asking
Prudential to do anything further.
Mrs Rs representative said that Mrs R didnt accept the investigators findings. It said it
didnt think the applicable legal and regulatory standards or good industry practice had been
taken into account.
The investigator responded to say that the government had encouraged workers to contract
out. He said he had applied the rules and regulations that were applicable at the time, as
well as good industry practice. In doing so, he said he hadnt identified that Prudential had
done anything wrong.
Mrs Rs representative said that it wasnt true that the government encouraged workers to
contract out. And even if it were true, it wouldnt make it right. It said what the government
may or may not have encouraged anyone to do wasnt mentioned in the DISP Rules as a
criteria for how the ombudsman made decisions.
The representative also said there was a difference between common industry practice and
good industry practice. It said although it had been common practice to advise people to
contract out of SERPS without properly warning them of the risks, this wasnt good practice.
It said the LAUTRO requirements at the time provided:
A company representative who, in the course of any relevant investment business, has
dealings with an investor: shall give the investor all information relevant to those dealings
and that information; shall use his best endeavours to enable the investor to understand the
nature of any risks involved.
A company representative shall, in advising an investor as to the suitability for that investor
of any investment contract, have regard, in particular, to the investors financial position
generally, to any rights he may have under an occupational pension scheme or the State
earnings-related pension scheme, (if such rights are relevant in the particular case) and to
all other relevant circumstances.
It said it was clear that these requirements werent met. And the adviser hadnt acted with
"reasonable skill and care" as required by law.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To give some brief background, in the late 1980s the government decided to allow
individuals to contract out of the SERPS. It wanted to give individuals more choice, and
shift pension provision from the State to the private sector.
Where an individual contracted-out of SERPS using a personal pension, a proportion of
their National Insurance contributions were re-directed into a personal pension plan. The
idea was that these rebates, as they were known, would be invested, and build up a fund
that could provide a higher pension than would otherwise have been provided by the
SERPS.
One of the critical issues was to decide what level of rebate applied. If the rebates were set
too low then the SERPS pension given up would likely be worth more than the investment
within the personal pension. If the rebates were set too high, then the government would be
paying more than it needed to, to offset the cost of its SERPS liabilities.
The level of rebate for contracted-out individuals was set by the government after taking
advice from the Government Actuarys Department (GAD). In addition to the rebate level
suggested by GAD, the government added an additional 2% annual incentive payment that
would apply until 1993.The rebate percentage level was set as standard for all. This meant it was more attractive for
younger individuals to contract-out than those who were older, as they had less time before
retirement to benefit from investment growth on their rebates.
The government gave no advice as to who should be advised to remain in SERPS and
those for whom it was expected that contracting out would be beneficial. So the actuaries at
various pension providers carried out comparisons of the projected benefits from SERPS
against the personal pension arrangement (based on LAUTRO set assumptions of likely
future investment returns) to decide who would likely benefit. The ages where the providers
advice as to whether to contract out or not would likely be beneficial were called pivotal
ages. There was also a lower earnings limit which was used to determine whether an
applicants earnings would be enough to benefit from contracting out.
As the investigator said, at the time of contracting out Mrs R was below the relevant pivotal
age, and her earnings were above the lower earnings limit. So on the face of it, against
these criteria, it would have appeared that Mrs R would likely to be better off at retirement by
contracting out of SERPS.
As explained above, Mrs Rs representative has referred to the advisers obligations under
the LAUTRO rules. And also the advisers obligations under the common law, to amongst
other things, act with reasonable skill and care.
Given that Mrs R was exposed to the risk that the benefits from the personal pension could
be lower than she would otherwise have obtained from SERPS, the adviser was obliged to
take risk into account in deciding whether it was suitable for Mrs R to contract out. And he
was also obliged to alert Mrs R to the risks presented by contracting out which could
ultimately lead to a lower pension.
However the advice to contract out was given over 30 years ago. There were lesser
regulatory requirements on the documentation that firms were obliged to complete at the
time.
There is only limited documentation available recording the circumstances of the advice
given. And this documentation doesnt record the level of risk that Mrs R had indicated that
she was willing to take. It does record that Mrs R had an endowment mortgage policy. This
might suggest that she was willing to take some risk. However, I accept the circumstances of
the sale of that endowment arent known, and it doesnt necessarily indicate that Mrs R was
aware of the degree of risk it involved.
Clearly its very difficult to say with any reasonable degree of certainty exactly what was and
wasnt discussed at the time that Mrs R contracted out. So where, as here, the evidence is
incomplete or inconclusive, I have to make my decision on the balance of probabilities; in
other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available
evidence and the wider circumstances.
Although a copy of the illustration isnt available, it was normal practice to provide an
illustration at that time. Given Mrs Rs age, an illustration would likely have shown she would
get higher benefits from contracting out of SERPS, and I cant think of a reason why the
adviser would have been motivated not to provide Mrs R with a copy. So I think its more
likely than not that an illustration was given to Mrs R.
LAUTRO had specific requirements in connection with contracting-out of SERPS, and its
members had to provide illustrations in a specified way. I think the illustration provided to
Mrs R would have shown that the amount payable at retirement date was subject to the
growth rates used in the illustrations being achieved.Prudential has provided copies of other documentation that it says would have been given to
Mrs R at the time that she contracted out. However in my view this literature didnt highlight
the risk that the pension that Mrs R might get from contracting out could be lower than if she
had stayed in SERPS.
For the reasons Ive explained above, at the time that Mrs R contracted-out in 1988 it was
thought  using conservative assumptions  that given her age and level of earnings, she
would likely be better off at retirement by contracting out of SERPS. And the written
documentation doesnt show that Mrs R was clearly warned that there was a risk that she
could get a lower pension by contracting out. So on the one hand, I think its likely that the
adviser would have presented contracting out in a favourable light.
However on the other, I think Mrs R ought to have been aware that the benefits at retirement
depended on the performance of the investments and the growth rates shown in the
illustration being achieved. This would, therefore, indicated to her that there were no
guarantees.
In its final response letter Prudential said that Mrs Rs circumstances were such that
contracting out was likely to be beneficial; that is given her age and earnings. However it 
also said that she needed to be able to contract out for at least five years.
Mrs R was only a year below the pivotal age at the time that she contracted out. However
the pivotal age wasnt a cliff edge as such. There was a gap of several years between the
pivotal age and the age where it was considered it would likely be more beneficial to contract
back into SERPS. Im satisfied that when Mrs R contracted out there was the potential for
her to remain contracted out for the five-year period.
Taking all the above into account, given Mrs Rs age and earnings, I think it would have
been reasonably considered that she would likely improve on the benefits that she would 
otherwise have got from SERPS by contracting out. Mrs R wasnt guaranteed to be better off 
by contracting out of SERPS; there was some risk involved. But in my view contracting out 
wouldnt have appeared to have presented significant risks at the time.
The documentation thats now available doesnt clearly explain that risk. However Ive seen 
no persuasive evidence that Mrs R wasnt willing to take any risk. And in my view, if the risks 
had been explained in the context of the degree of risk the transaction presented, I dont 
think, on balance, Mrs R would more likely than not have made a different decision.
Overall, for the reasons Ive outlined above, I dont think that contracting out was
unsuitable for Mrs R.
I said, therefore, that my provisional decision was not to uphold Mrs Rs complaint.
I asked Mrs R and Prudential to let me have any further evidence or arguments that they 
wanted me to consider before I made my final decision. 
Mrs Rs representative said that it had nothing further to add.
Prudential didnt provide any further evidence or arguments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive seen no reason to depart from my provisional decision not to uphold 
Mrs Rs complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman