DRN-3982884
The complaint
Mr H complains that Lloyds Bank plc wont refund to him the money that hes claimed for the 
losses that he incurred when he paid for some removal services.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in February 2023 in which I described what 
had happened as follows:
Mr H used his Lloyds Bank credit card to make two payments to a removal company 
 a deposit of £214 in October 2021 and £1,926 in December 2021. The removal 
services were performed in December 2021 but Mr H says that a large plant pot and 
a few other pots were left behind (hes has also referred to a large olive tree that was 
in one of the pots and a sack of straw being left behind). The removal company 
quoted £590 to collect them. Mr H also says that three items were damaged in the 
move and he claimed replacement costs of £175.99 from the removal company. It 
said that the seven day period in which he was able to make a claim for the damaged 
goods had passed.
Mr H then made a claim to Lloyds Bank under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. It said that the removal company had provided a copy of the inventory and the 
plant pots werent included on it and that Mr H had signed a document to confirm that 
he was happy with what had been done. It also said that the terms and conditions 
confirmed that Mr H had to report any damages to the removal company within 7 
days but he contacted it after that period. Mr H wasnt satisfied with its response so 
complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. He didnt 
think that it was wrong for Lloyds Bank to reject Mr Hs complaint on the grounds that 
there had been no breach of contract or misrepresentation.
Mr H has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He has 
provided detailed responses to our investigators recommendation in which he 
explains why he considers that his complaint should be upheld. 
I said in my provisional decision: I agree with our investigator that Mr Hs complaint 
shouldnt be upheld but for these reasons:
Mr H paid for the removal services using his Lloyds Bank credit card and, in 
certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim 
against the supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit if theres been a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier;
to be able to uphold Mr Hs complaint about Lloyds Bank, I must be satisfied that 
theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the removal company 
and that Lloyds Banks response to his claim under section 75 wasnt fair or 
reasonable  but Im not determining the outcome of Mr Hs claim under section 
75 as only a court would be able to do that;
the removal company provided a quote to Mr H for removal services which said: 
Thank you very much for taking time out of your busy schedule, and letting our 
surveyor do a video survey of your property  Referring to our surveyor, please 
see below our post-video quotation  and the quoted cost was £2,140;
Mr H paid a deposit in October 2021 and a number of emails were exchanged 
about the services, including an e-mail in which Mr H said: Can you just confirm 
the two lorries will hold all the furniture and packing boxes please; and a 
response from the removal company which said: Yes, the number of lorries are 
appropriate, please dont be worried;
the removal company prepared an inventory of items to be moved  which didnt 
include the plant pots  but Ive seen no evidence to show that the contract for 
the removal services was based on the inventory and I consider it to be clear 
from the quote that the contract was based on the video that was recorded by the 
removal company;
Mr H doesnt have a copy of that video and neither Lloyds Bank nor the removal 
company has provided it  and Ive seen no evidence to show that the plant pots 
werent included in the video;
Mr H sent an e-mail to the removal company 13 days after the move in which he 
said: You may recall that you had to leave a large plant and a few other pots. We 
havent yet been able to arrange collection. Can you remind me how much you 
would charge to a do a run to collect them please  a charge of £590 was then 
quoted;
but in response to my request for further information Mr H says: I didnt wish to 
pay extra for the removal as I had a contract for their removal already, for which I 
had paid. The removal company refused to move them, in breach of contract. 
The very large pot with olive tree and the large bag of straw was given to our next 
door neighbours, as I had no alternative. The removal men moved it as the pot 
etc was very heavy;
I consider that there has been a breach of contract by the removal company as it 
didnt move all of the items that it had agreed to move and Lloyds Bank would be 
jointly liable for that breach of contract under section 75;
Mr H says that he gave the large pot with the olive tree and the large bag of straw 
to his neighbour and that the removal men moved them there;
although I can understand Mr Hs frustration and disappointment that the removal 
company wasnt able to move those items, he gave them to a neighbour and Im 
not persuaded that it would now be fair or reasonable for me to require Lloyds 
Bank to pay to Mr H the additional cost of £590 quoted by the removal company 
for moving the pots, to pay him any other compensation or to take any other 
action for the breach of contract;
Mr H says that three items, with a replacement cost of £175.99, were damaged in 
the move and hes provided photos showing some of the damage - he e-mailed 
the removal company in January 2022 about the damage;
the removal companys terms and conditions, a copy of which was sent by Mr H 
to Lloyds Bank on the same day that he sent that e-mail to the removal company, 
say: Any damage caused to your goods must be presented to our removal team 
on the day of the move. Or you can make a complaint within 7 days of your 
move. Anything received after 7 days will not be accepted;
Mr Hs e-mail to the removal company was sent 25 days after the removal service 
had been provided so I consider that the removal company acted in accordance with its contract with Mr H when it said that the period in which he could make a 
damage claim had passed;
I make no finding as to whether those items were damaged in the move, but Im 
not persuaded that theres been a breach of contract by the removal company 
about the damaged items  so I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me 
to require Lloyds Bank to pay the replacement cost of those items of £175.99 to 
Mr H; and 
Mr H has also complained about the way that Lloyds Bank has dealt with his 
claim  I consider that its handling of Mr Hs claim could have been better, but Im 
not persuaded that an award of compensation is justified in these circumstances.
Subject to any further comments or evidence that I received from either Mr H or Lloyds 
Bank, my provisional decision was that, although I considered that there was a breach of 
contract by the removal company, I didnt intend to uphold this complaint or to require Lloyds 
Bank to take any further action.
Lloyds Bank has accepted my provisional decision but Mr H says that: 
having broken a contract, the party in default is required to put the injured party in the 
place they would have been if the contract had been carried out  which would 
require either the cost of alternative transport for the pot etc (which hes claiming) or 
the cost of a new pot and olive tree of a similar size;
the pot was a large terracotta pot and the olive tree was approximately 10 years old 
and he estimates the cost to be £350-400;
he had no alternative but to leave the pot etc with a neighbour in the light of the 
refusal to move it and he had to mitigate his loss;
to have collected would have cost him over £500;
he could ask the neighbour to return it but he would have to fund its relocation which 
would be unfair and unreasonable; and
Lloyds Bank should be required to make amends for breach of contract.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not persuaded that I should change my provisional decision. The 
removal services were performed in December 2021 and, when asked what had happened 
to the items that had been left, Mr H said that he gave the large pot with the olive tree and 
the large bag of straw to his neighbour.
Ive seen no evidence to show that Mr H has made any effort to collect those items from his 
neighbour, including obtaining alternative quotes for the items to be moved. If Mr H hadnt 
given those items to his neighbour and was expecting them back, I consider that it would be 
reasonable to expect him to have done more in the time since December 2021 to either try 
to collect them or to arrange for them to be delivered to him.
The removal company quoted a charge of £590 to collect the items. Mr H hasnt paid the 
removal company to collect the items so hasnt incurred that charge and Im not persuaded 
that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require Lloyds Bank to pay to him that amount. 
Although I consider that there has been a breach of contract by the removal company, I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require Lloyds Bank to 
pay £590 to Mr H, to pay him any other compensation or to take any other action for the 
removal companys breach of contract.
I consider that the removal company acted in accordance with its contract with Mr H when it 
said that the period in which he could make a damage claim had passed so I find that it 
wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require Lloyds Bank to pay the replacement cost of 
the items that Mr H says were damaged. I consider that Lloyds Banks handling of Mr Hs 
claim could have been better but Im not persuaded that an award of compensation is 
justified in these circumstances.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman