DRN-1314214
The complaint
Miss H complains that American Express Services Europe Limited didnt properly pursue a 
chargeback request on her behalf.
What happened
On 28 December 2018 Miss H purchased some shoes online from a retailer Ill refer to as 
S in this final decision. The shoes cost £603, which included delivery charges and Miss H 
paid for them using her Amex charge card.
Miss H said she wore the shoes in question for the first time at the beginning of February 
2019. However, after only an hour the sole of one of the shoes had disintegrated and worn 
unevenly leading her to believe they were faulty.
On 9 February 219 Miss H raised a dispute with S. But it wouldnt refund the cost of the Miss 
Hs purchase because its returns policy was 28 days from the date of purchase and it 
thought the shoes were extremely worn. So it refuted that Miss H had only worn the shoes 
only once. S also stated Miss H hadnt followed the care instructions provided with the 
shoes. It therefore rejected her refund claim.
Being dissatisfied with how S had dealt with her refund request she contacted Amex and 
asked it to raise a chargeback request on her behalf. She provided information including 
proof of purchase and photographs, which she felt showed the shoes were faulty. She told 
Amex the shoes hadnt been worn significantly and she said S returns policy didnt apply in 
circumstances where an item was faulty.
Amex raised a chargeback claim under a code for goods not as described or defective. But 
S defended the chargeback with the reasons it had already given to Miss H as to why it 
didnt think the shoes were faulty. So, Amex rejected the dispute and informed Miss H of the 
outcome to her chargeback request.
Afterwards, Miss H contacted Amex several times to explain why she didnt agree with how it 
had dealt with her chargeback request. During telephone calls about her case she was 
incorrectly informed that she could send in further documentation to assist her dispute with 
S, which it would consider.
When Miss H complained to Amex about how it had dealt with her chargeback request it 
didnt uphold her complaint. It felt it had correctly pursued her claim with S but wasnt able to 
assist any further due to the response it had received. It recommended she contact S 
directly if she wished to continue to claim a refund. But it did accept she had been provided 
with misinformation on a number of occasions about her dispute being reopened. And it said 
shed been incorrectly asked to send Amex photographs of the shoes, which shed already 
provided. So, to recognise the poor service Miss H had received Amex paid her £100 as a 
gesture of goodwill.
Mr H wasnt happy with how Amexs response to her complaint. She wanted a permanent 
credit applying to her account to cover the cost of the shoes and she wanted compensation for the distress and inconvenience she had experienced. So, she referred her complaint to 
our service. 
Our investigator empathised with Miss H but didnt uphold her complaint. Overall, they didnt 
think Amex had acted unreasonably or treated Miss H unfairly. And they thought the 
compensation it had already paid adequately reflected the shortfalls in service that she has 
experienced. So, they didnt think Amex needed to do anymore here. But Miss H disagreed 
and asked an ombudsman to decide her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities. Ive read and considered 
everything Miss H and Amex have told our service, but Ill concentrate my comments on 
what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to 
take it on board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order 
to reach what I think is the right outcome
The first part of Miss Hs complaint is about whether Amex pursued her chargeback request 
properly. So, Ill focus on that issue first.
I can understand why Miss H is upset that the shoes she purchased from S werent of the 
quality she expected. However, this complaint is against AMEX. So, I wont comment on the 
actions S took here or how it responded to Miss Hs concerns.
My role here is to assess whether I think Amex made a mistake, or treated Miss H unfairly in 
how it dealt with her chargeback request, such that it needs to now put things right. And, 
having thought carefully about everything she and Amex have said, Im afraid to say that I 
dont think it did. I appreciate Miss H will be disappointed by this outcome. But I hope she 
can understand the reasons behind my decision.
I think its important to explain at the outset of this decision that chargeback is the process by 
which payment settlement disputes are resolved between card issuers and merchants, 
under the relevant card scheme rules. So, in certain circumstances a customer may ask their 
card issuer to reverse payments made on their card  such as where there's a problem with 
the transaction. 
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary code. So, a consumer doesnt have a right to bring a 
claim. Although theres no obligation on Amex to do a chargeback, we consider it good 
practice for a business to try to claim if it has good reason to do so. 
But its important to note that, even if a chargeback is raised, theres no guarantee a 
consumer will receive a refund because it may be defended by the merchant in line with the 
relevant card scheme rules.
Chargebacks are decided based on the card scheme's rules, not the relative merits of a 
cardholder/merchant dispute. So, Amexs role here is to raise the appropriate chargeback, 
and consider whether any filed defence complies with the relevant chargeback rules. I can 
see from the correspondence Amex sent Miss H that it explained its role.In this case Miss H disputed this transaction on the grounds that the shoes she purchased 
from S were faulty. And Amex correctly identified that the crux of her complaint centred on 
the quality of the shoes she purchased. 
Amexs chargeback rules allow a chargeback to be made when goods and services are "not 
as described or defective ".This was the chargeback reason Amex used in Miss Hs claim, 
which Im satisfied correctly identified the problem she was raising.
After Amex started the chargeback process it applied a temporary refund to Miss Hs 
account. This was in line with what Id expect Amex to do. So, Im satisfied it acted correctly 
here.
I can see that S submitted a defence to the chargeback. It told Amex the shoes were 
extremely worn. So, it didnt believe Miss H had worn them on only one occasion. It also said 
Miss H hadnt adhered to the care instructions that had been provided with the shoes. So, it 
didn't agree to provide a refund to Miss H. 
I appreciate Miss H was unhappy Amex reversed the refund it had applied after S responded 
with its defence. However, reversing a refund isnt unreasonable in circumstances where a 
merchant defends a chargeback and provides evidence that supports the disputed 
transaction. 
In this case Amex told our service the information it received from S was sufficient, and so it 
followed its rebilling process; - based on the evidence Ive seen I cant fairly conclude that 
Amex acted unfairly by reversing the refund it had previously applied. And I can see Miss H 
was informed that Amex intended to re-debit her account and the reasons why, which is 
what Id expect.
Amex told Miss H and our service that when a consumer raises a chargeback request on the 
basis of a faulty purchase it isnt able to pursue that claim on a customers behalf if the 
merchant is based outside the USA. Ive seen evidence of this scheme condition. So, Im 
satisfied that what Amex says here is correct.
In this case S is based in England. So, there were limitations as to what Amex could do on 
Miss Hs behalf. I appreciate Miss H may want out service to tell Amex to do more to assist 
her with her chargeback claim. However, the Financial Ombudsman Service is not a 
regulator. We provide informal dispute resolution. So, I dont have the power to tell Amex to 
change its chargeback terms or tell it how to run its chargeback scheme. Its entitled to 
exercise its own commercial judgment about that. And this means I cant require it to deal 
with Miss Hs chargeback request in the way she would like.
Overall though, Im satisfied Amex referred Miss Hs chargeback under the correct code. 
Based on what Ive seen Im persuaded Amex adhered to the terms of its own scheme. 
Because of this, I cant say that it acted unfairly in declining Miss Hs chargeback request. It 
follows that Im not asking it to take any further action.
Ill turn now to the second part of Miss Hs complaint, which is about the service she 
experienced from Amex.
After Miss H was notified by Amex of the outcome of her chargeback request she contacted 
its Customer Service Team on 10 May 2019. During this telephone call she was advised that 
the dispute would be reopened and she was invited to upload photographs she had already 
provided Amex.Amex accepts the advice and guidance Miss H received during this telephone call was 
incorrect. This was because it couldnt reopen her chargeback dispute unless previously 
unseen evidence and information was provided. So, I can see why Miss H was given a false 
expectation here that Amex could review her complaint.
Ive seen a copy of a webchat transcript showing a written discussion Miss H had with Amex 
on 18 May 2019. During that webchat Amex tells Miss H it has reopened her dispute, which 
it wasnt able to do.
On 4June 2019 Miss H was again told her dispute would be reopened. Amex accepts this 
advice was incorrect. And I can also see that during a webchat between Miss H and Amex 
on 10 July 2019 it instructed her to upload documentation she had already provided. 
I think it was unfair of Amex to give Miss H further hope that her dispute could be reviewed in 
discussions during May, June and July. Amex recognised that this was a shortfall in service. 
And it paid Miss H £100 as a gesture of goodwill to reflect that.
Its clear Miss H doesnt think this amount adequately reflects her inconvenience and 
experience. So Ive thought about whether the compensation Amex has already paid is fair 
and reasonable.
We arent here to punish businesses and, to put things right, Id have asked Amex to 
apologise for what happened here, which its already done. I would have also ordered it to 
pay compensation for the trouble and upset Miss H was caused.
I appreciate Miss H was caused confusion by the incorrect advice she was given by Amex 
about her chargeback claim. She would have reasonably relied on the advice Amex gave 
her. And I think it could have managed her expectations better. I also recognise that Miss H 
would have spent time trying to resolve matters with Amex even though it wasnt able, at that 
point, to do anything further to assist her.  
To recognise all of that I think a modest amount of compensation is fair here. Having thought 
carefully about the impact all of this had on Miss H, Im satisfied that the £100 already paid 
by Amex is a reasonable amount, which is in line with our approach in similar scenarios. 
While Miss H may disagree with me, Im satisfied that this fairly recognises the impact 
Amexs errors had. So I wont be asking it to increase that amount or do anymore here.
I realise Miss H will be disappointed with my decision. But it brings to an end what we, in 
trying to resolve her dispute with Amex informally, can do for her. Im sorry we cant help 
Miss H further on this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 July 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman