DRN-1959408
 
The complaint
Mr M has complained about an account being applied for in his name with Clydesdale Bank 
Plc (trading as Virgin Money).
What happened
On 13 December 2019, an ID thief applied for a Virgin account in Mr Ms name. Virgin 
contacted Mr M to verify the application.
On 19 December 2019, Mr M contacted Virgin to let them know the application was 
fraudulent. Virgin looked into this, and around an hour later, they confirmed the fraud. They 
cancelled the application the next day, and the account was never opened.
Virgin made sure there were no markers on Mr Ms credit file, and made a record of what 
happened to prevent future fraudulent applications.
Mr M says when he spoke to Virgins staff, he felt like they didnt care. Theyd suggested the 
fraudster may have got his details from social media, and he felt that they thought the 
application was his fault. He also said he didnt receive the banks final response and had to 
ask for it to be sent again.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. He 
thought Virgin had acted reasonably.
Mr M didnt agree. He felt Virgin were lax to allow this application through. He asked for an 
ombudsmans decision, so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive come to the same conclusions as our investigator, and for much the 
same reasons.
Firstly, I will say that I understand Mr M has been the victim of a crime here, and so he has 
my sympathy  I can imagine that the fraudsters have caused him a good deal of distress.
When we look at these kinds of cases, our main concern is whether Mr M has lost out 
because of anything that Virgin got wrong.
Here, I can see that Virgin contacted Mr M to verify things, and once he got back to them 
they acted quickly to block the fraud. They also made sure Mr Ms credit score wasnt 
affected, and created records to help stop this kind of thing happening to him again. So they 
did what Id expect them to  indeed, it looks like they handled this situation quite well.
I understand Mr M feels Virgin had inadequate account opening procedures. I cant comment 
on Virgins procedures as a whole  were only here to look at complaints about individual 
situations; whereas its the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  who looks at 
the overall regulation of businesses and their processes. In this particular situation, the 
application didnt pass its verification, no account was opened here, and Mr M didnt lose out 
financially.
I think the responsibility for Mr Ms distress lies more with the actions of the fraudsters who 
tried to defraud him, rather than with Virgin, who ultimately stopped the application and 
made sure he wasnt adversely affected.
There isnt still a recording of the calls between Mr M and Virgin, because of the time thats 
passed. But Ive gone through both Mr Ms and Virgins notes from the calls. From those, 
I havent seen anything that would cause me to tell Virgin to pay Mr M compensation. For 
example, it seems reasonable for the staff member to have suggested the possibility that 
Mr Ms details may have been obtained through social media  that doesnt mean that the 
fraud was in any way his fault. And I can see from Virgins systems that they did send their 
final response letter on time, and I dont think theyre responsible for it getting lost or delayed 
in the post.
So while I appreciate why Mr M feels distressed after the attempted fraud, I have not found 
that Virgin did anything substantially wrong here or that Mr M significantly lost out because of 
their actions, and so I dont think they need to pay him compensation in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2020.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman