DRN-3391967
The complaint
Mr R has complained that he has experienced ongoing issues logging in to his National 
Savings and Investments (NS&I) online account. He is unhappy with the documentation he 
was asked to provide before investing. 
What happened
Mr R has held premium bonds with NS&I for some time. They say that he can manage his 
account online, over the phone or through the post. 
In October 2020, Mr R attempted to access his account online. NS&I say that he failed 
security and so the password was suspended. Mr R says this caused him significant 
inconvenience as he was attempting to case in some of his investment and he had to use an 
online form to do this. 
He complained about this in January 2021 and was written to with a new password a month 
later. NS&I say that Mr R failed security again in July 2021 and the password was 
suspended until it was reset in September 2021. Access was suspended again in       
January 2022. Mr R says that he didnt have online access to his account between the 
months of November 2020 and February 2022. 
During this time, Mr R had made another application to invest further in premium bonds in 
April 2021. NS&I requested identification documents from him including proof of identity and 
address. Mr R was unhappy as he was a long-standing customer. NS&I responded to say 
that an automatic electronic check hadnt verified him and that the further information was 
required under newer money laundering regulations. 
Mr R remained unhappy and brought his complaint to our service for an independent review. 
Following this, NS&I made an offer of £50 for the inconvenience caused, in not being able to 
access the account online. Our investigator looked it and didnt think they had done enough 
to put things right. She said that whilst she understands the requirement to verify Mr R and 
this seems reasonable, she thinks that NS&I should have done more, sooner, to restore     
Mr Rs online access. She felt a more appropriate level of compensation to be £150. 
Mr R remained unhappy. He said that hed been without access for a long time meaning he 
wasnt able to top-up his account. He also didnt feel that the true impact on him had been 
recognised, naming 19 people that he had spoken to and saying he had received many 
emails, letters and final responses without resolving the issue. 
As no agreement was reached, the case has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion as the Investigator. Ill explain why. 
Account access issues
Mr R says that he was without access to his online account between November 2020 and 
February 2022. NS&I dispute this and have provided evidence that he had access between 
February and July 2021 and September 2021 and January 2022. 
Whilst I am satisfied he had access at times, it is clear that there were substantial periods 
where he didnt. It seems this includes four occasions where NS&I say that incorrect 
password information was entered and access was suspended. However, I believe that an 
error by NS&I in the way they recorded Mr Rs contact phone number, meant that these 
suspensions could have been resolved shortly afterwards. I believe they are responsible for 
large periods where Mr R was without access. 
Mr R has disputed the account suspensions and whether he was entering any information 
incorrectly. However, I havent been provided with enough evidence to conclude that this 
was a system error. 
I can see this has caused Mr R a considerable amount of distress and inconvenience. The 
investigator felt this warranted £150 compensation, and I agree. Whilst Mr R says he wasnt 
able to top-up his premium bonds to the maximum allowance, NS&I have shown that he was 
aware he could do this through a bank transfer from at least January 2021. However, as well 
as time without access he has also provided account of having to speak to 19 people, 
received almost 150 emails and 10 letters. I think this caused a lot of inconvenience and 
£150 is fair compensation for the impact this had. 
Request for evidence of identity
Mr R is also unhappy with the evidential documentation he was asked to provide, so that 
NS&I could verify him before he invested further. I can understand why this might not feel 
necessary when he had been invested with them for some time. 
However, NS&I have explained that it was a new regulatory requirement since Mr Rs last 
investment and that it was necessary. I am satisfied with this explanation. They have also 
said they tried to do this electronically and automatically, initially without the need for Mr R to 
provide any documentation. I am also satisfied that they tried this, but it was unsuccessful. 
I cant see that there was any error here. The verification was required. Whilst it wasnt 
initially successful, I cant see that this was any fault of NS&I and I am pleased to hear the 
verification is now completed. 
In summary, I do think NS&I caused account access issues which inconvenienced Mr R 
more than the £50 offer recognised. I think £150 is a fair award of compensation for this. I 
say this also as I dont think NS&I did anything wrong regarding the requests for evidence of 
Mr Rs identity. My final decision
My final decision, for the reasons set out above, is that National Savings and Investments 
should pay Mr R £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman