DRN-4457674
The complaint
Mr P complains that Openwork Limited wrongly disclosed information to his wife, Mrs P, with 
whom he jointly holds a mortgage.
What happened
Openwork was Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage broker. In early 2023, Mr P contacted it for 
information and guidance about their mortgage. He explained that he and Mrs P had 
separated and he was exploring his options, including whether he would be in a position to 
buy Mrs P out of the joint property. 
Mr P says that the Openwork adviser then contacted Mrs P and told her about his 
conversation with them. As a result, he says that what had been a reasonably amicable 
separation became acrimonious, Mrs P was no longer prepared to accept the interim 
financial agreement they had reached, and she stopped paying all bills and instructed 
solicitors. Mr and Mrs P are now divorcing.
Mr P complained to Openwork. Openwork accepted that its adviser had proactively 
contacted Mrs P, but said this was to discuss a cancelled direct debit and not Mr and Mrs Ps 
mortgage or Mr Ps discussion with the adviser. It said the adviser had confirmed to Mrs P, 
when Mrs P asked, that they had spoken with Mr P, but that was all, and they hadnt 
disclosed any of the detail of their discussions with Mr P. It didnt consider this a breach of 
data protection law or that any confidential information had been disclosed.
Mr P referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our Investigator didnt 
recommend that it should be upheld. Mr P didnt accept that and asked for a review. He said 
Openwork had accepted that its adviser told his wife they had spoken to him; he still 
considered that was a breach of duty and it was unacceptable.
My provisional decision   
I considered this complaint and came to a different conclusion to our Investigator, so I issued 
a provisional decision. I said:
I was sorry to read that Mr P has been going through such a difficult time. I can see that 
he feels strongly about Openworks part in his divorce and, while I find that Openwork got 
things wrong and that it should pay him some compensation, I dont find that I can fairly 
hold it responsible for the impact Mr P considers this had.
I havent been able to listen to the conversation the Openwork adviser had with Mrs P, 
because Mrs P isnt party to this complaint, and in any event its not clear whether the 
conversation was recorded. However, theres no dispute that the adviser told Mrs P they 
had spoken to Mr P and they were aware of the couples separation.
That is the extent of the information the adviser says they gave Mrs P about their 
discussion with Mr P and, on balance, I accept that. Ive come to that conclusion after 
careful consideration of everything that Openwork, its adviser, and Mr P have said and 
provided. That evidence includes that the adviser in question has many years of 
experience as a mortgage broker and has been consistent about what she said to Mrs P, 
and Mr P has said in emails that he didnt believe everything Mrs P was saying or that the 
adviser said anything they would consider unprofessional.
In any event, in the circumstances I dont think I can fairly conclude that Mr P would be in a 
different position now had the adviser not told Mrs P that they had spoken to him. Its far 
from clear that Mr and Mrs P would have been able to finalise their divorce any differently 
and without involving solicitors. So I dont consider that Openwork should pay or contribute 
to their legal costs. 
I do, however, consider that Openwork should fairly pay Mr P some compensation. Its 
adviser shouldnt have told Mrs P that they had had a discussion with Mr P. That 
discussion was confidential and I can see no reasonable basis for the adviser to have 
disclosed the fact that there was a discussion, even though Mrs P may have asked them 
about this specifically. In reaching that conclusion, Im mindful that its not for me to decide 
breaches of data protection law  thats for the Information Commissioners Office. My role 
is to decide a fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of the complaint at 
hand.
I consider a monetary award of compensation is the most appropriate way to resolve this 
complaint. The Financial Ombudsman Service isnt a regulator, so I cant require 
Openwork to change its procedures, or retrain or discipline its staff. And, for the reasons 
Ive already explained, I dont require Openwork to compensate Mr P for the financial 
losses he is claiming. But I think that Openwork caused Mr P avoidable upset and distress 
at what was already a very difficult time. In all the circumstances, I find that it should pay 
Mr P £250 compensation in recognition of that. 
I invited Mr P and Openwork to let me have any further evidence or arguments they wanted 
me to consider. Mr P said he was happy with my provisional decision, and Openwork said 
that it had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P has accepted my provisional decision, and Openwork hasnt said it disagrees or that it 
has anything more it wants me to consider, so I see no reason to depart from my provisional 
conclusions.
My final decision
My final decision is that Openwork Limited must pay Mr P £250 in full and final settlement of 
this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2023.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman