DRN-3183949
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S have complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold Mr 
S a fee-paying packaged bank account.
Mr S says that he was sold a fee-paying Advantage Premier account in 1989 and was told 
that he had to have it in order to obtain a £10,000 overdraft facility.
What happened
NatWest didnt think that it had mis-sold a packaged account to Mr S. One of our 
adjudicators assessed the complaint and she was unable to conclude that the packaged 
accounts that Mr and Mrs S have held were mis-sold.
Mr and Mrs S disagreed with this. They felt that NatWest had provided incorrect information 
about the account history and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website, and 
Ive used that to help me make this decision. And having considered everything, Im not able 
to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
I think it might help to explain that where matters are in dispute and evidence is lacking, as is 
the case here, I have to decide what I think was most likely to have happened, based on 
everything that is available.
Mr S says that he was sold an Advantage Premier account in 1989 to obtain a £10,000 
overdraft. However, from the limited records that NatWest has been able to obtain, they 
dont show that Mr S was sold (or even had) an Advantage Premier account in 1989 or that 
he was given a £10,000 overdraft limit in 1989 either. They show that Mr Ss account was a 
fee-free current account in August 1984, they then suggest that the account changed to a 
fee-paying Advantage Gold account in August 1998 and then to an Advantage Premier 
account in January 2001, which was then rebranded as a Black account in 2012. 
I understand that Mr S disputes that his account ever changed to an Advantage Gold 
account and says that his account changed to an Advantage Premier account much sooner 
than January 2001 and that this was only to obtain a £10,000 overdraft limit. But 
unfortunately, neither he nor NatWest have been able to provide evidence to support what 
he says i.e. that he was sold an Advantage Premier account in 1989. 
NatWest has provided Mr Ss overdraft history, although this only goes back to November 
1991. But even in 1991 the agreed limit on Mr Ss account appears to have been £600  so 
nowhere near the £10,000 limit that Mr S says he was given two years previously. And the 
overdraft limit fluctuated between £200 and £4000 between November 1991 and January 
2003. But again, there is no evidence to suggest that it was ever £10,000.
Of course, due to the lack of evidence, I cant rule out the possibility that Mr Ss recollections 
are correct, and that he might have been told that he needed to pay a monthly fee to obtain 
such a large overdraft. But equally, as product information about fee-paying accounts from 
the 1980s is no longer available - I also cant rule out the possibility that what he mayve 
been told was correct information at the time and that he did have to pay a monthly fee, or 
have a certain account, if he wanted such a large overdraft. 
So to put it another way, even if I accepted Mr Ss recollections as true, Ive still not seen 
anything to suggest that what he mayve been told was actually incorrect at the time. I say 
this especially as many of the banking benefits included with fee-paying packaged accounts 
in the early 1990s often included tailored or guaranteed overdraft facilities.
Therefore, based on the evidence (or lack thereof) that is available, Im unable to say that its 
likely that Mr S was mis-sold a fee-paying Advantage Premier (or for that matter any type of 
packaged account) account in 1989.
I note that Mr S says that over the years, he asked if he still had to have his fee-paying 
account to have his £10,000 overdraft and he says he was told he had to keep his account. 
But again, there is no documentary evidence of these conversations. And I can see that Mr 
S was able to increase and decrease his overdraft many times over the years, although 
never any where the limit of £10,000 as he recalls. So I dont find this likely. I can also see 
from NatWests mailing history that it did occasionally write to Mr and Mrs S over the years 
to remind them of the benefits on the account and also sent letters informing them of 
changes to the account, some of which included reminders that fee-free accounts were also 
available if they no longer wanted their packaged account.
Mr S has also said that in 2012, account holders would need to earn £50,000 to be eligible 
for the account and he says he and Mrs S didnt meet the criteria at the time. However, this 
requirement usually only applies when opening an account. And Mr and Mrs S didnt open a 
packaged account in 2012, it was migrated over from being an Advantage Private 
(previously Premier) account to a Black account. So I understand they were not necessarily 
obliged to meet the criteria, essentially because they were existing customers of that 
account. But even if the requirement did apply, NatWest was able to exercise discretion 
about whether it chose to enforce this condition of having the account or not. And in any 
event, as this requirement would not have affected Mr and Mrs Ss ability to use the account 
and the associated features, I dont think this issue suggests any wrongdoing took place or 
that Mr and Mrs S were detrimentally affected by this change to the account.
As such, having considered everything, Im unable to say that Mr and Mrs Ss packaged 
account was mis-sold.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, Im unable to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman