DRN-3219902
The complaint
Mr G complained because National Westminster Bank Plc refused to refund him for a cash 
machine withdrawal. He said the machine didnt dispense the money.
What happened
On 5 February 2021, Mr G wanted to withdraw £130 cash. He said that his card was faulty, 
so he used NatWests Get Cash facility on his mobile banking app. After hed logged in 
and recorded how much he wanted to withdraw, he was given a six digit code to put into the 
cash machine. But Mr G said that the machine didnt dispense his money.
On 15 February, Mr G reported this to NatWest. 
NatWest contacted the cash machine provider, which provided the technical records for the 
machine. This showed that the withdrawal had taken place successfully. 
So NatWest didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. In its final response letter, NatWest explained 
that its process was to contact the machine provider for them to look into the matter. It had 
declined Mr Gs complaint because the machine had been checked and there had been no 
faults or surplus.
Mr G wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. He said that there had been a previous 
occasion when hed used the Get Cash app facility, when the machine hadnt dispensed 
his money. Hed been refunded that time, so hed assumed hed just get a refund again. Mr 
G said this was why he hadnt reported the problem until ten days after it had happened. 
Mr G said hed been seriously affected at the time of the transaction, because hed had to 
borrow money which he hadnt yet paid back, so he couldnt afford not to get a refund.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. She said the evidence from the machine 
showed that the £130 had been successfully dispensed. Although Mr G had said he hadnt 
received the cash, there was no evidence to support this.
Mr G didnt accept this. He said a message had come up on the screen saying the 
transaction had been cancelled. He said the investigator was making him out to be a liar, 
and if NatWest really believed the money had been dispensed it should be issuing criminal 
proceedings against him for attempted theft. He said NatWest hadnt done so because it 
knew it had robbed him. And if that was the best our service could do, we might as well not 
be here. He said hed been told this service would be able to rectify it, but turning out in the 
banks favour was criminal. Mr G also said that it was because of his skin colour and class, 
and that hed always be treated differently because of that.  
The investigator told Mr G that this service is impartial, and referred Mr Gs complaint for an 
ombudsmans decision on what had happened.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
With a cash machine dispute, what I have to rely on in making my decision is what the 
computerised machine records show. These computer records cant know anything about a 
customers personal characteristics. So they are the right way of making an impartial 
decision about what really happened.
Here, Ive seen the records of what happened on 5 February. These show that at 15:33 that 
day, £130 cash was dispensed. NatWest also sent us details of the daily balancing of the 
machine during that period, which doesnt show any faults. So I accept that £130 cash was 
successfully dispensed.  
Ive based my decision on the technical evidence. But Mr G told us that he expected a 
refund because hed had one when hed previously disputed a withdrawal. Id explain that 
having disputed a withdrawal once and had a refund, doesnt mean NatWest had to refund 
him every time he disputed a withdrawal. It would be decided on the technical facts of each 
case.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman