DRN-1805907
Complaint 
Mr and Mrs R complain that Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI) to them alongside a mortgage in 1999. 
Background 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs R disagreed with 
that view. They told us that the adviser who sold them the cover said they had to take PPI or 
their mortgage wouldnt be agreed. They said they were clear with the adviser that they 
didnt want PPI and that they had sufficient cover from their savings.  
As the parties are not in agreement with our adjudicator, the matter has been passed to me 
to make a final decision. 
My findings 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account in deciding 
this case.  
I am sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs R, but I havent upheld their complaint. Ill explain why 
below. 
The parties agree that the cover was sold during a face to face meeting. I cant know what 
was said during that meeting. So to help me decide whats likely to have happened, Ive 
looked at what the parties told us about it. Ive also considered a number of documents that 
are available from the time of the sale. 
The first thing Ive considered is whether Mr and Mrs R would have known the PPI was 
optional and they didnt have to buy it if they didnt want it. Ive considered at length what Mr 
and Mrs R said on this point and I know theyve been clear that they told BOS they didnt 
need PPI because of their savings, but the adviser told them they had to buy the cover. 
I have to be mindful that it is very difficult to remember what happened over 20 years ago, 
which is when this policy was sold. I dont doubt that what Mr and Mrs R told us is what they 
honestly remember about the sale. But with the greatest respect to Mr and Mrs R, I dont 
think their recollection is accurate. I say this because according to the documentation that 
was completed at the time, it is recorded that Mr and Mrs R did not have any savings at that 
point. So I dont think theyve remembered correctly in saying they told the adviser they 
didnt need cover because they had a lot of savings. 
In the absence of any evidence to the contrary, I think its most likely that the BOS 
representative recommended Mr and Mrs R buy a PPI policy. But based on the information 
before me, I cant say they were misled by BOS to have been told that the PPI cover was 
compulsory. As BOS recommended the cover, it had to make sure the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs 
Rs needs. To help me decide whether it was suitable, Ive looked at the terms and 
conditions of the cover. And Ive also looked at what they told us about their personal 
circumstances at the time. 
The PPI was set up to cover Mr R only. I can see if theyd had to make a claim on the cover, 
their mortgage repayments would have been covered for up to 24 months Mr R couldnt 
work because of an illness or if he lost his job. Mr and Mrs R told us that Mr R would have 
received pay for between six and twelve months from his employer if he became unwell. The 
benefits Mr and Mrs R told us about are generous given that Mr R had only been in his job 
for four months. But even if I accept his sick pay was at that level, the PPI would have lasted 
for two years, which is longer than his work benefits.  
I appreciate Mr and Mrs R said they had savings worth between six and twelve months of 
their salary. I understand they told our adjudicator that they had savings for a rainy day. I 
dont think the amount they discussed with our adjudicator would have represented between 
six and twelve months salary. And as Ive set out above, it is recorded in their mortgage 
documents that they didnt have savings. I think that with PPI, any savings they did have 
could have been used on their other essential expenditure at what would have no doubt 
been a very stressful time for them if Mr R was out of work. 
I can see from the available documentation that Mr R was in good health at the time this 
policy was sold. So I dont think he would have been affected by any of the policys 
exclusions about medical conditions. Mr R hadnt been in his job for very long, but after 
checking the terms and conditions, I dont think that would have affected his ability to claim. 
And I havent seen anything else that was unusual about Mr and Mrs Rs circumstances that 
would have stopped Mr R from making a successful claim if he needed to. 
Putting all of these things together, I think the PPI cover probably was suitable for Mr and 
Mrs Rs needs. 
BOS also had to give Mr and Mrs R enough information about the policy so they could 
decide for themselves whether the cover was a good fit for their needs. Its possible that 
BOS didnt tell Mr and Mrs R everything it should have done. But Ive set out above how PPI 
could have been helpful if Mr R was out of work. So I dont think they would have acted 
differently if theyd been given more or better information about the PPI. 
As I said above, I am sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs R, but for the reasons set out above, I 
havent upheld their complaint. 
My final decision 
I dont uphold this complaint about Bank of Scotland plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 7July2020.
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman