DRN-3200444
The complaint
Miss G complains that Nationwide Building Society placed an adverse comment on her 
credit file in May 2021 in relation to an unsecured personal loan. The comment suggested 
shed defaulted on the loan when this was not true. She said Nationwide had been 
victimising her because shed made other complaints.
What happened
In October 2016 Miss G took out a fixed sum loan with Nationwide for £12,000. The term of 
the loan was 60 months and the monthly payments around £217.
Between March 2020 and February 2021 Miss G had difficulty meeting her loan repayments 
due to the Covid-19 pandemic disrupting her income.
On 13 January 2021 Nationwide wrote off the loan and reported a default to credit reference 
agencies.
Miss G complained to Nationwide that her loan had been transferred to a debt collection 
agency unfairly and that her credit file had been affected.
Nationwide upheld Miss Gs complaint. They accepted that the default had been reported in 
January 2021 in error due to the failure within the collections system. Nationwide said theyd 
request for the credit file to be amended, but also said your existing loan requires to be 
closed and a new loan opened before any amendment can be made to your credit file.
Miss G didnt want to rewrite the loan. She said she felt Nationwide were using the default as 
a punishment until she agreed to rewriting the loan.
On 16 April 2021 Nationwide told Miss G that theyd requested the removal of the default. 
But they said the process for making a lasting amendment to the credit file would mean 
rewriting the loan and allowing the existing loan to redeem. They said this would be 
necessary because, so long as the existing loan remained unredeemed, a default would 
return to the credit file each month. Nationwide said, The process for the removal of the 
default is complex, however this process is based on the capabilities of the loan 
management system.
On 7 May 2021 Miss G checked her credit report and noticed the following message: A 
Unsecured loan account will be changed to a negative status on your May report.
Miss G complained to Nationwide about what had been added to her credit file.
On 27 May 2021 Nationwide responded to Miss Gs complaint about the reapplication of the 
default in May. Nationwide confirmed what theyd previously said about the default 
repopulating everything month until the loan is rewritten or redeemed. They also noted that 
Miss G had paid off the loan on 14 May. They said theyd check the credit file to make sure it 
updated correctly on 1 June.
What Miss G told us
When Miss G brought her complaint to this service she said she felt Nationwide were 
attempting to bankrupt her by placing incorrect adverse information on her credit file.
What Nationwide told us
Nationwide told us they report information to credit reference agencies as uniform data i.e 
account status, payment status, balance etc. and are not responsible for how the credit 
reference agencies interpret and present that data. With regard to the comment Miss G had 
seen on her report in May 2021, Nationwide surmised that this was commentary provided 
by the CRA in use based on their own interpretation of available data before the month was 
reporting, or data which would have reported, had an amendment not yet taken effect to 
remove the default.
Our investigators view
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Gs complaint about the comment shed seen on her 
credit file in May 2021. She said she was persuaded, having seen a chronological summary 
of Nationwides credit reference agency amendments for the account, that Nationwide 
werent responsible for this entry.
Miss G asked for this complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman alongside other 
complaints shes made about Nationwides management of this loan account. She said, 
These statements would never have appeared if Nationwide had not placed the Default 
twice on my Credit File.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has come to me to decide.
The scope of this decision
Before I explain my findings on this complaint, I want to provide some clarity about what 
issues this decision will, and will not, address. Between April and September 2021 Miss G 
brought numerous complaints to this service which relate to Nationwides management of 
her personal loan account between March 2020 and August 2021. As they all relate to the 
same loan account and series of events, the complaints overlap, but theyve been handled 
separately until this point and so Im issuing four separate decisions addressing different 
aspects. In summary, Miss G has complained that:
1. Nationwide unfairly marked her loan account as defaulted in January 2021 and 
passed it to a debt collector.
2. Nationwide reported missed payments to credit reference agencies whilst she was on 
payment plans and didn't offer her appropriate support in relation to her financial 
difficulties during the Covid-19 pandemic.
3. Nationwide reported the following adverse entry to her credit file in May 2021 - "A 
unsecured loan account will be changed to negative status on your May report".
4. Nationwide reported a 2nd default in May 2021, advised her that the only way to fix 
the incorrect default was to re-write the loan, and sent her a notice of arrears letter in 
August 2021.
In this decision, Ill address Miss Gs complaint that Nationwide reported the following 
adverse entry to her credit file in May 2021 - "A unsecured loan account will be changed to 
negative status on your May report".What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont uphold Miss Gs complaint. My reasons are broadly the same as our 
investigators.
Ive already upheld Miss Gs complaint about the initial error Nationwide made in January 
2021  that was the subject of a separate decision. Ive also upheld her complaint about the 
incorrect default repopulating her credit file in May 2021  again, that was the subject of a 
separate decision. But I dont find that Nationwide reported to Miss Gs credit file the specific 
comment she complains about here. The evidence Ive seen supports that Nationwide sent 
the amendment Delete Default to credit reference agencies on 15 April, 4 May and 1 June 
2021.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 
Beth Wilcox
Ombudsman