DRN-1573801
The complaint
This complaints about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Mrs Z says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold her the PPI.
What happened
The PPI helped protect Mrs Zs monthly repayments if she couldnt work due to disability or 
unemployment. 
Our adjudicator looked into the complaint but didnt recommend it should be upheld. As 
Mrs Z didnt agree with the adjudicator, the case was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Zs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold because:
From a copy of the postal credit card application form Mrs Z signed, I can see Capital 
One made it clear that Mrs Z didnt have to take out the PPI and that she chose to take it 
out  although I can understand if she doesnt remember that now after all this time.
I dont believe Capital One recommended the PPI to Mrs Z, so it didnt have to check if it 
was right for her. But it did have to make sure Mrs Z got the information she needed to 
decide if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mrs Z about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, it 
doesnt look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to, or limits on, the PPI cover 
 so it would have been useful for her to have if something went wrong. And, while she 
says she had family she could have relied on, that help wasnt guaranteed, unlike the 
PPI benefits. It also looks like the PPI was affordable for her. So, I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover. 
Overall, I dont believe Mrs Zs lost out because of how Capital One sold her the PPI.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2020.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman