DRN-3611264
The complaint
Mr T complains that Cynergy Bank Limited does not inform their existing customers when 
higher interest issue numbers of their savings accounts are introduced. 
What happened
Mr T has a savings account with Cynergy. He says they introduce new issues of their 
savings accounts for new customers which have higher interest rates than the issue number 
he holds, but they do not inform existing customers. As a result of this, Mr T has had to 
manually open several new accounts in the space of a few weeks to take advantage of the 
increased interest rate. He said he only found out about the increased interest rates from an 
external source. He said having to manually open these accounts is time consuming and it 
has inconvenienced him. Mr T made a complaint to Cynergy.
Cynergy did not uphold Mr Ts complaint. They said that for existing customers, when they 
change the variable interest rate their customers currently earn on the issue the customer 
holds, Cynergy will always personally notify them in line with regulatory requirements. 
Cynergy said that the interest rates offered between issues can vary  both upwards and 
downwards. They said they do not personally notify customers when they offer new issues 
and they also dont also automatically upgrade for the reason that new issue pricing can 
move both upwards and downwards, which offers benefits in a downward interest rate 
environment.
Cynergy said that while they appreciate this can be a little inconvenient in an upward rate 
environment, they clearly publicise their interest rates on their website and within their online 
banking. Cynergy said they have a fast track application process within their online banking 
that allows the latest issue of their Online Easy Access account to be opened in seconds 
with a few clicks. They also said they often have exclusive issue offers for existing 
customers within the fast track application section of their website, so they encouraged Mr T 
to check this regularly. Mr T brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ts complaint. She said that Cynergy can decide to 
increase interest rates on their accounts for new customers and this would be a commercial 
decision for Cynergy, which our service would have no influence over. She said that the 
Online Easy Access products are made up of different issue numbers which consists of a 
variable rate and a fixed rate bonus for the first 12 months. She said while Mr T may have to 
apply for a new issue for the account when Cynergy increases their interest rates, this 
process can be completed in a few clicks using the fast track process through Cynergys 
online banking. She said the interest rates are displayed on Cynergys website.
Mr T asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In 
summary, he said existing customers cant be expected to monitor Cynergys website daily 
or weekly in the hope of an interest rate increase. He said that Cynergy should automatically 
increase the interest rates for existing customers, rather than existing customers having to 
reapply for an account as he has had to do this about ten times. Mr T said that other banks 
automatically increase the interest rate for their existing customers. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
Id like to emphasise that this service is not the regulator. Nor do we act as the enforcer for 
the regulator. The regulator is the Financial Conduct Authority. Our service acts as an 
informal dispute resolution service for complaints about financial businesses. So I must be 
clear to Mr T from the outset that Im unable to instruct Cynergy to change the issue number 
of the account automatically if the interest rate is higher or to automatically notify an existing 
customer when a new issue is available, as these are commercial decisions for Cynergy to 
make. 
Ive considered what Mr T has said about other banks automatically increasing the interest 
rate for existing customers. But here, Im only able to look into the merits of the complaint 
that Mr T has brought to this service, which is against Cynergy. So Im only able to look at 
whether Cynergy have followed their process and not what other banks may or not do. 
Ive noted the strength of feeling that Mr T has on this matter. Its clearly important to him 
and I can understand why as hes told us hes had to manually open a new issue number 
around ten times. But as Cynergy have explained, the account is made up of both a variable 
and a fixed rate, so Im not persuaded that its unreasonable for Cynergy not to automatically 
move customers into a different account without a customer authorising them to do so.
I say this because the fixed interest rate will stay the same over a 12 month period, whereas 
the variable rate could change. So some customers may prefer the guarantee the fixed 
interest rate would provide, which could change between issue numbers. As Cynergy have 
explained, this provides benefits when interest rates go down. Cynergy have confirmed that 
the interest rate on this account is not linked to the Bank of England base rate, so even if the 
base rate rises, Cynergy may make a business decision to change their interest rates for 
better or worse (subject to notice if worse) on a variable rate at any time. If the base rate 
increases, they may still keep the interest rate the same on the account.
The account is not offered to new customers only. So Im satisfied Cynergy are fair by 
allowing existing customers to open new issues of the account. And as Mr T is an existing 
customer, he would have the benefit of applying for any new issue of the account via the fast 
track process through his online banking which a new customer would not have, which 
should result in the account being opened in a few clicks. Thats not to say the fast track 
process wont inconvenience Mr T as he will need to still take action to open the higher 
interest issue, and I know his preference is for this to be automatic, but Im persuaded that 
Cynergy have tried to make the account opening process easier for existing customers by 
offering this feature. 
Cynergy explained to Mr T in their final response that they often have exclusive issue offers 
for existing customers within the fast track application. So Mr T may miss out on these offers 
if he didnt use this process to open a new issue of the Online Easy Access account
Ive considered what Mr T has said about finding the higher interest rates by external means. 
But Cynergy do advertise their interest rates on their website. I know Mr T has said that he 
cant be expected to monitor Cynergys website daily or weekly in the hope of an interest 
rate increase. But Cynergy have explained they currently dont have the facility to automatically notify their customers of changes to their interest rates. As I previously 
mentioned, this is a commercial decision for Cynergy, so Im unable to ask them to change 
this. If the interest rate changed on the issue he held, then Cynergy would inform him of the 
change, in line with the terms and conditions of the account. I know Mr T will be 
disappointed, but it follows I wont be asking Cynergy to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman