DRN-3746991
The complaint
Mr M complains about the way in which Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited 
(MBFS) handled his request for an extension of an Agility Hire Purchase Personal Contract 
Plan, a form of hire purchase agreement. 
What happened
In January 2018 Mr M took out a four year hire purchase agreement for a new car. At the 
end of the agreement, Mr M had the option of making a lump sum payment and keeping the 
car, or returning it to MBFS.  
Towards the end of the hire period, Mr M ordered a new car. He understand that it was 
possible that delivery would be delayed, but in December 2021 the dealership contacted him 
to say that the order had been cancelled. Mr M contacted MBFS to ask about extending the 
hire purchase agreement, so that he could keep his car while he made other arrangements. 
Mr M did not hear back from MBFS and followed up on his request in January 2022. At the 
same time, he complained that he had received no response. 
At the beginning of February 2022 Mr M was told that the extension had been requested and 
on 17 February he received a voicemail asking why he had not returned the paperwork to 
confirm the extension. He had not received any paperwork. MBFS acknowledged that it had 
been sent to an incorrect email address. In the event, Mr M was able to agree an extension 
of nine months at a cost of £324.68 a month  less than he had been paying. After the 
extension had been agreed, MBFS took a payment of £649.36 by direct debit. That 
represented two months payment at the new rate. Mr M says that MBFS did not properly 
follow the direct debit rules before taking the payment.  
Mr M retained possession of the car throughout. He ended the extension early, when he was 
able to source a new car.
MBFS acknowledged that it had not handled the extension as well as it should have done. It 
offered Mr M £150 in recognition of the inconvenience to which he had been put. Mr M did 
not accept that offer.
Our investigator, however, thought the offer was fair in the circumstances. Mr M did not 
agree and asked that an ombudsman review the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In keeping with the role of the ombudsman as an informal dispute resolution service, I will 
keep my comments fairly brief. That does not mean however that I have not considered 
carefully everything that the parties have submitted. 
It appears that MBFS was using an incorrect email address for Mr M. So, whilst it did 
respond to his request for an extension of the hire purchase agreement in December 2021, 
its response did not reach him. That was an error which could have had significant 
repercussions for Mr M, given that the original hire purchase was due to end in January 
2022. I can understand too that not receiving a response would have caused him significant 
distress, as well as inconvenience. 
Because he did not receive the extension agreements, Mr M had to chase things up with 
MBFS on several occasions, not knowing whether an extension would be agreed  since 
there was no entitlement to one under the original agreement. 
In addition, when Mr M did receive and return (signed) the extension agreement, it was not 
until April 2022, two months later, that MBFS acknowledged receipt and confirmed the 
extension was in place. I can understand why, given what had happened until that point, this 
would have been particularly frustrating from Mr M. 
As far as the direct debit payment is concerned, I note that Mr M had agreed when he signed 
the initial agreement that MBFS could take payments in this way, and that there is no 
suggestion that it took more than was due. Nevertheless, I think MBFS should have told him 
what it was doing, if only as a matter of good practice. 
There is, I think, no real doubt that MBFS did not handle things well in this case. It 
misdirected correspondence to Mr M and then did not tell him that it had processed the 
extension. Generally, it did not communicate with Mr M as well as it should have done. I 
must therefore consider whether the offer of £150 is reasonable or whether I should award 
more. In my view, that offer is within the range of compensation I would expect in a case 
such as this one. I will however make a formal award, so that Mr M can enforce it, should he 
need to do so.   
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, my final decision is that, to resolve Mr Ms complaint in 
full, Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited should pay him £150. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman