DRN-3646246
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy Revolut Ltd havent refunded money he lost as a result of a scam. 
Mr N is being represented by a Claims Management Company but for ease of reading Ill 
refer to him throughout the decision. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In October 2020 Mr N saw an 
advertisement online endorsed by a well-known celebrity. He then received a call from a 
person working for a merchant  Ill refer to as A. 
After having a conversation with A, Mr N decided to send two payments to two new 
merchants in October 2020. The first payment was to a merchant, Ill refer to as B, in China 
for £250. The second payment was sent to another merchant in Nigeria, Ill refer to as C, for 
£5,000. 
When A started to request more money from Mr N he started to become suspicious. He 
started to research the merchants involved and found that they werent regulated by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). The next time A tried to contact him he asked to 
withdraw his money, but this was refused by the merchant. 
So, Mr N made a complaint to Revolut in May 2021. Revolut considered the complaint but 
said it didnt do anything wrong by allowing the payments to be sent so it wouldnt be 
refunding Mr Ns money. It also said that a chargeback was unlikely to be successful due to 
the issue being raised out of time. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think the two 
payments were sufficiently unusual or suspicious for Revolut to stop and ask more questions 
about them. And Revolut didnt treat Mr N unfairly by not raising a chargeback.
Mr N disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsmans review. He said the payment to C 
shouldve flagged because it was to a new payee in Nigeria. And if Revolut had flagged the 
payment then it wouldve been able to stop the scam. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mr N feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to him, so Ill explain why.
Revolut has explained to this service that it wasnt suspicious of the two payments because 
its customers commonly send international payments. And that the MCC code provided for 
both payments were for shopping.
Mr N has said the payments were unusual for this account and shouldve been flagged. 
Recovery 
While I think that the merchants involved here were likely operating a scam at the time of 
Mr Ns payments, the chargeback scheme rules dont automatically entitle him to a refund 
based on these circumstances. 
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme run by card issuers whereby the card 
scheme operator  Visa in this case  will ultimately arbitrate on a dispute between a 
merchant and a cardholder if it cant be resolved between them. 
There are rules to the scheme  set by the card scheme operator  which means that there 
are only limited grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback 
to be considered valid, and potentially succeed. Time limits also apply to when a chargeback 
can be raised by the card issuer.
Under Visas scheme rules, for issues such as the one pertinent to this dispute, Mr N would 
have needed to evidence that: 
he attempted to resolve the dispute with the merchant and, if that was unsuccessful, 
he cancelled the service; 
his investment account had funds to withdraw on the date he requested the 
withdrawal; and 
he requested a withdrawal equal to or less than the funds available in the investment 
account. In addition to this, Mr N wouldve needed to have submitted his claim within 
120 days of when he was expecting to receive the service, and within a maximum of 
540 days from the transaction processing date.
Its unclear at this time if or when Mr N attempted to request a withdrawal. So, I cant 
determine whether his chargeback claim was made within the 120-day time limit. But even if 
Mr N had requested a chargeback within the relevant time limits, Im not persuaded that it 
would have been deemed valid by Visa. From the information Ive seen, it doesnt appear as 
though Mr N was in possession of the required evidence when Revolut were made aware of 
the scam. Or, that he would have been able to provide it if it had been requested at the time. 
So, I dont think that Revolut could have reasonably attempted a chargeback claim on Mr Ns 
behalf.
Prevention
While I dont think that Revolut could have done more with regards to the recovery of Mr Ns 
funds once it was made aware of the situation, Ive also considered whether it ought to have 
intervened before allowing any of the payments to be made.
Under regulations and in accordance with general banking terms and conditions, a bank 
should execute an authorised payment instruction without undue delay. The starting position 
is that liability for an authorised payment rests with the payer, even where they are duped 
into making that payment. There is no dispute that Mr N made the payments, and so they 
were authorised. However, in accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank has a 
duty to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far as is reasonably 
possible. If, in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which ought reasonably 
to alert a prudent banker to potential fraud or financial crime, it might be liable for the losses 
incurred by its customer as a result.
What this means is that as a starting point Mr N is liable for these transactions unless theres 
evidence that Revolut could and should reasonably have done more to protect him and that 
this would have made a difference. 
Ive taken into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice, 
and what I consider good industry practice at the time (some of which Mr N has referred to in 
his submissions). Revolut ought to have been monitoring accounts to counter various risks, 
have systems in place to identify unusual transactions, or other indicators, that its customers 
were at risk of fraud and, in some situations, make additional checks before processing 
payments, or declined them altogether, to protect its customer from possible financial harm 
from fraud.
There were no active warnings on the FCAs or on the International Organization of 
Securities Commissions (IOSCO) websites about B or C at the time Mr N made the 
payments. So, I wouldnt have expected Revolut to have stopped the payments based solely 
on the merchants names. 
It isnt in dispute that Revolut has (and had) obligations to be alert to fraud and to act in its 
customers best interests. So, the starting point here is whether the instructions Mr N gave to 
Revolut when authorising the debit card payments were unusual in relation to the typical 
account activity. Clearly there is a balance to be struck between allowing customers access 
to their funds and being alert to instances of potential fraud and scams. Prior to the payment 
in question, Mr N had recently made a payment - of broadly - a similar amount. Overall, I 
dont think Revolut were wrong to allow the payments to be made. I dont think the activity 
was so unusual for this particular account where I think it would have been reasonable for 
them to have intervened and to have spoken to Mr N before processing them. I also dont 
think there were any other reasons for Revolut to have done more before following the 
instructions Mr N provided. 
Im sorry Mr N has lost money in this way. But I dont think Revolut reasonably ought to have 
done more at the time the payment was made, nor do I think they ought to have done more 
to pursue a chargeback. As such, I cant fairly tell them to do anything further to resolve this 
complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2022.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman