DRN-3182294
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H's complaint is about the refusal of a claim under their pet insurance policy with 
Allianz Insurance Plc.
What happened
In May 2021, Mr and Mrs H made a claim under the policy, as their dog had haematemesis 
(vomiting blood). The dog was diagnosed with bowel disease. 
Allianz declined the claim, as it said the policy only covers the cost of treatment within 12 
months of the first clinical signs of a condition and the vets notes show that the condition 
first started in March 2020, when the dog was taken to the vet with the same symptoms. 
Allianz met the claim in March 2020 but refused to pay the costs of treatment in May 2021.
Mr and Mrs H are very unhappy with this. They say that the dog suffered from gastroenteritis 
in March 2020 and was sick but they didnt make a claim at that time as he recovered within 
a few days. Mr and Mrs H say this is unconnected with the diagnosis of bowel disease in 
2021; vomiting blood can be associated with many different conditions and not just bowel 
disease.
One of our investigators looked into the matter. She initially upheld the complaint and 
recommended that Allianz meet the claim and pay compensation, as she didnt think it was 
reasonable to treat the two incidences as being the same condition. However, after 
reviewing some further information provided by Allianz, the investigator changed her mind 
and did not recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr and Mrs H do not accept the investigators assessment and think it is unfair that Allianz 
provided new information. They have made the following points: 
Allianz is now changing the reason for not paying the claim. It would seem it is trying 
all it can to not meet the claim. This customer service is appalling and should not be 
allowed to happen.
They were initially told on the phone, it was being rejected because the symptoms 
affected one organ, then a letter said it applies to any case where the 
symptoms/illness present in the same or different parts of the body. 
The evidence Allianz is relying on is from the animal hospital and not the vet that 
treated their dog in March 2020, so they cannot say if it is related.  
Their regular vet wrote to Allianz that the dog had gastroenteritis in March 2020, 
unrelated to this previous claim.
The vet also said that haematemesis is a rare condition; vomiting blood is a symptom 
not a condition or illness in itself. It is common and can be the result of various 
illnesses. And the vet said that symptoms might have shown up a few months before 
the diagnosis but not over a year before. 
The animal hospital that treated their dog also diagnosed a previous ulcer which is 
not bowel disease, and not the same condition. This was not evident until after the 
tests. The ulcer might have caused the problems in March 2020.
The evidence from Allianz is fabricated and circumstantial.
Allianz has said they refused tests for their dog in March 2020, which is untrue. They 
and would never have let their dog suffer for over a year. The claim for any tests 
would have been covered in March 2020, so they had no reason to refuse any tests 
then. And, if the condition had continued since March 2020, why did the 
gastrointestinal medication work for over a year?
If their dog had been serious condition in March 2020, they would never have left 
their dog to suffer but it was only an upset stomach then. They do not think the policy 
wording is fair and ask what the policy will cover given this term.  Does this mean that 
any similar symptom would also not be covered? 
Mr and Mrs H want the claim to be met in full and compensation for their time and financial 
loss in addition to the emotion burden of dealing with 'bullies' such as Allianz. 
As the investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Hs policy provides on the following basis: 
The policy provides cover on a time limited basis. 
This means that each injury and illness is only covered for 12 months, starting from the date 
the injury happened or the clinical signs of the illness were first noticed. After this time all 
cover for that injury or illness will stop. To continue to claim for the 12-month period you 
must keep your policy in force and continue to pay your premiums. This is the case whether 
or not a visit to the vets is needed for that condition within that timeframe.
Clinical signs are defined as: A change(s) in your pets normal healthy state, bodily 
functions or behaviour.
So it does not matter whether there has been a diagnosis or whether treatment was needed 
or not when the symptoms first arose. The 12 month time period starts running from the date 
that clinical signs  or symptoms - of the illness claimed for were first noticed. I do not 
consider this unusual or inherently unfair. 
In March 2020, Mr and Mrs Hs dog had an upset stomach. The vets notes at the time say 
he prescribed some medication: one tablet once daily on an empty stomach or 1 hour 
before a meal. Haematemesis, vomited on Wednesday then again this morning but pure 
blood, owner brought in sample, also melena?.
Mr and Mrs H say this cleared up after a few days and no further treatment was required. Mr 
and Mrs H say the dog became unwell again in May 2021 and so they took him back to the 
vets. It was only then that the vet identified that he was suffering with haematemesis and 
chronic gut disease.
Their vet has also written an undated letter that says: [the dog] has an episode of 
gastroenteritis in March 2020, as is common with many dogs, he vomited for a couple of 
days and was seen twice for this and then as it moved through his guts he was seen one 
final time with blood in his motions, at which point he had almost completely recovered and 
then a few days later was completely back to normal. there were no further incidents of gastroenteritis until May 2021 when [the dog]  was 
seen again for haematemesis, I therefore feel that excluding this condition is unfair on the 
basis that he had a single bout of gastroenteritis over a year before.  
However, this is somewhat at odds with what the same vets notes at the time: 
06.05.2021- ongoing haematemesis and seizure type episodes. Still vomiting fresh
blood. Sometimes daily, sometimes once weekly. Not keen eater. tried food changes - 
cooked, tails autosensitising. Not improved on omeprazole.
17/05/2021- DVS chronic enteropathy. mild thickening muscularis, mild colonic
Lymphadenopathy
It seems to me that this supports that there had been an ongoing issue and that Mr and     
Mrs H were trying to manage it with different foods and medication.
The discharge letter from the specialist animal hospital dated 17 May 2021 to Mr and        
Mrs Hs regular vet also says: 
[the dog]  presented on 10th May 2021 for further investigation and management for an 
approximate year long history of intermittent haematemesis and haematochezia. 
Presenting complaints: 
Vomiting and mixed bowel diarrhoea: Passed with a variable frequency daily/weekly. At 
times, both contain fresh blood. There was also evidence of melaena reported on 
occasion 
Diagnosis: 
Open - suspected chronic enteropathy. 
Given the duration of clinical signs in [this]  case, I feel that an inflammatory bowel process 
is much more likely than a neoplastic process such as lymphoma. However, the biopsies will 
confirm the suspicion hopefully.
Mr and Mrs H says this is fabricated and circumstantial. There is nothing to indicate that 
either of the vets records are not genuine, or that they are not contemporaneous notes of 
their involvement with Mr and Mrs Hs dog. I also find the evidence convincing and not 
merely circumstantial. 
Mr and Mrs H also say the evidence from the animal hospital should be disregarded, as they 
did not see their dog in March 2020. I do not agree that this means their evidence cannot be 
relied on. The regular vet referred the dog to the animal hospital, along with a clinical history 
and reasons for the referral. That clinical history, as set out in the letter referred to above, 
would have come from the referring vet (and/or Mr and Mrs H). 
Having considered all the evidence, it is clear to me that both vets indicate that the issues 
with the dog had been ongoing for a year and, given the symptoms were the same as those 
seen in March 2020, the evidence does not support the assertion that the issues in March 
2020 were due to an unrelated and isolated one-off stomach upset. 
Mr and Mrs H also say they would never have left their dog to suffer and refuse tests into the 
cause of the March 2020 issue, if they had known this was a long-term illness. It has not 
been suggested they left the dog to suffer. However, the evidence is convincing that the 
symptoms which first presented in March 2020, continued to cause problems for the dog off 
and on over the next year until further treatment was sought in May 2021. Given that the symptoms first presented more than 12 months before this claim was made, it is not 
covered. 
Mr and Mrs H have also said the March 2020 symptoms might have been due to an ulcer. 
This is possible. However, I have to consider what it more likely than not and given the vets 
have diagnosed chronic bowel disease based on the clinical history and tests they have 
done, Im satisfied Allianz has established it is more likely than not that this was linked to the 
March 2020 presentation of the same symptoms. 
I sympathise with Mr and Mrs Hs position, as the cost of treatment in May 2021 is high, but 
Im not persuaded that Allianz should be required to meet this claim. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman