DRN-4213265
The complaint
Mrs J, representing the estate of her late husband Mr J has complained via a representative 
about delays in arranging the closure of Mr Js accounts with The Royal Bank of Scotland 
Plc (RBS). 
What happened
In July 2022 a representative of Mrs J wrote to RBS providing letters of administration and 
authorisation from Mrs J to close the late Mr Js accounts and transfer the funds to her. RBS 
requested a form to be filled in and sent a list of ID requirements.
After much back and forth, Mrs J was told that in order to close the accounts she would need 
to provide a certified copy of her passport. Mrs J did not have a passport.
A complaint was raised with RBS and RBS accepted that the customer service it had 
provided was not acceptable. But it restated that the only way the account could be closed 
was if the passport was provided.
Mrs J got a passport and sent a certified copy to RBS. RBS meanwhile closed the account 
before it received the passport. RBS accepts that this was done in error.
Mrs J brought her complaint to this service via a representative, where one of our 
investigators looked into it. Our investigator explained that this service can only consider the 
impact on an eligible complainant  which here is the estate of the late Mr J, rather than Mrs 
J as an individual. He said that this means that we cant ask RBS to pay compensation for 
the way it handled this matter.
Mrs J via her representative did not accept this and so wanted a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that matters will have been very difficult for Mrs J following her loss. I also 
recognise that these matters were made worse by the initial misinformation provided via 
telephone call from RBS and also that it released the funds prior to the certified copy of Mrs 
Js passport being received. But, Im sorry to disappoint Mrs J here, as what our investigator 
said about the limits of our ability to help is correct.
The rules that apply to this service explain who is eligible to complain to this service. These 
rules are known as the DISP rules and are available online (or a copy can be provided on 
request). 
The relevant section is DISP 2.7.6R. In the circumstances here, the eligible complainant is 
the late Mr Js estate, as it was Mr J who had a relevant relationship with RBS. So while Mrs 
J is entitled to represent Mr Js estate in bringing this complaint  we can only consider it in 
terms of the impact on the estate as an entity, separate to Mrs J.
We cant consider any complaint from Mrs J about the impact this situation had on her as an 
individual. She doesnt meet the test of holding a relevant relationship with RBS under the 
rules in order to be eligible to complain about this situation in her own right. Put simply, her 
ability to represent her late husbands estate doesnt mean that she can also complain about 
how this impacted on her as an individual.
I realise this will read somewhat coldly to Mrs J  but its important to outline what the rules 
that apply to us mean we can and cant do. Here, the rules mean that I cant tell RBS to 
compensate Mrs J for any impact on her as an individual. 
The aspect of this complaint I can consider is the impact on the late Mr Js estate. Everyone 
agrees that RBS made some mistakes here and didnt do what it should have in the right 
timeframes. It accepts that its service fell short here and I think thats clearly the case. But, in 
order for me to say that RBS should do something more here, I have to be satisfied that its 
failings had an impact on the estate itself. 
But an estate cant feel distress or be upset and so I cant compensate it for any emotional 
impact. And then when looking at any inconvenience caused here  its clear that RBS took 
longer than it should have to close the accounts and transfer the money to Mrs J. But that is 
an impact on Mrs J, rather than Mr Js estate. Mrs J hasnt said anything, or provided any 
evidence of any impact to the estate itself apart from the account not earning any interest 
during the period in question. But had the issue been resolved more quickly the account 
would have been closed and Mrs J would have received interest not the estate so I cant say 
the delays cost the estate itself any money.
That means that even though I accept RBS made mistakes here, I cant ask it to pay 
compensation in the specific circumstances of this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr J 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 September 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman