DRN-3221195
The complaint
Ms M has complained that Allianz Insurance Plc unfairly refused to pay her claim and 
imposed an exclusion on her pet policy.
What happened
Ms M has insured her cat for many years under Allianz essential cover which only covers an 
illness or injury for 12 months or up the maximum benefit, if that occurs first. 
Ms M made a claim for vet costs in dealing with her cats eyes in April 2021. On considering 
her cats vet history, Allianz internal vet believed this problem with her cats eyes was 
related to previous problem first notice in 2020. Allianz said because Ms M made a claim 
after the relevant 12-month period, this claim wasnt covered. 
Allianz also said given more than 12 months has passed since the eye issue first arose, it 
then imposed an exclusion concerning her cats eyes from 10 April 2021. However, it offered 
to cover any costs Ms M might have incurred for her cats eyes from 10 April 2020 until 9 
April 2021.
Ms M didnt think this was fair and complained. Allianz wouldnt change its stance, so she 
brought her complaint to us. The investigator didnt think Allianz had done anything wrong. 
Ms M didnt agree so her complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain.
Ms M, in response to the investigators view, said her cat was only suffering with one eye in 
April 2020. So, she disagreed with Allianz internal vets view that there was any causal link 
between conjunctivitis in one eye in 2020 causing entropion in both eyes in 2022. She 
explained that she never thought to say her cat had conjunctivitis in her renewal for 2021, 
since it was such a minor issue and she didnt think the policy wording required her to 
disclose all and any vet visits in the previous year at each renewal. 
My role is to assess whether Allianz did anything wrong as regards the provisions detailed in 
the policys terms and conditions. My role is not to assess whether the terms and conditions 
of Ms Ms policy are unfair, as this service is not the regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority is. And further, since pet policies are sold on an unadvised basis, it was for Ms M 
to make the decision as to whether this policy suited her needs at the time that she bought it.  
Ms M bought a time limited cover policy for her cat which covers any illness or injury for 12 
months only. Once that 12 months time limit is passed (or if the maximum benefit amount is 
reached earlier) cover for that illness or injury stops and is thereafter excluded. 
Allianz internal vet is of the view that Ms Ms cat conjunctivitis in April 2020 was causative of 
her claim for entropion in April 2021. Ms M disagrees with this but has not produced any 
expert evidence to the contrary. Given this, Im more persuaded by Allianz vet opinion on 
the matter. Allianz vet is clear that entropion is thought to be the consequence of chronic 
infection.  She said the following: 
The condition was thought to be the consequence of a chronic infection, and
has persisted, despite treatment, since then.
In April 2021 (14/4/21) the treating vet examined Maggie and found that she had 
painful eyes again, with an ulcer and scarring on the cornea.
This is not a new condition, but is a result of the existing chronic inflammation/painful 
eyes. Corneal ulcers usually form as a result of trauma (including from hairs irritating 
the cornea) to the eye. They can be the cause or the result of entropion.
Entropion (curled in eyelids) and trichiasis (hairs rubbing on the cornea) in this case 
is not likely to be conformational but a result of chronic inflammation in the eyes.
This is an opinion widely supported in the veterinary world
Given the lack of eye problems in [name of cat] history up to April 2020, the entropion 
and secondary ulcer is a consequence of the poorly controlled eye infection, present 
since 10/4/2020, and given the inter-relatedness of these eye conditions, we are 
happy to pay for treatment between 10/4/20 and 10/4/21, according to the Terms of 
[name of cat] insurance.
The vet history for Ms Ms cat shows the following: 
17/4/20  swollen eye for one week, with the advice to treat as conjunctivitis.
27/4/20  eye getting worse with her vets thoughts being possible chlamysiosis or 
viral aetiology. 
7/10/20  eye and ongoing issue
17/12/20  same issue with left eye. Been seen three times this year and no ulcer 
found prev. O reports the maxitrol worked very well but has now run out and would 
like some more. Warned of risk if ulcer then may make ulcer worse. O happy to take 
the risk.
27/2/21  given todays findings can carry on with maxitrol, use sparingly if possible. 
Adv will need to stop and see back straight away if eyes seem sore.
14/4/21  STT L eye 19 R eye 17. R eye small superficial ulcer centrally. L eye some 
prev scarring. LOWER LID ENTROPION BOTH EYES, trichiasis evident. Sore, 
gunky.
21/4/21  Bilateral lower lid entropion with 2e chronic keratitis. R eye has a 
sequestrum (chronic irritation) and superficial ulcer.
So as this shows, this was not a case of one episode of conjunctivitis in one eye in April 
2020 and then further issues occurring only in April 2021 with both eyes, as Ms M intimated. 
There are seven consultations with the second eye being affected from as early as 
December 2020. This shows me the eye issue was ongoing for that time, plus it wasnt 
resolving, along with the important fact that both eyes became affected in December 2020, 
all of which indicates a chronic inflammation issue, which is exactly what Allianz internal vet 
said would cause the entropion issue. 
So, on this basis I consider the evidence from Allianz internal vet to be most persuasive. 
That in turn means Ms Ms cat was sadly suffering eye issues from April 2020. I also consider it reasonable that Allianz said it would be happy to pay for treatment from 10 April 
2020 to 9 April 2021.
Turning now to the exclusion, since its clear that Ms Ms cat was suffering eye problem from 
April 2020, Allianz then issuing the exclusion for any ongoing eye issues is fully in line with 
the policys terms and conditions, because Ms M chose a policy which only covered 
conditions for 12 months. 
In each renewal Allianz has shown us that the renewal documents ask Ms M to tell it if her 
cat has been unwell or shown signs of any illness or if she had consulted the vet for anything 
other than routine vaccinations. Ms M said she didnt think this meant she had to tell Allianz 
about each and every vet appointment. But I think its clear Allianz is asking for disclosure of 
all vet appointments that werent routine. Its very clearly laid out with a heading stating, 
Important details we need to know.
Ms M said that she is an insurance lawyer, consequently I also consider she would 
understand the duties imposed on consumers by the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). 
That Act requires the consumer, which would be Ms M here, to take reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation when taking out an insurance policy, which in turn also includes 
the renewal of an insurance policy, since this pet policy is an annual policy, which requires to 
be renewed every year. 
I consider Allianz clearly asked Ms M in the renewal invite to inform it of any non-routine vet 
visits. Ms M didnt, so I consider the non-disclosure by her to be a qualifying 
misrepresentation of the careless category. That then permits Allianz some remedies 
provided it can show it would have done something different had Ms M disclosed the 
required information. 
Allianz has shown this to be the case because its shown us its underwriting guide, which 
details that had it known about the numerous vet visits for her cats eyes, it would have 
imposed an exclusion 12 months from the date her cats eyes first were causing a problem, 
which would have been from 10 April 2021, given the vet note for 17 April 2020 says Ms M 
said her cat had been suffering for a week.
Therefore, I dont consider Allianz has done anything wrong in imposing the exclusion. Ms M 
then said she didnt agree that the exclusion should cover her cats eyes in their entirety but 
should simply only exclude entropion. However, Allianz underwriting guide details the 
exclusion should cover her cats eyes in their entirety. Because Allianz has followed its own 
underwriting guide in applying this exclusion, that it means its treating Ms M the same as it 
would any other policyholder in the same circumstances. Under the regulations of treating 
customers fairly it must do this too. Therefore, I dont consider Allianz has done anything 
wrong in extent of the exclusion it had to impose either. 
My final decision
So, for those reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Rona DoyleOmbudsman