DRN-2878880
The complaint
Mr C has complained that 1Plus1 Loans Limited irresponsibly lent him a loan in August 
2018.
What happened
Mr C took out one loan with 1Plus1 in August 2018 for £3,000, the loan had a term of 60 
months with monthly repayments of £114.38. The total cost of the loan was £6,862.80.
When Mr C complained to 1Plus1, it didnt uphold him complaint, it said it did enough checks 
and the loan was affordable for him.
Mr C referred his complaint to this service where it was looked at by one of our investigators. 
Our investigator thought that 1Plus1 shouldnt have lent the loan, she said the affordability 
checks ought to have shown 1Plus1 that Mr C didnt have sufficient disposable income to 
afford the loan.
1Plus1 disagreed that it shouldnt have lent to Mr C. It says its checks went far enough and 
showed that Mr C could afford the loan.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the loan was offered.
Before lending money to a consumer, a lender should take proportionate steps to 
understand whether the consumer will be able to repay what theyre borrowing in a 
sustainable manner without it adversely impacting on their financial situation. 
1Plus1 was required to gather enough information for it to be able to make an informed 
decision on the lending. Although the guidance and rules themselves didnt set out 
compulsory checks, they did list a number of things a lender could take into account before 
agreeing to lend. 
The key thing was that any checks needed to be proportionate and had to take into account 
a number of different things, including things such as how much was being lent and when 
what was being borrowed was due to be repaid. A business should also take into account 
and react appropriately to what it knew about the consumer at the time it made its lending 
decision.
From the information provided, 1Plus1 searched Mr Cs credit file, asked him about his 
income and monthly expenses. 1Plus1 also carried out an affordability call with Mr C, where 
it went through the details of his income and expenses. Mr C initially declared that he earned 
£2,000 a month but after 1Plus1 went through his expenses and credit commitments  
suggesting that he couldnt afford the borrowing, he said he earned £2,500. 1Plus1 said it 
needed to verify this information which it did through a CIFAS call, it has provided a copy of 
that call to this service and I can hear that the CIFAS agent confirmed Mr C received £2,500 
and that this income had been consistent. I dont think it matters much in this case whether 
1Plus1 took into account Mr Cs over time as I dont think it should have lent on either 
income calculation and Ive explained why below.
Based on the information it gathered, I think it was clear to 1Plus1 that Mr C had a high debt 
burden and even though he was consolidating his pay day loans, he was still due to repay 
over £1,000 other creditors, including the repayment on this loan, Mr C was due to repay 
around 45% of his monthly income (including overtime) on credit. Mr C was borrowing from 
various lenders, using his overdraft and credit card as well.
Taking into account Mr Cs living costs which were around £1,040, Mr C would have been 
left with some disposable income. However, 1Plus1 didnt just need to check that the loan 
was affordable on a pound and pence calculation, it needed to understand that the lending 
wasnt going to adversely impact Mr Cs financial circumstances. I think a 60-month loan 
term is significant and Mr C having such a high level of indebtedness was a concern about 
the sustainability of the lending. I think 1Plus1 ought to have been aware that with Mr C 
committing such a substantial amount of his income towards credit, there was a high risk 
hed struggle to repay the loan over the term.
As a responsible lender, it shouldnt have lent in those circumstances and it needs to put 
things right.
Putting things right
Remove all interest, fees and charges added to the loan and
treat all payments made by Mr C as capital repayments;
if after doing the above there are overpayments, 1Plus1 should add interest at 8% per 
year simple on the overpayments sums from the date they were paid, if they were, to 
the date of settlement;
if theres still a capital balance outstanding, then 1Plus1 should agree a suitable 
repayment plan with Mr C;
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Cs credit file as a result of the interest 
and charges on this loan.
HM Revenue & Customs requires 1Plus1 to take off tax from this interest. 1Plus1 must give Mr C a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Cs complaint. 1Plus1 Loans Limited should 
put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman