DRN-1642086
 
The complaint
Mr M complains about questions asked of him, by TSB Bank plc, when he telephoned it.
What happened
Mr Ms complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that TSB 
had done nothing wrong. 
Mr M didnt agree. In summary he said that the questions he was asked were ones he, and 
most other consumers, would be unable to answer.
The investigator considered Mr Ms response to his view but wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. Therefore the complaint has been passed to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I can confirm that Ive 
come to the same overall conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. 
There is also very little I can usefully add to what has already been said. 
Its clear that Mr M has strong feelings about this complaint. But Im satisfied that TSB acted 
entirely reasonably in asking the security questions that it did.
In coming to this conclusion Ive had regard to a banks obligations, under various legislation 
and regulations, to ensure that before anything is discussed with a caller that caller has been 
adequately identified.
I would also point that how a bank interprets its obligations, under the various legislation and 
regulations that are in place, is a matter for its own commercial judgement. And in the 
particular circumstances of this case its my view that it would be neither fair nor reasonable 
for our service to interfere with that judgement.
Ive also had regard that in this particular case Mr M was able, when he called TSB for 
second time, to pass the security questions asked of him and that he was paid, as I 
understand it, £9 as a gesture of goodwill to cover his telephone costs.
 
 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2020.
Peter Cook
Ombudsman