DRN-2116649
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that when they returned to a Gold Service Account (GSA) with 
Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) in July 2014 following a period of being upgraded to a Plus 
account, they were not offered the same terms and conditions for the GSA as they had 
previously received.
What happened
The details of this complaint are explained in our adjudicators view and are well known to 
both parties, so I wont repeat them again here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on 
giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by the adjudicator for the following 
reasons.
When Mr and Mrs M upgraded to the Plus account in 2007, they finished the previous terms 
and conditions of the GSA theyd agreed with Lloyds and entered a new agreement.
In this situation Lloyds was not under any obligation to give any assurance about what might 
happen if Mr and Mrs M returned to a GSA and Ive seen no evidence that it did so.
Lloyds was entitled to change the terms and conditions of anyone entering a new agreement 
for a GSA. This was a commercial decision for the bank.
It was also entitled to allow customers who held the original agreement for the GSA to 
continue with their original terms and conditions.
I acknowledge that it was Lloyds decision to close all Plus accounts and this meant that Mr 
and Mrs M had to choose a new account in 2014. But if Mr and Mrs M didnt like the terms of 
the new GSA they were offered, they were entitled to decline them and seek a different 
account or a different bank.
Ive seen the letter which Lloyds says it sent to Mr and Mrs M. Neither side can prove 
whether the letter was sent or received. But it was correctly addressed, and I think its more 
likely than not that Mr and Mrs M were alerted to the account change either by that or 
subsequent correspondence about the account and couldve queried it if they were unhappy.
So, whilst I can understand Mr and Mrs M wanted to be offered their original terms for the 
GSA in 2014, in my view, Lloyds didnt do anything wrong in the way it acted.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman