DRN-3390817
The complaint
Mr D complained that Loans 2 Go Limited irresponsibly provided him with an unaffordable 
loan.
What happened
Loans 2 Go provided a loan to Mr D as follows:
Date 
takenLoan 
amountTerm Monthly 
repaymentTotal 
amount 
repayableLoan 
status
2/1/2019 £300 18 
months£67.97 £1,223.46 outstanding
The loan purpose wasnt recorded on the application. 
When Mr D complained to Loans 2 Go it didnt uphold his complaint so he brought his 
complaint to us. One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought at first that 
Loans 2 Go shouldnt have provided the loan. So our adjudicator initially recommended 
that the complaint should be upheld and set out directions indicating what Loans 2 Go 
should do to put things right. 
Loans 2 Go disagreed with our adjudicators view and when our adjudicator reviewed the 
complaint she changed her mind and told Mr D that she no longer felt this was a complaint 
we could uphold. 
Mr D disagreed with our adjudicators view. He told us he wasnt sure how the loan was ever 
responsibly approved as his bank statements show he seemed to be using multiple loans, 
taking them out to pay off other loans. And he also complained about the way Loans 2 Go 
handled his account  in particular, about a lack of documentation which meant he felt that 
the loan terms were never made clear to him. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable 
and proportionate checks should be carried out. Lenders must work out if a borrower can 
sustainably afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower 
also has to pay. This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation  a proportionate check might also 
require the lender to find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify 
the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think about whether theres any other 
reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender shouldve 
realised that the loan was likely to lead to significant adverse consequences or more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
 
Loans 2 Go asked Mr D about his income and expenses  including what he spent on his 
credit commitments. It also did its own credit check to understand Mr Ds credit history. 
Loans 2 Go relied on an online income verification tool and understood that Mr Ds minimum 
monthly pay was around £1,120. After reviewing the information it had gathered, Loans 2 Go 
boosted the monthly expenditure figure that Mr D had declared and calculated that he would 
need to spend approximately £900 in total each month. It also allowed for a buffer of 10% of 
his verified expenditure to account for any fluctuations in his monthly income or expenditure. 
Based on this, Loans 2 Go said Mr D shouldve been able to afford the monthly repayment 
on this loan. 
Like our adjudicator I think those checks were broadly proportionate. But despite recording 
information that appeared to show that Mr D had spare cash each month to cover the loan 
monthly repayments, I think Loans 2 Go shouldve realised that it couldnt rely on this 
information. Thats because what Mr D had declared was significantly at odds with what 
Loans 2 Go saw on its credit checks showing that Mr D had taken out multiple short-term 
loans in the six months running up to him applying for this loan. The credit report Loans 2 Go 
obtained showed he had taken out eight short-term loans between June and December 
2019 and three of these, taken out in the previous three months, were still outstanding. 
Ive thought carefully about everything Loans 2 Go has said and what I think a responsible 
lender should have made of all this information and in particular whether it was enough for 
Loans 2 Go to make a fair decision to lend, particularly as it doesnt seem to have known 
how Mr D intended to use the money. Keeping in mind that checks need to be borrower 
focussed, I dont think Loans 2 Go thought carefully enough about what the information it 
had gathered showed about Mr Ds overall financial situation and the likelihood of him being 
able to pay its loan in a sustainable manner.  
I think our adjudicator was right to say first time that all the indications were that Mr D wasnt 
managing his money well and he was already struggling financially. To my mind, it shouldve 
been apparent that Mr D probably didnt have the amount of disposable income that Loans 2 
Go calculated - or indeed any spare cash, given that Mr Ds pattern of lending suggested he 
was having difficulty maintaining payments he already owed to creditors and taking out new 
loans to repay his existing debt. All the signs were that his finances were, in reality, under 
significant stress and his debt was already unmanageable. 
Despite the fact that this was a relatively small loan compared to his income, I dont think 
Loans 2 Go was reasonably able to be satisfied in these circumstances that Mr D would be 
able to make its loan repayments in a sustainable way. 
And in my opinion, as a responsible lender, Loans 2 Go shouldve realised that Mr D would 
likely struggle to repay this loan  especially bearing in mind the 18 months loan term.
So thinking about all the information Loans 2 Go had gathered, I cant reasonably say that it 
made a fair lending decision based on the information in front of it. I dont think Loans 2 Go 
was able to safely conclude that its loan would be sustainably affordable for Mr D. And so it 
shouldnt have provided it and Loans 2 Go needs to put things right. 
Even if Loans 2 Go disagrees with me, I hope it will reconsider its position and agree that the 
information it saw on the credit report it obtained should, at the very least, have prompted it to find out more about Mr Ds finances to ensure it had a proper understanding of his 
financial situation given the contradiction between what Mr D had said about his disposable 
income and the lending it saw. 
And had Loans 2 Go done more in-depth checks, I've seen other information confirming that 
in the month or so prior to him making this loan application he spent more than £850 
servicing his existing loans. I think this was such a significant proportion of his take home 
pay (he earned £1,078 in December 2018) that it wouldve been apparent that Mr D was 
unlikely to be able to make the loan repayments for this loan sustainably. 
At this time, Mr D was persistently overdrawn on his bank current account, typically by a four 
figure amount that exceeded his monthly earnings. So, I think it wouldve been reasonably 
foreseeable that he would need to continue to borrow to cover his debt  and thats borne 
out by the fact that Mr D kept on seeking and obtaining new credit  including loans 
amounting to another £380 taken out later in the same month with different lenders. 
For all these reasons, I dont think Loans 2 Go could reasonably have satisfied itself that its 
loan wouldnt be detrimental to Mr D and so it shouldnt have provided it. 
Ive thought about what Mr D has said about the high cost of the loan and the lack of 
paperwork. I think there was a large amount of interest payable on the loan and I can 
appreciate that he might now feel this was unfair. But this was an online application and 
I think its fair to say that the loan agreement set out reasonably clearly both what the 
interest rate was and how much he would have to pay if the loan ran to term. Taking 
everything into account, I think Mr D was aware he was taking a high cost loan on terms he 
seemed happy to agree to at the time when he signed up to the agreement. So I cant fairly 
say that the high cost of this credit is a reason for me to uphold this complaint and I havent 
seen enough to make me think that Loans 2 Go acted unfairly or unreasonably in some 
other way. So Im not planning to award any additional redress.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
I have heard nothing further from Mr D. Loans 2 Go has told me it accepts what I've said in 
my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter 
and Loans 2 Go for reconsidering its position in light of what I said in my provisional 
decision. Given that Ive not received any further evidence or comment that changes my 
mind about this complaint, I confirm the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr D to repay the capital amount that he borrowed 
because he had the benefit of that lending - but he shouldnt repay more than this. If Loans 2 Go has sold any outstanding debt it should buy this back if able to do so and then 
take the following steps. Otherwise, Loans 2 Go should liaise with the new debt owner to 
achieve the results outlined below and do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mr D received as a result of having been given this 
loan. The repayments Mr D made should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in Mr D having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Loans 2 Go should attempt to 
arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr D bearing in mind the need to 
treat him positively and sympathetically if he still needs further time to pay what he 
owes.
Whilst its fair that Mr Ds credit file is an accurate reflection of his financial history, its 
unfair that he should be disadvantaged by the decision to lend this loan. So 
Loans 2 Go should remove any negative information recorded on Mr Ds credit file 
regarding this loan. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to deduct tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go 
should give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Ds irresponsible lending complaint and direct 
Loans 2 Go Limited to take the steps set out above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman