DRN-3568363
The complaint
Miss M is unhappy with how Santander UK Plc dealt with her when she needed
help. She says it didnt provide enough support to help with her overdraft facility and the
information she received from Santander wasnt always clear. 
To resolve her complaints,
she wants Santander to compensate her for the stress caused by the situation.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 8 June 2022 where I set out the 
background to this compliant and my provisional findings. My provisional decision explained:
What happened
Miss M says she had a student account with Santander and then it became a graduate
account. The account had an arranged overdraft but didnt attract interest until it became an
everyday account in July 2021.
Miss M has said she had many unfortunate incidents, including being stalked which led to
her losing her job and becoming homeless. These all impacted her ability to repay the
overdraft facility. Miss M says she kept Santander updated about her circumstances at all
times and had a specific caseworker dealing with her case. Miss M says when that
caseworker was unavailable, she had to explain her circumstances to several members of
staff which she found distressing.
Miss M also says shed been given inconsistent information, about why she needed to open
a different account and what the implications of her inability to repay the overdraft facility
were, including adverse information on her credit file. Miss M says shed asked Santander to
write to her as she had a learning disability, but she didnt receive the letters sent.
Also, Santander blocked Miss Ms card and couldnt remove it or explain why this was done.
She says some members of staff she dealt with at Santander were rude to her and that had
caused her further distress.
Santander didnt think it had done anything wrong, it says it supported Miss M in her difficulty
but was unable to offer her an open-ended interest free overdraft facility. It has also
requested Miss Ms permission to record her circumstances on its system so that she didnt
need to repeat herself whenever she called.
One of our adjudicators looked at what both parties said and thought that Santander treated
her fairly, Miss M disagreed and said Santander hadnt done enough.
Since bringing the complaint to this service, Miss M has moved her account to a different
bank. It isnt clear if she took Santanders offer to record her circumstances on its system or
whether that offer is still relevant to Miss M.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss M has clearly had a very challenging few years, she has gone into some detail about
her struggles and how this has impacted her ability to get back on her feet. Its positive that
Miss M has said she has now found a permanent job and is trying to rebuild her life.
My role is to consider what happened here, and if Santander has done something wrong,
what it needs to do to put it right.
Having thought about all the information here, Santander has charged interest in line with
the overdraft facility. Santander helped Miss M in her financial difficulties and didnt chase
Miss M for the repayment of the overdraft which it was entitled to do. I havent seen evidence
that it recorded adverse information on her credit file.
Santander explained that it couldnt offer Miss M the overdraft facility without interest
indefinitely and gave her the options available. It also had a specific caseworker that dealt
with her. But I understand that wasnt always possible to connect her to Miss M when she
called. I know this upset Miss M because she didnt want to have to explain her
circumstances to other staff members. But I cant say its unreasonable that her named
contact wasnt always available when she called. Santander has offered to note Miss Ms
circumstances on its system, so she doesnt have to repeat herself if she speaks to other
staff members, which feels fair to me.
Santander explained that to help Miss M manage the overdraft debt on her main account
she could open another account where her wages would be paid. This would let her pay off
her overdraft gradually. I appreciate Miss M became distressed when Santander suggested
that the overdraft facility could be removed because she hadnt made any payments to it.
She says she hadnt paid anything into the main account because of the advice Santander
gave her. I appreciate Miss Ms point, but I dont think the information from Santander was
unreasonable. The new account wouldve allowed her repay the overdraft debt slowly with
an amount she could afford. And the rest of her wages would be available to her through her
new account.
Ive listened to several call recordings between Miss M and Santander and can hear Miss M
was made aware Santander would follow up some of their conversations with letters. For
example, when Santander was sending out the income and expenditure form, Miss M
confirmed the address and said she picked up her post from there regularly. I appreciate that
at the time Miss M says she was homeless but Im also mindful that she was made aware of
the letters being sent and confirmed she was in a position to collect them. In those
circumstances, it wasnt unreasonable for Santander to write to her and expect her to
receive the letters. Santander also apologised to Miss M when she said some colleagues
were rude to her.
Miss Ms card got blocked and when she called Santander to find out why and how this
could be resolved, Santander was unable to explain the reasons or remove the block. I
understand this caused Miss M stress and inconvenience because she was unable to pay
her rent. Its unclear why the block was put on Miss Ms card as Santander has been unable
to explain this. I think it should have done more to resolve the issue with Miss Ms blocked
card and provide an explanation. Santander needs to compensate Miss M for this.
Overall, I think Santander treated Miss M fairly for the most part but I think the blocked card
and the delay with resolving this had a significant impact on Miss M. Im minded to ask it to
pay Miss M £200 by way of compensation.
Both parties have now responded to my provisional decision to say they agree.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.As both parties agree to my provisional findings, I see no reason to depart from those 
findings.
Putting things right
Santander should pay Miss M £200 for the trouble and upset caused when it blocked her 
card without explanation.
My final decision
I uphold Miss Ms complaint in part and direct Santander UK Plc to put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman