DRN-3071266
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R are unhappy with the amount esure Insurance Limited (esure) offered to settle 
their freezer contents claim under their household insurance. The policy was in joint names 
but because Mrs R dealt with the claim, and for ease, Ill refer only to her throughout my 
decision.
What happened
Mrs R had buildings and contents insurance with esure, which included cover for freezer and 
refrigerator contents up to a maximum of £1000, less the policy excess of £125 and a further 
voluntary excess of £100.
On return from holiday, Mrs R found that her freezer had defrosted, and all the contents 
were ruined. She made a claim under her policy for the full £1000. Mrs R provided copies of 
her bank statements showing her usual food spend, along with photos of her freezer and 
one of the five bags of ruined food. 
While esure accepted the claim, it didnt think the evidence supported the claim for the 
maximum cover. esure offered £400 less the excesses, bringing the final offer to £175. It 
later increased its settlement offer by £100 as a gesture of goodwill. Mrs R didnt think it was 
enough and repeated her request for the full policy amount.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought esure had settled the claim in line 
with the terms of the policy and that Mrs R hadnt provided enough evidence to support a 
higher claim.
Mrs R didnt agree. She thought it was unreasonable to keep rotting food as evidence and 
she felt unable to photograph all the bags due to the smell. Mrs R also pointed out that, at 
the time, many people were storing food because of the uncertainty around availability 
during the pandemic, so it wasnt reasonable for esure to use a standard approach to assess 
the likely contents of her freezer.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise this is not the outcome Mrs R hoped for, Ive decided not to uphold her 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
The loss of freezer contents is not in dispute, and esure accepted Mrs Rs claim. The issue 
is that esure doesnt think Mrs R has shown that she had food to the value of £1000 in her 
freezer.
Ive looked at the policy documents to find out what Mrs R was covered for and under what 
terms. The schedule confirms that Mrs R had cover for freezer and refrigerator contents up 
to a maximum of £1000. The policy states:
How to make a claim
please keep any damaged items for inspection  do not dispose of anything
We may require evidence of ownership and/or proof of purchase, such as 
receipts/valuations  photographs will also help Us to proceed with the claim
General conditions that apply when making a claim:
if You or Your Household do not comply with any part of these conditions, We have 
the right not to pay the claim 
You must not dispose of any damaged property without Our permission. We can 
enter any Building where there has been loss or damage and deal with any 
damaged property in a reasonable manner 
to help Us process Your claim We may ask for information that is reasonably 
required to support the claim. We will only ask for information relevant to Your claim 
such asreceipts, reports on the cause of damage, photographs, proof of 
ownership or value
I think the terms make it clear that esure would expect to see evidence of the loss.
esure rejected Mrs Rs request for the full amount covered because she didnt provide it with 
evidence that shed had £1000 worth of food in her freezer. Im satisfied that the terms allow 
esure to request proof and, in its absence, it can choose not to pay the claim. 
Nevertheless, esure accepted Mrs Rs claim but it only offered £400. So, Ive looked at the 
evidence esure relied on to inform its decision to offer a lower settlement amount to see 
whether its offer was fair.
Mrs R provided photos of the spoiled food and freezer, and bank statements showing her 
usual spend on food. In its final response to her complaint, esure said it didnt think shed 
shown that she had £1000 worth of food in her freezer. It explained that only one of the five 
bags showed the contents and, in other correspondence with Mrs R, esure said that the 
evidence of spend didnt indicate how much of the purchased food was kept in the freezer.
Having looked at the photos and bank statements, I think esure reached a fair conclusion. 
The bank statements show numerous transactions at a mix of premium and medium 
supermarkets. But there arent any receipts to show what was purchased or, specifically, 
how much of it was food. While Mrs R said the stores were all food stores only, I cant agree. 
The grocery stores listed sell non-food items and food stuffs unsuitable for the freezer. So I 
can see why esure didnt think the transactions proved that the freezer contained food to the 
value of the claim.
Moving on to the photo of the bin bag, I can see that there are food items in the bag but its 
not clear how much. There is no evidence of the contents of the other four bags. I agree with 
Mrs Rs point that it wouldve been unreasonable to expect her to keep rotting food just to 
meet the policy conditions. But I think its reasonable that esure expected her to meet the 
other conditions, such as providing receipts or photos. I dont think its fair to say photos of 
the contents of all bags was an unreasonable expectation in the circumstances. Again, I can 
see why esure didnt think the photo of one bag proved the loss for which Mrs R claimed. Going back to the policy terms, esure couldve declined Mrs Rs claim because she didnt 
keep the food for inspection, nor did she provide sufficient evidence to prove her loss. 
However, esure offered £400, later increasing that figure to £500 as a gesture of goodwill.
Ive looked at the food matrix esure relied on to make an assessment of the likely value of 
the contents of the freezer. The matrix provides an estimate based on size and type of 
freezer and the supermarket brand. The photo shows the freezer to consist of seven 
shelves/drawers, which Mrs R confirmed had a total capacity of 277 litres, and her bank 
statements provide evidence of shopping at premium and medium brand stores. Based on 
this information, Im satisfied that esures offer is in line with the matrix it uses for claims of 
this type, and leans toward favouring Mrs R. Therefore, I think esures offer was reasonable.
Finally, Ive thought about Mrs Rs point that the circumstances of her claim were not 
ordinary times, so esure couldnt fairly rely on its standard approach. She thinks its 
reasonable to say a proportion of her total shopping was stored in the freezer. I agree, but 
the contents were still limited by the freezer capacity, and the value by the type of store she 
shopped at. And that was the basis for esures assessment of the likely value of the freezer 
contents. So I think its reasonable that esure used its standard approach.
In summary, Im satisfied that esure handled the claim in line with the policy terms and 
conditions which required Mrs R to prove her loss. I havent seen any evidence that esure 
treated Mrs R unfairly when it offered her £500, less excesses, in settlement of her freezer 
contents claim, so I wont be asking esure to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman