DRN-3310005
The complaint
Mr P has complained about the transfer of a personal pension to a self-invested personal 
pension (SIPP) in 2015. His transfer proceeds were invested in a property development 
scheme that has since failed. He holds Wellington Court Financial Services Limited 
responsible for his losses.
What happened
In 2015 Mr P transferred the benefits he had in a personal pension to The Orbis SIPP 
administered by Guinness Mahon Trust Corporation Limited (GMTC). He took 25% of his 
transfer value as tax free cash, with most of the remainder being invested in Dolphin Capital, 
a German property development scheme that has since failed. The investment now looks to 
have little value. Mr P says Wellington Court is responsible for his losses.
Mr P complained to Wellington Court in 2019. In response, Wellington Court said Mr P has 
never been its customer, so it has no case to answer. It says any paperwork linking Mr P to 
Wellington Court is fraudulent. Mr P referred his complaint to us. 
Our investigator said that an advice fee was taken from Mr Ps SIPP and paid to Wellington 
Court. She thought this was enough evidence to show Wellington Court was responsible for 
Mr Ps transfer and, therefore, that this was a complaint we could look at. Wellington Court 
maintains it has never dealt with Mr P so the matter has been passed to me for a decision. 
I issued a provisional decision in which I outlined in detail the evidence that was available to 
me. I repeat what I said here:
Review of evidence as described in my provisional decision
1. Documents provided by Mr P and GMTC
The following were provided by Mr P and GMTC:
I. An undated letter to GMTC, sent on Wellington Court headed paper, applying to the 
Orbis SIPP on Mr Ps behalf. The letter said it was enclosing an application for the 
SIPP and an invoice. It was date-stamped as being received by the PAN Group 
(administrators and trustees) on 1 June 2015. The letter is signed on the behalf of 
Mr A from Wellington Court. The signature is indecipherable. 
II. The Orbis SIPP New Application Checklist. This was a series of tick boxes of the 
various documents (such as a SIPP application form and transfer discharge form) 
that the adviser had to check had been provided for the transfer to proceed. Like the 
covering letter, this was signed on the behalf of Mr A from Wellington Court rather 
than by Mr A himself. The signature is indecipherable but looks to be the same as the 
one on the covering letter. Under the signature, Mr As name has been printed by 
hand. Mr As first name was spelt incorrectly at first but was then corrected. An 
incorrect Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) reference number was also provided  
the number used was actually Wellington Courts Irish company registration number. 
The form was signed on 18 May 2015.
III. The Orbis SIPP application form, signed by Mr P on 14 May 2015.
IV. The Orbis SIPP Important Risk Notices document. This was a nine-page document 
that outlined the various risks of the SIPP. It was signed by Mr P on 14 May 2015.
V. An Adviser Remuneration Form. This set out the advice fee that Mr P had agreed to 
pay Wellington Court. It said the following:
I have appointed [Mr A] of Wellington Court Financial Services Ltd ("The Company")
to provide me with advice in relation to The Orbis SIPP (The SIPP') and any related 
investment advice in respect of assets held within the SIPP
Initial Fee Renewal Fee Fixed Fee (£)
Transfers into the 
Scheme1% to a maximum 
of £800 plus VATNIL NIL
Single Premium NIL NIL NIL
Regular Premium NIL NIL NIL
I confirm my agreement to these charges and authorise Guinness Mahon Trust
Corporation to debit the fees from the SIPP Bank Account and pay them on my 
behalf, this agreement replaces any existing agreement
Mr P signed the form on 14 May 2015.
VI. Two Orbis SIPP Transfer Details Information Forms. These set out the details of 
Mr Ps two intended transfers, including the policy number of the two pensions he 
was intending to transfer and their transfer values. These were signed by Mr P on 
14 May 2015. Only one of these polices was transferred.
VII. Various documents from Mr Ps transferring pension provider.
VIII. A Dolphin Capital loan note application form signed by Mr P (and a witness) on 
10 July 2015. The investment amount was recorded as being just under £50,000.
2. Mr Ps recollections
Mr P says he was cold called about his pension and encouraged to transfer to achieve 
better returns. 
3. Documents from Wellington Court
Ill come on to what Wellington Court has said in response to Mr Ps complaint in more 
detail later in my decision. But its worth pointing out at this stage that it hasnt provided 
any documents in relation to Mr Ps transfer because it says it didnt advise Mr P and 
that Mr P has never been a client of Wellington Court. 
Wellington Court has, however, said (in relation to several cases) that it did some 
consultancy work on behalf of GMTC relating to the transfer of pensions into the Orbis 
SIPP. It says the work was limited to checking files to ensure there were no transfers of safeguarded benefits into the SIPP because GMTC didnt want to receive that type of 
transfer.
We asked Wellington Court to provide us with a copy of the consultancy agreement it 
had with GMTC and further details about its work  for instance the fees it earned  but 
it hasnt done so. It has, however, said its regulator, the FCA, contacted it in 2016 in 
relation to some GMTC pension cases which led to it meeting with the FCA on 
10 August 2016. It has provided notes from that meeting to show its consultancy work 
with GMTC was discussed with the FCA.
4. Payment to Wellington Court in relation to Mr P
Mr P transferred £71,085.50 from his personal pension to the Orbis SIPP on 15 June 
2015. A 1% fee on this amount (along the lines of the initial fee in the Adviser 
Remuneration Form described above) would equal £710.86. According to his SIPP 
transaction statement, this exact amount was taken from Mr Ps transfer value on 
16 June 2015. It was recorded on his SIPP statement as a Wellington IFA fee. I can 
see the £710.86 was paid from the SIPP deposit account to the GMTC client account on 
16 June 2015. This amount was included with 23 other 1% fees for other individuals and 
the total amount, which came to £8,881.16, was then paid from the GMTC client 
account to Wellington Courts bank account on the same day  16 June 2015.
 
5. Evidence from similar cases
I am aware of a significant number of other complaints about Wellington Court which 
have very similar features to Mr Ps case. Whilst Im deciding on whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ps case, for context I think its reasonable to 
consider the evidence from these other cases alongside the evidence that has been 
collected in relation to Mr Ps case. Specifically:
I. GMTC has provided screen-shots showing the entries made into an advisers portal 
for some transfers. The portal records the details of the individual transferring (name, 
address, details of transferring scheme and so on) as well as the advisers name  
Mr A  and the name of an introducer. 
II. Paperwork from other complaints show a number of introducer firms were involved in 
these transfers.
III. The recollections of the complainants in other cases havent been particularly 
detailed. 
IV. Other payments to Wellington Court 
Information provided by GMTC in relation to other complaints shows that 1% 
payments along the same lines as Mr Ps were made to the same Wellington Court 
bank account in relation to many other individuals, including (but not necessarily 
limited to) the following:
£9,239.74 on 30 March 2015 in relation to thirty-two transferred policies (for 22 
individuals  some individuals transferred more than one policy). The payment 
reference that was to appear on Wellington Courts statement was GM 
ADVISER FEES. £8,588.76 on 24 April 2015 (the number of policies and individuals this payment 
relates to isnt clear). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington 
Courts statement was OR ADVISER FEES.
£9,503.33 on 20 May 2015 in relation to 31 transferred policies (for 19 
individuals). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington Courts 
statement was ORBIS SIPP FEES.
£8,881.16 on 16 June 2015 in relation to 24 transferred policies (for 21 
individuals). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington Courts 
statement was GM IFA FEES. This payment included Mr Ps £710.86 fee. 
£11,423.77 on 26 June 2015 in relation to 25 transferred policies (for 17 
individuals). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington Courts 
statement was GM ADVISER FEES.
£7,731.07 on 15 July 2015 in relation to 23 transferred policies (for 18 
individuals). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington Courts 
statement was ORBIS CLIENT FEES
£4,762.19 on 27 July 2015 in relation to 14 transferred policies (for 12 
individuals). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington Courts 
statement was GM IFA FEE.
£3,091.06 on 5 August 2015 in relation to 8 transferred policies (for eight 
individuals). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington Courts 
statement was GM IFA FEES.
£4,624.87 on 18 August 2015 in relation to 12 transferred policies (the number of 
individuals this relates to isnt clear). The payment reference that was to appear 
(and did appear) on Wellington Courts statement was GM IFA FEES.
£6,573.32 on 25 August 2015 in relation to 14 transferred policies (the number of 
individuals this relates to isnt clear). The payment reference that was to appear 
(and did appear) on Wellington Courts statement was GM IFA FEES.
£12,672.03 on 7 October 2015 in relation to 46 transferred policies (for 31 
individuals). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington Courts 
statement was GM IFA FEES.
The above is based on information provided in Mr Ps case and other similar cases. 
It has been presented to Wellington Court in other decisions. Its not necessarily 
comprehensive. A quick review shows that there are no entries for September 2015 
for instance. So I think its fair to say the above shows that at least £87,000 was 
paid from GMTC to the one Wellington Court bank account in relation to over 200 
transferred policies in a six month period. Its entirely possible that payments were 
happening before and after this six month period too.
For completeness, it should be noted that we have the records for the payments 
being made from GMTC but we dont have the records for all those payments being 
received by Wellington Court other than for the £6,573.32 payment on 
25 August 2015 and the £4,624.87 payment on 18 August 2015. This is because 
Wellington Court has only provided us with heavily redacted bank statements. I see 
no plausible reason why GMTCs payments wouldnt have all reached Wellington Court and Ill proceed on that basis. Weve invited Wellington Court to provide us 
with its unredacted bank statements for the period under review to show the 
payments it did, and did not, receive from GMTC. It has chosen not to provide these 
statements. As this is a provisional decision, Wellington Court can still provide these 
statements for me to consider.
On a similar note, Wellington Court hasnt explicitly confirmed which of the above 
payments it did receive from GMTC or even referred in any detail to the list of 
payments described above. It has said that all payments received from GMTC 
were for its consultancy work with GMTC  which suggests it received all the 
payments outlined above. But it also says it wasnt aware that GMTC was deducting 
1% fees from transfer values and purportedly paying those fees to Wellington 
Court  which suggests it is saying it only received some of the payments in 
question. As I said above, Wellington Court can provide clarity on this issue by 
providing a complete, unredacted, set of its bank statements for the period under 
review. At the very least, it would be helpful it if told us categorically whether it 
received all the payments outlined above and, if not, what payments it did receive.
6. Other evidence
Wellington Courts financial statements show minimal income prior to 2015 followed by a 
significant increase in income for the period coinciding with the above payments from 
GMTC.
What did I conclude in my provisional decision?
In my provisional decision, I acknowledged that there were a number of question marks in 
relation to Wellington Courts involvement in the transfers. Most notably there is the absence 
of evidence to show there was any direct contact between Mr P (and others like him) and 
Wellington Court, a lack of the usual paperwork one would expect to find if advice had been 
given (a fact-find, suitability report and so on), unexplained errors in the paperwork that did 
exist and no letters or emails between GMTC and Wellington Court in relation to the transfer 
of Mr Ps pension (and other pensions).
However, I went on to conclude that Wellington Court had been paid a 1% advisory fee in 
relation to Mr Ps transfer and many other transfers. I came to this conclusion because the 
documentary evidence showed Mr P (and others like him) agreed to pay a 1% advisory fee 
in relation to the Orbis SIPP, and the investments intended to be held in the SIPP. I thought 
the documentary evidence persuasively showed that the 1% fees were paid to Wellington 
Court. These fees were, in aggregate, substantial. Because Wellington Court didnt query 
them at the time, and didnt provide a persuasive argument for why it didnt query them at 
the time, I concluded that the fees werent fraudulent  as Wellington Court had argued  but 
were in line with what it was expecting for its involvement in the transfers in question. I 
therefore provisionally concluded that Wellington Court was engaged in advisory business 
relating to the transfer of pensions  including Mr Ps pension  to the Orbis SIPP. 
I went on to provisionally conclude that Mr Ps complaint was in the jurisdiction of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. I was satisfied that Mr P was an eligible complainant, the 
activities in question were carried on from an establishment in the UK, Wellington Court is a 
regulated business and Mr P brought his complaint within the relevant time limits. I was also 
satisfied that the activities complained about fall within our jurisdiction because they relate to 
acts or omissions in carrying on the regulated activities of advising on and arranging 
pensions and investments.With regards to the merits of Mr Ps complaint, I noted Wellington Court doesnt appear to 
have done anything in return for the 1% advice fee it was paid in relation to Mr Ps transfer. I 
didnt comment on whether this was deliberate on Wellington Courts part  that is, it knew it 
had to provide advice but chose not to; or whether it was an oversight on its part  that is, it 
didnt realise it should have provided advice. I didnt make a finding on this because the key 
point was whether the transfer was suitable. And, on this point, I was satisfied that the 
transaction wasnt suitable because Mr P ended up investing in a way that was beyond his 
risk tolerance.
I provisionally upheld Mr Ps complaint and set out what I thought Wellington Court should 
do to put things right. 
I invited both parties to respond. Mr P had no further comments. Wellington Court made a 
number of comments in relation to similar complaints, which I address below.
What did Wellington Court say in response?
Wellington Court has made a number of comments in response to other decisions that have 
covered similar ground to this one. Ive summarised Wellington Courts responses as 
follows:
1. The Financial Ombudsman Service hasnt undertaken a thorough investigation into the 
complaint and the provisional decision includes findings that are unwarranted and not 
based on the evidence. The Financial Ombudsman Service is biased and is trying to 
frame Wellington Court. 
2. The Financial Ombudsman Service hasnt responded to all Wellington Courts emails.
3. Evidence hasnt been shared; a full disclosure would be required in court.
4. There are no grounds for complaint because the complainants have never been clients 
of Wellington Court. Any transfer paperwork that refers to Wellington Court is fraudulent 
and paperwork that looks to have originated from Wellington Court has been cloned. 
Complainants testimony does little to prove Wellington Courts involvement and 
Wellington Court has testimony from at least one client that says it didnt advise him and 
had no role in arranging his pension. No evidence has been provided of any direct 
contact between Wellington Court and the complainants or Dolphin Capital (where many 
complainants invested). 
5. The adviser on the paperwork  Mr A from Wellington Court  was not a registered 
advisor and therefore couldnt give advice on the transfers in question.
6. GMTC accepted business directly from individuals and from unauthorised advisers and 
introducers. 
7. GMTC, and its associates, were running a scam. The FCA should have known this and 
advised Wellington Court and the Financial Ombudsman Service of this at the time. 
GMTC and others are now involved in a mammoth cover-up of what happened.
8. Wellington Court isnt responsible for the operational failures of GMTC or its regulatory 
supervision. It is being held liable because it is the last man standing. It may be the 
victim of a turf war going on between various regulatory agencies. It has been singled 
out for being an Irish company. 9. The Financial Ombudsman Service has failed to recognise the obligations of GMTC, in 
particular in relation to undertaking due diligence on the underlying assets held in its 
SIPPs.
10. Because the complainants werent clients of Wellington Court, it cant comment on their 
previous pension arrangements, or their attitude to risk and needs.
11. Wellington Courts advisory involvement with GMTC was limited to three clients, the files 
for which have previously been given to the FCA. It makes little sense that Wellington 
Court has files for these three clients yet doesnt have files for other clients that it 
supposedly advised.
12. Wellington Court wouldnt have risked its reputation and licence by supporting 
unregulated activities.
13. The claims management companies (CMCs) that represent many complainants are 
bringing unwarranted complaints for commercial gain and are being encouraged by the 
Financial Ombudsman Service to do so. The Financial Ombudsman Service has failed 
to report fraudulent activities of CMCs and their clients to the police. 
14. To resolve matters, Wellington Court has proposed the following:
A conference call with the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
An investigation to be conducted by Wellington Court on the Financial 
Ombudsman Services behalf, for an agreed fee.  
15. Wellington Court reserves the right to take legal action against the Financial 
Ombudsman Service and any other parties.
Wellington Court has also provided telephone notes and emails which, in its view, support its 
position that the complainants cant recollect, and therefore couldnt have been clients of, 
Wellington Court.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the avoidance of doubt, this means Ive considered everything Wellington Court has 
said, although I will limit my findings to those areas that I now consider to be relevant to the 
outcome of the complaint and the process by which that outcome has been reached. 
Reviewing the evidence
My starting point here, as it was in my provisional decision, is the evidence that points to 
Wellington Court being paid advisory fees in 2015 in relation to a number of transfers to the 
Orbis SIPP (including Mr Ps transfer). I outlined this evidence in my provisional decision. 
Ive repeated it in the review of evidence section above. To recap, the evidence was four-
fold.
First, Mr P and many others signed an Adviser Remuneration Form which appointed Mr A 
of Wellington Court to provide advice in relation to The Orbis SIPP and any related 
investments held in that SIPP. The fee for that advice was recorded as being 1%.Second, Mr Ps SIPP statement shows that a 1% Wellington IFA fee was taken from his 
transfer on 16 June 2015. The fee (for £710.86) was then paid from the SIPP deposit 
account to the GMTC client and then paid, along with 23 other 1% fees (totalling £8,881.16) 
for other individuals transferring to the Orbis SIPP, to Wellington Courts bank account. 
GMTCs banking records show the £8,881.16 was to be recorded on Wellington Courts 
bank statement as GM IFA FEES. 
Third, 1% fees along the same lines were paid from GMTC to the same Wellington Court 
bank account in relation to a large number of other transfers to the Orbis SIPP over a six 
month period in 2015. In my provisional decision, I said payments of at least £87,000 relating 
to at least 200 policies were paid in this period. Further payments have since come to light 
pushing the total to nearly £100,000. The payment references were GM IFA FEES or 
something equally clear.
Fourth, Wellington didnt at any point query the above payments despite them being 
substantial and all clearly coming from the same source  GMTC. 
My view was, and remains, that this evidence is critical to the outcome of the complaint. It 
shows that many individuals  Mr P included  agreed to pay Wellington Court 1% of their 
transfer value for advice on the Orbis SIPP and their proposed investments. And it 
persuasively shows that Wellington Court received 1% payments in relation to those 
transfers. Wellington Court didnt query why it was receiving these fees. And its difficult to 
see how Wellington Court could have overlooked the payments  they are simply too large 
to not notice. Wellington Court would also have had to have overlooked the payments when 
preparing its financial accounts which also strikes me as being unlikely given the impact the 
fees had on its income in this period. 
So its reasonable to conclude from all this that the fees were in line with what Wellington 
Court had been expecting from GMTC for its role in the transfers. Tying all this together, Im 
satisfied Wellington Court was paid a 1% advice fee for the transfer of Mr Ps pension and 
many others like it. 
Wellington Court has pointed to the consultancy work it did with GMTC. It hasnt articulated 
in detail what its argument is in this respect  it hasnt even said which payments from 
GMTC it admits to receiving. But I can only assume that Wellington Court is either saying all 
the payments from GMTC catalogued above were for its consultancy work or that it received 
some payments from GMTC for its consultancy work which meant the payments catalogued 
above could easily have been overlooked which would give credence to its argument that 
the transfers were happening without its knowledge. 
I dont think the first argument stands up to much scrutiny because theres a paper trail  
outlined above  that shows the payments werent for consultancy work but related to 1% 
advice fees for a large number of policies that were transferred to the Orbis SIPP. Ill 
therefore proceed on the basis that Wellington Court can only be arguing that its consultancy 
work meant receiving payments from GMTC was a normal enough occurrence that it 
wouldnt have considered any other payments from GMTC as being unusual or a sign that it 
was a potential victim of fraud. 
For this latter argument to be plausible, the fees Wellington Court earned for its consultancy 
work would have needed to have been of a similar magnitude to the 1% initial fees outlined 
above, been paid around the same time and had similar payment references in order for 
Wellington Court to have considered the payments as being nothing unusual. Unfortunately, 
Wellington Court hasnt provided any evidence to support this argument. It says it no longer 
has records relating to its consultancy work with GMTC. And it has chosen to be selective in 
terms of the bank statements it has provided to us meaning I cant see whether it could, plausibly, have overlooked payments of nearly £100,000 from GMTC because it was  so 
the argument goes  earning so much other income from GMTC.
Im also aware that other financial advice firms that have done similar consultancy work in 
relation to transfers to GMTC charged a fixed fee of £30 per case. So for Wellington Court to 
have earned enough to have reasonably overlooked some payments from GMTC, it would 
have needed to have worked an unfeasibly large number of cases to make the numbers add 
up. Alternatively, it could have charged more than £30 per case. But even with this 
assumption, the numbers dont look feasible. A charge of £100 per case (unlikely in itself to 
just check whether a pension had safeguarded benefits) would still require 1,000 cases in 
order to produce an income in the region of £100,000. 
In short, whilst Wellington Court may have earned additional sums for its consultancy work, 
its not plausible that the fees it earned for such work could, realistically, have caused it to 
overlook the 1% advisory fees it was also receiving from GMTC. Those fees must therefore 
have been in line with what Wellington Court had been expecting from GMTC for its role in 
the transfers.
Wellington Court says responsibility lies with GMTC and its associates (specifically 
unregulated firms). It says it is obvious that GMTC, and its associates, were running a 
scam and are now involved in a cover-up. It says any paperwork that links Wellington Court 
to the transfers is fraudulent, including any paperwork that looks to have originated from 
Wellington Court  which it says has been cloned. And it says GMTC being in administration 
should speak for itself.
In response, I come back to what Ive said previously which is that Wellington Court received 
substantial payments from GMTC in relation to a large number of transfers. If Wellington 
Court had been the victim of fraudulent activity, I would have expected it to have queried 
these payments at the time given they were substantial and, in Wellington Courts view, 
unexpected. The source of those payments was clear too  GMTC  so I dont see any 
practical reason why it wouldnt have been able to raise the issue with GMTC (or even the 
police). The fact that it didnt do so leads me to conclude the payments werent fraudulent 
but were, instead, in line with what Wellington Court was expecting to be paid for its 
involvement in the transfers. 
As an aside, its also worth noting that victims of scams wouldnt usually receive tens of 
thousands of pounds from the alleged scammer  and there appears to be little doubt that 
Wellington Court did receive those sorts of sums from the business it claims is behind the 
scam.
Wellington Court also points out that theres no evidence of there being any direct contact 
between it and the complainants (Mr P included). To support its case, it points to the 
recollections of the complainants, many of whom say they cannot remember dealing with 
Wellington Court. It has also referred to one of its clients who says Wellington Court had no 
involvement in his pension with GMTC. 
I think its likely that complainants dealt primarily with unregulated introducers. So I can 
understand why they cant recall much, if anything, about Wellington Court. However, this 
doesnt preclude the possibility of Wellington Courts involvement in the transfers. GMTC 
wanted the involvement of an IFA before accepting any transfers as evidenced by its 
Important Risk Notices document. The paperwork described above was evidence enough 
for GMTC to have accepted a transfer as coming through an IFA  Wellington Court. As a 
result, the transfers went ahead and the 1% initial advice fee was taken from each transfer 
value  Mr Ps included  and paid to (and accepted by) Wellington Court. So whatever the 
extent of Wellington Courts contact with Mr P, it was still nonetheless engaged in an advisory capacity in relation to his transfer and investment  and the transfer of many other 
pensions too. The absence of any of the usual paperwork one would expect from an advice 
process, and the absence of substantive testimony about meetings with Wellington Court, 
doesnt change any of this. It just means Wellington Court didnt properly advise Mr P, and 
others, despite being paid to do so.
I agree with Wellington Court when it says some of the transfer paperwork looks unusual. 
For instance, the letter that was sent to GMTC enclosing Mr Ps transfer papers was undated 
and signed on the behalf of Mr A (the adviser from Wellington Court named on the 
paperwork) rather than by Mr A himself. The signature on that letter is indecipherable. 
Likewise, the Orbis SIPP New Application Checklist was signed on Mr As behalf rather 
than by Mr A himself. The signature is again indecipherable (but looks to be the same as the 
one on the covering letter). Under the signature, Mr As first name was spelt incorrectly at 
first but was then corrected. And an incorrect FCA reference number was also provided. 
So, as I said in my provisional decision, there are question marks here. However, as I also 
went on to say in my provisional decision, my role is to make findings of fact based on the 
available evidence in order to establish whether this is a complaint the Financial 
Ombudsman Service can consider against Wellington Court and, if so, whether its fair and 
reasonable to uphold that complaint. My role isnt to speculate beyond that. Taking all the 
above into consideration, I see no reason to change my findings of fact, which were  and 
remain  as follows:
Wellington Court was engaged in advisory business relating to the transfer of 
pensions to the Orbis SIPP. This includes the transfer of Mr Ps pension.
Wellington Courts actions are not consistent with it being the victim of fraudulent 
activity.
Addressing Wellington Courts other comments
Wellington Court says GMTC failed to undertake due diligence of the SIPPs intended 
investments and questions whether the Financial Ombudsman Service and the FCA have 
investigated GMTC. However, my remit here is to consider Mr Ps complaint against 
Wellington Court. I wont, therefore, be making any findings on GMTCs due diligence. 
Similarly, it is for Wellington Court, rather than the Financial Ombudsman Service, to report 
individuals and organisations to the police if it thinks doing so is warranted.
 
Wellington Court has said it is willing to help us get to the bottom of the claims for a fee. 
But, as Im sure Wellington Court will appreciate, we are an impartial dispute resolution 
service. Delegating an investigation to the respondent of the complaint would go against that 
impartiality. Besides, Wellington Court has already had the opportunity to provide all the 
evidence and arguments it thinks are relevant.  
Wellington Court also asked for a meeting with us in order to resolve this matter. Under the 
Dispute Resolution (DISP) Rules, either party can request a hearing. It is for the 
ombudsman to consider whether the issues raised in such a request are material enough to 
warrant a hearing. 
Having read the case in its entirety once again, I havent seen anything that makes me think 
a hearing is required. Ive outlined the evidence Ive relied upon in coming to my provisional 
decision. And Im satisfied theres nothing in that evidence that would necessitate me 
speaking to either party in order to better understand that evidence. Much of the evidence is 
paper based and, to my mind, incontrovertible (pension and bank statements showing 
money flowing from GMTC to Wellington Court for instance). The paperwork that is more debateable  the transfer paperwork  has been debated extensively and I see no 
persuasive reason why a hearing would add significant insight to that debate. I also note that 
Wellington Court hasnt actually provided any specific reasons for why a fair decision can 
only be reached following a hearing. In the circumstances, and after considering all the 
available evidence, arguments and relevant DISP rules, Im satisfied I can fairly determine 
this complaint without a hearing.
Wellington Court has also said evidence hasnt been shared. It hasnt said exactly what 
hasnt been shared which makes responding difficult. But Im satisfied Wellington Court has 
seen the transfer paperwork for numerous complainants. Indeed, its case relies heavily on 
its views about the legitimacy of that paperwork  a message it repeats in relation to Mr Ps 
complaint. Im also satisfied Wellington Court has seen copies of SIPP statements showing 
the 1% Wellington IFA fee being deducted from a number of transfer values. Ive outlined in 
detail the money trail that shows a 1% fee being paid to Wellington Court in relation to 
Mr Ps transfer. I have also recorded in detail the evidence that shows similar payments 
relating to other transfers being made to Wellington Court. This is evidence that has been 
described in other decisions as well. Wellington Court has seen evidence of many of these 
payments too  and has even provided evidence to us of receiving some of those payments.   
I also pointed out that because Wellington Court didnt provide complete bank statements for 
the period under review, I only had evidence of it receiving some of the payments in 
question. But I said I thought it was reasonable  given the available evidence  to assume 
all the payments would have been received by Wellington Court. I invited Wellington Court to 
provide a more comprehensive set of bank statements if it disagreed with this assumption. It 
didnt do so. 
Given all the above, Im satisfied Wellington Court has been made aware of, and has had 
the opportunity to respond to, all the evidence Ive relied upon in coming to my decision.
On a similar note, Im satisfied I can come to a fair and reasonable decision based on the 
evidence Ive outlined. As such, I wont be carrying out Wellington Courts various requests 
to seek out further evidence from third parties. I dont consider the evidence to be necessary 
to my decision and Wellington Court has had ample opportunity to provide any evidence it 
considers important bearing in mind Mr P has been querying this transaction since 2019. 
Finally, Wellington Court says we havent replied to a number of its emails. For the 
avoidance of doubt, I have considered everything Wellington Court has said in relation to this 
case and the many others like it  even if I have limited my findings to those areas I consider 
relevant to the complaints outcome.
Jurisdiction
In my provisional decision, I explained why I thought Mr Ps complaint was in the jurisdiction 
of the Financial Ombudsman Service. I said:
Jurisdiction  in respect of the activities of Wellington Court
The Financial Ombudsman Service can consider a complaint under its compulsory 
jurisdiction if that complaint relates to an act or omission by a firm in the carrying on of one 
or more listed activities, including regulated activities (DISP2.3.1R). 
Advising someone to set up a SIPP and to transfer rights in existing personal pensions to 
that SIPP is a regulated activity. For the reasons given above, Im satisfied there was an 
advisory relationship between Wellington Court and Mr P. There is a lack of documentation 
to show what, if anything, Wellington Court did in relation to giving advice to Mr P. Potentially it didnt do anything (whether that was deliberate or an oversight isnt for me to speculate 
on). It doesnt make a difference to my jurisdiction over this complaint because if there were 
omissions in the provision of its advice, that doesnt mean the activity becomes any less 
regulated as a result. 
In addition, under Article 25(1) of The Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated 
Activities) Order 2001 (the RAO), making arrangements for another person to buy and sell a 
specified investment is a regulated activity. The FCAs Perimeter Guidance Manual (PERG) 
says the following about Article 25(1): 
The activity of arranging (bringing about) deals in investments is aimed at arrangements 
that would have the direct effect that a particular transaction is concluded (that is, 
arrangements that bring it about). 
I consider it unlikely that Mr P would have transferred and invested in the way he did if it 
hadnt been for Wellington Courts involvement. GMTC required the involvement of an 
advisory firm before it would accept a transfer. Mr P signed up for advice on the transfer and 
investment. He paid for that advice too. So I consider it unlikely that he would have 
proceeded if Wellington Court had indicated he shouldnt do so. Im satisfied, therefore, that 
Wellington Courts actions had the direct effect of bringing about Mr Ps transfer and 
investment. In short, what Wellington Court did here constitutes making arrangements under 
Article 25(1) of the RAO. 
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied the activities complained about fall within our 
jurisdiction. They relate to acts or omissions in carrying on the regulated activities of advising 
on and arranging pensions and investments.
Jurisdiction  was Mr P an eligible complainant?
DISP 2.7 covers what is required for someone to be an eligible complainant. Broadly 
speaking, there are two requirements that need to be met, relating to the entity bringing the 
complaint (DISP 2.7.3) and the relationship between that entity and the business being 
complained about (DISP 2.7.6). 
Im satisfied that Mr P meets the requirements of DISP 2.7.3 because he is a consumer 
(which is defined as an individual acting for purposes which are wholly or mainly outside that 
individuals trade, business, craft or profession). 
With regards the second requirement, Mr Ps complaint must also arise from matters 
relevant to a relationship with the business he is complaining about (referred to as the 
respondent in the rules). DISP 2.7.6 sets out 17 different types of relationship. The first of 
these is the relevant one for the purposes of Mr Ps complaint:
To be an eligible complainant a person must also have a complaint which arises from 
matters relevant to one or more of the following relationships with the respondent:
(1) the complainant is (or was) a customer, payment service user or electronic money 
holder of the respondent 
Clearly, for the reasons given previously, Wellington Court doesnt think Mr P was its 
customer. I disagree. 
Mr P signed a document agreeing to Wellington Court to provide him with advice and to pay 
Wellington Court 1% for that advice. That 1% fee was duly taken from his SIPP and 
recorded as a Wellington IFA fee on his SIPP statement. Ive seen nothing to show Mr P queried the fee when it was taken so I think its evident he wasnt, at that point, concerned 
about paying advice fees to Wellington Court. Clearly there doesnt appear to be any 
documents showing what, if anything, Wellington Court did in return for that advice fee. But 
Mr P doesnt strike me as being a particularly experienced investor so he wouldnt 
necessarily have known what to expect. So I think he would therefore have reasonably 
considered himself a customer of Wellington Court. And from Wellington Courts perspective, 
its difficult to argue Mr P wasnt its customer given it knowingly accepted the 1% payment in 
relation to Mr P and the transfer wouldnt have happened if it hadnt been for its involvement. 
In short, Mr P signed up for advice. He paid for advice. Wellington Court was sent, and 
accepted, payment for that advice. And that advice  or appearance of advice  was critical 
to Mr P transferring and investing in the way he did. So all things considered, Im satisfied 
there was a customer relationship here. 
I should point out at this point that I have seen similar cases where the advisory firm has had 
a relationship with another business (the introducer firm for instance) which involved it 
checking some aspects of a persons transfer paperwork. In such a situation, its likely that 
there is a business-to-business relationship (between the advisory firm and the introducer 
firm) rather than a direct relationship between the person transferring and the advisory firm. 
This has implications for the eligibility of the person bringing the complaint under DISP 2.7.6 
because the complainant doesnt appear to have been a customer of the respondent. 
This argument doesnt appear to apply here. Yes, Wellington Court may well have 
undertaken some consultancy work for GMTC. But, as outlined above, it hasnt provided 
enough information to establish what the exact nature of its relationship with GMTC was. 
And, for the reasons given above, there was a relationship between the complainant, Mr P, 
and Wellington Court anyway regardless of any consultancy arrangement that may have 
been in place. 
There are a number of other jurisdiction tests that must also be met before I can consider the 
merits of a complaint. Broadly speaking, these are that the complaint must be made against 
a regulated business, about an activity carried on from an establishment in the UK, and be 
brought within the time limits set out in the rules. The activities in question were carried on 
from an establishment in the UK. Wellington Court is a regulated business. And Mr P 
brought his complaint to us within the relevant time limits.
With all the above in mind, Im satisfied that this is a complaint I can consider.
Wellington Court hasnt provided any specific arguments in relation to jurisdiction except for 
its broader arguments about Mr P never being a client of Wellington Court. Ive dealt with 
those broader arguments and how they related to jurisdiction in my provisional decision. Ive 
addressed those arguments once again in my comments above and my conclusions havent 
changed. So, in the absence of any specific arguments about jurisdiction, I see no reason to 
change my provisional findings in this area. 
The merits of Mr Ps complaint
In my provisional decision, I concluded that Mr Ps complaint should be upheld. I said: 
It looks like the transfers to the Orbis SIPP were initiated by introducers who sourced 
potential clients and did much of the work in terms of getting clients into a position to 
transfer. And then in order to progress the transfer, GMTC required the involvement of an 
advisory firm. Wellington Court fulfilled that role. But theres a lack of paperwork to show 
what, if anything, Wellington Court did in return for its advice fee. I dont know if this was due 
to an oversight on its part  that is, it didnt fully understand what it should have done given the regulations in place at the time  or whether it knew its actions were negligent. Either 
way, it seems Wellington Courts involvement was little more than window dressing, 
providing a veneer of advice to satisfy GMTC in return for a 1% fee on a significant number 
of transfers. 
The above means there isnt any detailed documentary evidence to show what Mr Ps 
financial needs and circumstances were at the time. Nevertheless, Im satisfied the 
transaction wasnt suitable for Mr P. I say this because Dolphin Capital was a non-
mainstream, high risk, unregulated investment. Mr P doesnt appear to have had the degree 
of investment knowledge or risk appetite such an investment would have required. And it 
also looks like he allocated a large portion of his pension savings to the one investment 
which strikes me as being an unsuitable strategy even for the most knowledgeable and least 
risk averse investors. So I dont think the investment, and therefore the transfer, was 
suitable. 
That said, it strikes me that Mr P had some interest in reviewing his investment strategy with 
a view to generating higher returns because that seems to have been behind his decision to 
think about a transfer in the first place. My provisional approach to compensation, which is 
set out below, reflects the likelihood of Mr P being a relatively cautious investor who 
nevertheless wanted at least some exposure to riskier assets. 
Wellington Court hasnt provided any specific arguments in relation to what Ive said except 
for its broader arguments about Mr P never being a client of Wellington Court. I addressed 
these issues in my provisional decision. I revisited the same issues earlier in this final 
decision and my conclusions havent changed. I also havent been provided with any 
arguments or evidence from either party that makes me think my assumptions regarding 
Mr Ps needs and circumstances at the time of the transfer were incorrect  It follows from this 
that I remain satisfied with the approach I took with regards to the merits of Mr Ps complaint 
and the best approach to take to compensate him.
Putting things right
What should Wellington Court do?
My aim is that Mr P should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably
now be in if it hadnt been for Wellington Courts actions. I take the view that Mr P would 
have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely what he would have done 
differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr P's 
circumstances and objectives when he invested. 
To compensate Mr P fairly, Wellington Court must:
Compare the performance of Mr P's investment with that of the benchmark shown. If 
the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is 
payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable. 
Wellington Court should add interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, Wellington Court should pay into Mr P's pension plan to increase its 
value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not 
be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance.If Wellington Court is unable to pay the compensation into Mr P's pension plan, it 
should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it 
would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be 
reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
This is an adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment 
of tax to HMRC, so Mr P wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after 
compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr P's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. Wellington Court should assume 
that Mr P is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the 
reduction would equal 20%.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Wellington Court deducts income tax
from the interest, it should tell Mr P how much has been taken off. Wellington Court should
give Mr P a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
The Orbis
SIPPStill exists 
but illiquidFor half the
investment:
FTSE UK
Private
Investors
Income Total
Return Index;
for the other
half: average
rate from fixed
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my
final
decision8% simple per
year from date
of final
decision to
date of
settlement (if
compensation
is not paid
within 28 days
of the business
being notified
of acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the portfolio. This is complicated where an asset 
is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market) as in this case.
Wellington Court should take ownership of the illiquid assets by paying a commercial value 
acceptable to the pension provider. The amount Wellington Court pays should be included in 
the actual value before compensation is calculated.
If Wellington Court is unable to purchase the portfolio the actual value should be assumed to 
be nil for the purpose of calculation. Wellington Court may require that Mr P provides an 
undertaking to pay Wellington Court any amount he may receive from the investment in the 
future. That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on 
drawing the receipt from the pension plan.
Wellington Court will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Wellington
Court should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the
Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month.
Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any withdrawal from the portfolio should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the 
point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point 
on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if 
Wellington Court totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine 
the fair value instead of deducting periodically.
The Orbis SIPP only exists because of illiquid assets. In order for the Orbis SIPP to be 
closed and further fees that are charged to be prevented, those investments need to be 
removed. Ive set out above how this might be achieved by Wellington Court taking over the 
investment, or this is something that Mr P can discuss with the provider directly. But I dont 
know how long that will take.
Third parties are involved and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. If Wellington 
Court is unable to purchase the investment, to provide certainty to all parties I think its fair 
that it pays Mr P an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of wrapper fees 
(calculated using the fee in the previous year to date). This should provide a reasonable 
period for the parties to arrange for the Orbis SIPP to be closed.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr P wanted capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr P's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr P into that position. It does not mean that Mr P 
would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of 
index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects the sort of return Mr P could have obtained from investments suited 
to his objective and risk attitude.My final decision
I uphold Mr Ps complaint. To settle the complaint, Wellington Court Financial Services 
Limited must pay the amount calculated as set out above.
Wellington Court Financial Services Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mr P 
in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Christian Wood
Ombudsman