DRN-1712505
 
Complaint
Mr and Mrs P say Santander UK Plc (Santander), who were trading at the time as National 
& Provincial Building Society (N&P), mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
Background
Mr and Mrs P took out a PPI policy in connection with a mortgage. The mortgage started in 
1991. Mr and Mrs P applied for the PPI at that time. However, it is not clear when the actual 
point of sale was for the PPI, as it didnt start until 1993. Its not clear who was covered by 
the policy, but Santander think it was a joint policy. It seems likely that the policy would have 
protected the repayments to the mortgage and would have paid out for up to 24 months in 
the event that accident, sickness or unemployment prevented someone from working. 
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. Santander didnt disagree with the adjudicator. So the 
complaint has come to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ps case.
Im upholding Mr and Mrs Ps complaint and Ill explain why.
Its not straightforward to decide a case when there is little or no information available from 
the time of the sale, as is the case here. The sale happened over 27 years ago at least, so 
Im not surprised that neither Santander nor Mr and Mrs P have been able to provide much 
of the specific sale documents from so long ago. In this case we have no policy schedule or 
policy document from the time of the sale. Where there isnt much evidence for me to 
consider, I need to make my decision based on a balance of probabilities  that is to say, Ill 
consider what I do have, look at what both sides have said, and make a decision based on 
what I think most likely happened. 
The questions I need to consider are whether Santander gave Mr and Mrs P information that 
was clear, fair and not misleading in order to put them in a position where they could make 
an informed choice about the insurance they were buying. And whether in giving any advice 
or recommendation, Santander took adequate steps to ensure the product it recommended 
was suitable for their needs. 
Santander said it gave advice to Mr and Mrs P about whether they should take out the 
policy. So Santander had to make sure that the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs P. Having 
considered all the submissions made in this case, I do not think that Santander ensured the 
policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs P, most likely. I explain why I say that below.I have looked at the oldest policy booklet we have for Abbey National in our records and the 
booklets from 1989 and 1991 both have working more than 16 hours a week as part of the 
eligibility criteria for someone taking out the policy. But the business that sold the PPI was 
N&P. I have looked at the oldest policy booklet we have for N&P (May 1994) and it doesnt 
have working more than 16 hours a week as part of its eligibility criteria. Instead, it has it as 
part of its definition of employment. That being so, someone working less than 16 hours a 
week would not meet the criteria of someone who was employed and therefore could not 
have claimed for unemployment.
So, from what we know of similar policies from the time, and from what we know about 
policies sold by the business a year or so later, it seems unlikely that someone working less 
than 16 hours a week would be able to make a successful claim for unemployment on the 
policy. My first finding is that, for the reasons given above, I think its most likely that the 
policy sold to Mr and Mrs P would have prevented someone making a successful claim on it 
if they worked less than 16 hours a week. 
And that would have mattered to Mrs P because I think its more likely that she was working 
less than 16 hours a week at that time. I say this because Santander has provided a copy of 
the mortgage application that was signed and dated 8 November 1991. The mortgage 
application shows that Mr and Mrs P were interested in PPI and agreed to take it out in 
1991. It also records that Mrs P was working as an agency nurse and was earning £2,500 a 
year. The salary (£2,500 a year) suggests that Mrs P was not working more than 16 hours a 
week, most likely.
Santander says the PPI started on 1 January 1993. They have no explanation for the delay 
between the mortgage starting and the policy starting, which is understandable given these 
events occurred so long ago. Santander said that there is a gap between the mortgage 
application being completed and the policy starting, so Mrs P may have had different 
circumstances at the time the policy started. We asked Mrs P about this and she told us that 
in 1993 she was a full time student and worked as and when as an agency nurse. 
Santander asked Mrs P, through us, to provide evidence of her circumstances in January 
1993. Mrs P told us she had no evidence to support her testimony due to the passing of 
time. 
Where the evidence is missing or contradictory, I have to reach my decision on what I think 
is most likely to have happened. I have seen no evidence that undermines the information 
collected about Mrs Ps employment in the mortgage allocation dated 8 November 1991. 
And I have seen little or nothing that calls into question Mrs Ps testimony that she was still 
so employed in 1993. So, having reviewed all the submissions made in this case, I think that 
information suggests that Mrs P was, most likely, working as an agency nurse working less 
than 16 hours a week when the policy was sold. 
So, it seems that in selling the PPI to someone who was unlikely to be able to make a 
successful claim for unemployment under the policy, Santander sold something that was 
unsuitable to Mr and Mrs P. 
As such I think Mr and Mrs P have lost out as a result of buying PPI and that they should get 
back everything they paid for it.
As I think that the policy was mis-sold, Santander needs to do something to put things right. 
What Santander should do to put things right
Santander should put Mr and Mrs P in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out 
PPI. DBS should:Pay Mr and Mrs P the amount they paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year. 
If Mr and Mrs P made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander can take 
off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires DBS to take off tax from this interest. Santander must 
give Mr and Mrs P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. 
Santander UK Plc should put things right by doing what Ive said above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 August 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman