DRN-3677000
The complaint
Mrs S has complained about esure Insurance Limited. She isnt happy that it turned down a 
claim under her home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs S made a claim under her home insurance policy after she had problems with her 
drains. But when esure looked into the claim it turned it down. This was because it was of 
the view that the problems with the drains was caused by defective design or construction as 
opposed to an insured event. 
Mrs S wasnt happy about this as she felt the damage to her drains was caused by ground 
movement at her property, so she complained to esure and then this Service. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs S but didnt uphold her complaint. He considered 
the various reports and documentation provided by both sides. But he didnt think there was 
sufficient evidence to say that the problems were caused by ground movement as opposed 
to defective design.
As Mrs S didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think the complaint should be upheld. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Mrs S, but Ill explain why.
I can understand Mrs S frustration and disappointment that her claim hasnt been met by 
esure as she has faced a problem with her drains in recent times and feels that esure should 
pay the claim. But I have to be fair to both sides when I consider a complaint and I havent 
seen sufficient evidence to support Mrs S here and say that esure have acted unreasonably.
I know Mrs S feels that her problems must be caused by ground movement but her own 
report has only suggested this and also outlined this is assuming there has not been a 
history of blockage. Mrs S drains are bellied with issues appearing to be from the gradient 
or fall and the most common cause of this is defective installation. And so, Id need to see 
evidence to negate this and I dont think her report suggesting ground movement is strong 
enough here. I would need something more conclusive than this to support her position and I 
would expect such evidence to define when the ground movement most likely happened and 
what caused the movement. 
I note that Mrs S claims that ground movement has caused problems with large sections of 
her drains and movement to her manholes which would have meant a significant amount of 
ground movement. But there isnt any real evidence of this from her expert or suggestion of 
movement affecting the house. Plus, I havent been provided with any evidence or report 
suggesting why it isnt possible for any problems in construction or design to surface now. 
And it is possible that the problem with the drains has simply got worse over time. 
I know Mrs S has also questioned why her property would have passed building regulations 
over 20 years ago when it was built if the drains were defective in anyway at the time of 
installation. But difficulties often appear after a period of time and constant use can 
exacerbate problems that are in existence. And as our investigator outlined problems with 
buildings often come to light after a period of time which is why new build warranties exist, 
so I dont find this particularly unusual. 
Usually this type of defect with the drains is there from the beginning  or happens if theres 
a significant impact on the pipework, such as something collapsing on it from above. If that 
was the case Id expect Mrs S to be aware of this and her drainage expert to have identified 
such a problem and explain what happened.  
So, although I know this will be disappointing for Mrs S, I dont think esure have acted 
unreasonably in relying on their experts evidence who have been clear that the cause of the 
damage is due to poor installation in turning down the claim. And if Mrs S gains any further 
evidence or expert opinion or report I would expect esure to consider it. 
 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman