DRN-4124136
The complaint
Mrs A complains about the advice True Potential Wealth Management LLP gave to her to 
transfer the benefits from her defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a self-
invested personal pension (SIPP). She says the advice was unsuitable for her and believes 
this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
Mrs A spoke with True Potential in December 2016 to discuss her previous pension and 
retirement needs. At that time, within the previous year, she'd been made redundant from 
her employer of around 20 years and had found work with another firm. Shed been a 
member of her former employers DB scheme until redundancy.
True Potential completed a fact-find to gather information about Mrs As circumstances and 
objectives. Amongst other things it noted that:
Mrs A had not yet turned 48 years old. She was in good health, divorced with two 
children aged around 11 and 13. She received child and spousal maintenance of 
£30,000 per year.
Mrs A was employed earning around £110,000 before any bonus (of up to 25% of 
salary) which might be payable. 
She and her employer were together paying around £916 a month into her current 
employers defined contribution (DC) pension scheme.
Her home was worth around £1.6 million with an outstanding mortgage of around 
£410,000, which she was repaying at around £2,055 a month.
She was considering selling her home and downsizing once her youngest daughter 
had finished university, probably when Mrs A was 58 years old. 
She had £130,000 invested in savings and £15,000 held in shares.
She had further savings of £50,000 intended as an emergency fund. 
She wanted to retire at 55-60 while maximising her tax free cash (TFC).
She believed she would require an income of around £3,500 a month net once her 
mortgage was repaid. 
True Potential carried out an assessment of Mrs As attitude to risk, which it deemed to be 
balanced. It gathered information about Mrs As DB scheme and obtained a transfer value 
analysis (TVAS) report. Mrs As DB scheme had a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of 
around £1,030,100. If Mrs A took her DB benefits at age 55 the Scheme would pay her TFC 
of £194,958 and a yearly income of £29,243 (gross). If she didnt take TFC then the yearly 
pension would be £41,505. The growth rates required (the critical yield) to match those 
benefits from an alternative arrangement would be 7.8% and 10.94% respectively. If she 
remained in her scheme until its normal retirement age of 60 it would pay her TFC of 
£207,234 and an income of £36,473. If she didnt take TFC her yearly income would be 
£52,538. The critical yields to match those benefits were 4.45% and 6.64%.
In January 2017 True Potential sent Mrs A its suitability report setting out its analysis and 
recommendations. It recommended that she should transfer the funds from her DB scheme 
to a named SIPP. True Potential said that by transferring Mrs A would be able to achieve her 
objectives of:
Having sufficient levels of income in retirement.
Have the flexibility to vary her income in retirement. 
Provide death benefits for her daughters.
Mrs A accepted True Potentials advice and transferred her DB funds into the named SIPP.
In December 2021 Mrs A complained to True Potential that its 2017 advice wasnt in her 
best interests. Amongst other things she said True Potential had made a huge play about 
her DB pension being lost if she died. True Potential replied in 2022. In short it said its 
suitability report had highlighted that providing capital benefits on her death could result in 
lower income in retirement. It had noted in its fact-find that, with property equity and death in 
service cover, Mrs As daughters were already financially secure should Mrs A die. As such 
its transfer recommendation was not made because of the availability of death benefits.
True Potential added that if Mrs A had taken income from her DB scheme at age 55 that 
would have left her with a shortfall in the early years of retirement. So it was likely that she 
would always have had to transfer her DB funds. But it added that after her state pension 
became payable, at 67, she would have had excess taxable income. 
True Potential also said that its computer analysis, based on 5% investment growth a year, 
minus charges, showed that her pension fund would be worth around £1.44 million by the 
time she was 55 and by taking that as drawdown would last her beyond her life expectancy. 
It said its recommendation had allowed Mrs A to meet her retirement goals. 
Mrs A brought her complaint to us. One of our Investigators looked into it. He recommended 
it should be upheld and said True Potential should calculate if Mrs A was owed 
compensation. In summary he said that, given her income needs, Mrs A was always likely to 
have a shortfall from her DB scheme whether she took funds at 55 or 60. But he said she 
could make up this shortfall from other sources including her savings and investments. He 
noted Mrs A had said that she was prepared to compromise on her income needs but 
True Potential hadn't examined this in detail. He added the critical yields to match the 
benefits from the DB scheme were unlikely to be met. And as such Mrs A was likely to 
receive benefits of a lower value than her DB scheme in retirement by transferring. 
Our Investigator added that if Mrs A wanted to leave a legacy for her daughters she could 
have considered insurance. So he didnt think the recommendation to transfer was in 
Mrs As best interests.
True Potential didnt initially reply to our Investigators assessment of the complaint so he 
referred it for an ombudsmans consideration. True Potential has since provided some 
further comments. Amongst other things it said that given the size of Mrs As CETV life 
assurance wasnt affordable. Also, as Mrs As DB fund was insufficient to meet her needs 
and given her circumstances and objectives, its recommendation was suitable for her. It also 
questioned the applicable retirement date.
As True Potential didnt accept our Investigators assessment of the complaint its been 
passed to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.In bringing this complaint and in replying to it Mrs A and True Potential have made a number 
of comments. I've considered everything on file. But, in this decision I dont intend to address 
each and every issue raised. Instead I will focus on what I see as being the outstanding 
matters at the heart of Mrs As complaint and the reasons for my decision. 
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
What follows below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at 
the time of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of True Potential's 
actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, 
True Potential should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that it 
was in Mrs As best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not 
satisfied it was in her best interests.
Financial viability 
True Potential carried out a transfer value analysis report (as the regulator required) showing 
how much Mrs As pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the 
same benefits as her DB scheme (the critical yield).
True Potential gave its advice during the period when this Service was publishing 'discount 
rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint about a past pension 
transfer was being upheld. Ill explain that a discount rate is a measure of what an 
investment is likely to grow at in the future. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer to 
these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, we find it a useful tool to establish 
whether an investment is likely to match, or exceed, the required growth rates to make a DB 
transfer financially viable when the advice was given. Mrs A hadn't yet reached age 48 at the time of the advice and her preference was to retire at 
age 55, although her schemes normal retirement age was 60. The scheme did allow early 
retirement, although the benefits payable would be reduced. The critical yield required to 
match Mrs As benefits at age 55 was 10.94% if she took a full pension and 7.8% if she took 
TFC and a reduced pension. The critical yields reduced to 6.64% for a full pension and 
4.45% if she took TFC and a full pension at age 60. The relevant discount rate for Mrs As 
retirement at age 55 was 3.4% for 7 full years to retirement. This rose to 4% at age 60 for 
12 full years to retirement. 
Ive kept in mind that the regulator's projection rates had remained unchanged since 2014: 
the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and 
the lower projection rate 2%.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mrs As 
balanced attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be little point in Mrs A 
giving up the guarantees available to her through her DB scheme only to achieve, at best, 
the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, given the lowest critical yield was 
4.45% at age 60 and all the discount rates were below that I think Mrs A was likely to receive 
benefits of a lower overall value than the DB scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in 
line with that attitude to risk. 
True Potential said a comparison between critical yields and discount rates wasnt 
appropriate as the DB scheme would also leave Mrs A with a shortfall in retirement. Ive 
dealt with Mrs As income needs below. However, I've addressed here True Potentials 
comment in the light of the question of financial viability. Under COBS 19.1.2 the regulator 
required firms like True Potential to compare the benefits likely to be paid under a 
DB scheme with those payable under a personal pension by using reasonable assumptions. 
And while True Potential wasnt required to use discount rates to make that comparison I'm 
satisfied it remains a reasonable yardstick for that purpose. 
Similarly, when it produced its suitability report True Potential said that a critical yield of 7.8% 
for Mrs As desired retirement at age 55, while taking TFC, wasnt achievable. But it said that 
critical yield figures were based on the costs of buying an annuity on the same basis as the 
benefits provided by the DB scheme. And, as Mrs A didnt want an annuity, it implied the 
critical yield wasnt an appropriate measurement tool. But the regulator required 
True Potential to consider the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved to 
replicate the benefits being given up. So, at that time, it needed to provide an analysis based 
on the critical yield. And I do think it is a relevant consideration here, particularly as I dont 
think Mrs A could realistically say with any certainty whether she would want to take a 
regular income at retirement or not. She wasnt expecting to retire for at least another seven 
years. Its entirely possible that Mrs A would want at least some guaranteed income in 
retirement (which she could achieve by taking benefits from the DB scheme).
True Potentials said its computer analysis shows that Mrs A would have been able to meet 
her income needs by drawdown from a SIPP for the rest of her life. But True Potentials 
paperwork doesnt show all the inputs or the assumptions its used. It has said its analysis 
was based on a consistent investment return of 5%. This is not an impossible return for an 
investor with Mrs As attitude to risk, and it does accord with the regulators mid-level 
projection rate. But given the volatilities in the investment markets I think consistent growth 
at that level might well be difficult to achieve. 
Further, it appears that its analysis was not stress tested to allow for things like market 
crashes. And a fall or reduction in the sum invested at an early stage can have a far greater 
impact on the investment returns over a longer term. Thats because there is a smaller sum 
remaining to grow. So the computer analysis doesn't appear to show what would happen if the SIPP grew at lower levels, or that it allowed for any periods of poor investment 
performance. So I don't think they paint a complete picture of the likely future scenarios that 
Mrs A could be facing
Additionally, it would seem that True Potential has assumed that Mrs A would leave her 
funds invested, with exposure to the same elements of investment risk, after shed retired 
and begun taking an income from her fund. But that assumption doesn't allow for an element 
of de risking. Ill explain that its common, as investors get nearer to retirement, for the risk 
to be spread and some funds to be transferred to lower risk investments or bonds to attempt 
to protect those sums from the volatilities of the investment markets. But, theres no 
evidence True Potentials analysis considered that. And instead it relied on consistent mid-
level growth for the rest of Mrs As life. It follows that I'm not persuaded that True Potentials 
computer analysis is a compelling reason to disregard the comparison between critical yield 
and discount rates. And that comparison shows that Mrs A is likely to be worse off as a 
result of transferring. 
For this reason alone I dont think a transfer out of the DB scheme was in Mrs As best 
interests. Of course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. 
There might be other considerations which mean a transfer is in a consumers best interests. 
Ive considered this below. When doing so I've been mindful that True Potentials role was to 
find out what Mrs As wants and needs were and why. Its role wasnt simply to do what she 
wanted without appropriate analysis and challenge of her motives for doing so.
Flexibility, early retirement and income needs
Its evident that when discussing her goals Mrs A preferred to retire early. True Potentials 
fact-find originally records that was at 55  60. So it seems that, initially at least, her goal 
was to retire at some undecided point before she reached 60. But by the time True Potential 
gave its advice Mrs As preference was to retire at 55. 
I can fully understand Mrs As wish to retire early. I think most people would say that they 
would like to retire early if given the chance. I also think most people would understand that 
having the opportunity to retire early isn't worth compromising their income security for the 
remainder of their retirement for. It seems to me that this is something Mrs A was likely to 
reassess once she approached age 55. In fact Mrs A will turn 55 next year but shes 
indicated that she has no concrete plans to retire at present. And as such, I think early 
retirement was something that was  most likely  nice to have rather than a genuine need 
for her.
For most people, early retirement means a significant drop in income. And that would 
negatively impact most individuals spending power and lifestyle choices. So, when faced 
with that prospect at an early retirement age, most people choose not to retire. Instead they 
opt to continue working to support their current and future lifestyle options. And that seems 
to be a more likely prospect for Mrs A. But theres no evidence that True Potential seriously 
challenged her wish of early retirement at age 55. So I dont think it met its obligations to 
challenge her objectives in light of what she would be giving up.
Mrs A was still over seven years away from 55 and 12 from 60. So she had no need to make 
an urgent decision to transfer out of her DB scheme when she did. And, if she still felt she 
wanted to retire before age 60 and thought the income from her DB scheme wasnt enough 
for her needs at that time, she could have considered transferring her DB benefits to an 
alternative arrangement at that point. But that wasnt a decision she needed to make when 
she was still only 47 years old. However, it doesn't appear True Potential put that option to 
her.True Potential had calculated in its fact find that Mrs A would need an income in the region 
of £42,000 a year net in retirement. But, in its suitability report it said she would need 
between £3,000 and £4,000 a month net, roughly equivalent  at that time  to between 
£42,000 and £61,000 gross per year. And True Potential recorded that Mrs A wanted to take 
TFC, although it didnt say what she intended to use those funds for. However, her DB 
scheme would have paid her £41,505 at age 55, just short of her lower income level of 
£42,000 (gross). But that wouldn't have given her access to TFC. If she wanted to take TFC 
as well at age 55 the DB scheme would have paid her a gross yearly pension of £29,243 
together with TFC of £194,958. But, if shed insisted on retiring at 55 that wouldn't have been 
her only source of income. 
Its not clear from True Potentials file how long Mrs A could expect to receive child or 
spousal maintenance for. But its possible it would have stopped by the time she reached 55. 
However, she had other income sources. Aside from her emergency fund of £50,000, she 
had savings and shares amounting to around £145,000, which she could have drawn down 
income from if shed needed to. Also she had her new employers DC pension, which was 
increasing by around £916 a month. So, assuming she maintained those contributions to 
that, without factoring in any allowance for investment growth, that could be worth around 
£77,000 by her preferred retirement age of 55. And she could have used these sources of 
income to top up her DB scheme pension if shed remained in the scheme.
Further, its worth pointing out that, retirement at age 55 wasnt Mrs As only option. Shed 
told True Potential that, at some point in the future she wanted to downsize her property and 
buy a smaller one. Although she anticipated this wouldn't be until her youngest child was 
scheduled to finish university, which should have been when Mrs A turned 58. So, at that 
point she could have downsized and used any equity to both fund the purchase of her new 
home and also to provide an additional income.
Its also notable that, at age 58, the actuarial reduction for Mrs A taking early retirement from 
her DB scheme would have meant a smaller reduction in her annual pension. From whats 
on file I can see that, at age 58 she would have been entitled to a full pension of around 
£47,500. I dont have the figures for TFC and a reduced pension at that time, but those are 
likely to have been in the region of £200,000 with a pension of around £34,000. And again, 
by that time its likely her DC pension and savings could have increased. So this might have 
been a better consideration for her. And, again, if she didnt consider she had enough 
income from her DB scheme at that time then she could have looked into transferring at that 
point. But, theres no evidence that True Potential discussed with her that deferring her 
preferred retirement age and decision to transfer, might be in her best interests, as I think it 
should have done 
Also, had she remained in work until 60 then her DB fund alone would have come far closer 
to meeting her income needs without the need to consider income from other sources. And, 
by that time, her DC pension could have been worth in the region of £130,000, which could 
have helped her to make up any income shortfall. 
So its likely Mrs A could have met her income needs without giving up the safeguarded 
benefits from her DB scheme. So I dont agree with True Potential that Mrs A was always 
likely to have transferred out of the DB scheme.
Further, its not the case that Mrs A wouldnt have had any flexible access to funds without 
transferring. Thats because she would have been able to draw down sums from her 
DC pension and savings. So while the option of drawing all her pension income flexibly 
might seem like something that would be nice to have, I can't see that Mrs A had any 
genuine need for that flexibility that would be worth giving up guaranteed benefits for at the time that True Potential gave its advice. So I dont think it was in her best interests to 
transfer.
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. And I note that the suitability report says 
that a key objective for Mrs A was allowing her daughters to inherit her pension on her 
death. So the lump sum death benefits on offer through a SIPP were likely an attractive 
feature to Mrs A. Thats because whatever was left within Mrs As SIPP at the date of her 
death would be passed on to her daughters. But whilst I appreciate death benefits are 
important to consumers, and Mrs A might have thought it was a good idea to transfer her 
DB scheme to a SIPP because of this, the priority here was to advise Mrs A about what was 
best for her retirement provisions.
A pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement  not a lump sum to family 
after death. But in transferring out of her DB scheme Mrs A was essentially giving up a 
guaranteed, index linked, increasing income in retirement, for the potential for a lump sum 
for her daughters that they may not need for many years to come. And by that time, the fund 
could have been depleted by Mrs As withdrawals from it.
Its also worthwhile pointing out that True Potentials fact-find referred to Mrs A having death 
in service cover, presumably from her employer, although the level of cover isn't given. But 
as her only dependents at the time, its likely that if she had died before retiring, that would 
have provided her daughters with a significant financial cushion.
Also, Mrs A had equity in her property and savings which she could pass to her daughters in 
the event of her death. In fact True Potential said it recorded in its fact-find that Mrs As 
daughters were very financially secure. But it hasn't pointed that out to Mrs A at any point 
in its suitability report. Instead it said that by transferring Mrs A could ensure she could pass 
on her pension benefits to her daughters. So theres little evidence that it sought to challenge 
Mrs As objectives for transferring while pointing out that her daughters were unlikely to need 
the additional funds on her death.
If Mrs A genuinely wanted to leave an additional legacy for her daughters, which didnt 
depend on investment returns or how much of her pension fund remained on her death, then 
life or term insurance might have been a better solution for her. True Potential said that 
given the size of her CETV  life cover would have been prohibitively expensive. However, 
the amount of Mrs As CETV is irrelevant. True Potential assumed that Mrs A would have 
wanted a policy which matched the full value of her CETV. But her daughters would only 
ever have been likely to receive that sum if she died before reaching pension age or 
otherwise very soon after it. And there was nothing to indicate that was a likely prospect. 
Otherwise the sums available for a legacy for Mrs As daughter would reduce as she drew 
down money from her SIPP, so the full CETV was unlikely to be available as a legacy for her 
daughters. Instead a more reasonable solution would have been to ask Mrs A how much 
extra she wanted to leave to her daughters and then establish if she could find an affordable 
policy based upon that sum. But I can't see that True Potential raised this with her. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a SIPP justified 
the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mrs A. And I dont think that insurance was 
properly explored as an alternative.Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, and potential for higher death benefits on offer through a 
SIPP would have sounded like attractive features to Mrs A. But True Potential wasnt there 
to just transact what Mrs A might have thought she wanted. The advisers role was to really 
understand what Mrs A needed and recommend what was in her best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice True Potential gave to Mrs A was suitable. She was giving 
up a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mrs A was likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this. 
So, I think True Potential should have advised Mrs A to remain in her DB scheme.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mrs A would've gone ahead anyway, against 
True Potential's advice. Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mrs A 
would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, against True Potentials advice. I 
say this because Mrs A was not an experienced investor. She had a balanced attitude to risk 
and this pension accounted for the majority of her retirement provision. So, if True Potential 
had provided her with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why 
it wasnt in her best interests, I think she would have accepted that advice.
In light of the above, I think True Potential should compensate Mrs A for the unsuitable 
advice, using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for True Potential to put Mrs A, as far as possible, 
into the position she would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mrs A would 
have most likely remained in the occupational pension scheme if suitable advice had been 
given. 
True Potential must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for 
calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in the regulators 
policy statement PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
For clarity, Mrs A has not yet retired, and she has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age of 60 (and not 65 as 
our Investigator mistakenly said), as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should 
be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of 
notification of Mrs As acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, True Potential should:
calculate and offer Mrs A redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mrs A before starting the redress calculation that:
- her redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and- a straightforward way to invest her redress prudently is to use it to augment 
her DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mrs A receives could be augmented 
rather than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mrs A accepts True Potentials offer to calculate how much of her redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mrs A for the 
calculation, even if she ultimately decides not to have any of her redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mrs As end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mrs A as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, True Potential 
may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
Mrs A would otherwise pay on income from her pension. Typically, 25% of the loss could 
have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mrs As 
likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction 
of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require True Potential Wealth 
Management LLP to pay Mrs A the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up 
to a maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
True Potential Wealth Management LLP pays Mrs A the balance.
If Mrs A accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on True Potential Wealth 
Management LLP. My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mrs A 
can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mrs A may want to consider 
getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman