DRN-4105478
The complaint
Mr M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc closed his credit card account without reason. He 
would like to know the reason. And compensation for the way he was treated. Mr M is 
represented by Mrs M.
I am aware that there is a complaint about Mr Ms current account, but I will only be dealing 
with the closure of the credit card account in this decision.
What happened
Mr M had a credit card with HSBC for the last 20 years. 
Following a review by HSBC, on 4 January 2022 he received a notice to close letter from 
HSBC saying his credit card account would close on 9 March 2022.
Mr M was unhappy that he hadnt been given a reason for the closure. Mrs M complained to 
HSBC on his behalf.
Mr M had an outstanding Section 75 claim, and he was worried this would be affected by the 
credit card closure.
HSBC said if his Section 75 claim was successful, they would credit an external account.
Mr M has said that Mrs M made numerous calls to HSBC where she was given 
misinformation and the calls were cut off or transferred to the wrong department. Mr M has 
said he wasnt treated kindly or with compassion.
Mr M has said that dealing with the bank on the phone has caused him a great deal of 
stress. He has told us about his health conditions and how the stress of the credit card 
account closure and how it was carried out affected him.
Mr M has said that as a result of the closure of the credit card he has taken out a new credit 
card with another bank but has seen his credit limit drop from £6,000 to £2,000 and this has 
resulted in a substantial drop in spending power. 
HSBC said they hadnt done anything wrong when they closed his credit card account.
Unhappy with the response they complained to our service. 
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint. She thought HSBC had done nothing 
wrong when they closed the credit card account. She acknowledged that the reduction of 
Mr Ms credit limit to £2,000 was a difficult situation especially during the pandemic but she 
didnt think HSBC were responsible for another banks decision on Mr Ms credit limit. She 
also said that HSBC hadnt replied to Mr Ms concerns regarding the service they had 
received when they raised the complaint. She said it appeared that HSBC hadnt received 
the complaint letter Mrs M had sent to them.
Mrs M on behalf of Mr M said she was unhappy with the view. The complaint was about the 
way in which HSBC closed the account and the lack of reasons given for it. Mr M was 
frustrated that the letter received from HSBC didnt explain the reasons why the account was 
closed even though it said it would. Mrs M thought that if Mr M was credit worthy to an 
amount, then the new bank should take on that creditworthiness along with any direct debits 
that were transferred. Mrs M said they were concerned that the reason for the closure was 
because there had been fraud on the address or account.
After the view I contacted HSBC to receive their comments in relation to the service 
elements of the complaint.  I noticed that HSBC had addressed Mr Ms complaints about the 
service she received on the phone. They didnt think they had done anything wrong as they 
werent able to provide Mrs M with the information she required which was the reason for the 
closure.  
Mrs M on behalf of Mr M complained about the service they got on the phones, they had 
been given misinformation, transferred to the wrong departments and they had received a 
letter which was incorrect by telling them they had requested for the credit card to be closed. 
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
In my provisional decision I said: 
Firstly, I would like to reassure both parties that while I may not comment on everything 
raised, I have considered all the arguments that Mr M has put forward as well as the 
information provided by HSBC. 
The issues raised in relation to the current account closure will be dealt with separately.
Account review and closure
Financial businesses, like HSBC, are subject to a number of legal and regulatory 
requirements. These mean they have to monitor their customers accounts and may need to 
review an account at any time. While that is happening, they may need to block or restrict 
any payments. I am satisfied HSBC were complying with these obligations when they 
reviewed Mr Ms account.
Following the review HSBC decided to close Mr Ms account.
As the adjudicator explained its generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to 
provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless 
theres a good reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep a 
customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had their account closed.
Banks should, however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less depending on the circumstances. I can see that 
HSBC wrote to Mr M on 4 January 2022 and let him know it was closing his account on 9 
March 2022 giving him 60 days notice. So, Im satisfied HSBC closed the accounts in line 
with the account terms. And gave Mr M adequate time to open another credit card account.
Ive considered whether HSBC acted fairly when it closed Mr Ms credit card. Mr M has 
pointed out that he has been a loyal customer of HSBC for many years and that the closure 
of his credit card has caused him a lot of problems and stress which has affected his 
underlying health condition. Im sorry that whats happened has caused Mr M trouble and 
upset but as Ive said HSBC closed the account in line with the account terms. And having 
looked at the evidence provided Im satisfied that HSBC havent done anything wrong when 
they decided to close the account. It follows that I wont be awarding compensation for the closure although I understand the stress that Mr M was put under as a result of the closure.
I understand Mr M has taken out a different credit card with another bank and has seen his 
credit limit reduced considerably. I cant hold HSBC responsible for the commercial decision 
another bank has made regarding the credit limit Mr M may be offered. I do appreciate Mr M 
feels he wouldnt have been put in this position had HSBC not decided to close his credit 
card account. However, I have already said HSBC were entitled to close the account in line 
with the terms and having looked at everything I am satisfied HSBC havent applied the 
terms unfairly.
Reasons
Mr M has expressed his frustration at not being told the reason for the account closure. He is 
also upset that the closure letter referred to a reason when the reason wasnt stated. 
Mr M has said he wants to know the reasons why HSBC closed his account. Whilst Mr M 
mayve expected to be given the reasons for the account closure. HSBC isnt required to 
give him a specific reason. HSBC doesnt disclose to its customers what triggers an account 
review and closure. And I can understand Mr Ms frustration that he hasnt been provided a 
detailed explanation but been referred to the terms and conditions. But as the adjudicator 
has explained, HSBC is under no obligation to provide this information to him, as much as 
hed like to know. So, I cant say HSBC have done anything wrong by not giving Mr M this 
information. 
I know Mr M has been frustrated by the content of the closure letter he has received from 
HSBC. I can understand the letter may have been confusing to him. However, I can see that 
HSBC have said that they have reviewed the account and decided to close the account in 
line with the account terms. HSBC arent obliged to give Mr M a more specific reason, so I 
dont think theyve done anything wrong.
I appreciate that Mr M is concerned that the reason for the closure may have been because 
of fraud on the address or the account. I can see this would be concerning as it would mean 
his personal details had been compromised. I would therefore like to reassure Mr M that Ive 
seen no evidence of his personal details being compromised and I hope that provides him 
with some comfort.
I know the stress of the closure affected Mr Ms health. I am sorry to hear thats the case. 
Ive already said that HSBC didnt treat Mr M unfairly when it closed his account, it follows, I 
cant hold them responsible for the effect the closure had on Mr M.
Service issues
I appreciate Mrs M has told us about the service issues that Mrs M and Mr M experienced 
when seeking clarification from HSBC and pursuing this complaint. Mrs M has also said Mr 
M received a letter indicating he had asked for the credit card to be closed which upset him 
as this was obviously not the case. 
I understand that Mr M made some phone calls to the customer service team of HSBC and 
although Mrs M later took over and made most of the calls Mr M has explained how his 
health was badly affected by the calls he did make and by the general stress of not knowing 
what was happening.
I appreciate that HSBc were within their right to close Mr Ms account, but I would have 
expected them to provide a better service on the phone to be clearer in their message to 
Mr M regarding them not being able to provide a reason. Because of this I think HSBc 
should pay Mr M £50 for the inconvenience they caused him. In awarding this amount I have 
taken into account that it was mainly Mrs M that dealt with the phone calls, but that Mr M was disproportionately affected by the stress of the calls he did make because of his 
underlying health condition. 
In summary I know Mr M will be disappointed with my decision but having looked at the 
evidence Im satisfied that HSBC acted fairly when it reviewed and closed Mr Ms credit card 
account. I also dont think they did anything wrong by not giving Mr M a reason for the 
closure. And as Ive said I cant hold HSBC responsible for another banks commercial 
decision regarding credit limits.
I think HSBC should pay Mr M £50 for the distress caused whilst pursuing the complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
HSBC have said they have nothing further to add to my decision. Mr M has agreed with my 
provisional findings but would like me to reconsider the amount of compensation I was 
minded to award because of inflation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Mrs M representing Mr M for her comments about my provisional decision. Having 
considered them I havent seen any grounds to increase the compensation.
I have awarded £50 compensation in respect of the service issues on this account. I am 
aware that there are other complaints borne out of the same circumstances and I have dealt 
with those in separate decisions. 
I consider the award of £50 in respect of this complaint to be reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Putting things right
HSBC should pay Mr M £50 for the distress caused during the calls to the customer service 
team.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above I partially uphold this complaint. I require HSBC UK Bank Plc 
to pay Mr M £50 for his material distress.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2023.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman