DRN-4121219
The complaint
Mr N complains that Madison CF UK Limited, trading as 118 118 Money, irresponsibly 
granted him two credit card accounts he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
Mr N entered into agreements with 118 118 Money to have access to credit with two 
separate credit card accounts, opened in February and October 2021. The first account had 
an opening credit limit of £250 and the second had an opening credit limit of £1,200. 
Mr N says that 118 118 Money didnt complete adequate affordability checks when it opened 
the two card accounts. He says had it done so, it would have seen they were both 
unaffordable to him and he was already in difficult financial circumstances. 
118 118 Money didnt agree. It said it carried out a reasonable and proportionate 
assessment to check Mr Ns financial circumstances before granting each account.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought 118 118 Money 
didnt act unfairly or unreasonably by approving the account. 
Mr N didnt agree and so his complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
Ive noted that Mr N has agreed a settlement for the outstanding amount on the second card. 
But I will still look into whether the initial lending decision for both accounts was reasonable 
and fair. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
118 118 Money will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Before providing Mr N with each card, 118 118 Money says it carried out a credit check. This 
included asking him about his income and regular expenditure, using statistical data and 
completing a credit check using credit reference agencies. 
For the first card, having checked that Mr N had an income of around £1,200 per month, 
118 118 Money was satisfied that alongside its other checks, a credit limit of £250 would be 
affordable. There isnt set criteria for what a proportionate check ought to encompass. Given 
that the credit limit on the first account was a relatively modest £250, I wouldnt expect the 
checks carried out by 118 118 Money to be so in-depth, such as taking steps to verify his 
monthly income. Having established from its checks that after his housing and regular 
expenditure, and taking into account existing credit owed of around £2,100, Mr N would be 
left with around £400 in disposable income, I wouldnt have expected it to do any more. 
By the time of his second card application, Mr N had been managing his first card for several 
months without getting into difficulty with meeting his monthly repayments. Mr N told 118 118 
Money he was receiving a monthly income of around £2,000. His overall credit owed 
elsewhere had increased to around £3,200. So 118 118 Money estimated that Mr N would 
be left with around £900 in disposable income. However, given that Mr N had a historic 
active county court judgment from 2018 for around £1,400, I think 118 118 Money might 
have taken further steps, particularly now that a significantly higher level of credit was being 
proposed. So Ill consider what it might have found. 
Having done so, and having carefully consider the information Ive seen about Mr Ns 
financial situation, there isnt enough to persuade me that 118 118 Money would or 
should have seen that his circumstances were in such a way as to make giving him either 
credit facility unreasonable. By the time he applied for the second card, the bank 
statement information Ive seen suggests that had 118 118 Money taken steps to verify 
Mr Ns income, it would have been able to get a clearer idea of his finances. From what 
Ive seen, I think Mr N was generally in control of managing his daily outgoings and 
existing credit commitments and would likely have been left with enough disposable 
income to be able to continue make affordable repayments on the card.
I therefore think that had 118 118 Money carried out further reasonable and proportionate 
checks for the second card, these would have been likely to show that Mr N could afford 
the credit he was granted.
Mr N has also told us about his personal circumstances and health challenges he is 
dealing with. I am sorry to learn of this but I dont consider this to be a factor thats 
relevant to the granting of these two cards. It doesnt look like 118 118 Money was 
necessarily aware of this at the time of granting each account, but even if it was I dont 
think its something I would have expect to affect their decision to grant the credit. 
It follows that Im not persuaded that 118 118 Money acted unfairly in approving the opening 
of either of these two accounts.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman