DRN-3977576
The complaint
Mr J complains that LML Limited (LML) mis-sold him a personal income protection insurance 
policy.
Mr J is represented by Mr O.
What happened
In April 2017, Mr J met with LMLs adviser, to discuss taking out a new mortgage. The 
adviser carried out a fact-find and during the sale, they recommended that Mr J should take 
out an income protection insurance policy. Mr J says that he already had income protection 
insurance in place at the time of the sale, which hed told the adviser about. He says the 
adviser informed him that the new policy would provide a top-up to his existing cover. A 
policy was accordingly set-up.
However, in 2021, Mr J complained to LML about the sale of the policy. He said hed learned 
that, in fact, the policy hed been sold in 2017 wasnt a top-up policy, but a replacement for 
the policy hed already had. He accepted the 2017 policy provided a better level of cover. So 
he felt that hed been paying for double cover unnecessarily and that LML ought to have told 
him to cancel his original policy. He considered LML should refund the duplicate premiums 
hed paid for the original cover.
LML didnt agree that the policy had been mis-sold. It said during the fact-find meeting, Mr J 
hadnt told its adviser that he already had income protection insurance. Mr J had signed the 
fact-find to confirm he agreed with the contents of it. And it said that it had referred to Mr J 
not having existing protection insurance within its suitability letter.
Mr J was unhappy with LMLs response. He maintained that hed told the adviser about his 
existing cover at the point of sale. And he said that the adviser had simply asked him to sign 
a variety of forms hed been given. He told us that the adviser had gone through his bank 
statements with him, which wouldve shown his existing payments to the first insurer. Mr O 
asked us to look into Mr Js complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Js complaint should be upheld. He felt the available 
evidence indicated that Mr J had told the adviser that he didnt have any existing income 
protection insurance in place. So he didnt think the adviser had made any error.
Mr O disagreed on Mr Js behalf and Ive summarised his responses to our investigator. He 
maintained that Mr J had told the adviser that he had existing cover. Mr J had taken on trust 
that taking out a new policy was a better option than adding to his existing cover. He felt that 
the adviser should have known that taking out the new policy would lead to Mr J being over-
insured. Mr O considered that it wouldve been more appropriate for the adviser to 
recommend that Mr J add to his existing policy rather than recommending a new policy. But 
he thought that this course of action wouldve led to the adviser being paid less. He felt there 
was no evidence that the adviser had explored the option of adding to the original cover. He 
referred to previous guidance which had warned businesses not to simply rely on their files 
when considering endowment complaints, as these might not show an accurate record of 
what had taken place.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr J, I dont think LML treated him unfairly and 
Ill explain why.
Its common ground that LMLs adviser recommended that Mr J should take out the income 
protection insurance policy. This means the adviser needed to ensure that the policy was 
suitable for Mr Js needs. It also needed to provide him with enough clear, fair and not 
misleading information about the cover to enable him to make an informed choice about 
whether it was right for him.
Mr J says that he understood that the policy LML had recommended to him was a top-up to 
his existing cover, rather than a replacement for it. He says that he told the adviser about his 
existing policy and that the adviser wouldve seen the premiums for the cover debiting his 
account when they considered Mr Js income and expenditure. On the other hand, LML says 
that Mr J didnt tell its adviser that he already had income protection insurance in place and 
therefore, the adviser couldnt have known about it. As such, it says that, the adviser couldnt 
have advised Mr J to cancel his existing policy. 
Where theres a dispute about whats happened, or a contradictory version of events, I must 
make my decision based on the balance of probabilities  what I think is most likely to have 
happened, given the available evidence and circumstances. In this case, Ive carefully 
considered Mr Js recollections of the meeting with LMLs adviser and his testimony. I accept 
its possible that he did tell LMLs adviser about the existing policy, expressed an interest in 
topping-up his cover and that the adviser simply didnt record this.
However, Ive also looked closely at the fact-find completed by LMLs adviser during the 
meeting. The form required the adviser to record details of any existing protection policies a 
consumer already had. The box has been scored through and marked None. The form 
includes a section titled income replacement and asks a consumer How long would you be 
paid by your employers if absent from work due to an illness or accident and how much 
would you be paid? Again, the box has been marked none. Additionally, when going 
through Mr Js essential expenditure, no outgoing has been listed against Life/Health 
Insurance.
It seems clear that a discussion did take place about Mr Js protection needs. And it appears 
that following that discussion, the adviser understood that Mr J didnt have existing cover in 
place, and indeed, wouldnt be entitled to any sick pay in the event of absence from work. I 
note that Mr J did sign the declaration on the fact-find to say that it was a true record of his 
discussion with the mortgage adviser. So I think, on balance, the fact-find record is likely to 
reflect the information LMLs adviser was given at the point of sale, even if Mr J cant now 
recollect exactly what was said. On that basis, it seems less likely that Mr J told the adviser 
about the existing cover he held. And so I dont think the adviser gave Mr J unsuitable advice 
to take out the cover. It doesnt appear either that theyd have been in a position to tell Mr J 
to cancel an existing policy they didnt know about.And Ive also considered the contents of the suitability letter dated 3 July 2017, which LML 
sent to the address it held for Mr J. Ive seen no evidence to suggest that the letter wasnt 
sent, even if Mr J might no longer recall the contents of it or have a record of receiving it. 
This includes a section called Income Protection. Immediately underneath, the letter states:
You have stated that you do not have any existing income protection which would ensure 
you had an income during a period that you are unable to work. I have recommended 
income protection to ensure you have an income during a period that you are unable work 
and following discussions it is your intention to effect a policy to match your budget and 
requirements with (insurer)
In my view, this letter is persuasive evidence that following the meeting between the adviser 
and Mr J, the adviser had understood Mr J had no existing income protection insurance in 
place. And that was the basis upon which theyd made a clear, fair and not misleading 
recommendation to take out a policy to cover any gaps in Mr Js ability to pay his mortgage if 
he became unable to work due to illness or injury. I havent seen enough compelling 
evidence to demonstrate that it was more likely than not that the adviser knew or ought to 
have known that Mr J already had income protection insurance in place when they 
recommended the policy.
Overall, Ive reached my conclusion based on the available evidence. On balance, it seems 
to me that given LMLs adviser appears to have understood that Mr J had no sick pay or 
existing protection policies in place to repay the planned secured borrowing, it was 
reasonable and suitable for the adviser to recommend that Mr J take out income protection 
insurance. And as I find its more likely than not that Mr J didnt tell the adviser about his 
existing cover; I dont think the adviser could reasonably have been expected to tell Mr J to 
cancel his original policy. As such then, whilst I sympathise with Mr Js position, because I 
appreciate he had duplicate cover in place, I dont find that LML needs to refund the 
premiums he paid nor pay him any compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman