DRN-3661848
The complaint
Mr C complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money have irresponsibly lent to
him.
What happened
Mr C took out a loan with Virgin Money for £11,500 over 84 months. He says at the time he
took out the loan, he had a series of personal loans and payday loans at the time, so he
shouldnt have been accepted for the Virgin Money loan as he couldnt afford the
repayments and he had a gambling addiction and mental health issues. He said Virgin
Money did not ask him for his bank statements to evidence the affordability for the loan. Mr
C complained to Virgin Money.
Virgin Money did not uphold his complaint. They said that in regards to Mr C not being asked
to provide his bank statements, if any information on his application did not match, then they
would have asked him to provide proof, such as proof of income in order to proceed, but
there appeared to be no errors with the information on the application.
Virgin Money confirmed they had measures in place to assess customers affordability based
on the day of the loan application and they said Mr C was credit scored and accepted in line
with their scoring criteria. They said that part of the application asked him if he had reason to
think there would be a change in his circumstances which may affect his ability to repay the
loan, but Mr C answered no to this question.
Mr C brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator did not uphold his complaint. He
said we have to determine whether the business knew, or ought reasonably to have known
that the lending was likely to have been unsustainable or unaffordable for Mr C. And to do
that, we often have to decide whether the business carried out reasonable and proportionate
checks before lending to Mr C.
Our investigator said that Virgin Moneys checks didnt appear to show any indication that
the lending would be unaffordable. In Mr Cs application to Virgin Money, he told them he
was earning £24,000 annually and had £500 outgoings and no other credit repayments.
Our investigator also said that Mr Cs credit file showed he had no other lending and he
wasnt in arrears on any of his accounts, so based on what he was earning and the
repayments on the Virgin Money loan, this meant that Mr C would be paying roughly 10% of
his income towards the loan, therefore Virgin Moneys checks were reasonable and
proportionate before they lent to him and there wouldnt be a requirement for them to have
asked for any further information. He said that due to this, Virgin Money would not have
been able to identify that Mr C had a gambling addiction, without Mr C highlighting this to
them.
Mr C asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In
summary, he said that during the period of the loan application, he already had a number of
existing loans, had a gambling addiction, which was clear from his bank records he provided
to our service. He said based on his outgoings, the loan was not affordable for him and that
mortgage companies require applicants to provide bank statements, but he was not asked
for bank statements for the Virgin Money loan.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
Before agreeing to approve the credit to Mr C, Virgin Money needed to make proportionate
checks to determine whether the credit was affordable and sustainable for him. Theres no
prescribed list of checks a lender should make. But the kind of things I expect lenders to
consider include - but are not limited to: the type and amount of credit, the borrower's
income and credit history, the amount and frequency of repayments, as well as the
consumer's personal circumstances. Ive listed below what checks Virgin Money have done
and whether Im persuaded these checks were proportionate.
Virgin Money said they looked at the information that Mr C provided on his application and
the information from the Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs). They saw that Mr C said he
had £1,600 net monthly income and he had outgoings totalling £500, but he said he wasnt
paying anything towards credit agreements. Virgin Money will have been aware that Mr C
was not in arrears on any of his accounts, so they agreed to lend Mr C £11,500, over 84
months with repayments of £166.63 a month, after Mr C had passed a credit score check.
Ive considered what Mr C has said about the loans he had took out around the time period
he applied for the personal loan with Virgin Money. Ive looked at his credit file and I can see
that he took out a loan with a third party bank on 17 April 2021 (which was settled on the
same day Mr C was approved for the Virgin Money loan). But as a credit file would take time
to update, then Im not persuaded that this information would have been available to Virgin
Money at the time he applied for the loan. Mr C has a number of entries on his credit file in
June 2021, but these were recorded after Mr C was approved for the Virgin Money loan, so I
cant say that Virgin Money should have been reasonably aware that Mr C would be likely to
take out several forms of lending after he received the loan from Virgin Money.
Ive considered what Mr C has said about the expenditure his bank account showed in April,
May and June 2021. But the majority of May 2021 and all of June 2021 was after the loan
had been approved. Based on the information that Mr C has provided on his application
form, Im not persuaded that it would have been proportionate for Virgin Money to have
asked for his bank statements, but I am persuaded that it would have been proportionate for
Virgin to ask for further information from Mr C and Ill explain why.
Mr Cs application shows he had £500 a month outgoings. The only outgoing recorded on
his application was showing as a mortgage payment. While it would not be unusual for
somebody to split bills with their partner and have different outgoings being paid by each
person, Im persuaded that as part of a proportionate check, that Virgin Money could have
asked Mr C to ensure that the total of his outgoings was £500.
So Ive considered what would have likely happened if Virgin Money contacted Mr C to
discuss his outgoings. Im not persuaded that Mr C would have told Virgin Money about his
recent borrowings, as he hadnt included the outgoings for any loans on his application. And
he would have settled the loan in April which Virgin would have been able to see on hiscredit file at that point, so if they asked him how much he paid for that particular loan, then
Im satisfied that Mr C would have told them he wasnt paying anything towards it as he had
settled the loan.
Im then persuaded that Mr B would have told them that he had £600 worth of bills. I say this
as I can see from Mr Cs bank statements that on 15th of the month he transfers £600 to his
joint account with the reference of bills. From Mr Cs bank statements, he didnt appear to
have any other regular commitments which left his account in the three months leading to his
loan being approved, so I think its unlikely he would have told Virgin he had more outgoings
than this.
So as it would appear that Mr C had £600 a month that he paid for his regular outgoings, this
would mean he would have £1,000 per month available to service the Virgin Money loan
repayment of £166.63. Even if Mr C had other regular outgoings he needed to service, this
would still leave £1,600 (income) - £600 (bills showing on his bank statements) - £166.63
(Virgin Money loan repayment) = £833.37 a month disposable income. This could be higher
based on Mr Cs bank statements showing that he earned £1,944.70, £2,233.40 and
£2,261.39 in the three months before his application was approved  all significantly higher
than what Mr C said he earned on his application. So while Im persuaded that Virgin Money
should have made a further check on his outgoings, Im not persuaded this would have
stopped the loan from being approved and Im not persuaded that Mr Cs gambling addiction
would have been disclosed to Virgin Money.
As Mr C had answered no on his application form to the question is your expenditure likely
to increase in the future, then Im satisfied that when Virgin Money would have likely
established his bills were £600 a month, then they would not need to ask for bank
statements to evidence this. Especially with no recent borrowing showing on his credit file
(due to this not updating showing the third party loan yet, albeit this was settled on the same
day he was accepted for the Virgin Money loan), no arrears and no adverse credit
information.
So it would not be reasonable for Virgin Money to be aware that Mr C had a gambling
problem at the time of the loan approval. They would not be aware he intended to use the
funds to gamble with when he had recorded the purpose of the loan as home improvements.
And Im not persuaded that Mr C would have disclosed this to them if they asked him about
his outgoings as part of a proportionate check. As Mr C had a mortgage at the time of the
approval, home improvements would seem a reasonable use for the money and Im
persuaded it would be fair for Virgin Money to rely on the customers documented reason for
the loan.
Mr C has said that a mortgage provider would need to see evidence of his bank statements
and he didnt see why Virgin Money did not ask to see his bank statements given the amount
of the loan which was approved. But these are two distinctly different types of products and
have two different criteria set by the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. So I cant say
Virgin Money should have done the same thing a mortgage provider would have done if he
applied for a personal loan.
Im glad that Mr C has found help regarding his gambling addiction, but it would not be fair
for me to say that Virgin Money irresponsibly lent to him, when there was no indications from
the information Mr C gave them, or would be likely to give them if Virgin had contacted him
to ask about his committed outgoings, or from the information from the CRAs, that the loan
would not be sustainable or affordable for him. So it follows I dont intend to ask Virgin
Money to do anything further.I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Virgin Money accepted the provisional decision. Mr C did not respond to the 
provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided me with any further information to consider, then my final 
decision and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman