DRN-2895158
The complaint
Mrs W, as executrix, complains on behalf of her husbands, Mr Hs, estate.  
Shes unhappy about the service provided by Ferguson Hill Asset Management Limited, 
referred to as FHAML or the business. 
What happened
Mr W (and Mrs W) were advised by a third-party business in 2010, to invest in a bond 
provided by a different business. FHAML wasnt involved in that advisory process. In due 
course the agency of the bond changed hands, and eventually ended up with FHAML, and 
Mr and Mrs W wouldve been notified in writing about this. 
Mrs W has been trying to find out what has happened to the funds, following the death of her 
husband. Shes unhappy that the business has continued to take commission but hasnt 
provided any advice or service over the last five years. She also unhappy that it couldnt 
provide any point of sale documentation regarding the bond.  
FHAML didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, it said: 
It was entitled to receive the trail commission as per the original agreement, and at a 
rate determined by the original terms and conditions. 
The trail commission is an ongoing payment, it is not the same as a fee for providing 
advisory services. 
There was no ongoing fee arrangement between itself and Mr W, and therefore it had 
no remit to provide ongoing services.    
It was unable to provide any point of sale documents because it wasnt involved in 
the sale of the bond. And because Mrs W didnt provide a Letter of Authority (LOR) at 
the outset, it wasnt able to approach the bond provider for documentation on her 
behalf.   
The bond provider has confirmed that trail commission is deducted from the bond, as 
a product charge, even if a financial adviser firm wasnt connected to the bond. The 
charge would continue to be deducted for as long as the bond was in force. 
Mrs W disagreed with the business response and referred the complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
The bond was set up prior to 31 December 2012, when the payments were 
considered as trail commission rather than agreed service fee. 
Because Mrs W didnt sign a LOR enabling the business to obtain a copy of the 
original terms and conditions, hes unable to consider what exactly was said. 
There doesnt appear to be any agreement for ongoing servicing of the bond, 
therefore he cant say that FHAML has done anything wrong by not providing an 
ongoing service. 
As Mrs W has now changed agency, and taken the bond away from FHAML, it will no 
longer receive the trail commission, however the new business will do so.   
Mrs W initially accepted the investigators findings, but subsequently changed her mind, and 
asked for an ombudsmans decision. In summary, she said:
The business hasnt provided any documentation to support its case. 
The investigator was content for the business not to have access to the bond 
account.
It was a jointly held portfolio and not just her husbands. 
She would like a copy of the paperwork that FHAML has provided. 
FHAML initially denied that she and her husband were its clients but now accepts 
that they are.  
FHAML made the following observations:
If Mrs W writes directly to the bond provider, it will provide her with all the relevant 
documentation. 
It believes that the original adviser is now assisting Mrs W. 
It maintains: 
othe bond was set up set up before 31 December 2012, and thats why the 
payments are trail commission rather than an agreed service fee. 
oThis is a policy charge that will continue to be paid over the life of the policy. 
oThere was no service agreement in place with Mr W. 
Because Mrs W has now moved agency the trail commission will no longer be paid to 
it. But even if it were an orphan policy  without an assigned agency  the 
deductions would continue to me made from the bond.  
Mrs W provided further documentation from the bond provider and confirmed that she and 
her husband were told by the adviser that there would be an on-going advice regarding the 
bond. As far as she was aware, when the bond changed agency that duty would move on to 
the new business. 
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mrs W says, Im unable to safely 
say that the business has behaved unreasonably. 
Im not persuaded that it has done anything wrong by receiving a trail commission during the 
period that it had agency of the bond. I also dont think that it was obliged to provide any 
ongoing financial advice contingent upon receiving this fee. 
Before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much 
recognise Mrs Ws strength of feeling about this matter. She has provided submissions to 
support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope she wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as 
much detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mrs W and FHAML, and reach what I think is an independent, fair 
and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation 
and best industry practice. But its for me to decide, based on the information Ive been 
given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
Notwithstanding the points made by Mrs W, Ive seen nothing to persuade me that the trail 
commission FHAML received was contingent upon it providing an ongoing service. 
Ive also seen nothing to suggest that FHAML was under a duty to provide on-going financial 
advice after it took agency of the bond, regardless of whether (or not) an agreement was in 
existence previously. 
Im aware that FHAML wasnt involved in the sale of the policy in 2010, some 11 years ago, 
and I think that explains why it was unable to provide Mrs W with the point of sale 
documents immediately. This also explains why it needed an LOR from Mrs R in order to 
obtain documents from the bond provider.  
I note that Mrs W is now being assisted by the original adviser with regards to what she may 
or may not have been told at the time. I note FHAML maintains that it is not responsible for 
the sale of the bond, and Ive seen nothing to persuade me otherwise. 
Based on what the business says, it seems to me that it was entitled to receive the trail 
commission, as part of the product charge, which was agreed at the outset. I understand it 
was set in place to continue so long as the bond was in place, even if it was an orphan 
policy without a business acting as an agency because thats how the bond was originally 
set up. 
Im mindful that the trail commission was outlawed by the industry regulator, the Financial 
Services Authority (now the Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA)), as part of its Retail 
Distribution Review (RDR) in 2012, for any new investments. 
The RDR 2012 was a review that, among other things, sought to improve transparency in 
the communication of investment charges. As a result, financial advisers were required to 
provide information upfront about fees for the service they provided or what the commission 
was for. 
The RDR, which came into force around January 2013  and ruled out trail commission  
only applies to new investments sold after this time. In other words, because the RDR wasnt 
retrospective, it didnt apply to investments before its time, which meant a lot of the 
investments, like the current bond, fell out of its scope. So, Mrs W should understand that 
the new position only applied to investments sold after January 2013 so didnt apply to the 
bond. 
In conclusion, whilst I appreciate what Mrs W says, but Ive seen nothing to suggest that trail 
commission would be contingent upon ongoing advice. So FHAML hasnt done anything 
wrong by not reviewing the investment and not providing any ongoing advice over the five 
years. It seems to me the trail commission, arising out of a product charge, was separate to 
any obligation the seller or subsequent business may or may not have had.  I appreciate Mrs W will be thoroughly unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator, and I realise my decision isnt what she wants to hear. Whilst I appreciate her 
frustration, Im not going to ask the business to do anything. On the face of the available 
evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give her what she wants.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman