DRN-3408153
The complaint
Mr U complains about the way Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays 
Partner Finance (Clydesdale) responded to a claim he made under Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
Throughout his complaint, Mr U has been represented by a family member. But for ease, Ill 
just refer to Mr U.
What happened
In September 2016, Mr U ordered new windows and two new doors for his home, from a 
supplier who Ill call X. The installation of the doors and windows was included in the price X 
gave to Mr U. To pay for the cost of the doors, the windows and their installation, Mr U took 
out a fixed sum loan with Clydesdale.
A few months after X had finished the installation, Mr U complained to them about damage 
to the plaster on the walls in his house, and damage to a telephone cable. Mr U also said the 
silicone had failed around the windows and that the doors were faulty, because they let 
draughts into his home.
X agreed to make the repairs and offered Mr U £200 to pay for the replastering work. 
However, over the next few years, Mr U complained further to X, because the repair hadnt 
resolved all of his concerns. This led Mr U to make a section 75 claim to Clydesdale.
In May 2021, Mr U asked a third party to carry out an independent inspection of Xs work. 
The third party suggested work to adjust and reseal four of the windows. The report also 
recommended adjustments to the hinges and locks on the kitchen and front doors. The third 
party told Mr U that it would cost £824.40 to carry out the repairs.
Clydesdale had paid Mr U £75 when he first raised his concerns with them. But, after the 
third partys report, they agreed to pay Mr U a further £100. Clydesdale also found that X 
had already paid Mr U £2,700 for the faults identified in the report. So, they didnt feel they 
should have to take any further steps to meet Mr Us section 75 claim.
Mr U didnt accept Clydesdales response, so brought his complaint to us. In the meantime, 
Clydesdale organised for their own inspection report, which quoted around £1,700 for the 
repair. One of our investigators looked into Mr Us complaint and saw that Clydesdale had 
offered another payment, bringing the total Mr U had received to £3,125. 
The investigator concluded that the installation wasnt what a reasonable person would say 
is satisfactory. He said Clydesdale should pay Mr U a further £150 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. And that the new total was enough to meet the repair cost Mr U had 
told us about. The investigator also found that the other concerns Mr U had, such as damp 
and a fault with the guttering, wasnt a result of the installation by X.
Clydesdale accepted the investigators findings, but Mr U didnt. He said hed like the total 
cost of the windows, doors and installation refunded, because he would still be left with 
faults. The investigator didnt change his conclusions, so Mr Us case has been passed to 
me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly though, Im very aware Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than has been 
provided, and largely in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
focussed on what I think is at the heart of the matter here. That being, was the installation of 
the windows and doors of satisfactory quality? 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, I havent ignored it. Ive not commented on every 
individual detail. Ive focussed on those that are central to me reaching what I think is the 
right outcome. This reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts.
I also acknowledge the very difficult personal circumstances which Mr U has told us about, 
whilst he has been dealing with this complaint. It must be a challenging time and I hope 
things start to get better for him soon.
Section 75 
This case is about a fixed sum loan Mr U took out with Clydesdale, which is a regulated 
financial product. As such, we are able to consider complaints about it. 
The relevant piece of legislation is section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. This 
provides protection for consumers for goods and services bought using credit. Under section 
75, subject to certain criteria, consumers who use a fixed sum loan to pay for goods and 
services, have an equal claim against the finance provider, for any breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier. 
In Mr Us case, he says section 75 means he has an equal claim against Clydesdale, 
because the installation of the doors and windows by X is of poor quality. So, with what Ive 
said in mind, I agree that Mr U was able to ask Clydesdale to consider if he has a claim 
under section 75. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) 
Under the CRA, there is an implied term written into contracts that goods supplied need to 
be of satisfactory quality, fit for their intended purpose and as described. It also says traders 
must perform the service with reasonable care and skill. The CRA sets out what remedies 
are available to consumers if statutory rights under a goods or services contract are not met.
Mr U says that there are still problems with the windows and doors. He says the doors still 
let a draught through into his home and they stick in warm weather. Mr U also says the 
windows need to be sealed correctly and that he feels X is responsible for problems with 
damp and the guttering. To support what he says, Mr U has asked two third party companies 
to look at Xs installation work, since it was completed. Mr U has also provided a report from 
a company who have looked at the damp in his home. 
The first inspection report was completed in May 2021. I can see that the inspector found 
that four windows needed to be adjusted, resealed and have locks applied. Additionally, the 
inspector said that both doors installed by X needed adjusting. The cost of the repairs was estimated by the inspector to be £824.40.
The second inspection report was carried out a few months later. In this report, the second 
inspector said that three windows and both doors needed adjusting and refitting to bring the 
installation up to standard. The report gives an estimate of £1,716 for the repairs.
As well as the two inspection reports, Ive also considered photographs of the installation 
and the repairs X had completed, before Mr U complained to Clydesdale. Overall, I think the 
evidence shows that the installation of at least four windows and both doors was not of a 
standard that a reasonable person would say is of satisfactory quality. So, I think this means 
there was a breach of contract by X, which Mr U is able to hold Clydesdale responsible for.
The steps taken by Clydesdale
Where theres a breach of contract under a services contract, consumers have certain rights. 
They may have the right to repeat performance as well as the right to a price reduction. 
Consumers can also seek other remedies. 
Repeat performance should be carried out within a reasonable amount of time and without 
significant inconvenience caused to the consumer. Consumers can ask for an appropriate 
price reduction if that doesnt happen, or if the repeat performance is impossible.
Mr U asked Clydesdale to consider refunding the entire cost of the doors, windows and the 
installation. I can see from the purchase contract Mr U had with X, that nine windows and 
two doors were supplied and installed. Given what Mr U, X, Clydesdale and the two reports 
say, on balance, I think this means that some of the installation was of satisfactory quality. It 
then follows that I dont think it would be fair for Clydesdale to refund all the repayments 
Mr U made under the fixed sum loan agreement.
Ive also considered that X completed the installation, nearly five years before the first 
inspection report was carried out. And that the reports say some of the windows and a door 
needs refitting, rather than a brand new replacement. 
Additionally, Mr U has explained that as well as the repair cost outlined in the reports, hes 
paid for some plastering and for the removal of blinds, so repair work can take place. Hes 
also told us about an increase in heating costs, due to the poorly fitted doors and windows.
Clydesdale have shown us where Mr U has received £2,700 for the repairs and a further 
£425 in various stages during the complaint. The further payments seem to have been in 
recognition from X or Clydesdale, for where they could have done things better. This means 
Mr U has received a total of £3,125 for everything that has happened.
Having thought carefully about all the evidence, I think Mr U has already received an amount 
greater than the repair quotes from the inspection reports and the additional costs he has 
incurred. So, I dont think Clydesdale needs to increase the payment that Mr U has received 
for the repairs.
I acknowledge that Mr U has sent us details of an inspection into his concerns about the 
dampness in his home and some damage he says X caused to his guttering. But, on 
balance, I dont think that evidence is conclusive to mean Clydesdale should have a further 
responsibility to Mr U to pay for those repairs.
Taking everything into consideration, I think Clydesdale have treated this part of Mr Us 
section 75 claim fairly.Clydesdales further offer for distress and inconvenience
Clydesdales records show that they organised an inspection of Xs installation work a few 
months after Mr U had arranged his own inspection, in May 2021. I can see form the same 
records that Mr U first complained about Xs repairs to the installation in June 2020. These 
reports ultimately guided Clydesdale and X to make a payment to Mr U.
However, I think Clydesdale caused a delay in organising a report to assess the quality of 
the installation. And this delay had an impact on Mr U, in a situation where he was already 
experiencing distress and inconvenience caused by X. Im also mindful Mr Us claim was 
raised in the midst of the global pandemic and the difficulties this raised with everyone.
Clydesdale have since offered to pay Mr U a further £150, bringing the total awarded in this 
complaint to £3,275. In all the circumstances, I think the payment of the additional £150 for 
the distress and inconvenient caused to Mr U is fair and reasonable.
Putting things right
For these reasons Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance should pay Mr U £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Clydesdale Financial Services 
Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Sam Wedderburn
Ombudsman