DRN-3702586
The complaint
Company E has complained about Covea Insurance plc. It isnt happy about the way Covea 
dealt with a claim under its Media Freelance Insurance policy.
What happened
Company E made a claim under its Media Freelance insurance policy after its car was 
broken into and a large amount of equipment was stolen from the rear of the vehicle. But 
when Covea looked into the claim it turned it down. This was because the property wasnt 
stored in a boot at the time of theft and it felt the property wasnt hidden from view.
Company E complained to Covea and then this Service. Our investigator looked into things 
for E and upheld the complaint. Although Covea disputed that Es vehicle had a boot our 
investigator was satisfied (using the dictionary definition) that it did have a boot. And that 
Company E had stored its property in the boot of its vehicle at the time of the theft. So, he 
thought Covea should reconsider the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of 
the policy as he thought the clause that Covea was relying on said a claim would be met if 
the property was stored in the boot.
As Covea didnt agree, feeling that there was too much emphasis placed on whether Es 
vehicle had a boot or not and Covea thought the property wasnt stored out of sight, the 
matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I think the complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Company E made a claim under its Media Freelance policy after equipment was stolen from 
the rear of its vehicle when the vehicle was parked in a secure car park overnight. Covea 
outlined that the policy covers E for Owned/Hired Equipment Used At and Away from Your 
Premises. However, Covea turned down Es claim by relying on the following clause 
Damage from Unattended vehicle and or trailer unless the Property is kept within the boot or 
secure compartment or hidden from view which is secured by all locks and other 
protections. Covea appeared to suggest that the property wasnt stored out of sight or in a 
boot or secured compartment.
 
Although I can understand Coveas position I agree with our investigator that Company E 
stored its property within the boot or secured compartment of its vehicle. I know Covea feels 
the property wasnt hidden from view as well, but I cant say this for sure on the information 
provided to date. I say this as the photographs of Es vehicle were taken after the theft when 
the windows of the vehicle had been broken and it is difficult to tell what could or couldnt be 
seen before the theft. Indeed, E says the vehicles windows are tinted and covered from the 
inside with black corex, meaning that you cannot look into the vehicle from the outside. I 
note Company E has provided photographs from before the theft that it feels show that you 
couldnt see into the vehicle. But I dont think Covea has investigated this position thoroughly 
enough and it has acknowledged in its notes that it hasnt explored the effect of the black 
corex covering that Company E has outlined.
But what isnt in doubt, and Covea appears to accept in its latest representations to this 
Service, was that Es property was secured in the boot of its vehicle (by using the standard 
dictionary definition of a car boot). Covea outlined in its response that too much emphasis 
has been placed on whether Es vehicle had a boot or not, as opposed to the property being 
hidden from view or not. But the clause (which says unless the Property is kept within the 
boot or) meant that Company E only had to comply with that part of the condition, up to 
the word or as opposed to the remainder of the clause. Indeed, Covea acknowledged within 
its notes that the consensus at Covea appears to be that this would be classed as a boot 
and We have agreed that the wording of the exclusion may not be strong enough to 
maintain declinature. alluding to the fact that the property was stored in a boot and in 
which case the exclusion would not apply.
As Covea is aware any ambiguity in the policy wording is interpreted in the customers 
favour by this Service and I feel that the clause it has relied on suggests that the claim would 
be met if the property is kept within the boot or secure compartment. This clearly implies 
that cover would be provided as long as the property stolen is kept within the boot at the time 
of the theft which it was.
So, I agree with our investigator that the complaint should be upheld and Covea should 
reconsider Company Es claim in line with the remaining terms, conditions and limits of the 
policy. And should Covea go on to accept the claim it should consider any consequential 
losses E incurred by the original repudiation.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require Covea 
Insurance plc to reconsider Es claim in line with the remaining terms, conditions, and limits 
of the policy. And it should consider any consequential losses E incurred by the original 
repudiation if it accepts the claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman