DRN-1662498
The complaint
Mr W says HFC Bank Limited mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr W was sold PPI when taking out a loan in 1999 to pay for an in-store purchase. He paid a 
monthly amount for PPI, the cost of which was included in his monthly loan repayment. And 
he paid off the loan after 12 months to take advantage of an interest-free option. HFC told Mr 
W that there was no evidence that he'd paid for PPI. Mr W was unhappy and referred to 
complaint to us. 
HFC told us that when Mr W repaid the loan after 12 months, his final repayment was 
adjusted so that the total of what he'd paid only covered the cost of the goods he purchased. 
In effect, HFC says that Mr W paid nothing for the PPI, or was refunded what he paid. 
Our adjudicator didn't think the complaint should be upheld. Mr W disagreed, so I've been 
asked to make a decision. Mr W said that the PPI was mis-sold and this increased his 
monthly repayments, financially disadvantaging him, and leaving him with less to spend on 
his family. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I've decided not to uphold this complaint. This is because I've found that Mr W has suffered 
no financial loss. 
From what we know about this type of loan, where a customer exercised the interest-free 
option, they were effectively refunded what they'd paid for PPI. This is because the 
PPI payments were used to pay off the loan instead of paying for PPI. Because of this, 
regardless of whether the PPI was mis-sold, there is nothing to refund to Mr W. 
Mr W thinks HFC should be held to account and punished for how it sold PPI to him. But my 
role is simply to consider the complaint in front of me and put things right if something went 
wrong. I don't have the power to punish a financial business. 
I've found that Mr W suffered no financial loss as a result of the sale of the PPI. So, I don't 
need to make a finding on whether the PPI was mis-sold, because this makes no difference 
to the outcome. 
I've taken into account what Mr W has said. But while I take his point that his monthly 
repayments were higher than they might have been  this had the effect of reducing the 
final payment that he made to settle the loan. So I think that, overall, that balanced itself out 
and so it makes no difference to my decision. I think HFC could've done a better job explaining its reasons for rejecting Mr W's complaint. 
It came across as though HFC didn't believe Mr W had paid for PPI  despite the evidence 
he provided. So I can understand if that annoyed him. 
My final decision
For the reasons I've explained, I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman