DRN-3040364
The complaint
Mr C complains about the valuation he received after redeeming his investment funds 
through the Barclays Bank Plc Ilnvest trading platform. He also complains about a number 
of customer service issues.
In this decision, Ive used Greenwich Mean Time (GMT), unless otherwise stated.
What happened
In September 2013, Mr C opened a Barclays Ilnvest account. On 17 October 2019, Barclays 
notified him, along with other clients, that it would be closing the Ilnvest platform. This meant 
that Mr C would need to sell or transfer his investments. 
Mr C decided to sell his investments and his redemption request was made on Friday, 
13 March 2020 at 10:42am. He was expecting to receive the valuation that applied on the 
same day. This was because the Prospectus for the investment funds gave the dealing time 
as 2:30pm Central European Time (CET)  this would have been 1:30pm GMT. Any deals 
placed before this time, would receive the valuation point for the same day. However, the 
valuation point Mr C received was for Monday, 16 March 2020. After some delays, the sale 
proceeds were credited to his nominated account on 8 April 2020.
Mr C complained to Barclays. In summary, he said:
The valuation he received shouldve been for 13 March 2020. As it wasnt, he 
received less from the sale of his investments;
He should be able to rely on the information as set out in the Prospectus  Barclays 
never gave him any other dealing times;
He was unhappy about the delays to him receiving his funds; 
He was given incorrect information when the call handler told him the valuation point 
was 4pm daily;
Barclays ignored transfer requests from another platform he applied to move to;
Barclays call waiting times are poor and its overall service is also poor;
The services of the Relationship Manager (RM) were removed from his account at a 
time when he most needed it.
 
Barclays rejected Mr Cs complaints. It said the Prospectus related to the third party 
Barclays Portfolios SICAV (SICAV) based in Luxembourg, and not Barclays Ilnvest. The 
2:30pm CET deadline, applied to deals placed directly with the SICAV and as Mr C was a 
retail customer, his trades were through Barclays Ilnvest and different times applied. 
Barclays explained that its dealing model is that deals placed up to 4pm on any given 
business day, are aggregated and sent to the fund managers after this time and these are 
then processed in line with the Prospectus timings.
In terms of Mr Cs other complaints, Barclays made the following points:
Following a review of its services, it was decided to withdraw the Ilnvest platform and 
the role of the RM. It understood Mr Cs disappointment but this was a business 
decision that it was entitled to take;
Barclays apologised to Mr C for the call waiting times and the delays to him receiving 
the sale proceeds. It said that it needed to carry out its legal and regulatory duties 
before processing the payment to him and it did endeavour to meet customer 
demands at busier times;
Nonetheless, Barclays did apologise for some of the service issues Mr C had 
experienced and offered him a total of £450 by way of compensation.
Whilst our investigator understood how frustrating the customer service issues were for 
Mr C, she considered the offer Barclays had made, was fair. She noted the terms that Mr C 
was subject to were that of Ilnvest not directly with the investment fund. And she considered 
Barclays had acted within the timescales set in its agreement with Mr C. 
Our investigator referred to the call Mr C had with Barclays instructing it to sell his shares. 
She noted that when he spoke to the agent the first thing he did was give instructions to sell. 
And the reason he gave for selling his investments was because the markets had started to 
become extremely volatile due the Covid-19 pandemic. She said it was also clear that the 
agent was only able to give Mr C prices from the day before (12 March 2020), so it didnt 
appear that Mr C was basing his decision on the price of the investments as they applied on 
that day (13 March 2020). Under these circumstances, our investigator thought Mr C would 
have gone ahead with the instructions to sell even if hed known that Barclays process 
meant he would get the valuation as it applied on the next working day.
Mr C disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision on the matter. In summary, he 
made the following points: 
The investigator cant be sure he would have gone ahead with the sale as the 
implication is that he would have sold at any price. He made his decision based on 
the valuation dated 13 March 2020;
He had been discussing the redemption process with Barclays from February 2020 
and it said it was a smooth process which he didnt think it was;
He didnt understand how he hadnt invested directly with the investment fund simply 
because he was a retail client. He said the Prospectus for the investment fund 
should apply to him including the relevant timescales;
He hasnt received the £450 in compensation to date as he was waiting for the 
outcome from our service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, on the face of the evidence, on balance, Im satisfied that the offer made to 
Mr C totalling £450 is fair and reasonable. But before I explain why, I think its still important 
for me to recognise the strength of feeling Mr C has about this matter. Hes provided very 
detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. 
However, I hope he wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central 
issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
I know that Mr C wants definitive answers to many (if not all) of his questions, but the 
purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised, its not what Im required to 
do in order to reach a decision in this case. I appreciate this can be frustrating, but it doesnt mean Im not considering the pertinent points.  My role is to consider the evidence presented 
by him and the business, and reach what I think is an independent, fair and reasonable 
decision based on the facts of the case. Its for me to decide, based on the information Ive 
been given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
In terms of Mr Cs main complaint about the value he received for his investments, the 
starting point is the agreement he had with Ilnvest (the agreement). He signed the 
application form which attached the agreement with Ilnvest on 19 September 2013. He has 
sent a copy of this to our service. So, whilst I know Mr C says he is only aware of the terms 
set out in the Prospectus for the relevant investment funds, I think the agreement that 
applied to his trading account is the one with Ilnvest. 
The agreement makes it clear that Ilnvest was acting as an agent for Mr C. Barclays 
explained that its dealing practice was that for any sale instructions received by 4pm, these 
would be aggregated and then executed the next day by the investment fund manager. Mr C 
has asked where it says this in the agreement. In the agreement it states that:
Investments will be purchased or sold by us, acting as agent, as soon as 
reasonably practicable. This will normally be no later than the next Business Day 
that follows our acceptance of your instruction. 
Mr Cs instructions were received on Friday, 13 March 2020, so the next business day was 
Monday, 16 March 2020. As Mr C received the valuation that applied before 2:30pm CET 
time on 16 March 2020, Im satisfied Barclays have acted reasonably when following Mr Cs 
instructions as this was in line with its agreement with him.
I appreciate Mr C thinks Barclays shouldve acted within the timings given in the Prospectus. 
He also says that he shouldnt be treated any differently to that of a professional client. I 
think there has been some confusion over the use of the words retail client which, in this 
context, simply means that Mr C didnt invest directly with the investment funds. In this case, 
he was dealing through an agent, whose practice was as Ive described above. And he was 
told in the agreement that instructions to buy or sell would be actioned by Barclays by no 
later than the next Business Day that follows our acceptance of your instructions. Barclays 
did act within these timescales.
Mr C says if this practice was made clear to him, he would not have sold his investments on 
that day (13 March 2020). He said he only chose to sell on the day when he was happy with 
the price he would receive. And he was led to believe that he would get an immediate 
valuation. But I cant see that he was misled by Barclays about this. I refer to the call with 
Barclays on 13 March 2020. After giving valuations as they applied on the day before 
(12 March 2020), the agent told Mr C that he (Mr C) would only know the valuation he would 
receive on the settlement date of 23 March 2020. So, I cant fairly say Barclays misled Mr C 
about the valuations hed receive for his investments.
That said, the agent who spoke to Mr C on 13 March 2020, incorrectly told him the valuation 
point would be at 4pm that day. But this was incorrect. As outlined above this is the cut-off 
point for Barclays to aggregate the sell/ purchase instructions before sending it on to the 
respective investment managers. The valuations that applied were the next working day, 
which in this case was 16 March 2020. But by giving the time of 4pm (5pm CET), the agent 
did, in effect, signal to Mr C that his trade would not go through before the cut-off time set 
out in the Prospectus of 2:30pm CET. So, on balance, I cant say that Mr C placed reliance 
on the valuation that applied on the day he gave Barclays instructions to sell. It follows that I 
dont think the mistake led to any loss to Mr C.I know that Mr C is unhappy about Barclays decision to withdraw its services as well as the 
role of the RM. Barclays makes a commercial decision about what services it wishes to offer 
to its clients or potential clients. It wouldnt be reasonable for me to say that Barclays should 
change this if its decided it no longer wants to continue with all or some of its services. 
Mr C says that Barclays ignored transfer requests made on his behalf by another platform. 
But he hasnt provided any evidence to support this. So, while I take on board Mr Cs point 
that this was indicative of the overall service he received from Barclays, I dont have 
sufficient information to say its done anything wrong in this regard. And I also note Mr Cs 
point that if hed transferred to this other platform, it wouldve given him the valuation that 
applied on the same day. However, each business is entitled to have its own terms and 
business practices. I think the agreement Mr C had with Ilnvest, made its timescales for the 
sale/ purchase of his investments reasonably clear.
Nonetheless, there were some customer service issues that did cause Mr C some 
inconvenience. There were delays with the anti-money laundering process. I cant fairly 
criticise Barclays for meeting its legal and regulatory duties which it did clearly tell Mr C 
about during the call on 13 March 2020. But I think it couldve kept him better informed 
during the later calls with him when it was clear there would be a delay. I also note that Mr C 
was unhappy with Barclays call waiting times. Whilst this and other customer service issues, 
would have been frustrating for Mr C, on balance, I think what Barclays has already offered 
him, fairly compensates him for these issues. I know Mr C hasnt received the compensation 
payment to date, so my final decision below reflects this.
My final decision
I agree with the total compensation Barclays Bank Plc has offered to pay Mr C. So, I order 
Barclays Bank Plc to pay Mr C £450 for the distress and inconvenience it has caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2021.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman