DRN-3379866
The complaint
Mr T complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) defaulted his loan.
What happened
Mr T took a personal loan of £12,000 from Halifax in December 2018. Monthly repayments
were £218. Payments were made up to March 2020  when Mr Ts income was affected by
the Covid 19 pandemic. He was on furlough. Halifax agreed to a one-month payment
holiday. He called Halifax on 10 August 2020  as he had been made redundant and was
out of work. Halifax agreed to a three-month payment break  with zero interest. No
payments were required, or made for September 2020, October 2020, and November 2020.
The arrangement came to an end on 10 November 2020 and Halifax wrote to Mr T to say so.
On 1 December 2020, Halifax sent Mr T a Notice of Default with the arrears at £654  and
asked that the payments were brought up to date by 19 December 2020. No payment was
made in December 2020.
On 9 January 2021, Mr T called Halifax and a payment plan for eight months was agreed 
with payments of £354.25, starting on 5 February 2021. On 4 February 2021, Mr T paid in
£354.0 (not £354.25). On 11 February 2021, Halifax wrote to Mr T and said the plan hadnt
worked out, and stated the arrears were £954. They asked to speak to Mr T. On 19 February
2021, Mr T called Halifax and the bank said the payments had to be £491 per month, and
the arrangement was changed to three months. Mr T complained and Halifax agreed to a
hold on payments until the end of March 2021  while the complaint was being investigated.
On 1 April 2021, the loan was defaulted and sold  the balance was £8,094.53.
Mr T complained to Halifax in February 2021. He said that he had only been 25p short of the
payment  and this was a genuine mistake  he paid the amount hed written down in his
notes. He said he hadnt received a letter from Halifax setting out the eight-month
arrangement and therefore hadnt had the agreement, and amount to be paid, in writing. He
said he had been assured that no default would be made while the loan was on hold  in
February 2021 and March 2021. He said the default and markers on his credit file were
therefore unfair and they were affecting his ability to get credit.
On 16 March 2021, Halifax said the default was applied fairly. The payment plan agreed on
8 January 2021 had been broken because Mr T hadnt paid in £354.25 as agreed. At the
time of their final response, Halifax offered to discuss a repayment programme.
Mr T brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said Halifax acted reasonably. He said
Halifax had agreed to a three-month payment break in August 2020  and advised Mr T that
the missed payments needed to be made up. Mr T then missed a fourth payment in
December 2020 and Halifaxs letter dated 1 December 2020 and the default notice dated 19
December 2020 were clear. Halifax had agreed to a further payment programme in January
2021  but Mr T hadnt made the required payment of £354.25, and so the default was fair.
He could see that the letters were addressed to Mr Ts home address and so if Mr T hadnt
got them, Halifax couldnt be held responsible for that.
Mr T asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint.
I reached a provisional decision where I said:
I consider there are three aspects to Mr Ts complaint here  which I will look at:
- Was the payment break in August 2020 a reasonable thing for Halifax to do  should
Mr T have been given a payment holiday under the FCAs pandemic support
scheme.
- What happened in January 2021 and February 2021  Halifaxs agreement to an
eight-month payment plan; and Mr Ts payment of £354 on 4 February 2021.
- What happened in February 2021 and March 2021  when Halifax agreed to a
payment hold while Mr Ts complaint was being investigated.
Payment break  August 2020: to be clear, in April 2020, The Financial Conduct Authority
(FCA) announced guidance to lenders in response to the effects on customers of the
COVID-19 pandemic. All lenders, including Halifax, had to put in place payment holidays on
many credit agreements, including personal loans  to help customers who were affected.
Customers could ask for a total of two payment holidays each of three months  whereby
payments could be suspended. Missed payments would not be reported to credit reference
agencies, although interest would still be debited to the accounts. This support was provided
by firms up to the end of October 2020.
The intention was to provide short term support  usually in cases where customers would
be returning to work within a short period of time. And so  where a customers situation was
that they were in longer term difficulty, then payment holidays under this scheme werent
normally agreed. I considered whether this form of help shouldve been given to Mr T  but
in his circumstances, I dont think Halifax should have done so.
I say this because Mr T had been made redundant in July 2020. He had received some
redundancy money; and he had been on furlough for four months before that  so he had
paid the household bills and loan payments for a period. He called Halifax on 10 August
2020  and I listened to the call, and at the time he wasnt certain he could get another job.
And so  because of that, I think Halifax were correct in offering Mr T a three-month payment
break. That was different to the FCAs payment holiday scheme  as it charged zero interest,
and it was advised to the credit reference agencies. This was set out in Halifaxs letter dated
11 August 2020  which Im satisfied set everything out clearly. The letter also said the credit 
reference agencies would be advised there was a plan in place. Its also fair to note that
Halifax wrote to Mr T on 10 November 2020 to advise him that the plan had ended and that
payments should be brought up to date. Its unfortunate that Mr T then didnt make the
payment due in December 2020  which led to a Notice of Default being sent on 1 
December 2020  with the arrears then at £654. The letter said Mr T should bring payments
up to date by 19 December 2020  which he didnt do. Mr T says he didnt receive the letters
from Halifax  but we asked to see the dispatch logs and they show the letters were sent, so
we cant hold Halifax responsible if they didnt arrive. As far as our service is concerned, we
must assume the letters were delivered.
And so  up to this point, Halifax acted reasonably. But its what happened next which is the
crux of Mr Ts complaint.
January 2021- February 2021: Payment plan for £354.25 per month: Mr T called Halifax on 8
January 2021. I listened to the call. Mr T told Halifax he was back in employment and
wanted to clear the arrears  which he accepted were four months behind. Halifaxs call
handler (in the financial assistance unit) worked out Mr Ts income and expenditure and it
was agreed he could afford to pay £354.25 per month for eight months, with the firstpayment due by 5 February 2021. On the call, Mr T was advised that the credit reference
agencies would be advised a plan was in place. At the end of the call, Halifax checked Mr
Ts understanding of the plan - and Mr T said he needed to pay £354 to the loan in
February 2021. The call handler didnt pick up that Mr T had said £354 and not £354.25 
but in all fairness, I can accept that this wouldnt have been a reasonable thing to expect her
to do.
Halifax wrote to Mr T on 8 January 2021  and this set out the agreement. It said We're
setting your monthly payment to £354.25 from 5 February 2021 to 5 September 2021.If
you keep to these payments, you will be up to date with your loan by the end of this plan
Being behind with your payments can affect your credit score and make it harder and more
costly for you to borrow money.It may also stay on your credit file for 6 years, but the
impact on your credit score will reduce if you keep up with your payments. Therefore, the
letter set out the plans terms. Mr T says he didnt get the letter  but again, we have seen
Halifaxs dispatch log and a letter was sent.
Halifax wrote to Mr T on 11 February 2021  to say the plan had been broken and the
arrears were then £954. Mr T then called Halifax on 19 February 2021  by which time he
had logged his complaint. I listened to the three calls that took place on that day. Mr T said
he was worried he was getting letters about legal action  he said he had complied with the
plan and had paid in what was needed - £354  on 4 February 2021. He accepted that was
part of the deal for the eight month plan. So  on the call he was surprised to learn that he
needed to pay 25p more. He referred to the notes he had written during the call on 8
January 2021, which said the payment shouldve been £354.
It seems to me that it wouldve been reasonable for Halifaxs call handler to make a
judgment that for the small shortfall of 25p  that this was a genuine mistake, and marked
the loan as paid to date within the agreed plan  but she didnt. I dont think that was a fair
and reasonable thing to do in the circumstances of Mr Ts situation. And what happened next
 was a consequence of that.
February 2021  March 2021: In the call on 19 February 2021, it was agreed that Mr Ts
income and expenditure hadnt changed. But the call handler then said the payments had to
go up to £491 per month; and the plan was to be shortened to three months. A reason
wasnt given to Mr T  but I presume that was because the payment of £354.25 hadnt been
made in full. Mr T didnt accept that  he said Halifax had agreed to an eight-month plan; and
continued with his complaint. The call handler put in place a 30 day hold on the account  
and said that arrears would continue to build up but (the plan) will stop a default on credit
file for now.
Mr T called again on 27 February 2021 to progress his complaint. The call handler agreed to
a 30 day hold while the complaint was being investigated. She said, collections activity will
stop (for that period). She also said, theres no need to respond to letters asking for
payments.
I didnt see any evidence that the terms of the holds were put in writing to Mr T.
And so  I dont think it was reasonable for Halifax to cancel the agreed eight-month plan
and shorten it to three months, with significantly higher payments  without explanation. And
 they told Mr T that no default would take place during the hold period, and he didnt need
to make any payments. I dont think it was then reasonable for Mr Ts loan to be defaulted on
1 April 2021  one day after the hold expired.
And so, in the circumstances of Mr Ts complaint, I dont think Halifax acted reasonably here.
It wouldve been reasonable for them to accept that a genuine error had been made whenMr T made a payment that was 25p short. And if they had, then its probable that the eight-
month payment plan wouldve gone forward and adhered to by Mr T. And therefore, the
default that was applied in April 2021 should be removed. It is fair that Mr Ts credit file
should show he was in an arrangement for the months of September 2020 to November
2020, and that there was a missed payment in December 2020  as this was factually
correct. Its also fair that his credit file is marked as in an arrangement from February 2021
for eight months  as that was the duration of the agreed plan, and that was included in the
letter sent to Mr T about it.
I dont have up to date information about the current balance of Mr Ts loan  but its fair to
ask Halifax to put in place a mutually acceptable payment schedule for the repayment of the
outstanding amount. I asked Mr T about his current circumstances, and he confirmed he has
been paying £250 to the debt collection agency and could pay up to the previously agreed
amount (£354.25) if necessary. Whether Halifax take the debt back onto their books or leave
it with the debt collection agency is a matter for them.
Mr T had to call Halifax several times  I listened to six calls, some lasting up to an hour. I
can see that because of what happened, he suffered stress and inconvenience - his credit
file was affected and he couldnt easily get credit. And so, for that I think its fair to ask Halifax
to pay compensation of £200. 
Responses to the provisional decision:
Mr T agreed with the findings. He wanted the loan brought back onto Halifaxs books as he 
considered it was a negative to have it with a DCA. He agreed he could afford to pay the 
contractual repayments to the loan. He wants the compensation to be paid into his current 
account.
Halifax broadly agreed to repurchase Mr Ts debt from the DCA and re-establish the loan 
payments; and pay the compensation.
But  they also argued that:
It would be fair to calculate and add interest owed from October 2021 onwards. This 
would reflect that the payment plan that was agreed had run its course and the loan 
then returned to normal conditions. This would mean that the amount of the loan 
would increase from its new start date.
If any payments hadnt been made since October 2021, the missed payments would 
be reported to Mr Ts credit file.
I now need to consider these points and make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Halifaxs two points. On the first one, I think this is reasonable  otherwise, 
Mr T has effectively enjoyed an interest - free loan since October 2021 while his complaint 
has been considered  which doesnt seem fair to Halifax. So, I agree that Halifax should 
add interest since that date up to when the loan is re-established. But I would also say that Halifax must re-establish the loan to run for the remainder of its original term  and not look 
to reduce it. And as this will result in increased repayments  as the amount of the loan will 
increase  Halifax must ensure the repayments are viable.
On Halifaxs second point, I dont think this is reasonable  as we do not know what wouldve 
happened from October 2021 onwards, and so cannot somehow make assumptions about 
whether Mr T would, or wouldnt have made the repayments from then on  so it is not 
reasonable for Halifax add anything on Mr Ts credit file from October 2021 to the present 
day.
And therefore  my final decision is in line with the provisional decision, but with the changes 
detailed above..
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax must:
- Remove the default dated April 2021 from Mr Ts credit file.
- Pay compensation of £200 for stress and inconvenience. This should be paid to his bank 
account.
- Buy back the loan from the DCA. 
- Agree with Mr T a mutually acceptable payment schedule for the repayment of the 
outstanding debt. The amount of the loan can be increased by adding interest at the loans 
contractual rate from October 2021 to when the loan is re-established. The term of the loan 
should be the original term, less the repayments made up to March 2020.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman