DRN-3034863
The complaint
Miss D complains about a guarantor loan provided to her by TFS Loans Limited, (TFS), 
which she says was unaffordable. 
  
What happened
TFS provided Miss D with a loan of £5,000 on 14 August 2015. The loan was secured by a 
guarantor who would be responsible for repaying it if she failed to make her repayments. 
The interest rate was 24.8%, (48.9% APR). The loan was to be repaid by 36 monthly 
repayments of £242.01. If Miss D made each repayment when it was due, shed pay 
£8,712.36 in total. The loan was repaid in October 2019.
Miss D said that she took out a loan with TFS after getting into debt. She struggled to pay 
the loan back. She got into arrears and the total she had to pay back kept increasing. She 
suffered with depression and got into more debt to try and pay the loan. Miss D then 
borrowed money from a family member to repay the loan and she must pay them back.
In its final response letter, TFS concluded that it wasnt upholding Miss Ds complaint. Its 
letter set out details of the information provided to it by Miss D. It had seen Miss Ds most 
recent payslip and carried out a credit check. TFS said that the information obtained, both 
from Miss D and on her credit search showed she had no problems (at the time of the loan 
application) managing credit. The lender didnt believe it was reasonable or proportionate to 
also request evidence of Miss Ds expenditure, given that her disposable income was 
consistent with the information showing on her credit file. Overall, she had a very small 
amount of credit commitments and non-discretional expenses and shed demonstrated she 
was able to manage her finances accordingly. TFS could find no reason to uphold Miss Ds 
complaint that this loan was unaffordable for her. 
Our investigator assessed the complaint and recommended that it be upheld. She said that 
TFS should have carried out better checks. From reviewing the credit search carried out by 
TFS, she thought there was enough information to suggest lending to Miss D wasnt 
suitable. She noted that the credit search showed that Miss D had two defaulted accounts, 
within the past six months, both of which had outstanding balances. In addition to this,    
Miss D was utilising the maximum amount of her overdraft facility. The investigator thought 
there was enough information to show it was unlikely Miss D would be able to sustainably 
meet repayments for this loan. And at the very least, TFS shouldve carried out further 
checks to ensure the lending was affordable for her. The investigator had also seen
evidence that Miss D had at least one other loan for £5,000, with monthly repayments
of £233.55, which was taken out only nine months prior to her loan application with TFS.
When this was included in the income and expenditure assessment carried out by TFS, it 
showed that Miss D didnt have enough disposable income to cover the loan repayments. 
This was also supported by the fact the loan statement showed Miss D failing to meet
repayments soon after the loan was given.
TFS disagreed. It had reviewed the credit report at the time of the loan. It referred to the two 
defaulted accounts and said that Miss D had started to decrease the outstanding balances 
by making payments. TFS referred to Miss Ds overdraft facility and said that the limit hadnt 
been exceeded. It had no reason to request further evidence of income and expenditure, as 
it believed Miss D had provided all relevant information for it to make a decision to lend.
As this complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has come to me, as an ombudsman, to 
review and resolve.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When TFS lent to Miss D the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and 
relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). Its 
rules and guidance obliged TFS to lend responsibly. As set out in CONC, this meant that 
TFS needed to take reasonable and proportionate steps to assess whether or not a borrower 
could afford to meet its loan repayments in a sustainable manner over the lifetime of the 
agreement. 
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner meant being able to meet repayments out of normal 
income while meeting normal outgoings and not having to borrow further to meet these 
repayments.
The lender was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment each time - 
sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability check. Neither the 
law nor the FCA specified what level of detail was needed to carry out an appropriate 
assessment or how such an assessment was to be carried out in practice. The FCA said that 
the level of detail would depend on the type of product, the amount of credit being 
considered, the associated cost and risk to the borrower relative to the borrowers financial 
situation, amongst other factors.
The checks had to be borrower focussed. So, TFS had to think about whether Miss D could 
sustainably repay her loan. In practice this meant that the lender had to ensure that making 
the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Miss D undue difficulty or adverse consequences. 
In other words, it wasnt enough for TFS to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of loan repayments on Miss D. So even in this 
case where Miss D had a guarantor who had agreed to meet repayments if she couldnt, this 
didnt absolve TFS of its obligation to assess whether Miss D could meet her repayments 
without undue difficulty.
In general, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been 
more thorough: 
  the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
  the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
  the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of credit is likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make repayments for 
an extended period). 
TFS gathered some information from Miss D about her income and expenses before it 
agreed the loan. Ive listened to recordings of several phone calls between Miss D and TFS 
in which TFS collected information from Miss D. It also carried out a credit check and saw 
Miss Ds most recent payslip.Miss D declared her monthly income as £1,800. She provided her most recent payslip to 
TFS. This showed a net pay of around £2,450. But the payslip also showed a large amount 
of additional hours and holiday pay as well as a gross basic pay of around £1,744. So, I think 
the net pay of £2,450 on the payslip was unlikely to be Miss Ds usual monthly pay. The year 
to date amounts on the payslip, when averaged, suggested that a net pay of £2,450 was 
likely to be substantially larger than the average monthly pay. And as Miss Ds gross basic 
pay was around £1,744, I also cant say that her declared regular monthly income of £1,800 
was guaranteed.  
I note that TFS used a net pay of £1,620 in its calculations. In the final response letter, it said 
that the net pay had been taken from the payslip, but I cant see reference to such an 
amount on it. I dont know how TFS had calculated a net pay of £1,620. Ive looked up the 
net pay for a gross basic pay of £1,744.40 in 2015/2016 and also deducted Miss Ds pension 
contribution. This results in a net pay of around £1,423. So, I dont think the lender could 
have been confident that the income figure it used was accurate. If the amount of £1,423 
had been used to calculate affordability, it was less than the total of the expenditure declared 
by Miss D and TFSs loan repayment, and so Miss D wouldnt have had enough money to 
repay the loan.
Miss D told TFS she lived with family and paid £250 rent. She said she was single and had 
no dependents. TFS asked Miss D for information about her other living costs and credit 
commitments. It didnt ask for verification of Miss Ds expenditure. 
Im concerned that TFS appears to have mostly relied on Miss Ds statement of her 
expenses without verifying them. CONC 5.3.1(4) said: 
If a firm takes income or expenditure into account in its creditworthiness assessment 
required under CONC 5.2.2R (1): 
(a) The firm should take account of actual current income or expenditure and reasonably 
expected future income or expenditure (to the extent it is proportionate to do so) where it is 
reasonably foreseeable that it would differ from actual current income or expenditure over 
the anticipated repayment period of the agreement; 
(b) it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the customers 
income and expenditure, on a statement of those matters made by the customer; 
So, I think in Miss Ds circumstances, it would have been proportionate for TFS to have 
verified her actual expenditure. 
TFS said that Miss D would have a monthly disposable income of around £147 taking into 
account its loan repayment. But TFS was required to establish whether Miss D could 
sustainably make her loan repayments  not just whether the loan payments were 
technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Ive also reviewed TFSs credit report. The report showed that Miss D had around ten active 
accounts. There were two recent defaulted accounts. The most recent default was only 
around three months before Miss Ds loan application. I cant see that Miss D had repaid any 
of the default balance as the information was only updated to mid-May 2015. I note that she 
had made no payments in the five months prior to May 2015. I think this might have 
prompted further investigation by TFS. The second default was almost seven months prior to 
the loan application. Whilst Miss D had made some repayments to the default balance, she 
had only managed to make a payment in two of the four months prior to the loan application. 
The credit checks also showed that Miss Ds current account had an overdrawn balance of 
£3,904 with an overdraft limit of £3,920 and that a payment arrangement had been made in 
the month prior to the loan application. I can also see that the credit check showed that there 
were 18 credit searches in the previous twelve months, of which five had been made in the previous month. I think this suggests a recent need for credit which ought to have concerned 
TFS. 
TFS will also be aware that not all lenders report to the same credit reference agencies and 
a lenders credit check wont always be up to date. So, it was likely to be aware that Miss D 
could have had other credit which wasnt shown on TFSs credit report.
Simply performing credit checks isnt enough. A lender needs to react appropriately to the 
information that any checks show. Altogether I think the two recent defaults and irregular 
repayments to one of the default balances, together with the current account near its 
overdraft limit and the recent repayment arrangement on that account, and the recent credit 
searches that TFS would have likely seen on its checks should have put the lender on notice 
that Miss D was likely struggling to manage her money. I think the picture from TFSs credit 
check was of a consumer with recent financial difficulties whose finances were still under 
pressure at the time of the loan application. In addition, I cannot see that the lender could 
have any great confidence in Miss Ds declared income and expenditure. So, I dont think, 
based on the information it saw from its checks, that it was reasonable for TFS to conclude 
that Miss D would be able to repay this loan in a sustainable manner. And I dont think TFS 
made a fair lending decision to provide the loan to her based on what it had already seen in 
its checks. Agreeing further credit for Miss D was only likely to add to her financial 
difficulties.
Im not going to investigate what further checks might have shown in view of what Ive said 
above. Im satisfied that the available information demonstrated that Miss D wasnt in a 
position to take on any more debt and so TFSs decision to arrange the loan wasnt fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
But I think it worth mentioning that Ive reviewed the credit report Miss D provided to this 
Service. Ive also reviewed another complaint with this Service brought by Miss D about a 
high cost credit loan. I can see that Miss D had a significantly larger amount of existing credit 
at the time of her loan application than that shown in TFSs credit checks. I can see shed 
opened a high cost credit loan for £5,000 in October 2014 with monthly repayments of 
around £233.  Shed also taken out a short term loan with a payday loan provider for around 
£2,700 in June 2015 and in the following month (and just 15 days before she applied for 
TFSs loan) shed taken out a payday loan for £500. Both loans were still outstanding when 
Miss D applied for TFSs loan and were later defaulted. Miss D had also taken out another 
four payday loans between May 2015 and July 2015. If TFS had made better checks and 
calculated Miss Ds total monthly credit repayments to include her other credit commitments, 
it would have likely seen that Miss D didnt have enough disposable income to repay TFSs 
loan. 
I note that part of the purpose of the loan was to pay off Miss Ds overdraft of £3,904. But I 
can see that the new loan wouldnt have covered most of Miss Ds actual outstanding debt 
and added around £8700 to her existing credit.
So, for the reasons set out above I dont think TFS acted fairly when it provided the loan to 
Miss D. Im satisfied that Miss Ds complaint should be upheld and that TFS should put 
things right as follows: 
Putting things right  what TFS needs to do 
TFS should:
1. Add up the total amount of money Miss D received as a result of having been given 
the loan. The repayments Miss D made should be deducted from this amount. If this results in Miss D having paid more than she received, then any overpayments should 
be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement).*      
      2. Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ds credit file in relation to the   
loan.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS to take off tax from this interest. TFS must give  
Miss D a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of this complaint, I 
order TFS Loans Limited to pay the compensation and take the steps set out above under 
the heading Putting things right  what TFS needs to do.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 December 2021. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman