DRN-2835199
The complaint
C, a limited company, complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited, 
trading as Hargreaves Lansdown (HLAM), did not execute its limit order to purchase 
shares when the limit price was reached. C says it wants HLAM to purchase the shares at 
the limit price or pay him the difference between the current share price and the limit order 
price.
The complaint is brought by the director of C, who I will refer to as Mr H.
What happened
On 9 March 2020, Mr H placed an online order to purchase 1,100 shares in a company Ill 
call B at a limit price of 950p. He says the limit price was reached on 12 March, but HLAM 
did not trade.
HLAM said that, on 12 March, the offer price of B shares dropped to 950p, and below, on a 
few brief occasions during the 10 minutes prior to market close. It says that, because of the 
volume of orders it was handling at that time, it couldnt execute the order. It pointed to its 
terms and conditions which say that it cant guarantee that limit orders will be executed and 
that it doesnt accept any liability for any loss or potential loss you may suffer if. there is a 
failure to execute a limit or stop loss order.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said he hadnt 
seen anything to show that HLAM didnt attempt to execute the order as soon as practicable 
in view of the market conditions at the time.
Mr H, on Cs behalf, did not agree. He replied in some detail saying, in summary, that:
The order should have been placed into the market as a resting buy order.
His limit order was triggered, but it looks likely that HLAM forgot to place it.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and in my own words. Mr H has provided a detailed response to our investigators view and 
I want to reassure him that I have considered everything that hes said. I do not intend any 
discourtesy in not responding to every single point made by all the parties involved. Instead, 
Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this and 
simply reflect the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Having carefully considered everything, I have reached the same conclusion as our 
investigator for the following reasons:
I think HLAM make it reasonably clear that it cannot guarantee a limit order will be executed. 
Its terms say:
Hargreaves Lansdown cannot guarantee that your stop loss or limit order will be executed, 
even if the share price reaches the limit price or stop price you have set. If you are not 
comfortable with this, you should not use this service.
And it goes on to explain that market conditions may be a factor in preventing a limit order 
being executed.
But Ive gone on to think about whether HLAM treated C fairly in the circumstances.
HLAM told us the limit price set by C was reached. But its electronic limit order service didnt 
trigger, so no attempt was made to trade. It explained that this was because dealing volumes 
were particularly high, and the limit price was reached 10 minutes before the market closed. 
The limit price was not reached for long enough for HLAMs limit minding service to execute 
the order.
I dont think its unreasonable that the order wasnt executed, taking into account the market 
conditions at the time.
I havent seen evidence to suggest that HLAM forgot about Cs limit order, as Mr H suggests.
Mr H says HLAM should have placed the order into the market as a resting buy order. But 
HLAMs order handling policy explains that this isnt the process it follows. Limit orders are 
not visible to the market until they are triggered to minimise potential market manipulation.
Overall, I think it was made reasonably clear that the placing of a limit order does not 
guarantee a sale at the specified price and that there may be reasons why an order cant be 
executed even if the specified price is reached. I find that HLAM handled Cs order in line 
with its agreed terms and conditions, including its order handling policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman