DRN-3540608
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) (Halifax) didnt agree 
to extend the term of their interest only mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs F took out their mortgage in April 2008 on an interest only basis over a 16-year 
term.
Their original repayment vehicle was the sale of a second property, as well as Mr Fs 
pension.
In 2018, Mr and Mrs F reviewed their mortgage with Halifax in branch. They had concerns 
about their repayment plan and didnt think theyd be able to pay off their mortgage at the 
end of its term. Mr and Mrs F asked Halifax to extend their mortgage for five years, and to 
change the basis on which it was repaid - to a capital and interest repayment mortgage. 
Halifax didnt think Mr and Mrs F could afford this, so they declined their application. Mr and 
Mrs F complained to our service about that in a previous complaint. However, that complaint 
wasnt upheld.
Mr and Mrs F spoke to Halifax again in May 2021 to discuss their circumstances. They 
wanted Halifax to extend the term of their mortgage (on interest only terms) for seven years 
 to coincide with Mr Fs 70th birthday. But Halifax wouldnt agree to this. Mr and Mrs F told 
Halifax theyd sold their second property in January 2020. Theyd used the money from the 
sale to repay Mr Fs debts and paid more than £35,000 towards their Halifax mortgage. 
However, that meant they no longer had a repayment vehicle to repay their mortgage 
balance at the end of their mortgage term. They still had Mr Fs pension but that wouldnt be 
enough to redeem the mortgage. Halifax said extending the mortgage would be unaffordable 
to Mr and Mrs F. It suggested that Mr and Mrs F got advice from an independent financial 
adviser. 
Mr and Mrs F used a broker to find a third-party lender that was willing to give them an 
interest only mortgage that would end on Mr Fs 70th birthday. They thought Halifax should 
have offered them this too, so they complained to Halifax. 
The third-party lender went on to decline Mr and Mrs Fs mortgage application. Mr and Mrs F 
say that was because of adverse credit information on Mr Fs credit file. Mr and Mrs F blame 
Halifax for that adverse information. They say that when they reviewed their mortgage with 
Halifax in 2018 the adviser told them to keep their second property at all costs. Mrs F says 
they relied on that advice even though the money they received from letting out their second 
property wasnt enough to cover their mortgage and other costs. So Mr F took out payday 
loans to keep that mortgage going. Mr and Mrs F say that if Halifax had given them better 
advice they wouldve sold their second property sooner, which would have meant that Mr Fs 
credit file was in better shape, and they would have more options to borrow money from 
other providers. 
In its final response Halifax said it hadnt done anything wrong. So Mr and Mrs F complained 
to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator looked into the matter. She understood why Mr and Mrs F wanted their 
interest only mortgage to be extended until Mr F reached 70 years old. However, she said 
that Halifax wasnt required to extend the term of the mortgage, where there is concern its 
lending criteria wasnt being met. She considered the available evidence about what was 
said in the 2018 meeting and didnt think it would be fair to hold Halifax responsible for the 
adverse information on Mr Fs credit file. So she didnt recommend that Mr and Mrs Fs 
complaint was upheld.
Mr and Mrs F remained unhappy and asked for their complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as out investigator. Ill explain why.
mortgage extension
Ill begin by saying that when Mr and Mrs F took out their mortgage, they agreed to repay the 
balance at the end of the term in 2024. So its reasonable that Halifax expected them to do 
that. Halifax wasnt required to extend their mortgage. However, it needed to consider any 
applications Mr and Mrs F made to extend their mortgage fairly and reasonably. 
When Mr and Mrs F asked Halifax asked to extend the term of the mortgage in 2021, Halifax 
had to consider whether they could afford to do that bearing in mind their circumstances and 
the regulatory rules in force at the time. As Mr and Mrs F know, the Financial Conduct 
Authority introduced a number of changes to the way residential mortgages are regulated in 
2014. Those changes mean that lenders such as Halifax have to assess affordability much 
more tightly then they did when Mr and Mrs F got their mortgage in 2008.
Mr and Mrs F want Halifax to extend their mortgage for seven years. They say thats is in 
their best interests as such an extension would enable them to pay off their mortgage and 
downsize at the point Mr F retires (he intends to work until he is 70 years of age) and after 
their children have finished their schooling. 
Mr and Mrs F have told our investigator they dont trust Halifax to give them the time they 
need to sell their property when their current mortgage term ends in 2024. Nor do they think 
that Halifax has worked with them as it should have done. 
Halifax say they cant give Mr and Mrs F the mortgage extension they want. In coming to this 
decision it has told it considers that:
Mr and Mrs F cant afford to change their mortgage to a repayment mortgage.
Mr and Mrs F have sold their original repayment vehicle (the second property) and 
spent the money they received from that sale.
selling a mortgaged property isnt a viable repayment strategy under current 
regulations.
Halifax thinks that Mr and Mrs F will need to sell their property to repay the capital of their mortgage. It doesnt want to wait an extra seven years from the end of the current mortgage 
term for this to happen. It says its under no obligation to accept Mr and Mrs Fs proposal.
I dont underestimate Mr and Mrs Fs strength of feeling about this issue. Its clear that 
theyve been trying to get the mortgage extended for some period of time, and that they have 
limited options to borrow from a third party given the information on Mr Fs credit file. They 
have complained to Halifax about being trapped. 
Ive no doubt that Mr and Mrs F are stressed by this matter. They dont appear to dispute the 
facts on which Halifax has made its decision. Instead they feel that because of their 
circumstances, Halifax should go against its lending policy and extend their mortgage or 
come up with another solution to help them.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs Fs position. However, I think its helpful for me to say here that its 
up to Halifax to set its own lending policy. Its allowed to use its commercial judgement to put 
in place a policy in relation to mortgages which reflects its regulatory obligations, as well as 
its attitude to risk. 
Where a complaint is about the exercise by a lender of its commercial judgement (as it is 
here) my role is to decide whether that judgement has been exercised fairly and reasonably; 
it isnt to substitute my own judgement for that of Halifax. In other words, I have to decide if 
Halifax took into account all relevant factors and gave proper consideration to them before 
reaching its decision. It is only if I thought no lender could reasonably have made the 
decisions Halifax made in this case that there would be any basis for intervention on my part. 
The Financial Ombudsman Service has no power to set lending policy for Halifax.
Having considered all the available evidence Im satisfied that Halifax considered Mr and 
Mrs Fs 2021 application to extend their mortgage fairly and reasonably. Halifax says it 
decided it was unwilling to extend the current term of Mr and Mrs Fs mortgage by seven 
years. I can understand why it took that decision. Although Mr and Mrs F feel strongly that 
the seven-year extension would be in their best interests, its likely that they will still need to 
sell their property at the end of their mortgage to pay off what they owe. So I can understand 
why Halifax is unwilling to wait so many years for that to happen. Much could change in that 
period of time, and theres also a risk that Mr and Mrs Fs finances could deteriorate.
Mr and Mrs F have said that its not fair that Halifax will give a new lender a mortgage until 
they are 70 years of age but wont allow existing customers such as themselves to do this. I 
can see that their age has been a factor in the discussions theyve with Halifax, and that 
Halifax hasnt always been clear about exactly why it wasnt willing to extend their mortgage 
on interest only terms. I appreciate how frustrating that was for Mr and Mrs F. However, as I 
said above, Im not persuaded that Halifax declined their application to extend their 
mortgage simply because of their age. Ive set out the factors that Im satisfied Halifax 
considered in relation to this decision above.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs F will be disappointed by my findings on this point. Theyve 
complained that Halifax has rejected the options theyve put forward and hasnt worked with 
them constructively to suggest a viable solution itself. I appreciate how frustrated they are 
that Halifax hasnt offered them a solution that theyre happy with. However, I can see that 
theyve had numerous discussions with Halifax about their circumstances and possible 
options. Ultimately Halifax isnt required to agree to come up with a solution that enables 
them to live in the mortgaged property until Mr F plans to retire. So I dont think its fair to say 
that Halifax hasnt worked with them as it should because it hasnt offered them such a 
solution. 
Halifax has said that it would consider the sale of the mortgaged property as a repayment strategy if the sale was to be brought closer to the mortgage end of term date in May 2024. I 
think thats fair and reasonable in the particular circumstances of this case given that the 
regulations that Halifax is required to follow.
Mrs F has said that she and Mr F dont trust Halifax to give them the time they need to sell 
their property when their current mortgage term ends in May 2024. They think that Halifaxs 
offer to consider a sale closer to that date is vague. Theyve told us that they dont want to 
rely on Halifaxs discretion in 2024 as they fear that Halifax will give them as least time they 
possibly can to sell around this time. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs Fs strong feelings about Halifax and what an impact selling their 
property will have on their family. However, Im conscious that May 2024 is nearly two years 
away, so I think they have time to prepare to sell their property at the end of its term in May 
2024.
2018 mortgage review
Mr and Mrs F say that in their 2018 mortgage review the Halifax advisor told them that they 
needed to keep their second property at any cost. They say they Mr F followed that advice to 
the letter as he didnt know how that would damage his credit rating and ultimately prevent 
them getting a mortgage with another provider. So they hold Halifax responsible for the 
problems theyve had trying to move to another lender.
Halifax doesnt have a recording of what was said in that review. However, it has a provided 
us with a statement from the relevant adviser. The advisor says they had a wide-ranging 
conversation in branch where Mr and Mrs Fs mortgage options and repayment plans were 
discussed. He talked to them about how they could overpay their mortgage and gathered the 
information so that a standing order could be set up for overpayments to be made. The 
advisor says it became clear in the meeting that Mr and Mrs F were planning to sell their 
second property in the near future, so it was disregarded as a repayment vehicle. Mrs F 
disputes this saying they hadnt decided to sell the second property at that point  it was just 
one option considered at the meeting.
Having considered what Mr and Mrs F and Halifax have said on this issue Im not persuaded 
that Halifax told Mr and Mrs F to keep their second property in all circumstances  even in 
the event of them being in financial difficulties. I think its more likely, on the balance of 
probabilities, that the advisor talked about the importance of them having a repayment 
vehicle so that they could repay their interest only mortgage. In any event, I think it was open 
to Mr and Mrs F to contact Halifax again once their circumstances changed and they 
experienced financial difficulties. If theyd done that Halifax would have been able to advise 
them in the knowledge of their specific circumstances at the time. It follows that I dont think 
it would fair and reasonable for me to say that Halifax is responsible for Mr Fs decision to 
take out payday loans, and the impact that had on his credit file and their ability to get a 
mortgage with another provider. 
conclusion
I empathise with Mr and Mrs F, and recognise that this decision is likely be very 
disappointing to them. But based on what Ive seen, it wouldnt be appropriate for me to 
require Halifax to do anything to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 August 2022.
 
Laura Forster
Ombudsman