DRN-2312307
The complaint
Mr F complains that his personal data held by Equifax Limited was compromised during a 
cyber attack. He wants compensation of £6,300.
What happened
Mr F tells us that Equifax notified him that some of his personal details had been accessed 
by an unauthorised party during a cyber attack. And that this had exposed him to various 
potential attempts at fraud. Mr F says that Equifax offer of compensation doesnt go far 
enough. And he wants compensation which would cover the cost of monitoring his credit 
records with all credit reference agencies (CRA) for the next 35 years. He states that hes 
found a service provided by another supplier, which Ill refer to as C, at a current cost of 
about £15 per month. He estimates the cost of cover for the period he requires to be 
approximately £6,300.
Equifax told us that in 2017 it reported that it had been the victim of a cyber attack. It said 
that the personal details of some UK clients had been compromised.  Equifax explained that 
it had offered to supply Mr F with a number of its services free of charge for two years to 
help monitor his credit files and report any unusual activity. And it said it had also offered him 
£600 compensation.
Our investigator thought that the offer made by Equifax was substantially fair. But she said 
that she would understand if Mr F felt uncomfortable with Equifax and its products. And she 
thought that Equifax should also fund the cost of a tracking service offered by a different 
business for a period of two years if Mr F wished to subscribe to it.
Equifax didnt respond to the investigators view. Mr F didnt agree with this outcome. He 
thought Equifax should cover the cost of monitoring his credit record across all four CRAs 
until well into his anticipated retirement. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr F would be concerned that some of his personal and security details 
had been accessed by unauthorised parties. And I empathise with his worry that the 
potential threat of fraud arising from these circumstances is ongoing.
As theres no doubt that Equifax was at fault in not handling Mr Fs personal information with 
sufficient care, I can concentrate on how I think matters should be put right. And at the 
outset I should explain that no person or business can provide an absolute guarantee that an 
individual will not be the victim of fraud.
When we decide on awarding payments for distress and inconvenience, we adopt a 
balanced approach and consider what is fair and reasonable in terms of the actions Equifax 
needs to take to resolve this complaint.
Ive considered Mr Fs wish to be compensated for the costs associated with monitoring all 
his credit records with the different CRAs for the foreseeable future. But I dont think it would 
be fair and reasonable to require Equifax to go this far. Ill explain why.
Fortunately, it seems that to date Mr F has not been the victim of fraud as a result of this 
security breach. And hopefully this will remain the case. But if it were to happen then hed 
potentially have a separate claim against Equifax. Although I understand that Mr F would 
prefer to not be in the position of even having to contemplate this.
I understand the information was accessed at some point in the first half of 2017. Whilst 
nothing is impossible, it seems increasingly less likely after this length of time that Mr F 
would become the victim of any fraud arising directly from these circumstances.
Any potential fraudster would know that once an individual was aware their personal and / or 
security details had been unlawfully accessed it would be likely that remedial measures 
would be taken.  No doubt passwords and other security details can be changed. And whilst 
some items such as dates of birth and driving licence numbers are permanent, it ought not to 
be the case that this information would be sufficient by itself to permit a successful fraud.
Although each case is determined on its own merits, this service tries to adopt a consistent 
approach. And Im sure Mr F wont be surprised to learn that there have been numerous 
other complaints arise out of these same circumstances.
I think the offer Equifax made to provide access free of charge to relevant monitoring 
services for two years was fair and reasonable. As was its offer of £600 compensation.
And its in line with what wed expect a business to do in these circumstances.
But I also accept why Mr F feels unable to rely solely on Equifax products to monitor his 
personal information and help protect him against fraud.
I agree with our investigators view that Equifax should fund the first two years of 
subscription to an alternative monitoring service. Mr F had advised that C provides such a 
service and upon proof of payment I think Equifax should refund these costs.
Putting things right
In addition to paying compensation to Mr F of £600 and providing free access to its 
monitoring services for two years, Equifax should take the following action:
Upon proof of payment, refund to Mr F the cost of the first two years subscription to an 
alternative credit monitoring service. Simple interest at the rate of 8% per year should be 
added from date of payment to date of settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons given above Im upholding this complaint but only in part. 
I require Equifax Limited to take the actions Ive stipulated in the immediately preceding 
section.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or reject my decision before 7 December 2020.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman