DRN-3705293
The complaint
Mr U complains that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans irresponsibly lent 
him money on high cost loans which he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
Mr U was provided with the following loans by Everyday:
Date of loan Amount Repayment 
periodMonthly 
instalment
Loan 1 19/11/2018 £1,500 24 months £168
Loan 2 30/5/2019 1,200 24 months £145
He got into difficulties over the repayments for both loans and has entered into a DMP (debt 
management plan).
In respect of loan 1 Everyday said it carried out all necessary eligibility checks, including 
reviewing Mr Us credit report, verifying his income and considered recent bank statements. 
It applied ONS (Office for National Statistics) data to assess his living expenses. It said that 
it assessed the loan as being affordable.
With regard to loan 2, Everyday agreed this shouldnt have been provided. It therefore 
agreed that it would refund the interest and charges and apply the refund towards the 
outstanding balance due for loan 1.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman our adjudicator noted Everydays offer in respect of 
loan 2 (which I understand still stands) and reviewed loan 1. She said that after calculating 
Mr Us credit commitments, he would have been left with a negative disposable income. He 
also had a number of recent payday loans on his credit record. So she said that Everyday 
shouldnt have provided the loan.
Everyday disagreed with our adjudicators calculations and also pointed out that the loan 
was in part to consolidate some of his outstanding loans, thereby removing him from a 
dependency on payday loans.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Everyday complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr U 
would be able to repay the loans in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr U would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required Everyday to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Us ability to make the repayments under the agreements. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Everyday had to think about whether 
repaying the loans would be sustainable. In practice this meant that Everyday had to ensure 
that making the repayments on the loans wouldnt cause Mr U undue difficulty or significant 
adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet repayments out of 
normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without failing to make any 
other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and without the 
repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday to simply think about the likelihood of it getting 
its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr U. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that such a check ought generally to have been more thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
a higher repayment from a particular level of income).
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which a 
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal 
that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
loan 1
Using Everydays figures, Mr U had a monthly income of £1,926, with monthly living 
expenses of £851 and rent of £325. It calculated his credit commitments at £469  this figure 
takes into account an estimated £251 freed up by paying off some of his credit. Yet, with the 
new loan repayment, his credit commitments were still 33% of his income  a high figure 
which is potentially an indicator that the loan was unaffordable. And Everyday assessed his 
monthly disposable income at around £114, which I think is low. 
Ive noted also that the whole of the loan monies were paid to Mr U. As the loan was 
supposed to be for consolidation, Everyday took the risk that Mr U wouldnt use the funds for 
consolidating his loans. It could have repaid the loans/credit first before transferring the money. I dont know if Mr U paid off any those loans  by the look of his credit record at the 
time of the application for loan 2, it doesnt appear that he did.
My view is that even on the basis of Everydays calculations and even if Mr U did pay off 
some loans, this loan wasnt affordable. But, as our adjudicator has said in calculating the 
payments for credit cards we say that a monthly payment of 5% of the balance should be 
taken into account. As the rate of interest on the credit cards is likely to be high, a 3% 
payment wouldnt pay off the balance in a reasonable time. Ive noted that Everyday say the 
standard figure is 3%, and it hasnt been challenged by us. I dont agree  our position on 
this has been made clear to Everyday a number of times. Using the 5% calculation, Mr U 
wouldve had a negative disposable income.
So I dont think that Everyday made a fair lending decision in respect of this loan.
loan 2
Everyday agreed that this loan shouldnt have been made, and I think thats reasonable. The 
remedy should be the same as for loan 1, so I will add it to my decision as set out below.
Putting things right
Mr U has had the capital payment in respect of both loans, so its fair that he should 
repay this. So far as the loans are concerned, I think Everyday should refund all interest 
and charges as follows: 
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loans. 
Treat any payments made by Mr U as payments towards the capital amount. 
If Mr U has paid more than the capital, refund any overpayments to him with 8% 
simple interest* from the date they were paid to the date of settlement. 
But if theres still an outstanding balance, Everyday should come to a reasonable 
repayment plan with Mr U.
If Everyday has sold the outstanding debt to a third-party it should do what it can to 
buy it back - if it cant, it cant deduct any outstanding balance from the redress and 
it then needs to work with the third-party to bring about the steps above.
Remove any adverse information about the loans from Mr Us credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday to deduct tax from this interest. It should give 
Mr U a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans to 
provide the remedy set out under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman