DRN-3108138
The complaint
Mrs J is unhappy Allianz Insurance PLC (Allianz) didnt cover her claim in full. Shes also 
unhappy Allianz refused to upgrade her policy mid-term.
What happened
Mrs J renewed her pet insurance policy on 18 October 2020 to provide continual cover for 
her dog. Unfortunately, Mrs Js dog became unwell and in June 2021 she submitted a claim 
for costs associated with her dogs treatment.
The total amount claimed for was £1587.72 but Allianz only paid £405.20 and said Mrs J had 
reached the maximum benefit of £4,000 per policy year for veterinary fees.
Mrs J was unhappy and got in touch with Allianz to see if they could upgrade the policy. The 
adviser explained that upgrades could only be done at renewal and was subject to the 
underwriters approval. Mrs J asked if there was anything else that could be done to resolve 
the issue, her dog was at the time going through chemotherapy and she was understandably 
concerned for her dogs welfare. 
Allianz further explained the upgrade process and that it wasnt guaranteed. As Mrs J had 
also mentioned taking out new cover to resolve things, Allianz also explained what the 
consequences would be if Mrs J decided to take out a new policy, such as her dogs current 
health issues becoming a pre-existing condition. They confirmed there wasnt anything they 
could do to support Mrs J until the policy renewed.
Mrs J brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt think Allianz had done 
anything wrong so didnt ask them to do anything more. Mrs J remained unhappy so it has 
been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know this will be disappointing 
news for Mrs J and Ive explained my reasoning below.
The policy terms say:
We will provide ongoing cover for illnesses and injuries, year after year, providing you 
continue to pay your premium and renew your policy each year (without any break in cover). 
Your policy provides an amount of money in each policy year for you to claim for all illnesses 
and injuries. This is called the maximum benefit. You have one maximum benefit for 
Veterinary Fees and a separate maximum benefit for Complementary Treatment. 
The amount you can claim for each section, in each policy year, is shown on your 
Certificates of Insurance. Every 12 months, if you renew your policy, the maximum benefits 
are replenished and you will again have the full amounts to claim from in the next policy 
year. If your cover is cancelled or stops for any reason (including when the premiums are not 
paid), all cover for your pet will end and no further claims will be paid.
So, it is clear there is a limit to what will be covered each policy year.
Mrs J has said Allianz should be clearer in their renewal documentation. The renewal 
documents detailed the level of benefit provided under the policy which is £4,000 per policy 
year for veterinary fees. It also said the veterinary fees benefit will refresh each year. 
Considering this, and that it should be read in conjunction with the policy terms and 
conditions, Im satisfied Allianz have been clear about the level of cover provided and what 
that means.
Allianz have provided a breakdown of claims made between 18 October 2020 to the time of 
complaint. And I can see that the maximum level of cover had been reached at the point the 
claim was made. The £405.20 was the last of the available benefit for the policy year. 
As Allianz had paid out the maximum benefit available under Mrs Js policy, I dont think 
theyve done anything wrong in only making a partial payment for the claim.
Mrs J has said Allianz should have made her aware that she was coming close to reaching 
her maximum benefit for the policy year. However, I havent seen this is something they say 
they will do. And given the number of customers they serve I dont think it would be practical 
to expect them to do this. 
Im very sorry to hear Mrs Js dog has been unwell and having to go through continual 
treatment. I dont underestimate the difficult position Mrs J was put in as a result of the 
benefit being reached or the level of stress this put her under. However, as Allianz provided 
cover in line with the terms and conditions of the policy, they dont need to do anything more.
Mrs J asked Allianz about upgrading the policy mid-term. The adviser explained that this isnt 
something they could do as upgrades can only be requested at the time of renewal. The 
policy explains:
If a higher plan is available for your pet you can apply for an upgrade at renewal of your 
policy. The upgrade is not guaranteed and we will let you know if we can offer the higher 
plan once we have reviewed your pets veterinary history.
They have been clear about the upgrade process and also further explained this to Mrs J at 
the time of the complaint. Given that Mrs J requested the upgrade mid-term, Allianz was 
within their rights not to review this at the time.
Overall, Im satisfied Allianz have complied with the terms and conditions of the policy and 
havent treated Mrs J unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this 
complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
Karin Hutchinson
Ombudsman