DRN-1471655
Complaint
Ms M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC Trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) closed 
her account without giving suitable notice to do so. 
Background
Ms M has a Barclaycard credit card and has been a customer for a number of years. She 
received a letter from Barclaycard informing her account was to be closed and her credit limit 
was being immediately reduced. Ms M feels that Barclaycard have acted unfairly in closing 
the account and didnt give her sufficient notice when reducing her credit limit to £50. Ms M 
says that while the credit card had been inactive for 18 months, she relies on this card as a 
back up to support her finances and this has created a lot of stress and worry. Ms M wants 
Barclaycard to reinstate her credit card and the previous credit limit she enjoyed. 
Barclaycard say that the letter sent was part of a wider campaign sent to customers with 
dormant accounts and they gave her 60 days notice in line with their terms and conditions. 
Barclaycard also reduced the limit on the card to a minimum level and say this is line with 
the terms and conditions of the card. They say she has been invited to reapply for a new 
card if she wishes and they have done nothing wrong. 
Ms M disagreed and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator obtained all the relevant information from both parties, but didnt uphold the 
complaint from Ms M. The investigator felt that Barclaycard had issued the letter to close the 
account in line with their terms and conditions and had acted fairly when it reduced the credit 
limit. She felt that Barclaycard hadnt done anything wrong. Ms M was unhappy with the 
outcome and asked the matter to be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available information, evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain the reasons for my 
decision.
I can understand that it would be upsetting for Ms M to receive a letter notifying her that her 
account was being closed and her credit limit in the interim period was being significantly 
reduced. I have considered, when coming to my decision, whether Barclaycard have acted 
fairly when deciding to close her account and reducing her credit limit.
I have seen a copy of the letter sent to Ms M advising her that her account would be closed 
in two months time and notifying that her credit card limit would be reduced immediately. 
This is what happened here.
I have also seen a copy of the terms and conditions for her credit card account and in the 
Introduction section it says - Well tell you what your credit limit is when we first open your account. Well then review it from time to time. If we change your credit limit, well write to let 
you know.
It also says in section 8, under managing your credit limit - If we reduce your credit limit 
based on an assessment of risk or your ability to repay, we have the right to not give you any 
notice beforehand if we think this would not be appropriate. 
Under section 14.  Closing your account its says - This agreement has no fixed term. This 
means it will continue until you or we decide to close your account.  You can close the 
account by calling or writing to us, and we can close the account by writing to you. Unless 
we need to close your account immediately, well give you at least two months written 
notice.
Barclaycard (like many banks) regularly undertake reviews of its customer accounts, for 
varying different reasons, including customer risk assessments and dormant accounts.
Ms M hadnt used the credit card for approximately 18 months, so I am satisfied that the limit 
being reduced to a nominal sum didnt cause Ms M any immediate problems. As Barclaycard 
had made the decision to close the account, I am satisfied reducing the limit on a dormant 
account would be appropriate. 
Ms M also had the option to reapply for a credit card as Barclaycard suggested, subject to its 
usual credit checks and she can still do that. 
I am satisfied Barclaycard gave a reasonable period of notice when taking the decision to 
close Ms Ms account. The account was closed 76 days after the letter was sent to Ms M - 
this is in line with these terms and conditions.  
I can understand that Ms M may feel that closing her account doesnt reflect her loyalty and 
time as a customer with them, but in the same way she can close her account with them at 
any time, without reason. 
I know my decision will disappoint Ms M but I cant ask any more of Barclaycard here. 
My Final Decision 
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2020.
Barry White
Ombudsman