DRN-3477262
The complaint
Mrs M and her representative Mr K (her husband) say they found the breakdown service 
provision underwritten by U K Insurance Limited (UKI) was poor when Mrs M made a claim 
on her breakdown policy - and that UKI didnt do enough to put matters right.  
What happened
Mrs M and Mr K said they waited for three hours for a breakdown recovery whilst travelling 
abroad with their children. They were then taken to the nearest garage in a small town, 
whilst sitting in their car on the back of a recovery truck, which they thought was dangerous. 
The garage took four weeks to repair the car, during which time the family had to move 
between five local hotels and spent more on food and other items than theyd budgeted for. 
UKI paid for all their accommodation (although the policy limit was £500) plus sums for food 
taxis, phone bills and fuel (even when the items werent covered by the policy) and £600 for 
distress and inconvenience. Mr K said they wanted the £1,000 they borrowed from family 
members back from UKI, more compensation for distress and inconvenience, and the cost of 
private therapy for Mrs M, whose mental health had deteriorated after the breakdown.
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint. She thought UKI had acted reasonably in 
paying £600 for the delay in the recovery and for not sending the car to a larger town / 
garage for repair, as that may have meant a quicker turnaround. She said UKI couldnt 
control how a recovery firm outside the UK carried out its work. And she noted that UKI had 
paid more than the policy limits as well as for items not covered by the policy. 
Mr K said UKI should also compensate Mrs M for the garages shoddy work, which caused 
the cars replaced turbo and other items to fail again after only three months. The 
investigator said the second breakdown hadnt been raised with UKI previously, so it would 
be treated as a separate complaint. Mr K wasnt happy about that. He said Mrs Ms mental 
state had been badly affected and the familys plan to travel through various countries for a 
year was ruined due to UKIs errors. He said UKI had advised him to borrow cash from 
relatives and he did so on the understanding that it would be reimbursed by UKI.  
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres a great deal of correspondence on the file, as Mr K made numerous points about the 
complaint to UKI and to this service. Ill only be referring to what I think are the major issues, 
but Ive read the whole file and considered all of Mr Ks comments. I wont be considering the 
second breakdown, as UKI is currently looking at that as a separate complaint. 
 
The policy
The purpose of the breakdown policy is to repair a car at the roadside if possible - and if not, 
to get the car and its passengers to the nearest garage. If it seems repairs will take more 
than 24 hours, the policy covers accommodation costs up to £500. It  excludes the cost of 
calls and fuel. And it says a consumer is responsible for any expenses arising after the car 
arrives at a garage  which would include the cost of repairs and any general living costs. 
Delay in recovery, its method, and the choice of garage
I think UKI acted reasonably in paying £600 compensation for the delay in the recovery and 
for the car being taken to a small town with only one small garage. 
It seems that a technical fault meant the message UKI sent to its partner in the country 
where the breakdown happened didnt arrive initially, hence the three-hour delay. As UKI 
didnt check that the message had gone through, it concluded that it was fair to pay £100 
compensation for that, which I think was fair. 
I can see why the family was so upset by the method the recovery firm used to transport 
them to the garage. But firms outside the UK operate differently to those here, and UKI isnt 
able to instruct them how to carry out tasks. So I dont think compensation for that is 
payable. Thankfully, despite the frightening experience the family faced, they arrived safely 
in the nearest town. UKI couldnt have known the garage there would be so inefficient, but it 
later acknowledged that it would have been better had the car and the family been taken to a 
larger town. I think UKI acted reasonably in paying £500 compensation for that.  
In my opinion, its fair to say that UKI didnt cause a four-week delay by taking the car to the 
small towns one garage. Once the car had broken down, and the fault couldnt be fixed at 
the roadside, it was always going to have to be repaired by a garage. If parts have to be 
ordered, it isnt unusual for repairs to take two weeks or more, without anyone being at fault. 
So I think the delay caused by the car going to the small towns garage was probably around 
two weeks. A larger garage would still have had to order parts and theres no guarantee that 
theyd have arrived any quicker, although the repair is likely to have been completed faster.
Later on, the garage refused to accept payment for the repairs except in cash or by bank 
transfer, but Mr K could only pay by credit card. It must have been very frustrating and 
inconvenient whilst the issue was sorted out, but I dont think that was UKIs fault. It couldnt 
have known what would happen - and I think it did all it could to resolve the issue. In the end, 
its partner in the relevant country settled the bill, and Mr K was then able to refund UKI. 
 
Accommodation and other costs 
     
UKI wasnt required to pay for any accommodation over the policy limit of £500. But I think 
its clear from the business file that UKI considered what Mr K had told it about the familys 
situation and took it seriously. In particular, it noted that Mrs M was traumatised and 
vulnerable (due to events in the UK) and that the breakdowns aftermath had affected her 
particularly badly. As a result, it agreed to pay for all the accommodation, which for four 
weeks exceeded £3,000. 
The family couldnt stay at just one hotel, as all the hotels in the town had pre-arranged 
bookings. There were gaps between checking out of one hotel and checking in to another, 
during which the family faced being on the street with their belongings. I can only imagine 
how distressing that must have been. But I think UKI did all it could to minimise the familys 
trouble and upset by paying for all its accommodation costs - plus other expenses.  As fuel and phone charges were specifically excluded from the policy, I think UKI acted more 
than fairly in paying the sums it did for them to Mr K and Mrs M. I think the same applies to 
food costs, as they werent covered by the policy either (except for breakfast in the hotels). 
The family would always have had to pay for food during this four-week period anyway, 
although the cost of it would have been less if they were cooking it themselves.
UKI paid £350 towards these uninsured costs. When Mr K told UKI the family was short of 
money for general living expenses, the advisor proposed asking relatives for a loan. I think 
that was a reasonable suggestion. The notes on the file show that he said UKI would refund 
£250 towards the sum borrowed. Mr K later said hed been told UKI would refund £1,000 - 
but the file notes dont support that. As UKI wasnt responsible for any of the familys living 
expenses, or for any of their borrowing, I think any payment from it towards these was a 
gesture of goodwill. I think the evidence shows that UKI accepted it had caused a delay in 
the familys travelling plans - and that the breakdowns aftermath had a greater impact on 
Mrs M and her family than it may have had on others - so it tried to make up for that.
 
Mrs Ms vulnerability / mental health treatment
Mr K told UKI at the start about the very traumatic circumstances Mrs M had faced in the UK, 
which led to the family taking a year out to travel. He told us he wanted UKI to fund private 
therapy for her, given the further trauma. But as Ive said above, I think UKI did what it could 
to limit any deterioration in Mrs Ms mental health ( and that of Mr K and the family) that was 
caused by the breakdown and its aftermath. I dont think it can be asked to do any more.
In summary
In my opinion, Mrs M and Mr K havent shown that it would be fair and reasonable to require 
UKI to pay any further compensation. I think it tried to make up for its errors and went over 
and above what was required of it under the policy to minimise the inconvenience and upset 
they faced. So despite my great sympathy for the very stressful situation Mrs M, Mr K and 
their family found themselves in whilst abroad, I cant uphold this complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 August 2022. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman