DRN-4440636
The complaint
M, a limited company complains about the way that HSBC UK Bank Plc treated its director, 
Mr M.
What happened
In late March 2023, HSBC wrote to M to say that it was closing its client deposit account. 
HSBC said that it had tried to contact M several times without success to establish whether it 
was eligible to hold the account.
Once Mr M received the letter, he contacted HSBC. As Mr M was unhappy with the outcome 
of the call he went to a branch of HSBC. Mr M accepts he may have raised his voice due to 
the concern he felt about the closure of the account. But Mr M says he remained seated at 
all times and that the meeting concluded in a civil manner.
A couple of days later, HSBC sent M a letter addressed to the director, referring to an 
incident in branch. The letter warned that any verbal or physical abuse would not be 
tolerated and that if there was another similar instance in the future, HSBC may decide to 
close Ms account. 
Mr M was very unhappy with the contents of the warning letter and followed up with HSBC. 
He asked HSBC to withdraw the warning letter from his file. 
HSBC didnt agree that it treated Mr M unfairly and our investigator didnt recommend that 
Ms complaint be upheld. In summary, our investigator couldnt see why a particular religious 
event would have prevented Mr M from receiving a call back. Our investigator said it wasnt 
in dispute that Mr M raised his voice with staff in branch. Based on what Mr M said about the 
incident, our investigator didnt think HSBC acted unreasonably when sending the warning 
letter.
Mr M didnt accept the investigation outcome. Mr M explains why he thought it unlikely that 
he would receive a call at a particular time due to time differences. Mr M said he never 
speculated on a member of staffs religion. 
Mr M admitted that he raised his voice but did not shout or scream at the individuals in 
branch. Mr M said a member of staff admitted that he didnt witness any abuse but was 
instructed to send the generic warning letter.
Mr M wanted details of the alleged verbal or physical abuse and said that both forms of 
abuse can only legally occur during a one on one encounter.
Mr M later confirmed to our investigator that his complaint is a personal complaint as he has 
been accused of verbal or physical abuse against a member or members of HSBC.
I issued a provisional decision on 20 October 2023 in which I said:
Although I may not comment on each and every point Mr M has raised, this doesnt 
mean I have not read and considered everything hes provided. Instead I have 
focussed on what I consider to be the key points. This is not intended as a 
discourtesy  it simply reflects the informal nature of this service.
I appreciate that Mr M was very unhappy to receive HSBCs warning letter and that 
he would like to see more evidence of what HSBC is accusing him of. In cases like 
this, its difficult to know exactly what was said in branch. Mr M admits to raising his 
voice but doesnt think his behaviour was in anyway abusive. I can understand why 
Mr M feels this way but just because one person might not feel theyve been abusive 
or aggressive in some way, doesnt necessarily mean another person wont. Based 
on what Ive seen, I dont consider HSBC acted unreasonably by sending M the 
warning letter.
Even if I was to agree that HSBC had treated Mr M unfairly, the eligible complainant 
here is M  so it is only M to whom I can make an award. M is a limited company and 
therefore its own legal entity. M cant feel distress or upset, so there would be no 
basis on which to award compensation to M for any upset that Mr M has felt 
personally. I should also say that I dont have evidence to suggest that HSBC has 
gone on to close Ms accounts because of the alleged incident. The closure of Ms 
deposit account was underway before the incident in branch. So, I dont think I need 
to find out more from HSBC about exactly what happened in branch to determine 
whether the incident itself fairly justified further action such as withdrawing Ms 
banking facilities.
Mr M has made it very clear that his complaint is a personal one, so I have thought 
about whether he could bring a complaint in his own right as an individual. 
The rules that were governed by - known as the DISP rules  set out which 
complaints we can and cant consider. The rules are set by the regulator, the 
Financial Conduct Authority, and can be found in its handbook.
To be an eligible complainant, the complainant must meet the definition of one of the 
entities set out in DISP 2.7.3. For the purpose of considering whether Mr M can 
complain in his own right, the relevant entity would be a consumer.
A consumer is defined within the DISP rules as any natural person acting for 
purposes outside his trade, business or profession. This complaint is about an 
alleged failing by HSBC in the way it communicated with Mr M after it sent the notice 
to close Ms account. So, the complaint stems from matters arising out of Mr Ms 
trade, business, or profession as director of M. It follows that for the purposes of this 
complaint, Mr M is not a consumer, so would not be an eligible complainant. This 
also explains why I dont consider it necessary to find out more information about the 
incident before reaching my decision.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr M but for the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Ms 
complaint. I also dont think Mr M is eligible to complain as an individual.
Further submissions
HSBC didnt respond to my provisional decision but Mr M on behalf of M replied to say that 
he didnt agree with my provisional findings.
In summary, Mr M said that no act of abuse ever took place in branch. Mr M said that a 
corporate entity cannot perform acts of abuse  only an individual can do that  which is why 
he was accused of the acts. Mr M said that as the only employee and shareholder of M, any complaint directed against M is directed against him personally. Mr M asked for further 
clarification of what acts hed been accused of by HSBC.
Mr M asked me to question HSBC further about the alleged incident and obtain answers to 
several questions.
Mr M pointed out that when HSBC wrote to him it addressed the letter to Secretary of M and 
Dear Director. He said the first paragraph of the letter referred to an incident involving 
you. Mr M says this all shows the accusations were directed against him personally and not 
M. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am grateful to Mr M for his responses to my provisional decision. I am sorry to disappoint 
him but my view of Ms complaint remains the same. Mr Ms responses reinforce my view 
that he considers his complaint to be a personal one. For the reasons Ive already outlined in 
my provisional decision, Mr M is not an eligible complainant under the DISP rules. So, I cant 
consider a personal complaint made by Mr M about HSBCs treatment of him. 
Although Mr Ms view of the events in branch differs from that of HSBC, I still dont think it 
was unreasonable of HSBC to send M the letter that it did. Mr M admits that he raised his 
voice and as Ive said in my provisional decision  one persons view of what constitutes 
aggressive behaviour may differ from another. I dont think it necessary for me to question 
HSBC in the way that Mr M would like  particularly as I cant see that M has suffered any 
loss because of HSBCs response to the alleged incident in branch. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr M but for the reasons Ive already outlined, my decision is that I 
dont uphold Ms complaint and I dont consider Mr M is eligible to complain about the 
incident in his own right.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman