DRN-4319453
The complaint
Mr P complains esure Insurance Limited has handled his subsidence claim poorly.  
What happened
In the summer of 2022 Mr P made a claim for subsidence against his esure home insurance 
policy. In early 2023 Mr P complained about a lack of progress with the claim. He felt esure 
had handled the claim ineffectively and caused avoidable delay.
In March 2023 Mr P came to the Financial Ombudsman Service. He was unhappy esure still 
hadnt got to the stage of agreeing a scope of works. He said he needs to urgently sell the 
property. He said the delay is preventing this and will result in him receiving a lower sale 
price. He says the stress involved has had an impact on his health. And the delay is causing 
additional inconvenience, for example preventing him from travelling abroad. To resolve his 
complaint Mr P would like esure to settle the claim and reimburse him costs hes incurred.  
Our Investigator considered events up until the date of the final response in March 2023. He 
felt esure was responsible for some avoidable delay. He recommended it pay Mr P £500 
compensation to recognise the distress and inconvenience that caused. But he wasnt 
persuaded, without that delay, his property would have sold for a higher amount. He felt 
esure should reimburse Mr P the costs of arranging for mitigation works  he felt they were 
necessary because of esures slow progression of the claim and failure to provide adequate 
updates. It didnt accept that outcome. It felt £300 would be a fairer award of compensation. 
As the complaint wasnt resolved it was passed to me to decide. In line with the Investigator 
Ive considered events until around March 2023. If Mr P would like esures handling of the 
claim, beyond that date, looked at he should raise a complaint with it first.]
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As this is an informal service Im not going to respond here to every point or piece of
evidence Mr P and esure have provided. Instead Ive focused on those I consider to be key 
or central to the issue. But I would like to reassure both that I have considered everything
provided.
I agree esure should reimburse Mr P the costs of mitigation work he paid for. This included 
removal of trees. An arboriculture report recommended the removal of various trees as 
subsidence mitigation. So its reasonable that esure cover those costs if it hasnt already. 
Theres been reference to esure offsetting those costs against the policy excess Mr Ps 
required to pay. That would be fair, as long as Mr P isnt left out of pocket for the mitigation 
costs.    
I agree with the Investigator that esures responsible for avoidable delay. It accepts it took 
more than two months to review the site investigations. It has also noted, in a complaint 
review, that around 11 weeks delay was caused by how long it took to deal with the 
schedule of works. And there seems to have been little progress with the claim in early 2023. 
esure also accepts it didnt do enough to keep Mr P updated. 
Ive considered the impact of this on Mr P. He planned to sell the property and move abroad. 
Unfortunately this has been delayed by his need to resolve the subsidence issue first. I can 
see thats been frustrating and inconvenient for him. He referred to this experience having a 
negative impact on his health. I agree esure, through its failure to handle the claim as 
efficiently as it could have, has lengthened the delay to him implementing his life plans. 
I agree with our Investigator that £500 is fair amount for esure to pay to recognise the impact 
of its mistakes.  
In an esure complaint review, dated early April 2023, it suggested an award of £200 
compensation for Mr P. That was for events Ive considered in this complaint. Its not clear if 
the £200 was paid to him. If it was then esure can deduct it from the compensation Im 
awarding in this final decision. 
Mr Ps complained if esure had handled the claim differently he would have sold his home by 
now  for a greater value than it will now realise. Im not going to require esure to pay any 
financial loss for this. 
There are too many variables involved for me to fairly say esures responsible for a loss. 
Housing markets inevitably vary over time in response to different events. Even without any 
avoidable delay the claim would have taken a number of months to complete. The property, 
even if esure handled the claim perfectly, would still have a recent record of subsidence  
something that may influence the demand for, and value, of the property. So it cant 
reasonably be determined when Mr Ps property would have sold and for how much if it 
werent for esures inefficient claim handling.
Its not clear if esures now settled the claim for repairs to Mr Ps property. If it hasnt it 
should get on with providing a resolution that allows him to move forward with his life.     
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I require esure Insurance Limited to:
pay Mr P £500 compensation (if its already paid the £200 referred to above it can 
deduct that from the award) and 
reimburse him what he paid for mitigation works (it can if it wishes offset this against 
the policy excess). It should add simple interest at 8% to any amount paid  from the 
date Mr P paid the invoice to the date of settlement.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman