DRN-4328476
The complaint
Mr P complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct wont refund money he lost 
when he fell victim to an investment scam.
Mr P is being represented by solicitors in this complaint.
What happened
In 2018, Mr P fell victim to an investment scam perpetrated by XtraderFX. He came across 
an advertisement for it which appeared to be endorsed by a well-known television 
programme. Mr P left his details on an enquiry form and was contacted by a representative 
who sold him a trading opportunity. 
Between April and September 2018, Mr P made nine transactions totalling approximately 
£33,000 to fund his investment account. He eventually realised hed been scammed when 
he saw his account balance go down to zero and his account manager declined his calls. 
Mr P reported the matter to first direct in October 2018. He also notified the police and Action 
Fraud. The bank asked Mr P for documentation to raise a chargeback in relation to the card 
payments, and it tried to recall the sole international payment by contacting the recipient 
bank. According to first directs system notes, neither Mr P nor the recipient bank replied.
Mr P complained to first direct in November 2022 and subsequently referred it to our service. 
Our investigator thought that first direct hadnt acted unreasonably in relation to the first six 
payments as they didnt appear unusual. Although first direct had blocked one of the 
payments and spoken to Mr P, the investigator was satisfied that the banks enquiries were 
proportionate given the amount involved. 
But the investigator concluded that the seventh payment (£25,000) ought to have flagged as 
unusual and out of character for Mr Ps account activity, and first direct should have 
intervened and asked him suitably probing questions. And had it done that, they thought he 
wouldnt have gone ahead with it  or indeed the subsequent payments. They didnt think 
Mr P should share the blame for what happened and recommended first direct to refund the 
last three disputed transactions along with interest.
Mr P accepted the investigators assessment, but first direct only partially accepted it. In 
summary, it said that while it was willing to refund the last two transactions in full, it believed 
that Mr P should share equal liability for the seventh payment as he didnt carry out any due 
diligence before sending such a large sum of money.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint was escalated to me for review and 
determination. 
I wrote to both parties informally and explained that I would be telling first direct to also 
refund any associated charges (such as non-sterling fees) should I decide to uphold the 
complaint. I also clarified that, should the complaint be upheld, the interest award I would 
make would be at the rate of 8% simple per year and not what the investigator had 
recommended.
Both parties have responded and said that they have no objection to what I proposed. So, 
its appropriate for me to progress matters.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive only summarised the background and arguments above, so not everything that 
happened is detailed, Id like to reassure Mr P and first direct that Ive read and considered 
everything in its entirety.
first direct has ultimately accepted that the international payment for £25,000 on 1 August 
2018 should have triggered its systems. Given that its offered to refund 50% of this amount 
and the remaining two payments in full (£1,141.79 and £2,892.53 which were made using 
Mr Ps debit card on 27 September 2018), it seems to me that it has also accepted the 
investigators conclusion that it should have questioned Mr P and provided a scam warning; 
and that the warning would more likely than not have stopped him in his tracks. 
So, I dont necessarily need to make a finding on intervention and causation. However, in its 
response to the investigators assessment, first direct has said that its taking this scam case 
at face value due to lack of any documentation between Mr P and the scammer. So, for the 
sake of completeness, Ill address this point and cover off intervention and causation.
Was Mr P scammed?
Given first direct has questioned whether Mr P was indeed scammed, Ive considered 
whether XtraderFX was a legitimate trader. Im satisfied that it wasnt. 
This is because on 6 July 2018, the FCA published a warning about XtraderFX that it was 
offering financial services in its jurisdiction without authorisation. And in June 2020, the High 
Court of England and Wales wound up GPay Ltd  of which XtraderFX was a trading name  
after it lost a substantial amount of client money. 
In doing so, the Insolvency Service commented on the scam nature of the online platform. 
While this information wasnt available at the time of Mr Ps payments, it helps build an 
overall picture of scammers dishonestly seeking gains at the expense of others.
At the time of reporting the scam to first direct in October 2018, Mr P said his dealings were 
with XtraderFX and payments were arranged through it. I acknowledge that only the last two 
payments went directly to that firm, and that the previous payments went to a few different 
merchants. But as first direct knows or ought to know that it isnt uncommon for scammers to 
ask customers to make payments through more than one merchant. 
As for the lack of documentation, Mr P told the bank at the time of reporting the scam that 
his communication with the scammer was mostly over the phone. 
Intervention and causation
In accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank should be on the 
look-out for and protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far as is 
reasonably possible. If it fails to act on information which ought reasonably to alert a prudent banker to potential fraud or financial crime, it might be liable for losses incurred by its 
customer as a result.
Ive looked at the operation of Mr Ps account and I agree with the investigator that the first 
six payment amounts werent that unusual for the account activity such that I would expect 
them to have flagged as unusual. But we know that one of the transactions did flag and first 
direct spoke to Mr P about it. Ive listened to the call recording, and it appears to be in 
relation to the second payment of £359.06 on 24 April 2018. Like the investigator, Im 
satisfied that the banks questions  checking that the card was in Mr Ps possession and 
that it was him making the transaction  were proportionate to the amount involved. By that 
point, hed made several payments of similar value to the same merchant over three weeks 
and not raised any concerns. 
The seventh transaction was significantly unusual and first direct has acknowledged that. As 
Ive said, its response to the investigators view suggests that it also accepts that an 
intervention would likely have prevented Mr P from going ahead with that payment. For 
completeness, I consider that first direct ought to have properly questioned Mr P about the 
payment. And that it should have provided an investment scam warning. Had it done so, Ive 
no reason to doubt that Mr P would have explained the true purpose of his payment, as well 
as how he came to know about XtraderFX and the investment opportunity. 
While I acknowledge first directs comment that Mr P had bought into the scam, Im not 
persuaded that he would have ignored a warning from his trusted bank. Had first direct done 
so, Im satisfied that Mr P would have looked into the investment opportunity further and 
discovered more information about this type of investment, how high-risk it was and whether 
XtraderFX was regulated here or abroad. Indeed, its likely he would have come across the 
warning published by the FCA himself and that would have been enough to give him second 
thoughts such that he wouldnt have traded at all. So, I think first direct can be held liable for 
that payment as well as the subsequent payments in dispute.
Recovery of earlier payments
The first six transactions, which I dont consider first direct should be held liable for, were 
card payments. The only avenue for recovery once the card payments were made would 
have been a chargeback. 
As soon as first direct became aware of the scam, it requested supporting documentation 
from Mr P to enable it to consider raising a chargeback. But I cant see that Mr P ever 
responded with the very specific evidence required by the card scheme operator for a 
chargeback to be considered valid, and potentially succeed. 
Under the circumstances, I dont consider first direct failed to take appropriate action with 
regards to recovery. 
Contributory negligence
Theres a general principle that consumers must take responsibility for their decisions. 
Ive duly considered whether Mr P should bear some responsibility by way of contributory 
negligence. But he was drawn into the scam by someone purporting to be a legitimate 
trader, in much the same way as many other people have been. Mr P saw his trading 
account performing well and it was being managed by a broker who he thought was a 
professional. He started with smaller payments and was encouraged to deposit more money 
after seeing his returns.first direct argues that Mr P doesnt appear to have carried out checks on independent 
websites such as the FCA before parting with £25,000. I do appreciate that there was a 
warning about XtraderFX in the public domain at the time of that payment. But Mr Ps first 
payment in connection with this scam was nearly four months prior, when a regulator 
warning  or other adverse information  hadnt been published. Regardless, the bank was 
the professional in financial matters; Mr P was a layperson. I wouldnt reasonably expect a 
layperson to know that they should be checking the regulators website for published 
warnings before transacting with a financial firm. 
first direct had better insight into this type of fraud to understand the level of sophistication 
involved with these types of scams. Notably, simulated trading platforms and merchants 
preventing cardholders from withdrawing their available balances. I dont think Mr P could 
have reasonably known the operation of this type of scam unless prompted by, for instance, 
his trusted bank. I think the onus was on first direct to inform Mr P of the risk that he would 
likely lose all of his money if he made payments to XtraderFX.
Ive thought about this carefully, given the imbalance of knowledge between the parties. 
While acknowledging that Mr P could have done more research about investment scams in 
general  as can most customers  overall, Im not persuaded that it would be fair to make a 
deduction for contributory negligence in this case.
Putting things right
To put matters right, HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct needs to refund Mr P the last 
three disputed transactions  £25,000 on 1 August as well as £1,141.79 and £2,892.53 on 
27 September 2018  along with associated fees and charges. 
In line with our services approach that customers should also be compensated for being 
deprived of their funds but for the respondent businesss mistake, the bank also needs to 
add simple interest at 8% per year, calculated from the date of each payment to the date of 
settlement (less any tax properly deductible). 
Im aware that the transaction on 1 August was funded from Mr Ps pension. What Im 
considering here is what would have happened but for the banks mistake, not what would 
have happened but for the scam itself. Here, Mr P had already withdrawn the funds from his 
pension. 
Keeping in mind the quick and informal nature of this service, I remain satisfied that it is fair 
to apply simple interest at 8% per year to that transaction too as it compensates Mr P for 
being deprived of the funds as a result of the wrongdoing for which Im holding the bank 
liable. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc 
trading as first direct needs to put things right for Mr P as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2023.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman