DRN-2194175
The complaint
Miss S complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc delayed updating her credit file which meant 
she lost out on favourable credit opportunities.
What happened
Miss S says she settled her Sainsburys credit card account on 14 February 2020, but her 
credit file wasnt updated until 16 March 2020. She says that had a detrimental impact on her 
credit rating and meant she lost out on favourable credit opportunities. Miss S says she has 
been caused distress and inconvenience and would like compensation.
Sainsburys says it normally updates the Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs) on the 10th of a 
month but accepts there was a slight delay in updating the CRAs with the up to date position 
of Miss Ss account.
Miss S brought her complaint to us, but our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
didnt think Sainsburys had made a mistake with the interest calculation and didnt think the 
delay in reporting to the CRAs caused any loss.
Miss S doesnt accept that view and says her credit file was not accurate and other lenders 
would have looked at it. She says she doesnt have details of credit applications she made at 
the time and says she doesnt have access to a free copy of her credit file.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the overall view that Sainsburys has dealt fairly with this 
complaint. I also make clear that I dont think it made a mistake in calculating the interest 
payment. I appreciate that Miss S doesnt say that she disagrees with either Sainsburys 
explanation or the investigators view on that point.
I have looked at the information Miss S has provided from her credit file. And there is no real 
dispute that Sainsburys didnt immediately update her credit file to show that the account 
balance was settled in full. But Im satisfied Sainsburys has fairly explained why that was the 
case and that it didnt report any adverse information to the CRAs. 
I appreciate Miss S says that the delay meant she lost out on favourable credit opportunities 
but doesnt have evidence of those applications. In those circumstances I cant be certain 
the delay had any impact on any decision not to offer credit or on more favourable terms. 
And I dont think the delay would have had any impact in any event as lenders consider a 
variety of factors when deciding to lend, and as I have found the important point is that 
Sainsburys was not reporting adverse information to the CRAs.
Overall, Im satisfied that Sainsburys has fairly explained how it reports information to the 
CRAs and has explained what took place here. Im satisfied Miss S didnt suffer any 
financial loss or that any delay had any real impact on her. For those reasons I cant fairly 
order that Sainsburys pay any compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 October 2020.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman