DRN-1292393
 
The complaint
Miss E says Stagemount Limited (trading as Quidmarket) gave her loans she couldnt afford 
to repay. 
What happened
This complaint is about two loans that Quidmarket provided to Miss E - heres a table setting 
out details: 
Loan Date
TakenDate
RepaidInstalments Amount Highest
Repayment
1 09/07/2018 09/08/2018 6 £400.00 £122.10
2 24/08/2018 balance 
outstanding6 £400.00 £133.32
 
Miss E says the loans were unaffordable and should never have been granted due to 
affordability checks not being carried out. She told us she was working part time hours only 
and wasnt able to keep up with the repayments.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Miss Es complaint and thought the loans werent unfairly 
provided. Overall, our adjudicator thought that given the loan amounts, what was apparent 
about Miss Es circumstances and her history with the lender, it wouldnt have been 
proportionate for Quidmarket to ask Miss E for the amount of information needed to show 
the lending was unsustainable. And our adjudicator didn't think that the number of loans 
Miss E had taken out, the amounts shed borrowed or the length of time shed been 
borrowing from Quidmarket shouldve alerted Quidmarket to think she was having money 
problems. 
Miss E disagreed. She mainly says that Quidmarket couldve seen that she had recently 
being discharged from a debt relief order and her credit file wouldve shown the extent of her 
other debt,  including credit cards and loans with other payday lenders.
She says her bank statements would've given Quidmarket information about her spending 
habits that shouldve made it realise it shouldnt be lending to her. And she wasnt asked for 
proof of earnings so Quidmarket relied on a figure that was quite a lot more than her actual 
take home pay.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending  including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice  on our website. 
Quidmarket needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss E 
could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Es complaint. 
Before lending to Miss E, Quidmarket asked Miss E for information about her financial 
situation, such as her monthly income and her outgoings, and it carried out some credit 
checks. 
Ive looked at each loan in turn and thought about whether it was fair for Quidmarket to lend 
to Miss E.
loan 1
When Miss E took out her first loan, Quidmarket had no reason to doubt what she told it 
about her financial situation. 
So Quidmarket was entitled to rely on the information Miss E provided in response to the 
questions it asked her and what it had discovered about her financial situation from its own 
checks. 
And looking at the figures that Quidmarket worked on, the repayments on loan 1 shouldve 
been comfortably affordable for Miss E. Shed told Quidmarket that her monthly take home 
pay after tax was around £1,000. And even allowing for the monthly outgoings she said she 
had to pay, including what she was spending on other credit commitments, this still ought to 
have left Miss E with around £378 surplus spending money. So there wasnt anything to 
suggest that paying the monthly repayments on loan 1 would be a problem.  
At this early stage, Miss E didnt have any track record with the lender that shouldve alerted 
Quidmarket to any underlying money problems, and I cant see that there was anything in 
the information she provided or the information Quidmarket had gathered, which meant that 
Quidmarket shouldve taken steps to enquire further into her financial situation or do more to 
verify the information Miss E had declared. 
So I dont uphold Miss Es complaint about loan 1.
loan 2
Around two weeks after Miss E repaid loan 1, Quidmarket gave her another loan - and 
provided her with the same amount shed borrowed on loan 1. 
Miss E says that the credit checks Quidmarket did shouldve shown the full extent of her 
other debt and so it shouldve realised that she was struggling with debt. But I havent seen enough to make me think that the information Quidmarket had showed 
that loan 2 wasnt affordable for her or that providing loan 2 to her was unfair. 
Although she later had problems paying loan 2, at the time she took out this loan there 
wasnt anything in her borrowing history with Quidmarket to lead it to think that she might be 
having serious money problems or that she would find it difficult to make the repayments she 
had signed up to. 
Miss E had paid the first instalment due on loan 1  then shortly after, she repaid loan 1 
early when she cleared the remaining balance all in one go. So I don't think Quidmarket had 
any reason to think that paying back that loan had been a problem for her.  
I cant see that Miss E gave Quidmarket any indication that her borrowing elsewhere was at 
the stage where it was causing her serious money problems during her application for 
loan 2. And it appears that Quidmarkets own checks didnt flag up anything that shouldve 
made it realise it needed to probe more deeply into Miss Es financial circumstances. 
Like our adjudicator, I think that the amounts that Miss E needed to repay on loan 2 wouldve 
seemed relatively affordable compared with the take home pay shed declared  this time it 
looks like shed mentioned a figure around £1,500. Given the loan repayment amounts, what 
was apparent about Miss Es circumstances and her borrowing history at that time with 
Quidmarket, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Quidmarket to ask Miss E for the 
amount of information that would be needed to show the lending was unsustainable before 
agreeing this loan.
So Im not upholding Miss Es complaint about loan 2. 
In coming to my decision, I've taken into account everything that Miss E said in response to 
our adjudicators assessment and I've looked at the credit information shes sent us. Im 
sorry that Miss E found repaying these loans difficult. And I accept that in reality her financial 
situation wasnt fully reflected either in the information she provided, or the other information 
Quidmarket obtained.  
But in order to uphold this complaint I have to be able to say that Miss E lost out as a result 
of something that Quidmarket did wrong. And I dont think thats the case. 
I say this because I wouldnt reasonably expect Quidmarket to have seen the information 
thats on the credit file and bank statements that Miss E has sent to us. Looking at what it 
knew about her circumstances, I havent seen enough to show that Quidmarket shouldve 
realised that it needed to make further enquiries about her financial situation or take steps to 
check the information she provided. And the information Quidmarket relied on, reasonably in 
my view since it had no reason to question the information Miss E provided, didnt suggest 
these loans were likely to be unsustainably affordable for her.
So overall, I dont find that Quidmarket acted unfairly when it provided these loans to Miss E. 
I am sorry to disappoint Miss E. But I hope my explanations help her understand why Ive 
reached my decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I don't uphold Miss Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 May 2020.Susan Webb
Ombudsman