DRN-2735595
The complaint
Miss S has complained that Metro Bank PLC recorded a marker against her at CIFAS, the 
national fraud database.
What happened
In August 2019, Miss S received money into her Metro account. Minutes later, the money 
was withdrawn using her card and PIN, at a cash machine and a currency exchange.
On the same day, a savings account was set up using Miss Ss online banking, which 
received further funds. These funds were then quickly paid into her current account and 
withdrawn using another currency exchange.
The sending bank for the first set of money reported that Miss S had received fraudulent 
funds. In response, Metro sent Miss S notice they were closing her account. According to the 
contact notes, she phoned them the following week to discuss this, and they told her again 
about the account closure. Metro also added a marker against Miss S at CIFAS.
Miss S says that around March 2020, she realised her card was missing and when she tried 
to replace it thats when she found out her account was closed. She complained, but Metro 
felt theyd closed her account and added the CIFAS marker fairly.
Miss S explained she often kept an undisguised record of her PIN, which she may have lost 
around the time of the fraud. Her representatives explained she had difficulties in 
concentrating or remembering things, and often lost belongings. Her phone was secured 
with a password. She didnt share her card or security details with anyone, and no one she 
knew had approached her about all this or asked to use her account.  She had another 
account, but that card didnt go missing. She kept her ID safe at home, so it hadnt gone 
missing either. She didnt know the people whod paid money into her account, and was 
unaware of all the activity from the time. She said someone must have taken her Metro card 
and used it for the fraud without her knowing.
I sent Miss S and Metro a provisional decision on 4 March 2021, to explain why I didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
In order to register this CIFAS marker, Metro were not required to prove beyond all 
reasonable doubt that Miss S had done something wrong. Instead, they had to have 
reasonable grounds to believe shed misused her account, beyond a suspicion or concern. 
Ive very carefully considered everything that both sides have provided, and based on what 
Ive seen so far I currently think that Metro did have sufficient grounds to register the marker. 
Ill explain.
Im satisfied from Metros technical evidence that the fraudulent funds were withdrawn using 
Miss Ss genuine card and the correct PIN. Now, it is possible that Miss S may have lost the 
card and her record of her PIN. That said, it does seem unlikely that she happened to lose 
them both at the same time, in a place where someone would notice, and that the person 
who picked them up happened to be capable of carrying out the subsequent fraud. Its also 
possible that someone deliberately stole the card and the record of the PIN. But its difficult, 
then, to see why they didnt steal the card for her other account too. So these possibilities 
dont seem exceedingly likely. But I do accept that its possible for someone to have got hold 
of Miss Ss card and PIN without her permission, even if its not especially likely. So I accept 
that the issue of the card and PIN alone are not sufficient grounds for the marker.
The currency exchanges would normally ask for ID in order to withdraw the money, so 
theres a good chance that whoever withdrew these funds was able to prove their identity as 
Miss S. And I understand Miss Ss ID was kept safe and didnt go missing. Here, though, Im 
not able to see what ID the currency exchanges checked. So I accept that this, too, is not 
sufficient for Metro to add the marker  though it does raise questions about how someone 
might have potentially been able to provide ID in the name of Miss S and match any photos, 
unless they were Miss S herself.
The biggest issue here is the online banking. Ive gone through Miss Ss online banking 
history, which records the device ID of her phone. Her phone was the only authorised device 
for this account. Throughout the day of the fraud, Miss Ss phone was used to check her 
online banking, and she would have been able to see the disputed payments coming in and 
going out as they were happening. Indeed, its difficult to see how the funds were withdrawn 
so quickly unless someone was checking the online banking to see when the funds had 
been received  and it appears that this person was Miss S via her phone. Miss Ss online 
banking was also used to set up the new savings account that received the second set of 
money. This was all authenticated using Miss Ss genuine phone and her genuine security 
details. Miss Ss phone was then used to check her online banking regularly for about the 
next two weeks. And according to the account notes, she rang Metro the following week and 
they talked to her about closing the account.
So it does look like Miss S was aware of what was going on as it was happening, and she 
appears to have used her online banking to take part in the disputed activity. 
Further, it is most difficult to see how Miss S wouldnt have noticed anything was wrong until 
the following March. I do understand that she has difficulties keeping track of things, and that 
she had another account elsewhere that she could use. But before the fraud, she used her 
Metro account fairly regularly, with only a matter of days between activity. So it should have 
been very noticeable if her card was missing for months on end. And Metro emailed her both 
about setting up the savings account, and when they were closing her accounts  Ive looked 
at their records and am satisfied they emailed her at the correct address. It also looks like 
Miss S spoke to Metro on the phone about this, too. So it seems most implausible that she 
didnt notice anything amiss for over half a year  which is a very considerable amount of 
time in this context.In summary, in order to carry out the disputed activity, someone would need to have not only 
been able to take Miss Ss card and PIN at the right moment without her knowing, but they 
would also need to have somehow learned her online banking username, password and 
security information. They would also need to have been in possession of Miss Ss phone 
over the day of the fraud and the following days. They would need to have been able to get 
past her phones security too. And they would need to have either held onto her phone for 
nearly two weeks, or to have been able to consistently take it from her and replace it without 
her ever noticing. They would also potentially have needed her ID, and to have looked 
sufficiently like her in order to match the photo. I dont think theres any plausible way that an 
unknown thief could have done all that. And from what weve been told, it doesnt seem that 
theres anyone Miss S knows who did this without her permission either. Further, Ive not 
seen any evidence that makes it seem implausible that Miss S couldve authorised the 
disputed activity or given someone else permission to do it. And it looks like she was aware 
of what had happened long before reporting it.
That leaves only one likely possibility: that the disputed activity happened with Miss Ss 
knowledge and permission. This is a difficult message for me to give, and I know its a 
difficult message for Miss S to receive. But given the evidence I have, and the balance of 
probabilities, Im currently unable to reasonably reach any other conclusion.
So based on what Ive seen so far, I think Metro acted fairly in registering the CIFAS marker. 
It follows that I also currently think it was reasonable that they closed Miss Ss accounts. 
I can see that they closed them in line with the terms and conditions.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
1 April 2021. Metro didnt add anything further. Miss Ss representative responded with 
some further points, which Ill discuss below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Ss representative reiterated her difficulties, and said its possible someone could have 
taken advantage of her naivety to get her to make these payments  though they did not 
know of anyone doing so. I have taken Miss Ss situation into account, and have thought 
carefully about what might have happened. But Miss S said that no one had approached her 
to make these payments or asked to use her account, and she hadnt shared her account 
with anyone. She said she was completely unaware of what had happened, and only 
discovered it around seven months later. And there doesnt appear to have been anyone she 
knows of who asked her to make these payments. So Miss S has effectively ruled out that 
possibility. I cannot fairly conclude that that was what happened here.
The representative pointed out that our investigator hadnt previously mentioned certain 
details such as Miss Ss call with Metro. Thats why I initially made a provisional decision, 
rather than a final decision  as it gave both parties the chance to respond the additional 
details I brought up.Miss Ss representative also said that when they went into a branch, Metro gave them a 
copy of the account closure letter that was missing the heading and signature. They felt this 
was suspicious and felt strongly that I should have mentioned this in the provisional decision. 
Im afraid the reason I didnt mention this was because I didnt think it was relevant. I can see 
that Metro emailed Miss S about the closure of her accounts, so Im satisfied that Metro sent 
her the proper notification regardless of the letter. And I dont find it especially unusual or 
noteworthy for a reprinted letter to Miss Some of the formatting of the original.
I do understand the representatives strength of feeling, and I appreciate that theyve been 
candid in their communication. Ive considered their points carefully and understand they will 
continue to pursue things with the police. But having reconsidered the case, Ive not found 
any reason to change my prior conclusions  that the only likely possibility is that the 
fraudulent activity happened with Miss Ss knowledge and permission. And so I cannot fairly 
tell Metro to remove the marker in dispute.
My final decision
I dont uphold Miss Ss complaint in this case.
This final decision marks the end of our services consideration of the case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 May 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman