DRN-2600235
The complaint
Mr G complains about the way Bank of Scotland plc handled his claim under section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act (CCA) when a conservatory he paid for on his credit card became 
faulty. 
What happened
In June 2014 Mr G paid for a conservatory/sunroom for his daughter, Miss G, from a supplier 
I shall refer to as A. The cost was around £17,000. Mr G paid a deposit of £1,848 to A using 
his Bank of Scotland credit card. The remaining balance was paid for by cheque. 
There were problems with the conservatory after it was installed and A had to carry out 
remediation work in 2015. 
In 2019 Miss G started to experience a leaky roof. Along with Mr G she tried to contact A to 
fix the problem but it was no longer in business. Mr G asked Bank of Scotland if it could help 
him. 
Bank of Scotland said it couldnt help Mr G because the debtor-creditor-supplier relationship 
necessary for a claim under section 75 of the CCA was not made out. 
Our investigator also thought this. He said Mr G did not have a contract with A so he didnt 
have a valid claim under section 75 of the CCA. 
Mr G disagreed with the investigator and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
He questioned the point of paying on his credit card if it gave him no protection in an event 
like this.   
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I must decide here what, if anything, Bank of Scotland should do to resolve Mr Gs 
complaint. To do this, I have to decide what I think is fair and reasonable, having regard to 
(amongst other things) any relevant law. In this case, relevant law includes section 75 of the 
CCA. 
Section 75 of the CCA provides that in certain circumstances the borrower under a credit 
agreement has an equal right to claim against the credit provider if there is a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of goods or services. 
But there are certain criteria that also need to be satisfied, which includes establishing a 
direct relationship between the debtor, the creditor and the supplier.
This means the person who paid for the goods (Mr G), should have a contractual 
relationship with the company who supplied the goods (A), as well as with the credit provider 
(Bank of Scotland). 
Bank of Scotland says that the necessary debtor-creditor-supplier relationship doesnt exist 
in this case, because the credit agreement was between Bank of Scotland and Mr G but the 
contract for the conservatory was between A and Miss G.
All of the available paperwork from A is addressed to Miss G, including the invoice for the 
conservatory and there is a signed written contract between A and Miss G for the supply and 
installation of the conservatory on her property. There is also no suggestion that Miss G was 
not  involved in the pre contract discussions with A. So, I think there can be little dispute, that 
both Miss G and A intended to (and did) contract with each other for the supply and fitting of 
the conservatory. 
Simply making a payment towards the price agreed in the contract between Miss G and A 
does not automatically make Mr G a party to that contract. So, I have considered whether 
there is any other reason that Mr G might also be considered a contracting party with A.  
Mr G has said he paid for the conservatory as a gift to Miss G. He said this was in part 
because he and his wife often visited Miss G for extended periods of time and they thought 
they would make good use of conservatory. And also because it would improve Miss Gs 
property and add value to it.
Its clear that Mr G intended to derive some benefit from the conservatory. But I dont think 
this made him a party to the contract. The conservatory was installed in Miss Gs property, 
not Mr Gs and Ive not seen anything that makes me think Miss G and Mr Gs affairs were 
joint in the sense it would make them joint contracting parties.
I think the contract was therefore solely between Miss G and A for the supply and installation 
of a conservatory specifically for Miss G. So, while Mr G paid for the conservatory there was 
no contract between him and A and he didnt have the requisite relationship with the 
supplier. 
As I do not think there is a valid debtor-creditor-supplier relationship in these circumstances, 
I do not think Bank of Scotland has acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining Mr Gs 
section 75 claim. 
Chargeback 
Chargeback is the process by which settlement disputes are resolved between card issuers 
and merchants under the relevant card scheme. The process can however be used to help 
resolve disputes between consumers and merchants where appropriate. There is no right to 
access this process in the same way consumers have rights under section 75 of the CCA. 
But I believe it would have been good practice for Bank of Scotland to attempt a chargeback 
if appropriate here.
Although Bank of Scotland did not attempt a chargeback, I dont think this was to the 
detriment of Mr G in this case. The relevant card scheme rules say that a chargeback must 
be presented within 120 days of the transaction settlement date. By the time Mr G asked 
Bank of Scotland to step in in 2019, this time had long since passed as Mr G paid the 
deposit on the conservatory in 2014. So, any chargeback attempt was most likely to have 
failed. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Michael Ball
Ombudsman