DRN-3630853
The complaint
J complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) allowed the beneficiary of the trust to 
withdraw £88,567.11 on his own, despite his account requiring authorisation from a 2nd party 
to approve withdrawals.
To put things right J wants Barclays to refund the money, less £24,280 the trustees accept 
responsibility for, and to pay compensation for the distress and inconvenience this caused.
J is represented by one of its trustees, Mr K.
What happened
Mr K had an accident in 2016 that resulted in severe injuries and left him in constant pain. 
He told our service he had post-traumatic stress disorder, and that his medication affected 
his mental state and in particular severely impaired his memory. He later received a 
compensation pay-out in the sum of £85,768 that was paid into his Barclays account. Before 
Mr Ks solicitors sent his compensation, they drew up a trust deed that appointed Mr K and 
his sister, M, as trustees. 
Mr K and M opened an account in the name of the trust with the instruction that all 
withdrawals required approval of both Mr K and M. However, Barclays has explained that a 
system error meant its branches recorded the account as one to sign and so Mr K was able 
to make withdrawals without authorisation from M.
Between 15 April 2019 and 27 July 2020, Mr K was able to make 69 payments, transfers 
and withdrawals totalling £88,567.11 without requiring Ms approval. Mr K complained in 
February 2020, saying he shouldnt have been allowed to withdraw the money and that it 
was supposed to be for the benefit of his children. Barclays accepted it had incorrectly 
allowed Mr K to make the withdrawals, but it didnt agree to refund him. 
It initially offered him £200 for the distress and inconvenience he experienced, but later 
increased that to £6,900, representing £100 for each transaction it had allowed to proceed 
without the correct authorisation. Mr K insisted Barclays should refund all of the transactions, 
so he brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked at Mr Ks complaint, but he didnt uphold it. He said there were 
£26,000 of withdrawals on Mr Ks account with another bank (H) that he didnt dispute, that 
he had seen evidence Mr K had spent several thousand pounds on holidays that involved 
his children, and that Mr K hadnt disputed various card payments he made on his account 
with H. Overall, our investigator was satisfied Mr K had had the benefit of the money, so he 
didnt ask Barclays to pay any further compensation.
Mr K didnt accept our investigators findings. He said he had told Barclays about his mental 
health issues when he first opened the account, that Barclays had breached his agreement 
by allowing one signatory to approve transfers, that he wasnt aware he could dispute the H 
payments, and that he hadnt had the benefit of the money as it was all gone. He asked for 
an Ombudsman to review the matter afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Barclays has accepted that the correct authorisation procedure wasnt followed for 
the transactions in question, and that Mr K shouldnt have been able to make the 
transactions without the 2nd signatory.
Mr K has said he had made Barclays aware of his mental and physical health issues when 
the account was opened, that a member of staff at branch told him she shouldnt be giving 
him the money when he withdrew cash, and that he was still able to make withdrawals for 
several weeks after the issue had been discovered. I cant be sure what was said when the 
account was opened, or if the member of staff did say what Mr K claims she says, and if so 
what context the comment was made in, or what was meant by it. 
But ultimately all of those matters go to the point of fault, i.e. whether or not Barclays made a 
mistake. And because Barclays doesnt dispute fault here, its not necessary for me to make 
a finding on those points. What is in dispute is whether or not Mr K suffered a loss as a result 
of that error. And, if so, what Barclays should do to put things right for Mr K.
When Mr K first called our service, he described the accident that led to his compensation 
pay-out and gave details of the medication he took and the side effects they caused. He said 
he had broken several bones in an accident at work, which led to him being prescribed 
various medications, including heavy pain killers. He said all of this affected his mental 
health and left him with a hazy memory. And that he had previously been involved in an 
abusive relationship with his ex-partner.
Barclays says it wont refund the transactions because Mr K authorised them himself and 
benefitted from them. It was on that basis that our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ks 
complaint, and I agree that is the primary issue for me to determine. Ultimately, if Im 
satisfied hes already had the benefit of the money, it wouldnt be fair for him to receive the 
money again. But if I find that not to be the case, then I could fairly consider Mr K suffered 
financial loss.
With that being the case, Ive looked to see where the money was spent. Unfortunately, Mr K 
hasnt been able to account for the vast majority of the funds, owing to his memory issues. 
Hes told our service of his history of painkillers since the accident, as well as the impact his 
PTSD had on him. And Im grateful to Mr K for sharing the details so openly.
After reviewing his statements, Mr K did identify a number of payments he accepts he had 
the benefit of. He listed 22 payments made between 8 May 2019 and 27 July 2020, totalling 
£22,988.11. Mr K says he spent this money on a holiday with his children. Mr K also says he 
bought a car for his ex-wife that he had no benefit of, and he refers to a payment of £7,649 
to a car dealer on 18 April 2019.
Because Mr Ks memory is so hazy, Ive also looked at his statements for both his Barclays 
trust account, and his personal current account with a third-party bank Ill call H. While many 
of the transactions on both accounts were cash withdrawals, there are other transactions 
that do shed light on the nature of spending.
While Mr K says the £22,988.11 was spent on a holiday with his children, I can see many of 
the payments he refers to were funds transferred to his account with H then spent on various 
other items. Most of the spending on the H account is general day to day expenditure, 
together with some luxury purchases. For example, there are numerous payments to a supermarket, restaurants, petrol stations and clothes shops, as well as various other typical 
day to day items.
There are a number of payments that dont fall into that category, such as the car and 
several jewellery purchases totalling in excess of £4,000. But, while I understand what Mr K 
has said about his previous relationship, the pattern of spending isnt solely consistent with 
financial abuse. And I cant say on the balance of probabilities that its more likely than not 
that Mr K was deprived of money through coercion or manipulation.
Given the available evidence, I consider that the general pattern of spending via Mr Ks H 
account indicates the sort of purchases that he might have made with the cash he withdrew. 
Theres evidence of numerous trips abroad involving Mr Ks children, details of which our 
investigator set out in his opinion. And while Mr K says much of this was funded externally, I 
think its more likely than not that Mr K would have spent some of his own money on those 
trips, and Im not persuaded they were 100% funded by external sources.
Mr K has made various other arguments as to why Barclays should refund him. And Ive 
listened to everything hes told our service. While I agree Barclays should not have allowed 
him to withdraw the money, and I accept he probably wouldnt have spent the money in the 
manner he did if Barclays had insisted on authorisation from the 2nd signatory, the reason I 
cant agree to his request for a refund is because Im not persuaded he suffered a financial 
loss.
I accept Mr K might have spent the money in a different way, had he not been allowed to 
withdraw it on his own. But for the reasons Ive set out above, Im not persuaded that Mr K 
didnt have the benefit of the money. So I wont ask Barclays to refund the transactions in 
question.
With that being said, I accept what Mr K says about the mental anguish this has caused him, 
and I accept Barclays failings caused Mr K significant distress and inconvenience, which 
would have been exacerbated by Mr Ks physical and mental condition. So, I agree its 
appropriate that he should be compensated for this part of his claim.
However, because Barclays has already paid Mr K £6,900 in compensation, it wouldnt be 
appropriate to tell it to make a further payment, if Im not persuaded additional compensation 
is warranted. And because of the significant size of the payment Barclays has already made, 
Im satisfied it has done enough to compensate Mr K.
While I recognise Mr K feels he should be paid greater compensation, our service would only 
consider awarding a sum greater than £6,900 in the most exceptional circumstances where 
we see the most extreme impact on a customer. And while Im not seeking to downplay the 
impact this situation had on Mr K, Im satisfied that Barclays has done enough to 
compensate him for the damage and harm it caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays has done enough to put things right for Mr K, so I dont 
uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman