DRN-3626921
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complained about Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited. They arent 
happy that it turned down part of a claim under their home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs W made a claim under their home insurance policy following a fire which 
affected their property. Lloyds investigated matters and advanced a large claim. But it turned 
down part of the claim as it didnt feel there was sufficient evidence to say all the damage 
was sustained in the fire. As Mr W didnt agree he complained to Lloyds and then this 
Service.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr and Mrs W but didnt uphold their complaint. He 
considered the various reports and documentation provided by both sides. But he didnt think 
there was sufficient evidence to say the problems Mr and Mrs W faced in relation to their en-
suite bathroom, log burner, a crack in their lounge ceiling and the stopcock could be 
attributed to the fire. So, he thought that Lloyds had dealt with their claim fairly.
As Mr and Mrs W didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think the complaint should be upheld. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr and Mrs W, but Ill explain why.
I can understand Mr and Mrs Ws position and disappointment that all their claim isnt being 
met. But, I have to be fair to both sides when I consider a complaint and I havent seen 
sufficient evidence to support Mr and Mrs W here and say that Lloyds have acted 
unreasonably. I can only consider the evidence provided by both sides in forming my view 
and rely on the expert opinions and evidence provided in weighing up whether Lloyds has 
acted fairly or not.
I also think its important to explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information 
provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. If Ive not reflected something thats been 
said in this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the 
crux of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to 
reflect my informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I 
dont think its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question 
raised unless its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
I know Mr W feels the problems he has complained about at his property must have been 
caused by the fire or by the amount of water the fire brigade used to extinguish the fire. Ive 
seen Mr Ws latest information from the fire brigade, and I note the general evidence Mr W 
has provided in support of his claim. But Im persuaded by the various expert opinions 
provided by Lloyds that suggest the level of damage caused to the en-suite, log burner and 
lounge ceiling in particular dont seem to have been caused by the fire or fire brigade. The 
areas damaged are generally away from the seat of the fire and its spread and I would 
expect to see clear damage to these and evidence showing they required full replacement 
but thats not the case.
Although the en-suite shows there was some slight damage it was deemed a light clean of 
the area was sufficient  no significant damage was determined. Ive seen photographs 
which is consistent with the damage outlined and reports from Lloyds experts confirming 
this. The evidence Mr W has provided is mainly from after his repairs commenced so I find 
this less persuasive. Although there is suggestion that moisture levels were raised around 
the en-suite I havent been provided with sufficient evidence to support this either. And 
although it was possible Im satisfied that the fire brigades extinguishing of the fire didnt 
focus on this area of the property. And I would expect some comment about the level of 
damage caused by the extinguishing of the fire when the light clean took place if there was 
damage to the en-suite, the surrounding area and walls, but there hasnt been.  
Ive also considered the lounge ceiling damage (crack to the ceiling). I know Mr and Mrs W 
suggest the crack appeared after the fire and when the property was drying out. But again, 
there isnt any real evidence of this and I would expect there to be  such as water staining 
and evidence that the property was wet around this area. So, although it is possible there 
just isnt sufficient evidence to back Mr and Mrs Ws position - while there is evidence from 
Lloyds experts suggesting the cracking is historic. Given the inspection from the time 
suggests the room wasnt water damaged I think Lloyds have acted fairly here. 
Looking at damage to the log burner I think Lloyds position doesnt appear unreasonable. It 
doesnt feel the damage was all caused by the fire and the evidence does seem to suggest 
there was a pre-existing problem with the burner and chimney. An independent specialist did 
a top down inspection and identified a number of issues with the burner. Ultimately, the 
findings were that the log burner and chimney were in a poor condition and that the 
problems were unconnected to the fire. I note the general position was also confirmed by a 
further specialist and Im satisfied that the problems with the log burner werent linked to the 
fire and would have required addressing anyway. 
Finally, turning to the issues Mr and Mrs W faced in relation to the stop cock at their 
property. Again, I havent been provided with sufficient evidence to show that damage was 
caused by the fire or subsequent negligent action by Lloyds repairers. And without this I 
cant hold Lloyds responsible for this.
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs W and I know they would have liked 
more time to gain evidence to support their position. But a few months has passed since our 
investigator provided his view and if they do gain evidence in support of their position I would 
expect Lloyds to consider it. But, from the information and evidence available to date in 
relation to these issues, I think Lloyds have acted fairly and I wont be asking it to do 
anything further. 
So, although I know this will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs W, I dont think Lloyds have 
acted unreasonably in relying on their experts evidence in turning down the claim. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 3 November 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman