DRN-3160616
The complaint
Mr L and Mrs L complain that Admiral Insurance Company Limited closed their claim on their 
motor insurance company and didnt recover their policy excess as they had expected. Mrs L 
is a named driver on Mr Ls policy. 
What happened
Mrs L was involved in a collision with a lorry at a roundabout and she reported this to 
Admiral. Mr L said they were told that if they went ahead with repairs to their car there was a 
good chance the policy excess would be retrieved. This was £425. They had the car 
repaired and paid the excess, but Admiral then said it had closed the claim as it said there 
wasnt sufficient evidence of the lorrys involvement.
Mr L was unhappy with this as he felt theyd been misinformed and had incurred losses due 
to the excess and increased premiums as a result of the fault claim. Admiral agreed it hadnt 
explained the recovery of the claim costs clearly and paid Mr L £50 compensation. But Mr L 
was unhappy with this. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Admiral 
hadnt done enough to pursue the claim against the other insurer. She thought it should do 
more to try and identify the lorrys owner through a DVLA check. And she thought it should 
ask the other insurer for evidence to show the whereabouts of the companys lorries at the 
time and date of the collision. And she thought Admiral should increase its offer of 
compensation to £100. 
Admiral replied that the onus was on the claimant to show that the other party was involved 
and at fault. It thought a DVLA check would identify the registered keeper, not the driver of 
the lorry. It thought it couldnt identify the lorrys driver from the information it had. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs L told Admiral that her car and the lorry entered the roundabout at the same time and 
the lorrys trailer hit the side of her car. Admiral said the other insurer that it identified from a 
registration provided by Mrs L had denied involvement. 
The investigator has already explained that it isnt our role to decide who was responsible for 
causing the accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this 
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made the decision to settle the claim. Did it 
act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy? And has it 
treated Mrs L the same as someone else in her position. 
Admiral is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Mr L to take over, defend, 
or settle a claim as it  sees fit. Mr L has to follow its advice in connection with the settlement 
of a claim, whether he agrees with the outcome or not. 
This is a common term in motor insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual. Insurers are 
entitled to take a commercial decision about whether it is reasonable to contest a third party 
claim or better to compromise.
That said, we expect an insurer to make reasonable attempts to investigate a claim and 
consider the evidence before making its decision. 
There were no independent witnesses or CCTV images of the incident. Mrs L provided 
Admiral with the registration number of the lorry she said had collided with her. And she 
provided a photograph of it. But this was blurry, and the registration and signage couldnt be 
read. I cant see that Mrs L provided any further details of the lorry and, as the driver didnt 
stop, she wasnt able to provide a description. 
Mr L initially didnt want to make a claim until an admission of liability was obtained from the 
other insurer. He was then told by Admiral that it couldnt pursue the other insurer through 
legal means unless it had an outlay to recover. It said there was chance of a 50/50 
settlement which was common in roundabout collisions. So I think Mr L was left with the 
understanding that if he made a claim he was likely to recover some of his policy excess. 
So Mr L had repairs made to his car and he paid his policy excess. But Admiral then said the 
other insurer disputed involvement and as it couldnt rely on the blurry photographs it 
couldnt pursue the matter further and so closed the claim. But I agree with the investigator 
that Admiral hasnt reasonably done enough to investigate the claim and so hasnt justified 
its decision.
I say this because Admiral had a registration number provided by Mrs L. I think it could have 
checked with the DVLA that the lorrys owner matched the other insurers client. And I think 
Admiral could have asked the other insurer for evidence that the lorry companys vehicles 
werent at the location at the time of the accident. But Admiral hasnt provided us with any of 
its communications with the other insurer. From what Ive seen, it relied on the other 
insurers blank denial of involvement. So I cant see that it did enough before deciding to 
abandon the recovery of its outlay. 
Admiral said these checks wouldnt identify the lorrys driver and also there wasnt evidence 
to show they were at fault. But I think the challenge to the other insurer for information of the 
whereabouts of its clients lorries at the time could have identified the driver. And I think 
Admiral had already raised Mr Ls expectations that a roundabout collision could be settled 
50/50. So I dont agree that these checks would inevitably be pointless, and I think Admiral 
should still pursue them. 
Admiral didnt explain to Mr L what would happen if the other insurer wouldnt accept liability. 
Admiral agreed that it should have made this clearer to Mr L. So I think it raised his 
expectations. I think it led him to decide to have his car repaired, and pay his policy excess, 
on the expectation that he would recover some of this. Admiral paid Mr L £50 compensation 
for this. But I agree with our investigator that £100 compensation is more appropriate in the 
circumstances to reflect the size of the policy excess Mr L paid and his trouble and 
frustration. Mr L said he hasnt cashed his cheque, so it may need to be reissued.
Putting things right
I require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to do the following:
1. Reopen the claim, carry out a DVLA check on the registration provided by Mrs L, and 
ask the other insurer to confirm the location of its clients lorries at the date and time of 
the incident. 
2. Pay Mr L £100 (in total) compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its 
level of service. My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Admiral Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman