DRN-3501391
The complaint
Ms R complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt act on her instructions to transfer her 
shares to her.
What happened
Following the UKs exit from the EU, Barclays explained it couldnt continue to offer share 
dealing services to Ms R as she lives outside of the UK. She phoned Barclays in early 
January 2021 to ask for her holdings to be transferred into her name and the certificates sent 
to her home address.
Barclays needed to check her nominated account information and promised to call her back, 
but it didnt. Ms R regularly contacted Barclays to find out whether her instructions were 
being acted upon but didnt receive a response. In or around April 2021, she complained but 
Barclays couldnt trace her January 2021 call and didnt uphold her complaint.
She referred her complaint to us. Barclays reinvestigated and upheld her complaint. It 
apologised, confirmed the share transfers were taking place and the certificates would be 
sent to her home address, and that the cash held would be credited to her nominated bank 
account.
It said it would refund its monthly fees from January 2021 and it paid her £400 for the 
distress, inconvenience, and costs shed been caused.
Our investigator thought this was fair and reasonable.
Ms R didnt agree. She said, in summary, that:
Her account was still showing fees as being generated, which was confusing.
The notifications shes received from Barclays are unclear as they say her shares are 
being transferred to blank. Shes heard direct from registrars but not from Barclays. 
One of those registrars has told her it is possible to trade, which is contrary to what 
Barclays told her.
Its not acceptable to blame the registrars for any delay.
She couldnt have realised any capital from her shares if shed wanted to.
Barclays offer is unreasonable as shes had no trading facility or control of her shares for 
over two years. Shes made every effort, through calls and correspondence, to resolve 
matters, but it remains unresolved and continues to cause her stress.
Barclays has contacted her by post about a corporate action on one of her holdings  but 
it was received too late to take any action.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays accepts  and I agree - it has let Ms R down. It should have acted on her 
instructions in January 2021; it should have answered her on the many occasions she 
contacted it to try to find out what was happening; and it should have upheld her complaint in 
May 2021. Its very poor service has led to a delay in transferring Ms Rs holdings, and 
closing her account, of around two years, during which time Ms R didnt have full access to 
her shares.
Im satisfied Barclays has apologised, and that its now acted to transfer Ms Rs shares. Its 
also refunded and waived its monthly charges from January 2021, which I consider to be 
fair.
I fully understand Ms Rs frustration. And I accept she did all she could to try to resolve this 
matter. This has been inconvenient for her, and stressful, particularly as she lives outside of 
the UK. Ive thought about this very carefully, taking into account the points Ms R raised in 
response to our investigators conclusions. 
Ms R says she couldnt have realised any capital from her shares during this period if shed 
needed to. But shes not provided any evidence to show that she wanted to sell any shares, 
and that not being able to do so has led to a financial loss. Whilst I understand Ms Rs 
concern, I can only order Barclays to compensate her for any financial losses shes made 
and not for something that might have happened.
Ms R says paperwork shes received from Barclays seems to show fees being generated.. 
And that notifications from Barclays about the share transfers show a blank for where her 
shares are being transferred to. Having understandably lost faith in Barclays, I can see why 
shes raised concerns about these issues. But I dont find they have a bearing on the overall 
outcome of her complaint. I say this because Im satisfied shes not been charged fees since 
January 2021 and that her shares are being transferred in accordance with her instructions. 
My role doesnt extend to telling businesses how they should operate, so I cant order 
Barclays to change its procedures for when it waives fees or to change its systems to ensure 
its standard letters include the required details.
Ms R also says Barclays blamed the registrars for the delay in transferring the shares. I dont 
agree. I think, once it had taken action to transfer her shares, it told her that it couldnt 
control the timescale as it was the registrars responsibility to update their records and issue 
certificates and Barclays couldnt say how long this might take. I dont find that 
unreasonable.
The corporate action letter which Ms R says was received too late to action, was about 
whether and how Ms R wanted to vote at an AGM. I accept this letter was received too late 
for her to give any instructions. But I can see it was sent to her within a reasonable 
timescale. I cant hold Barclays responsible for Ms R not receiving it before the deadline 
date.
Having taken all this into account, I agree with the investigator that £400 compensation is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances here.My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should refund or waive all fees from January 
2021 and should pay Ms R £400 for the distress and inconvenience its caused. I understand 
it has already waived and refunded its fees and credited Ms Rs bank account with £400. 
That being the case, I dont require it to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman