DRN-3260134
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complained that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) declined 
their home insurance claim. 
For ease, Ill refer to all actions and comments as those of Mr C.
What happened
Mr C had a home insurance policy, underwritten by Lloyds, that was taken out in March 
2021. It provided both buildings and contents cover. 
On 26 October 2021, Mr C noticed water coming through the front room ceiling and thought 
it was likely to be rain coming in through one of the upstairs dormer windows. He contacted 
a roofing contractor on the same day but although the contractor inspected the roof, bad 
weather meant he wasnt able to carry out any repairs. When the bad weather continued the 
following day and the contractor still couldnt attend, Mr C contacted his home emergency 
cover (HEC) insurer. A visit was carried out by an HEC contractor and the cause of the water 
ingress was thought to be a missing tile batten that was allowing water to run under the roof 
flashing. No repairs were carried out by the HEC contractor. Instead, Mr Cs own roofing 
contractor attended the following day and found and removed a piece of moss from the 
dormer window gully flashing.  
Mr C contacted Lloyds to make a claim for water damage to his carpet and electrical items. 
Lloyds considered sending a surveyor out to Mr Cs property, but decided against doing this 
when Mr C told it the moss that had been blocking the gully had been removed and water 
was no longer entering the property. Lloyds then declined the claim, as it said a general 
exclusion applied. This exclusion stated that cover would not be provided in relation to 
damage caused by inadequate maintenance, where gutters and drains had not been kept 
clear of leaves, causing water to drain where it shouldnt. 
Mr C complained to Lloyds. In summary, he said the roof of his home was inspected 
annually, that he had carried out a great deal of work to the roof over the years, and so lack 
of maintenance was not an issue. Mr C said the exclusion relied on was an unreasonable 
term as, short of daily inspections, it would never be met. He also said there was no clear 
and agreed cause of the water penetration and the HEC contractor failed to take any 
measures to prevent further water penetration. Mr C added that, assuming the moss was a 
contributory factor, in normal rainfall conditions it posed no threat to the property - the issue 
arose because of exceptionally severe weather conditions. 
Lloyds didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. It said the work carried out by Mr Cs contractor was 
not a repair as such, it was just a case of removing the moss and then rain was able to flow 
off the roof as expected. It said the high levels of rainfall served to highlight the maintenance 
issue which was quickly rectified by Mr Cs contractor. It said investigations showed there 
was no further damage to the property that would have contributed to water being able to 
enter the property. Lloyds said Mr Cs policy will cover a one off, unexpected incident but 
moss build up was something that happened over time and was an uninsurable cause. 
Lloyds also said that it wasnt able to comment on the service provided by the HEC 
contractor, as this cover was provided by a separate insurer. It said Mr C would need to 
contact his HEC insurer directly.  
Mr C remained unhappy and complained to this service. He said there were strong winds 
prior to and during the water ingress, that there was no evidence the moss grew in the gully, 
and it could easily have been blown from the roof tiles into the gully. He said this is a one-off 
incident and so should be covered. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Cs complaint. He said he appreciated the term relied on 
by Lloyds to exclude the claim does not specifically mention blockages caused by moss. But 
the list of examples given of incidents not covered is not an exhaustive one and Lloyds can 
fairly apply the exclusion to gutters or drains that are not cleared of moss. Our investigator 
also considered whether Mr Cs claim could fairly be considered under flood or storm cover, 
but concluded that it couldnt and the exclusion was fairly applied. 
Mr C responded to our investigator and said he thought the moss blowing into the gully was 
an unforeseen event, not a maintenance issue, and so should be covered. Our investigator 
didnt change his view. As Mr C didnt agree with what our investigator said, this has come to 
me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding this complaint.
I first of all want to reiterate that the HEC is provided by a different insurer and so I have not 
looked at any of the issues raised by Mr C in relation to that cover.
No home insurance policy will cover any and all damage that happens to a policyholders 
home. Cover will only be provided for the risks that are listed in the policy. Having looked at 
Mr Cs policy with Lloyds I can see that it says: 
The policy provides cover for buildings and contents. This includes loss or damage to the 
buildings and contents by fire, malicious damage, flood, storm, subsidence, escape of water 
and theft. 
The event thats occurred here is that a piece of moss was blocking an upstairs dormer 
window gully flashing at a time when there was heavy winds and rain. As a result, rainwater 
was not able to flow down the gully and instead entered Mr Cs home causing damage to 
carpets and electrical items. Lloyds relied on the following exclusion to decline the claim: 
Uninsurable causes
Lack of maintenance; you are not insured against the costs of maintenance, or the costs of 
any damage caused by inadequate maintenance.
The policy goes on to list examples of when it will consider a policyholder to be uninsured 
because of lack of maintenance. It says: 
Examples include, but are not limited to:  gutters and drains not being kept clear of leaves 
causing water to drain where it shouldnt, causing damp.I know that Lloyds didnt come out and inspect the cause of the damage and this was 
because Mr Cs roofing contractor had already removed the moss. Mr C told Lloyds that 
once the moss was removed, water started flowing down the gully in the way it should and 
was no longer entering his home. So, in these circumstances, I think it was fair for Lloyds to 
consider the moss to be the cause of the water ingress. And Im also satisfied Lloyds acted 
fairly when it declined Mr Cs claim. Ill explain why. 
Having considered the incident, including taking into account the strong winds and high 
levels of rainfall, I cant see that the incident is an event thats covered under the policy. 
What has caused the damage here is a piece of moss in the gully that blocked rainwater 
from flowing freely. While I appreciate that the exclusion relied on by Lloyds doesnt 
specifically make reference to gullies and moss  instead it makes reference to gutters, 
drains and leaves  Im satisfied the term makes it clear that the list and examples provided 
are not exhaustive. And that the crux of what the term is referring to here is that blocked 
gutters, of whatever kind, are not covered. 
There is an expectation with home insurance policies that insured properties are maintained 
well enough by the policyholder that the property can withstand damage during normal 
weather conditions  so wind and rain, including heavy wind and rain. If a storm or flood 
occurs then these events will most likely be covered under the policy. So if neither has 
occurred - and Im satisfied no flooding affected Mr Cs home and although the weather was 
bad, it cant fairly be considered as a storm - then I need to look at why Mr Cs home didnt 
withstand the adverse weather conditions. And based on what Mr C told Lloyds, Im satisfied 
the reason it didnt withstand the weather on this occasion was due to the moss in the gutter. 
If it wasnt there  and its for Mr C to ensure gutters of any type are kept clear  then the 
damage most likely wouldnt have happened. 
I know that Mr C suggested the strong winds might well have blown the moss into the gully, 
and so he considers this could mean this is a one-off event that should be covered. But 
whether the moss had grown in the gully over time or was recently blown in by high winds, 
it's not covered either way. Once its in the gully and causing a blockage, it becomes a 
maintenance issue.   
Mr C clearly feels quite strongly that its unfair for Lloyds to decline his claim on the basis 
that his home might not have been properly maintained. This is because Mr C said he 
ensures his roof and gullies/gutters are inspected annually and he has taken great care over 
the years to maintain his home to a high standard. This might well be the case, and I can 
understand why Mr C might feel frustrated that what he considers to be a well-maintained 
property has had an insurance claim turned down under an exclusion that refers to lack of 
maintenance. Its very unfortunate timing that the blockage in the gully has happened in 
between the annual checks Mr C has carried out and I sympathise with Mr C. But I could 
only ask Lloyds to take a different course of action if I thought it had acted unfairly or outside 
the terms of the policy, and Im satisfied it hasnt.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman