DRN-4114046
The complaint
Mr W complains that TSB Plc, trading as TSB Bank (TSB), irresponsibly gave him a credit 
card account that he couldnt afford.
What happened
Mr W was granted his credit card account in September 2021. The opening credit limit was 
£2,500. It was never increased.
Mr W has complained to TSB to say that the account shouldnt have been
opened for him because it wasnt affordable and that TSB ought to have already had a good 
enough understanding of his financial circumstances before opening the credit card to see 
that. 
Our adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. Because Mr W doesnt 
agree, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TSB will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website. 
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in
the round.
Mr Ws complaint is that TSB made credit available that was unaffordable at a time when he 
was already holding a large amount of debt. TSB has explained that it relied on the 
information Mr W provided at the time of making his application to assess affordability as 
well as information it already had about other lending products hed taken. This included 
details about his income and housing status  he didnt have a mortgage at the time. TSB 
also carried out a credit search in Mr Ws name to assess Mr Ws level of debt and to 
understand how he had been managing that debt. With all that information and using their 
own scoring metric, TSB decided to agree to grant the credit card. 
TSB had previously provided Mr W with two substantial loans  first in November 2020 and 
then in February 2021. He also had a £3,000 overdraft with his current account. TSB also 
checked Mr Ws credit file at the time of the loan application. This showed he had no recent 
history of CCJs, defaults or any late payments. Mr W also sent us a copy of his credit report 
which confirms he was free of adverse markings that might suggest he had issues of 
concern in his credit history. I can see Mr W had credit cards with two other providers with a 
total of around £8,500-£9,000 in credit being nearly or fully utilised. 
So I think it would have seemed to TSB from the information they had available at the point 
that the lending decision was made, that Mr W was having to meet repayments on his TSB 
loans as well as other credit cards, although he appeared to be managing his existing credit 
reasonably well. Therefore, although I do agree with Mr W that he had a relatively high level 
of borrowing and debt, I dont consider that factor alone was enough for TSB to be put on 
notice of a reason not to agree the new credit. I also dont think that the information TSB had 
at the time of the lending decision would or ought to have led TSB to take further steps to 
understand Mr Ws financial situation before granting the credit. 
I have also kept in mind that it appears Mr Ws main reason for taking out the card was to 
take advantage of a zero percentage balance transfer offer. However, this didnt have any 
impact on the way TSB assessed Mr Ws application for the card, and nor should it have 
done. Once the credit card was agreed Mr W made a balance transfer to the value of 
£2,100.
Whilst it can reasonably be argued that in granting the new credit TSB was increasing 
Mr Ws overall level of debt  and potentially unsustainably - I have seen the purpose of 
taking out the new card was not primarily to add to Mr Ws already large amount of personal 
borrowing. Instead, rather than adding to Mr Ws burden of credit, it looks like Mr W was 
taking practical steps to manage his existing debt by taking out this card and
using it to secure more favourable terms  on existing credit. I say that because Mr W would
likely have been saving money on interest he would have been paying elsewhere. 
Ive also seen copies of bank statements from Mr Ws current account, which was also held 
with TSB. There is no question that the months leading up to the lending show strong 
evidence of constant use of gambling sites. TSB was also aware of this and Ive seen that 
Mr W had a history of making frequent use of gambling sites going back to 2016. TSB had 
raised the issue of his gambling with Mr W in the past but he had said he was fine. 
Taking everything Ive seen into account, including the opening credit limit TSB granted, the 
fact that most of the credit was immediately used to reduce the cost of credit owed 
elsewhere and Mr Ws financial position being generally secure with no signs of 
deterioration, I think TSB acted fairly and the credit it granted him with the card was 
affordable. 
I know that Mr W will be disappointed with my decision. But I want Mr W to know that I have 
considered all the submissions made in this case. Having done so, I have not
found sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint. I have seen insufficient evidence to think
that the decision by TSB to provide Mr W with this credit was unreasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman