DRN-3416607
The complaint
A company Ill call P complains that Santander UK PLC (Santander) blocked and closed its 
account, without explaining why, then withdrew a Bounce Back Loan (BBL) it had previously 
approved and paid to P.
P is represented by one of its directors, Mr D.
What happened
The background of this complaint is known well to both parties, and was set out in full by our 
investigator. So, what follows is a summary overview of the main issues. Mr D says 
Santander blocked Ps account in June 2020 and told him it was complying with its legal and 
regulatory obligations. It then carried out a review of Ps account and raised various 
enquiries concerning a BBL P had been granted in May 2020.
Mr D gave partial answers to Santanders questions, but said he wanted Santander to 
guarantee it would release the money in the account if he answered the questions. 
Santander didnt agree and, on 14 July 2020, wrote to P asking about its use of the BBL 
funds, and notifying P that it had decided to close Ps account with immediate effect. It also 
used that letter to continue to ask questions about the BBL.
Communications between Mr D and Santander continued, but ultimately on completing its 
review, Santander decided to call in the BBL. It told P it wasnt satisfied Ps nature of 
business was what P said it was, that the BBL funds had not been used for business 
purposes, and that P had borrowed in excess of 25% of its annual turnover, contrary to the 
BBL scheme rules. It returned the balance in Ps account (less the BBL funds) to Ps 
directors. 
Mr D told our service he didnt think Santander was entitled to ask questions about the loan 
after having issued it, and he says Santander delayed in telling him the reasons for its 
actions. He also felt it was unfair for Santander to block his access to the funds in the 
account, and he is unhappy that Santanders actions mean P is excluded from the BBL 
scheme, as it cant apply for a BBL elsewhere now. Mr D said Santander caused him 
distress and inconvenience and that its actions caused P to miss out on business.
Before reaching her outcome, our investigator explained to Mr D that Santander was entitled 
to request further information about the BBL in these circumstances, and she put 
Santanders unanswered questions to him once more. But Mr D again declined to provide 
direct answers and said some of the questions werent relevant.
Our investigator then completed her review of the complaint, but she didnt uphold it. She 
explained that Santander has overriding legal and regulatory obligations that entitle it to 
review customers accounts, she was satisfied Santander had followed its process correctly 
and was entitled to block the account while it carried out the review, and that it had closed 
the account in line with its terms of business.
She said Santander wasnt obliged to disclose the reasons for its actions to P, and she was 
satisfied Santander had been clear in communicating the information it required from Mr D.
Ultimately, she found Santander had made no errors, so she didnt think it should do 
anything to put things right for P. Mr D didnt accept our investigators outcome, so he asked 
for an ombudsman to review the matter afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If Im to uphold Ps complaint, Id need to be satisfied that Santander has acted 
unreasonably or done something wrong. And, having looked at everything both parties have 
sent me, I dont think it has. Ill explain why.
Account block and review
Mr D says Santanders actions caused him severe distress and inconvenience and caused P 
to lose out on business. He said it wasnt reasonable for Santander to ask questions about 
the BBL after it had paid the loan, and later after it had closed Ps account. 
He said the funds in Ps account were frozen for months as a result of Santanders review, 
and that he didnt even have access to funds for day to day use. And that P was then 
excluded from the BBL scheme because it couldnt apply elsewhere, having received a BBL 
from Santander, despite that Santander had withdrawn the loan.
Firstly, while I dont doubt Santanders actions had a significant impact on P, I cant 
reasonably tell Santander to compensate P for that impact if Im satisfied it did nothing 
wrong. And for the reasons Ive set out below, I dont think it did.
The banking industry is heavily regulated and all banks in the UK have various legal and 
regulatory obligations, with which they have to comply. As part of those obligations, 
sometimes banks have to carry out a review of the services they provide their customers, 
and gather certain documents or information. 
Those obligations are ongoing and dont cease once a product has been agreed, so its not 
right to suggest Santander had no right to ask the questions it did, purely because it had 
already granted the BBL. Ive looked at the questions Santander asked, and the reasons 
Santander raised those enquiries, and Im satisfied their enquiries were reasonable and 
inline with what I would usually expect to see during such a review.
I recognise Santanders review meant P went without access to its account for an extended 
period of time, but Santanders obligations allow it to block an account while it completes its 
review. Ive looked at the steps it took during the review and Im not persuaded the review 
took an unreasonable amount of time to complete in the circumstances. It had to gather a lot 
of information, and it had to repeat some of its questions several times as Mr D didnt give 
full answers. Ultimately, in the circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied it acted promptly 
in completing its review.
Because Santander withdrew the loan after it was granted, P wasnt able to take out another 
BBL with another bank, so I accept what Mr D says about P effectively being excluded from 
the BBL scheme. But Santanders withdrawal wasnt an incorrect action, so I cant 
reasonably say P has been excluded unfairly. P simply didnt meet the criteria for a 2nd BBL, because it had already had one. And the fact that P didnt get the full use of the first BBL 
isnt relevant, because Santander was entitled to recall it.
Mr D said Santander delayed in telling him the reasons for its actions, but again I cant say it 
treated P unfairly here. Santander wasnt obliged to disclose the reasons for its review to Mr 
D, so as much as hed like to know, I dont believe it would be appropriate for me to compel 
Santander to disclose its rationale to Mr D. And I cant say it treated P unfairly by withholding 
that information during the review.
The terms and conditions of the BBL set out the circumstances in which Santander can 
demand repayment of the loan, as well as the circumstances in which it can offset funds 
maintained in a current account against the outstanding balance. Having considered all of 
the evidence both parties have provided, Im not persuaded Santander made a mistake or 
breached the terms of Ps contract. Santander is entitled to take such actions in certain 
circumstances, and indeed our service would expect it to do so when those circumstances 
are present. And Im satisfied Santander was entitled to recall the loan and pay it off in the 
manner it did, on this occasion.
I appreciate Mr D is frustrated that Santander delayed in telling him the reasons for its 
actions, but again it isnt obliged to do so. And, having thought about everything both parties 
have told me, I see no basis on which I could reasonably compel Santander to undo its 
actions, or explain itself further.
Account closure
Just as a customer may close an account with a bank, a bank is entitled to close an account 
with a customer. But when it closes the account, it must do so in a way which complies with 
the terms and conditions of the account. Santander closed Ps account with immediate effect 
by way of a letter dated 14 July 2020.
Ordinarily, Santander must give a customer two months notice before it closes their 
account. However, section 19.3 of the terms and conditions of Ps accounts, set out the 
circumstances in which Santander can close Ps account without giving advance notice. 
And, having reviewed the reasons Santander has provided our service to justify the 
immediate closure, Im satisfied that it was entitled to do so. 
Again, theres no obligation, whether contractual or otherwise, for Santander to disclose the 
reasons behind its decision to P. So, I cant say it did anything wrong by not telling Mr D why 
it closed Ps account.
I know this isnt the answer Mr D was hoping for, and I appreciate the limited information Ive 
given wont answer many of the questions he had. But I hope he can take some comfort 
from what Ive said and in light of an independent third-party reviewing Santanders actions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2022.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman