DRN-3928950
The complaint
Mr F complains about the way Fairmead Insurance Limited has handled a claim under his 
legal expenses insurance policy.
Where I refer to Fairmead, this includes its agents and claims handlers.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I only intend to 
provide a summary of the key events here.
In early 2019, Mr F submitted a claim to Fairmead under his legal expenses policy to pursue 
a firm of solicitors for professional negligence. Fairmead agreed that Mr F could use a 
solicitor of his own choice. It entered into communication with the chosen firm to determine 
whether the claim met the policy requirements and to agree terms of appointment.
Fairmead and the chosen solicitors were unable to agree to an hourly rate. DAS said the 
policy terms only provide £100 per hour. But the solicitors hourly rate was £409. Mr F raised 
a complaint, and in DAS final response letter dated 4 July 2019, it offered to pay the county 
court rate for Mr Fs post code, which was £267 for a grade A fee earner.
This complaint was brought to our service and our investigator was satisfied Fairmeads offer 
was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. He emailed Mr F setting out the reasons for 
his outcome but didnt receive a response, so the complaint was closed in November 2019. 
I understand that in May 2019, the solicitor informed Fairmead that they wished to suspend 
the claim for indemnity under the policy whilst steps to mitigate Mr Fs losses were explored.
In May 2021, the solicitor returned to Fairmead to ask for cover under the policy. Due to the 
amount of time that had passed, Fairmead required an updated assessment of the claim to 
ensure it still met the policy requirements, in particular that it enjoyed reasonable prospects 
of success. But the solicitor was unable to confirm this without undertaking a considerable 
amount of work.
They asked Fairmead to pay their new hourly rate of £400 for the work on assessing 
prospects to be completed. But Fairmead reiterated its offer of £267. In addition, it said it 
was unable to pay any costs until prospects were confirmed as reasonable, as until that time 
it was unable to accept the claim under the policy.
Whilst the solicitor subsequently agreed to the hourly rate of £267, they asked Fairmead to 
cover the cost of obtaining a prospects assessment from counsel  which Fairmead declined 
to do.
On November 2021, as cover was still not in place, Mr F agreed to use a panel solicitor. 
Fairmead sent instructions to one of its panel firms and in January 2022, the panel solicitor 
provided a legal assessment concluding that the claim didnt enjoy reasonable prospects of 
success.
Mr F raised a complaint for the following reasons:
Fairmead had provided poor service, including delays in responding to 
correspondence and failing to return calls.
The panel legal assessment was conducted by a paralegal and not a suitably 
qualified solicitor. He didnt agree with the legal opinion, and he didnt think Fairmead 
should rely upon it when deciding on cover for his claim.
The panel solicitors instructed had dealt with his initial claim, prior to the solicitors 
that he wants to pursue for negligence. As such, hes concerned theres a conflict of 
interest.
Fairmead didnt uphold the complaint about the legal assessment. But it did acknowledge 
that there had been delays which it was responsible for. It offered £200 compensation, which 
was paid in April 2022.
As Mr F wasnt happy with this response, he brought his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator was satisfied that Fairmead was entitled to rely on the legal assessment of its 
panel firm as it wasnt obviously wrong. He was also satisfied that no conflict of interest had 
been identified and declared to Fairmead that it needed to act on.
But our investigator was of the opinion that the offer of compensation was too low based on 
the delays Mr F had experienced. He recommended that Fairmead pay an additional £150, 
which Fairmead accepted.
Mr F didnt accept our investigators findings, and raised the following points:
Fairmead failed to offer a fair hourly rate based on the complexity of his case and the 
seniority of fee earner required.
Fairmead unfairly refused to pay for his chosen solicitor to complete the prospects 
assessment.
Fairmead shouldve obtained counsels advice after receipt of the panel solicitors 
negative assessment, which Mr F believes is Fairmeads responsibility on the basis 
that it already had a supportive legal assessment from his chosen solicitor in 2019.
Despite his many requests, Fairmead refused to arbitrate under the policy and 
instead referred Mr F to our service.
As the complaint is unresolved, its been passed to me to decide.
I understand that since this time, Mr Fs chosen solicitor has now provided a supportive legal 
assessment on the prospects of success of the claim. Fairmead has agreed to fund 
counsels advice as a third and final opinion to determine cover, and there is a dispute over 
the hourly rate for Mr Fs chosen solicitor to provide instructions. To be clear, I cant look into 
these issues.
My decision is dealing only with the complaint points raised between 4 July 2019 and 20 
January 2022. I cant make a determination of anything that has already been decided prior 
to this date, or anything that has arisen since.Im aware that Mr F has raised a complaint to Fairmead regarding the issues that have 
arisen since that time. And once he has its final response letter, or if eight weeks passes 
without one, he can return to our service, and we will set up a new complaint to consider 
whats happened during that time period.
My provisional decision
Id like to reassure Mr F that whilst Im aware I may have condensed some of the complaint 
points in far less detail and in my own words, Ive read and considered everything hes told 
us. Im satisfied Ive captured the essence of the complaint and I dont need to comment on 
every point individually, or possibly in the level of detail he would like, in order to reach what 
I think is a fair outcome. This isnt meant as a discourtesy, but it simply reflects the informal 
nature of our service.
Prospects assessment
The policys terms and conditions say that claims must have reasonable prospects of 
success which are defined as being more likely than not that the claim will be successful. In 
percentage terms, this would be 51% or above.
This is a requirement of virtually all legal expenses policies, and we dont think its unfair. 
Court action can be expensive. A privately paying customer wouldnt generally want to bear 
the cost if advised its unlikely to succeed. And we wouldnt expect a legal expenses insurer 
to either.
Where an insurer has declined or withdrawn funding in such a case, it isnt for us to evaluate 
the merits of the underlying claim. Instead, we look at whether the insurer has acted fairly. 
As long as theyve obtained advice from suitably qualified lawyers, we wont generally 
question their reliance on that advice, unless we think it was obviously wrong or based on 
factual mistakes.
In this case, Fairmead obtained a legal assessment from one of its panel firms of solicitors 
who said the claim didnt enjoy reasonable prospects of success. Whilst I appreciate Mr F 
disagrees with the advice, Im satisfied it is well-reasoned and not obviously wrong. And it 
was based on all the information available at that time.
Mr F is concerned that its been obtained from a paralegal, but the firm have confirmed that 
they were supervised by a senior colleague  the details of which have been set out in our 
investigators view of the complaint. So Im satisfied its been obtained from a suitably 
qualified lawyer.
Mr F is also concerned that the panel firm are conflicted. As our investigator has explained, 
the solicitors have an obligatory duty to the Solicitors Conduct Authority (SRA) to check for 
possible conflicts of interest. I havent seen anything to suggest a conflict was identified and, 
other than seeking confirmation of this from the solicitors, it wouldnt be for Fairmead or this 
Service to investigate whether these checks were done in accordance with the SRAs code 
of conduct requirements. If Mr F is concerned these checks werent completed correctly, he 
should raise this with the solicitors directly and follow their complaints process.
For these reasons, I havent seen anything to persuade me that Fairmead couldnt rely on 
the legal assessment provided by its panel firm. Rather, it was up to Mr F to obtain a 
contrary legal opinion on the merits of his claim, at his own cost, if he wanted to challenge 
this further.I understand Mr F feels it was Fairmeads responsibility to obtain the further opinion, as he 
says it was already in receipt of a supportive assessment from his chosen solicitor in 2019. 
But I dont agree. Two years had passed since this assessment was provided and Fairmead 
were advised that steps were being taken to mitigate Mr Fs losses during that time, which 
indicates that the position wouldve changed and the assessment was out of date. As 
prospects can change throughout the life of a claim and is an ongoing consideration for 
cover, Im not persuaded the 2019 assessment was relevant when considering cover in 
2021.
Mr F is also unhappy that Fairmead refused to pay the cost of his chosen solicitors work to 
complete the legal assessment on prospects, rather than instructing a panel firm. But Im not 
persuaded this is something the policy covers. The policy is clear that it will cover the legal 
costs to pursue a claim if it enjoys reasonable prospects of success; it doesnt cover the cost 
of investigating whether the claim enjoys reasonable prospects of success. Its Mr Fs 
responsibility to show he has a valid claim under the policy terms.
As Ive explained above, Mr F has now provided a supportive legal assessment of his claim, 
but as it was after Fairmeads final response of 20 January 2022 this cant be considered as 
part of this complaint.
Hourly rate
Mr F has made several comments about Fairmead failing to offer a fair hourly rate. But as 
Ive explained above, our service considered this complaint in 2019 and we determined that 
the offer of £267 was fair. As such, Im unable to consider this matter and will not comment 
on it further.
I understand there is a further dispute over the hourly rate offered for the chosen solicitors 
work in providing instructions to counsel. As this has occurred after Fairmeads final 
response of 20 January 2022, this cant be considered as part of this complaint.
Delays
Looking at the timeline of how this complaint has been handled, its clear there has been 
instances where Fairmeads service has been below what Id consider to be reasonable. 
Fairmead itself acknowledge that it caused some delays in November 2021 and paid £200 
compensation for what went wrong. But, as our investigator has explained, there were 
further instances in May and July 2021 when Fairmead didnt respond to correspondence as 
promptly has it should have.
Our investigator recommended a further £150 compensation, which Fairmead agreed to. Im 
satisfied this amount fairly reflects what went wrong here and the impact it had on Mr F. I 
appreciate the limitation period for Mr Fs claim is imminent, but Im not persuaded that these 
relatively minor delays by Fairmead have caused any prejudice. I must bear in mind that Mr 
F had six years to bring this claim, and he and his solicitors werent in touch with Fairmead 
for two years of the limitation period.
Arbitration
The terms and conditions of the policy say:
Prospects of success
We will pay costs as long as the administrator considers that your claim has 
prospects of success. If at any stage the administrator considers that your claim does 
not have prospects of success, the administrator will explain their decision to you in writing, and the administrator will not provide any cover for your claim. If you disagree 
with the administrators decision, you can refer the matter to an arbitrator (section 4, 
general condition 11).
Section 4, general condition 11 says:
Disputes
In event of dispute arising out of this policy, you may refer the matter to arbitration. 
Further details can be provided upon request.
The policy defines administrator as the service provider selected by us from time to time to 
administer the claims under this section of the policy. This means the claims handlers, who 
act on Fairmeads behalf.
I can see from the information provided that Mr F asked to go to arbitration, but Fairmead 
advised against it. It said arbitration is expensive and the losing party will be liable for the 
costs, so it told Mr F to come to our service instead. Mr F was adamant that he wanted to go 
to arbitration but at this point Fairmead refused. It said the role of the arbitrator is to rule on 
the application of the policy terms rather than assess the merits of the case, so it insisted 
that Mr F come to our service in the first instance.
Whilst I dont disagree with what Fairmead has said here, the policy does say details about 
the arbitration process can be provided upon request and Mr F requested the details. So I 
think it shouldve provided this information, even if it wasnt prepared to go to arbitration at 
that time.
But I dont think Mr F has been prejudiced by this. I say this because although Mr F has the 
right to request arbitration, the aim is to resolve their dispute and  given that hes come to 
us, and weve been able to decide the issue  he hasnt really suffered any loss (especially 
as our service is free and arbitration isnt).
Responses to my provisional decision
Whilst Mr F has responded to my provisional decision, his comments are limited to his new 
complaint points which arose after 20 January 2022. He believes the eight weeks has 
passed since he notified Fairmead of his expression of dissatisfaction, so Ill leave this with 
our investigator to look into and set up a new case if necessary.
Fairmead didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had any further submissions for my consideration, I see no reason to 
deviate from the outcome explained in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct Fairmead Insurance 
Limited to pay an additional £150 compensation for the impact suffered by Mr F as a result 
of its delays and poor service.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman