DRN-1269880
The complaint
Mr H has complained that The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited 
(NFUM) unfairly settle a claim against his commercial vehicle motor insurance policy.
Background
Mr H was in an accident when his car hit the back of the car in front. He didn't think he was 
at fault but NFUM told him that it would hold him responsible for the incident. That meant 
that his no claims discount was affected and hed have to pay his excess. Mr H didn't think 
that was fair. He complained to NFUM about: its stance on liability; that it didn't get video 
evidence; the quality of repairs. NFUM agreed that the repairs hadn't gone smoothly and that 
it hadn't requested video footage from a government agency when hed asked it to. So it 
offered him £100 compensation to address the impact of that.
Mr H didn't think that went far enough and brought his complaint to us. In particular he 
maintained that he wasn't at fault for the accident. One of our investigators looked into 
Mr Hs complaint. The investigator thought NFUM had responded to it reasonably. Mr H 
didn't agree so his complaint's been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
In bringing his complaint Mr H has made a number of detailed points. I've considered 
everything hes said carefully but in this decision I will focus on what I see as being the key 
outstanding issues.
Mr H ran into the back of another drivers car after it stopped without warning. Mr H believed 
the other driver caused the accident by breaking suddenly and unnecessarily.
I should say at the outset that its not my role to decide whos at fault for an accident, as 
ultimately thats a matter for the courts. And, like all motor policies, Mr Hs policy allows 
NFUM to settle claims as it sees fit. That means it doesnt require Mr Hs consent to decide 
how to settle a claim and it may make a decision that Mr H doesnt agree with. But Ill look to 
see if its done so reasonably.
As I understand it, in line with the guidance in the Highway Code, insurers generally consider 
that its the responsibility of the driver behind to leave enough room to be able to stop 
without hitting the car in front. And that's the case even if the car in front stops without 
warning. And as Mr H ran into the back of the other car NFUM felt that the accident was 
Mr Hs fault. Thats because he didn't leave enough room to safely be able to stop when the 
car in front did. All insurers Im aware of will say the responsibility for an accident in those 
circumstances will be with the driver of the car behind. That's been NFUMs approach in this 
case and I think that's reasonable.
Also, when considering how to handle claims, insurers like NFUM need to consider what 
would be likely to happen if the matter went to court. And, given that its generally accepted 
that its the responsibility of the driver behind not to hit the car in front, NFUM would have 
thought it was unlikely it could successfully defend any court action. So it decided not to 
defend the claim. And I think that was reasonable in the circumstances.
Im aware Mr H asked NFUM to approach a government agency to see if it had video 
footage, which might show that the other drivers brake lights didn't come on. But NFUM 
initially didn't approach the government agency but instead asked the police for any 
dashcam footage. And, by the time that NFUM asked the government agency for evidence it 
confirmed that because video footage is only kept for seven days it would no longer be 
available. Mr H thinks that means NFUM lost the opportunity to prove that he wasn't to 
blame for the accident. But I think thats unlikely. Even if the accident had been caught on 
video its not in dispute that Mr H hit the car in front. And that means that he didn't leave 
enough room to be able to stop safely if the car in front stopped without warning. So I don't 
think the fact that NFUM didn't ask for the video footage promptly has affected Mr Hs 
position on liability.
For completeness Ill add that Mr H didn't think our investigators assessment of his 
complaint was fair because it didn't include a dated chronology. And also because the 
investigator didn't address the information NFUM had given Mr H about its requests for video 
footage. 
But I don't think the dates are important in order to decide whether or not NFUM responded 
fairly to the complaint. Theres no dispute that the accident happened or when it happened. 
Also theres no dispute that Mr H asked NFUM to approach the government agency for video 
evidence within the seven day window when footage might have been available. But NFUM 
incorrectly requested footage from the police rather than the government agency. And, by 
the time that it did request the footage from the government agency no recording would have 
been available. And as those things aren't disputed the dates they happened arent 
important. 
Also, NFUM accepted in its complaint response that it had mistakenly approached the police 
rather than the government agency. Its certainly far from ideal that NFUM approached the 
wrong people for video footage. And NFUM might have given Mr H the wrong impression 
that it had already asked the government agency for the video evidence when it hadn't. But 
its accepted it got some things wrong. And as I've said above I don't think those mistakes 
prejudiced Mr Hs position. And I think in offering compensation NFUMs already done 
enough to address the impact of its mistakes. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2020.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman