DRN-3759999
The complaint
Mr C complains that Blue Motor Finance Ltd irresponsibly granted him a hire purchase 
agreement he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In January 2016, Mr C acquired a used car financed by a hire purchase agreement from 
Blue Motor Finance. Mr C was required to make 60 monthly repayments of around £342 
followed by a final repayment of around £492. The total repayable under the agreement was 
around £21,046.
Mr C says that Blue Motor Finance didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if 
it had, it would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Blue Motor Finance didnt agree. 
It said that it carried out a thorough assessment which included a creditworthiness check 
using data from a credit reference agency and gathering information about Mr Cs 
employment and monthly income and expenses. It said that Mr C was living with his parents 
at the time.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought Blue Motor Finance 
didnt act unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Mr C didnt agree and said provided further evidence to support his complaint. 
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Blue Motor Finance will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice 
we consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Before granting the finance, I think Blue Motor Finance gathered a reasonable amount of 
evidence and information from Mr C about his ability to repay. I say this because it 
completed a credit check which showed Mr C had four open accounts: a bank account, hire 
purchase account, credit card account and communications account. While he was over his 
limit of on his credit card account (balance of £1,549 against a limit of £1,500) the other 
information suggested he had been managing the account well. His other accounts didnt 
raise and concerns. Blue Motor Finance also gathered information about Mr Cs monthly 
income, and I think it was reasonable it relied on the information provided. I note that Mr C 
has sent copies of his bank statements but in this case I do not think that Blue Motor 
Finance was required to verify his income and expenses and so I do not find it was required 
to ask for bank statements. However, just because I think it carried out proportionate checks, 
it doesnt automatically mean it made a fair lending decision. So, Ive thought about what the 
evidence and information showed. 
Ive reviewed the information and evidence Blue Motor Finance gathered. Having done so 
Im satisfied that the checks that were completed showed that the agreement was likely to be 
affordable to Mr C. I say this because Mr Cs monthly income was recorded as £2,000 and 
his credit file suggested monthly credit commitments of around £200 for his credit card and 
hire purchase agreement. Adding in the agreement repayments would leave Mr C with 
around £1,458 a month for his payments to his communications provider and his other living 
expenses. Noting that Mr C had said he was living with his parents I do not think this would 
raise concerns about the affordability of the agreement. For these reasons, I dont think Blue 
Motor Finance acted unfairly when approving the finance application.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman