DRN-4426234
The complaint
Mrs M has complained that The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited 
(NFU) unfairly declined a claim on her horse and rider insurance policy.
What happened
In 2023 Mrs M made a claim under the policy after her horse, whom Ill call B, was put to 
sleep. Her vet said in the claim form that B had been suffering from osteoarthritis.
NFU declined the claim. It said according to its records Mrs M had made a claim for 
osteoarthritis in 2010 and her policy didnt cover anything that had been claimed for 
previously.
Mrs M didnt accept that the 2010 claim was for arthritis. She thought it was for ligament 
damage. Unfortunately, the vets records from 2010 are no longer available. She was also 
unhappy that this exclusion hadnt been noted as an endorsement on the policy schedule.
Mrs M brought a complaint to this service. Our Investigator didnt recommend that the 
complaint be upheld. 
As Mrs M didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ms policy doesnt cover pre-existing conditions. It says:
WE do not cover the following. 
Existing conditions 
WE will not pay any claim for YOU or an INSURED PERSON which directly or indirectly 
arises from, or is connected with:
 any ACCIDENT which happened or physical condition which first appeared before the 
current PERIOD OF COVER. 
WE will not pay any claim for a HORSE which directly or indirectly arises from, or is 
connected with:
  an ACCIDENT which happened before the START OF COVER or was the subject of a 
previous claim under this POLICY; 
 a CONDITION which first appeared before the START OF COVER or was the subject of a 
previous claim under this POLICY, whether or not it re-occurs in the same area or structure 
or any other area or structure of the HORSE's body. Such CONDITIONS will include, but are 
not limited to, the following; 
 any form of arthritis (including but not limited to bone spavin and degenerative joint 
disease) 
On the claim form submitted by Mrs Ms vet, the vet diagnosed B as suffering from 
generalised lameness, likely due to osteoarthritis of multiple joints.
Bs clinical history from 2010 is unavailable. The only evidence available to support Mrs Ms 
claim is some letters from 2010/11 showing that Mrs Ms vet made several claims on her 
behalf. Mrs M thinks this suggests B was more likely to have been treated for a suspensory 
ligament injury than osteoarthritis.
NFU also has limited records of the 2010 claim. It has provided a screenshot showing that it 
recorded the claim as OA [osteoarthritis] of the tibiotarsal joint/desmitis. I understand 
desmitis to be the sprain of a suspensory ligament. It seems to me perfectly possible that in 
2010 B was suffering from both conditions. But the key point to my mind is that the 2010 
claim apparently did include treatment for osteoarthritis. Therefore, under the terms of the 
policy I dont think NFU treated Mrs M unfairly or unreasonably in declining the claim on the 
basis of this exclusion as it appears from NFUs evidence that B was suffering from 
osteoarthritis in 2010.
An insurer will usually only become aware that a condition is pre-existing once it receives the 
claim form and the full clinical history of the animal unless a previous claim has been made 
to the insurer for treatment of a particular condition. Without the full clinical history, the 
insurer can only advise a consumer that it will not cover pre-existing conditions. 
In addition to the policy wording, the two-page summary of the main terms of the policy said:
What is not insured?

Any accident which happened or any illness, disease or condition which you are aware of 
that has been diagnosed, awaiting diagnosis or being treated before your cover starts, or is 
due for renewal, as outlined in the policy wording.
I think the wording quoted above made this exclusion sufficiently clear.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman