DRN-3706160
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim 
they made under sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation 
to a solar panel system they say was misrepresented to them by the supplier.
Mr and Mrs E are represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around February 2016, Mr and Mrs E were contacted by a representative of a company 
Ill call P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at their 
home. After being visited by a representative of P, Mr and Mrs E decided to purchase the 
system and finance it through a 15 year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The 
system was subsequently installed.
In 2021 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Mr and Mrs Es behalf under section 75 of 
the Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of representations 
about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that 
had induced Mr and Mrs E to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following 
misrepresentations had been made:
the system would be self-funding;
the feed in tariff (FIT) and savings on their electricity bills would provide enough 
income to cover the monthly loan payments; and
the system would not require maintenance (but in fact the inverter would have to be 
replaced during the systems 25-year lifespan, at a cost of at least £1,000).
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mr and Mrs E or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be 
upheld.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr and Mrs E and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs E didnt agree with the adjudicators view but did not provide any further 
comments.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. In this case the relevant law includes sections 56, 75 and 140A of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Mr and Mrs E paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr and Mrs E could claim against 
Shawbrook (the creditor) for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same 
way they could have claimed against P (the supplier). So Ive taken section 75 into account 
when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr and 
Mrs E and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of 
Shawbrook.
Section 140A is about unequal relationships between the parties to a credit agreement. In 
this case, the CMC relies on the alleged misrepresentation of the system, and also on the 
possibility that Shawbrook paid P commission or gave P some other financial incentive to 
broker the loan. Shawbrook denies that any commission was paid, and I have seen no 
evidence to the contrary, so I do not accept that it was.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities  
that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the evidence that 
is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr and Mrs E say that during a sales meeting they were told that the system would be 
entirely self-financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both parties. These include the 
credit agreement and two versions of the solar quote, titled Getting Started and Your 
Personal Quotation. Ive considered these, along with Mr and Mrs Es testimony and 
recollection of the sales meeting, to decide on balance what is most likely to have happened.
The quotes are detailed documents that set out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with Mr and Mrs E, explaining any benefits of the 
system, prior to them agreeing to enter into the contract. Mr E has signed the Getting 
Started quote, so I have focused mainly on this one.
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
Getting Started quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that 
the salesperson went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along 
with Mr and Mrs Es version of events, when considering if there have been any untrue 
statements of fact.The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed (i.e. the cash price of the system), 
the interest to be charged, the total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual 
monthly repayments.
FIT payments and savings
Mr and Mrs E have said that they were told their monthly loan repayments would be 
covered, or self-funded by the FIT payments and the savings on their energy bills. Ive 
considered the quote that was provided by P as well as Mr and Mrs Es recollections of their 
meeting with Ps representative to decide what is most likely to have been said.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr and Mrs E could 
expect to receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected 
FIT payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT 
scheme only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr and Mrs E could expect to receive a total 
FIT income in year one of £97.59. The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr 
and Mrs E could expect from the system. The expected year one electricity savings are 
£167.22.
When taking into account the optional extras chosen by Mr and Mrs E, the combined income 
and savings in year one are shown as £456.81. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all 
together.
This results in an average monthly income of about £38. Im satisfied that the same 
document set out that there would be a monthly loan repayment due of £79. As a result, Im 
not able to conclude that Mr and Mrs E were told that the monthly loan repayments would be 
covered by the FIT payments and savings.
Theres a section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months as this is the 
length of the loan that Mr and Mrs E entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan 
as repayable in 180 monthly payments of £79.02. (This is incorrect; the loan agreement 
gives the correct monthly figure of £80.08, but the difference  £1.06  is too small to affect 
the following observations.) For each year of the 15 year loan it shows the expected grand 
total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, and subtracts the 
monthly loan repayment, to give an average difference between the monthly return from the 
system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. This gives a negative figure for the 
first 13 years of the loan, meaning that the system would not begin to make enough money 
to cover the loan payments until year 14.
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr and Mrs E could expect to receive from the 
system, by way of FIT payments and savings, as well as their expected contractual monthly 
loan repayments. Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income and 
savings to the monthly loan repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income they 
could expect to receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings would not be 
immediately sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments. Ive carefully thought about Mr 
and Mrs Es version of events. However, as Ive found that the quote did form a central part 
of the sales process which the salesperson went through at the meeting, I dont think I can 
reasonably find that they were told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by 
the FIT income and savings.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mr and Mrs E that the system would be self-funding from the 
outset. In doing so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to 
have happened.
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand (notwithstanding the £1.06 
discrepancy in the monthly payments). That section of the quote has been signed by Mr E, 
so Im satisfied that P did enough to bring it to his and his wifes attention. On balance Im 
also satisfied that the salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Mr and Mrs E were told by P that the system would be self-
funding over a certain period of time.
A later page of the quote has a table detailing the estimated performance of the system over 
30 years. This shows that during year 12 the overall benefits that Mr and Mrs E could expect 
to receive would reach the cash price of the system, £7,495.
(I have here only shown the rows for years 1, 11 and 12, to save space.)
So Im satisfied that P told Mr and Mrs E that the system would pay for its cash price in 12 
years, as supported by the table above, which was included in the quote. If that were an 
untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced them to enter into the 
contract, and they subsequently suffered a loss, then that could amount to a 
misrepresentation. So Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether 
this is in line with the contract between P and Mr and Mrs E.
Performance: energy generation
I have looked at Mr and Mrs Es meter reading and can see that their system has generated 
significantly less energy than estimated by P at the point of sale, so I agree that the system 
is not performing as well as expected.
However, I do not know if that is because the system was misrepresented at the point of 
sale, or if it is because the system was defective at the point of sale (which would be a 
breach of contract, which has a different remedy to misrepresentation), or if it is because the 
system subsequently developed a fault (which would not necessarily be Shawbrooks 
responsibility).
This issue does not appear to have been raised with Shawbrook in the section 75 claim in 
2021, and so I do not think that Shawbrook can be faulted for not having upheld that claim 
on this basis. Shawbrook was only dealing with a complaint that Mr and Mrs E was told that 
the system was supposed to be self-funding from the start, when it wasnt. And Shawbrooks 
answer was that the quote had made it clear all along that this would not be the case. 
Shawbrook didnt have to go further than that and investigate whether the system was 
generating as much energy as P had estimated.
So I think that the under-performance issue needs to be raised with Shawbrook in a new 
section 75 claim. That will enable Shawbrook to investigate the reason for the under-
performance, and possibly to fix it. Then, if Mr and Mrs E is still not satisfied, they may bring 
a new complaint to our service about Shawbrooks response. I am not in a position to deal 
with that issue now, except to say that Shawbrook did not mishandle Mr and Mrs Es claim 
under section 75.
Performance: financial returns
However, I do think that Mr and Mrs Es original section 75 claim did include a complaint to 
the effect that the system was not generating the estimated financial returns, and that the 
system had therefore been misrepresented on that basis. So I have considered whether the 
estimated financial returns were exaggerated, independently of the systems failure to 
generate as much energy as estimated.
I have looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, expected 
annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. I am 
satisfied that Ps method for calculating these is fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data prior to 2016 to calculate the utility price and 
RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 2020, and the 
increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale, and I think this explains 
why Mr and Mrs E havent been receiving the financial returns they may have been 
expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system have 
been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS at the time. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have 
used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr and Mrs E could 
have expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may 
not have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due 
to unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr and Mrs E entered into the 
contract.
The inverter
I dont think it is likely that the salesman would have told Mr and Mrs E that the system would 
require no maintenance over its estimated lifespan of 25 years. It is possible that the 
salesman did not tell them during the meeting that the inverter would need to be replaced, 
but that is not the same thing as a misrepresentation. The inverter came with a 25-year 
warranty, so Mr and Mrs E may be thinking of this.
I also note that the Your Personal Quotation quote says, in a section titled Inverter:The Inverter is the one part of PV system that has a higher chance of failure and 
may require your attention within the 25 years.
So I dont uphold this complaint point.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr and Mrs E 
to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E and Mr E to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman