DRN-2687422
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W have complained that in 2017 Lloyds Bank PLC would not allow them to 
transfer (port) their mortgage onto a new property. As a result, Mr W was unable to secure 
his business borrowing on the new property, which he has told us resulted in serious 
financial repercussions for his business.
What happened
I am grateful to Mr W for providing clarification of the events leading up to the complaint. As I 
understand it, Mr and Mrs W owned a property I will call R. This was subject to an interest-
only mortgage to Lloyds of £135,000 taken out in 2011 and which, in late 2017, had about 
eight months left to run. The mortgage was on a variable interest rate of 0.490% above Bank 
of England Base Rate until the end of the mortgage term. The repayment vehicle was said to 
be the sale of a second property, A. There was no early repayment charge on this mortgage.
The mortgage contained the following provision:  
If you need to repay your mortgage to move home during the initial mortgage product 
(special rate) period, provided you do not change lender (and, where the lender 
provides mortgages under more than one brand, you do not change brands), you will 
usually be able to take the terms of the initial mortgage product with you and they will 
continue for the remainder of the initial product period. (my emphasis)
Mr and Mr W were building a new property (L) and needed to release funds to complete the 
build. They decided to sell R in order to do so and put the property on the market for 
£760,000. They wanted to proceed quickly and found a buyer, but the buyer hadnt yet sold 
their own property. To facilitate the transaction, Mr and Mrs W agreed to purchase their 
buyers property (C) (worth £380,000), with the buyer paying the remaining £380,000. They 
intended to repay the existing mortgage with Lloyds.
Mr W wanted to transfer his secured business loans and overdraft (also with Lloyds) onto the 
new property, C, but was told by his business relationship manager that it wouldnt be 
possible to do this. That was because the business borrowing could only be secured as a 
second charge, not a first charge. So in order to keep the secured overdraft, Mr and Mrs W 
were told they would need to take out a mortgage on C as a first charge, in order for there to 
be a second charge covering Mr Ws business loans and overdraft.
The intention was that, once L had been completed, Mr and Mrs W would sell C, repay all 
borrowing to Lloyds and move into L, which would be unencumbered.
Their existing mortgage had only eight months left to run on it at the time (late 2017). An 
application was made to port the existing £135,000 mortgage on an interest-only basis. This 
had to be keyed in on the minimum available term of twelve months. The application was 
declined, as Mr and Mrs W had no repayment vehicle for the mortgage, having already sold 
A, which had been intended as the repayment vehicle, in 2015. Lloyds assessed that the 
mortgage was unaffordable and didnt meet its criteria, so the application was declined.
Mr and Mrs W completed the sale of R for £760,000 and the purchase of C for £380,000 
in February 2018. In September 2019, Mr and Mrs W sold C for £375,000 and moved into L.
Mr and Mrs W complained to Lloyds. Mr W, who has dealt with the complaint throughout, 
said that they didnt need a mortgage of £135,000, but only the minimum of £25,000  and 
that this was solely for the purpose of enabling his business borrowing to be secured as a 
second charge on C.
Lloyds didnt uphold the complaint. The bank said that it doesnt usually retain details of 
declined applications, but it was able to find in its records information about an application 
for a mortgage of £135,000 made in late 2017, which was declined. Lloyds said that there 
was no record of any application for a £25,000 mortgage and that the figure of £135,000 
must have come about as a result of Mr and Mrs Ws discussions with the mortgage adviser.
Mr and Mrs W didnt accept what Lloyds had said, and complained to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. An investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think it should be 
upheld. He thought Lloyds decision to decline the port of the mortgage onto C was 
reasonable in the circumstances, particularly given that the mortgage had only eight months 
left to run. The investigator was satisfied that Mr and Mrs W wouldnt have met the 
affordability criteria for a port of the mortgage.
Mr and Mrs W asked for an ombudsman to review the investigators findings. Mr W said that 
the intention was for the mortgage on C to run for longer than the remaining 8-month term 
and that they only ever needed £25,000 as a vehicle to allow Mr W to secure his business 
borrowings on C.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs W were existing mortgage customers of Lloyds. They werent looking to borrow 
more money but wanted to transfer their existing mortgage onto a new property. Ive taken 
note of what Mr W has said  that he and Mrs W only needed to take out a mortgage of 
£25,000 (the minimum amount), not £135,000. But there was never any application for a 
£25,000 mortgage, and nothing about this shown in the banks notes, so I can only consider 
this complaint in the context of what actually happened.
The mortgage contract entered into by Mr and Mrs W allowed them to port (transfer) their 
mortgage onto a new property for the remainder of the product term. There was only eight 
months remaining, which is below the minimum borrowing term Lloyds would allow. The 
mortgage contract did not provide for the product to run beyond the end date of the contract.
Mr and Mrs W have told us they wanted to keep a mortgage on C for several years. The 
effect of this is that if they had ported their existing product onto a mortgage with a longer 
term (say, five years) the interest rate product would have expired after eight months, as 
provided by their original contract. Mr and Mrs W would then have gone onto a reversionary 
rate for the remainder of the mortgage term or they could have applied for a new interest 
rate product if theyd wanted to (which may have involved an early repayment charge if they 
sold C during the product term).
The rules in relation to porting a mortgage product onto a new property are set out in the 
Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (MCOB). The rules 
changed significantly in April 2014 following the completion of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) mortgage market review, or MMR. One of the outcomes of MMR was a 
much stricter assessment of whether a mortgage is affordable. 
But the FCA recognised that this might cause difficulties for existing borrowers, so it 
introduced flexibility to allow for exceptions to be made. It did this through two new sections. 
Theres section 11.6, which deals with responsible lending, affordability, and credible 
repayment strategies for interest-only mortgages. Theres also section 11.7, which sets out 
transitional arrangements aimed at ensuring people with existing mortgages granted before 
MMR arent disadvantaged by the stricter regime it introduced.
MCOB 11.6.2R says that a lender must assess whether the customer will be able to afford 
the payments on a mortgage, and not enter into the mortgage unless it can demonstrate that 
the mortgage is affordable, MCOB 11.6.3 says that MCOB 11.6.2R doesnt apply if the 
proposed mortgage is a replacement for an existing mortgage where theres no additional 
borrowing (other than to cover product or arrangement fees) and no change thats likely to 
be material to affordability.
MCOB 11.7.3R says that when considering varying or entering into an interest-only 
mortgage, a lender neednt apply the above sections of MCOB 11.6 if the conditions in 
MCOB 11.7.1 set out below are met:  
there was a mortgage contract in force before 26 April 2014;  
theres no additional borrowing;  
the transaction would be in the customers best interests; and  
the size of the advance hasnt been increased (other than to fund product fees and essential 
repairs) since 26 April 2014.
There are therefore two different rules. Where theres no change to the terms of the 
mortgage contract that have a material impact on affordability, 11.6.3 applies and theres no 
requirement to carry out an affordability assessment. If there is such a change, then 11.7.1 
applies  which means the lender has discretion not to carry out an affordability assessment 
provided the new loan would be in the borrowers best interests.
Three of those four conditions were met by Mr and Mrs W; the mortgage had been in place 
since 2011, they werent applying for any additional borrowing and thered been no 
additional borrowing since 26 April 2014. 
That doesnt mean Lloyds shouldnt have assessed affordability or looked at the repayment 
strategy, it simply means it didnt have to, provided it thought the new mortgage was in 
Mr and Mrs Ws best interests.
Ive thought about whether a port of the mortgage would have been in Mr and Mrs Ws best 
interests. Having done so, I think it was legitimate for Lloyds to have concerns about porting 
the mortgage, and for the bank to look at the affordability of what it was being asked to do in 
the light of this. In essence, Mr and Mrs W wanted Lloyds to allow them to retain more of the 
equity from the sale of R (by porting the mortgage and allowing a second charge for Mr Ws 
secured business overdraft onto C) in order to fund the build of their new property, L. 
In the circumstances, I think it was reasonable  given what Mr and Mrs W wanted Lloyds to 
agree to  for Lloyds to consider the affordability of these proposals against its lending 
criteria.The property Mr and Mrs W had originally intended to use for paying off the mortgage had 
been sold in 2015, so they no longer had a repayment vehicle. Instead, Mr and Mrs W 
wanted to use the proceeds of sale from C (the property onto which they were porting the 
mortgage) to repay the mortgage, once theyd finished building their new home, L. 
Lloyds criteria required Mr and Mrs W to have a joint earned income of £150,000 if they 
were to use the sale of the mortgaged property as the repayment vehicle. Mr and Mrs W 
didnt meet this criteria.
Mr and Mrs W would also have increased the loan-to-value ratio (LTV) from around 18% (on 
R) to around 36% (on C), in addition to which they wanted to add Mr Ws business 
borrowings onto the security  another £100,000. 
Lloyds criteria for an interest-only mortgage where the repayment vehicle is sale of the 
mortgaged property was a maximum LTV of 50%. When calculating this, Lloyds was also 
allowed to take into account any additional borrowing that would be secured on the property, 
which would have included Mr Ws secured business borrowings, taking the LTV to 62%, 
based on the purchase price of £380,000. In addition, Lloyds required there to be additional 
equity in the property of at least £300,000, which was not the case here.
In the circumstances, Im not persuaded Lloyds acted unreasonably in declining the port, 
given that Mr and Mrs W were asking the bank to take on additional risk in order to allow 
them (Mr and Mrs W) to fund the construction of their (unencumbered) new property, and 
where they didnt have the income or equity in C to meet Lloyds criteria for an interest-only 
mortgage.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr and Mrs W were hoping for. As I noted at the outset, 
Im aware Mr W is adamant he and Mrs W only wanted a £25,000 mortgage. But as there is 
nothing recorded about this, Im unable to take this into consideration.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 24 September 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman