DRN-3989557
The complaint
Mr H complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Limited (RSA) has unfairly declined a claim 
made under a management protection policy.
Any reference to Mr H or RSA includes respective agents or representatives.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties. So, Ill summarise events.
Mr H was the chairman of a committee (W) as well as a member of a linked 
association (E). 
W role is determined by an Act, which is to look after the interests of the Estate it 
oversees, including maintenance and charges of the Estate roads. Es role is to 
appoint Ws members and decisions relating to this. 
E attempted to remove Mr H from his position. In July 2021 Mr H received notification 
from E that outlined allegations made against Mr H and that it would be conducting 
an investigation in line with Es constitution. This asked for Mr Hs representations 
and said E would make a preliminary determination as to whether his conduct was 
inconsistent with the objects of the association. The potential consequences of this 
investigation was the removal of Mr H as a member of E and therefore W.
Mr H objected to this and after seeking legal representation, he prepared 
proceedings in the High Court to apply for an injunction. Shortly after, on 11 August 
2021 Es action was withdrawn and a settlement was agreed.
On 26 August 2021 Mr H sought to claim on the management protection policy for 
the costs he incurred in defending himself against Es actions. These amounted to a 
sum of around £23,000.
RSA considered the claim and declined it. It said there was no insured event in line 
with the policy terms, saying the policys requirements of an investigation or notice of 
that investigation was not met. It said Investigation was defined as: 
any formal or official investigation (other than the Civil Societys own internal 
investigation) by a governmental body, professional body or other institution 
duly authorised to carry out such investigations.
RSA said the definition of Investigation specifies the investigation in question must be 
carried out by a governmental body, professional body or other institution duly 
authorised to carry out such investigations. And that under the definition of other 
institution would need to be of a similar standing to a government or professional 
body and to have a degree of independence from the Insured, which RSA says is 
clear by the above definition excluding the Civil Societys own internal investigations.
RSA said E and W are intrinsically linked and not independent of one another given 
only E has the power to appoint members to W. And Es powers come from its 
constitution so is akin to an internal investigation.
RSA also said costs had been incurred without being authorised  which was 
required for a claim to be paid.
The complaint came to this Service and one of our Investigators looked into what 
happened and didnt uphold the complaint. She said the circumstances didnt meet 
the relevant definitions of claim or investigation that were required within the policy 
wording. So, RSA had fairly declined the claim. She didnt comment on costs being 
incurred without RSAs permission as she said she was satisfied this fell away given 
the claim had been fairly declined.
Mr H disagreed. Ive summarised his points.
oThe July 2021 letter should be considered as a notice of charge or similar 
document. It quotes the text of the policy which sets out:
A notice of charge or similar document does not have to be in a 
prescribed form. It is sufficient if it clearly sets out the nature of the 
complaint and it contains some, preferably all, of the following: the 
infringement of the rules, the procedure to be followed and the 
sanction.
And here, Mr H says the letter is a document of accusation that demands an 
explanation of conduct from Mr H  entirely in his capacity as chairman.
The policy is entitled Management Protection and was taken for the purpose 
of providing cover for committee members against an attack on them by an 
outside party in relation to their conduct as managers of the Estate.
oW is a corporate body set up by an Act of Parliament and is legally distinct 
from E that should be considered as meeting the definition of an institution 
duly authorised to carry out such investigations. He says the July 2021 letter 
was an unauthorised interference with the workings of W and as a result was 
not similar to an internal investigation  of which W did not carry out any 
investigation into Mr Hs conduct.
Mr H continues that the term institution is not defined in the policy and 
therefore an ordinary meaning of the word should apply. Which would include 
a body that governs activities within a given community within a set of rules  
which W meets.
oE is authorised to carry out such Investigations as this is contained within 
Es constitution and rules which have been adopted by all of its members. He 
argues the term authority does not require any formal process to be passed 
from one individual or body to another  and there are no restrictions in the 
policy that specify this.
oMr H argues the urgency of the legal action required was justification of not 
obtaining RSAs prior written consent  in line with the policy terms about 
emergency costs and expenses.
The Investigator looked again but didnt change her mind. She said she wasnt 
persuaded the investigation referenced in the July 2021 letter met the requirements 
of the policy definition of an investigation.
As a result, the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
The rules governing what we do as a Service permits me to say how I think a complaint 
should be resolved quickly and with minimal formality. And my role is to determine a 
complaint by reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
of the case. Ill focus on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint. Where I dont 
comment on every point made by the parties, thats not to say I havent seen or considered 
them, its just I dont consider it necessary to specifically reference them in reaching my 
decision.
It's also clear that there are many points of contention and dispute between RSA and Mr H. 
If during my findings Im satisfied that RSA has declined this claim in line with its policy terms 
and that, in my opinion, is fair and reasonable reason, it may mean the other matters fall 
away and as a result I wont go through each of them. 
Mr H seeks cover under the Trustees Liability Insuring Clause 1 which covers:
any Loss incurred by the Insured Persons arising from a Claim that first 
arises during the Period of Insurance.
There is no dispute that defence costs would fall under the definition of Loss or that 
the loss arose during the period of insurance. So, I dont need to consider this.
I need to consider if the loss in question has arisen from a Claim. 
Claim is defined as:
any notice of an Investigation commenced by the filing of a notice of charge, 
formal investigative order, questionnaire or similar document b) involving a 
Wrongful Act alleged to have been committed by an Insured Person or in 
respect of which an Insured person is required to attend or give evidence by 
reason of that Insured person acting in their capacity as a Trustee.
And to determine if this definition is met, Ill also need to consider if the Investigation 
in question meets the policy definition, which defines Investigation as: 
any formal or official investigation (other than the Civil Societys own internal 
investigation) or where an official investigation is probable: examination, dawn 
raids, site raids, regulatory interviews or other proceedings made or 
commenced during the Period of Insurance by a governmental body, 
professional body or other institution duly authorised to carry out such 
investigations.
Ill start by looking at whether the definition of Investigation has been met. And I 
want to be clear that the definition requires me to consider several questions, all of 
which will need to be answered yes for this claim to succeed.
oWas this investigation made by a governmental body, professional body or 
other institution?
oAnd if so, was that body or institution duly authorised to carry out such 
Investigations (as a formal or official investigation - other than the Civil 
Societys own internal investigation or where an official investigation is 
probable: examination, dawn raids, site raids, regulatory interviews or other 
proceedings)?RSA has said that E, as a residents association, is not a governmental body, 
professional body, or other institution that is duly authorised to carry out such 
investigations. 
Mr H has argued an ordinary definition of the term institution would include E, given 
its role to govern the activities of individuals within a set of rules and given its long-
standing position.
Im in agreement with Mr H that the term institution is not defined within the policy. 
And an ordinary use of the term could extend to E for the reasons it has given  
taking into account the role it has and its history.
However, it isnt enough simply to be an institution  the institution must also be duly 
authorised to carry out such Investigations as listed above and in line with the 
remaining policy terms.
And, given the entirety of the definition investigation, read as a whole, I think other 
institution is to be read and interpreted as one analogous or at least similar to a 
governmental body, professional body
RSA says that other institution would need to be of a similar standing to a 
government or professional body and to have a degree of independence from the 
Insured, which RSA says is clear by the above definition excluding the Civil Societys 
own internal investigations.
Im satisfied the policy is clear that internal investigations wouldnt meet the 
requirements of an investigation under the policy. So, I think RSA conclusion here is 
accurate and in line with the policy terms.
RSA has argued E and W are intrinsically linked and not independent of one another. 
It says this as it is E that appoints members to W. It has also said Es powers, to 
strike off members, comes from Es own constitution and rules.
Mr H has argued E and W are two independent bodies. But I think RSAs conclusion 
that its investigations are akin to internal investigations is a fair one. I say this given 
Es powers W extend to decisions about membership and appointment, and not 
wider powers that would be comparable to a governmental or professional body.
Nor do Es powers of investigation extend to activities outlined in the policy or 
anything similar (including dawn raids, site raids, regulatory interviews).
For these reasons, Im satisfied that RSAs decision to decline this claim is in line 
with its policy terms and is fair and reasonable. This is due to the event it has claimed 
for does not meet the requirements of an investigation in line with its policy 
requirements.
There has been a detailed discussion between parties as to whether the July 2021 
letter amounted to (or was analogous to) a notice of charge, formal investigative 
order or similar document. In light of the above findings that the investigation in 
question does not meet the requirements of the policy, this point becomes academic 
and falls away, and therefore will not be something Ill discuss further.
Similarly, RSA has also sought to decline this claim on the basis of the costs being 
incurred without its authorisation. In light of the above, I see no reason to discuss this 
point further either.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman