DRN-4338056
The complaint
Mrs Fs complained  on behalf of her late fathers (Mr Cs) estate  that she was unable to 
contact Co-op Funeral Plans Limited when Mr C died.  So she couldnt redeem the pre-paid 
funeral plan Mr C had bought and had to pay for his funeral herself.
What happened
Mr C bought a funeral bond from Co-op in 1993. He paid £870.  Information sent to Mr C at 
the time confirmed that it covered funeral directors charges, which were detailed in the 
brochure.  The £870 included an optional £50 for prior reception into church.
Mr C passed away in late 2022.  Mrs F tried to contact Co-op at several of their branches 
and via their central team to make arrangements for the funeral.  Despite chasing a 
response over a number of days, Mrs F says she received only a call from Co-op offering 
probate services and details of how to make a complaint.  So she felt her only option was to 
make alternative arrangements herself  which she did, at a cost of £4,409.16.
Mrs F complained to Co-op.  Co-op couldnt identify why Mrs F hadnt been able to get in 
touch, nor why shed not been contacted by a funeral home.  So they offered her a refund on 
Mr Cs plan.  Mrs F asked how much this would be.  Co-op didnt respond, despite Mrs F 
contacting them several times.  So Mrs F brought the estates complaint to our service.
When the complaint was allocated to our investigator, she was able to confirm the value of 
the proposed refund was £1,263.04 and that, under Co-ops terms and conditions, a 
cancellation fee of £250 should be deducted.  
Initially our investigator concluded that Co-op should pay the refund to Mrs F without 
deduction of the cancellation fee.  She had only the plan terms provided by Co-op on which 
to base this.  
However, in response to her view, Mrs F was able to produce documentation which showed 
the services Mr C had paid for, and that these were guaranteed to be provided, regardless of 
any price increases between the purchase of the funeral services and when they were 
needed.  Having reviewed the documentation, the investigator said Co-op should refund    
Mr Cs estate what had been paid for the services which were included in the plan.  These 
totalled £3,535.
Co-op didnt agree with the investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im upholding the complaint Mrs Fs made on behalf of Mr Cs estate.  Ill 
explain why.
My role is to decide whether businesses have treated their customers fairly and reasonably.  
If I think they havent, I need to consider what they need to do to put things right.  The usual 
starting point is to think about what needs to happen to put a customer back in the position 
they would have been, had the business done nothing wrong.
In this case, had nothing gone wrong, Mrs F would have been able to contact Co-op to 
arrange Mr Cs funeral and Co-op would have provided the funeral in line with the provisions 
of the bond Mr C bought in 1993.  The bond entitled him to those services because hed paid 
for them in full  irrespective of what they cost at the end of 2022.  Given the length of time 
between purchase and redemption, I think its inevitable it would have cost Co-op more to 
provide those services than Mr C paid for them.  But thats the nature of the pre-paid funeral 
plan contract.
I can see Co-op acknowledged they didnt deal with Mrs F as they should have done.  
Theyve not been able to explain why.  And they offered Mr Cs estate a refund of the value 
of his plan  which at that time stood at £1,263.04.
Ive thought carefully about this.  And Ive read Co-ops final response to the complaint Mrs F 
made.  That response refers to Mrs F deciding not to redeem the plan.  Had that actually 
been the case, I agree the refund would have been a fair outcome.
But thats not what happened here.  Mrs F has provided testimony that she repeatedly tried 
to contact Co-op to redeem Mr Cs funeral plan.  She tried different offices and made contact 
by phone and email  all without success.  She concluded she had no alternative but to 
make other arrangements.  I think that was a reasonable conclusion to draw in the 
circumstances.  And its one Co-op havent been able to refute.  So its fair for them to 
redress the situation.     
Putting things right
Had Mrs F been able to contact Co-op, they would have provided the funeral services Mr C 
had bought in 1993.  Mrs F has provided copies of the funeral bond documentation and an 
itemised invoice for the funeral she had to arrange for Mr C.  Comparing those two 
documents shows Mr Cs estate was charged £3,535 for services which were covered by the 
funeral bond.  As Mrs F was unable to contact Co-op for them to provide these services, I 
think its fair for Co-op to reimburse the estate £3,535. 
And, because Mr Cs estate has been without that sum since the invoice was paid, I think its 
fair Co-op should pay simple interest on that amount, calculated at the rate of 8% per 
annum, from the date the funeral directors invoice was settled (which Mrs F has evidenced 
as 2 February 2023) until the date Co-op pay the estate.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding the complaint Mrs Fs made about Co-op 
Funeral Plans Limited on behalf of Mr Cs estate and directing Co-op to:
Pay the estate £3,535 to reimburse the cost of services included in Mr Cs funeral 
plan;
Pay 8% simple interest on £3,535 from the date the invoice was paid (2 February 
2023) until they reimburse the estate. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr C 
to accept or reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman