DRN-1435543
The complaint
Mr H complains that he hasn't been paid his total incentive payment of £175 by National 
Westminster Bank Plc for opening a new account with it in May 2019. 
What happened
Mr H was an existing account holder with NatWest. It offered a switch and stay incentive for 
both new and existing customers. To be eligible for the incentive customers needed to open 
an eligible current account, deposit £1,500, log in on-line or use the mobile banking app, and 
use the debit card at least once a month. Customers also needed to transfer their non-
NatWest current account to the eligible current account, including all payment instructions.
Mr H decided to take NatWest up on this offer, and so opened a new account. But after a 
few weeks he didn't receive the opening incentive of £125 (the remaining £50 is paid if the 
account is kept open and payable in June 2020). He on-line chatted with two staff members 
who informed he was eligible for the incentive. So Mr H complained when the payment still 
wasn't forthcoming. 
NatWest didn't uphold the complaint as Mr H hadn't transferred a non-NatWest account or its 
payment instructions, one of the conditions that needed to be met to be eligible. But it 
recognised that he had been given incorrect information during his on-line chats and so 
offered to allow a late transfer of a non-NatWest account. 
Our investigator didn't find NatWest should pay the incentive and thought its offer fairly 
resolved the complaint. Mr H remains unhappy that he was given incorrect information 
during his on-line chats and so believes he should be paid the incentive. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have seen NatWest's switch and stay offer, and I'm satisfied the requirement to transfer in 
a non-NatWest account and all payment instructions to qualify is clear. Mr H already had an 
account with NatWest, and he opened a new account with it for this offer. But I haven't seen 
any persuasive evidence, nor has Mr H sought to argue, that he carried out such a transfer. I 
therefore find he doesn't qualify for the incentive payment. 
Mr H argues that he should receive the incentive as it was confirmed he was eligible during 
two on-line chats. But these chats occurred several weeks after Mr H had already opened 
his account. And whilst it is unfortunate he was provided with incorrect information that 
doesn't mean he should be paid an incentive he didn't qualify for. Mr H should be put in the 
position he would be in, had he not be given incorrect information - that is, if things had gone 
as they should. Mr H hasn't said he acted to his detriment as a result of the incorrect 
information, so it seems to me his position is the same as it would be, had he been given 
correct information. I find NatWest's offer to extend the time for him to transfer a non-
NatWest account to be a fair resolution and I don't require it to do anymore. My final decision
For the reasons given, I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2020.
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman