DRN-3318066
The complaint
Mr R is complaining that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) has refused to
meet a claim he made for storm damage to his property, and has treated his claim as
fraudulent, with all the negative impact that could have for him going forwards.
What happened
Im not going to go into all the background to this complaint as both parties know the detail of
whats happened. In summary:
In May 2020 Mr R made a claim for storm damage he said had occurred in early February
the same year. He claimed for both damage to his home and some damage to the contents
from a leak which he believes was a direct result of the storm. LV accepted his claims for
consideration.
LV sent someone out to look at the damage, and based on what it received, decided it
wouldnt meet Mr Rs buildings claim  and didnt think it needed to consider the contents
claim. Furthermore it said it thought Mr R had claimed for damage that had existed from
before he bought his policy with LV in 2018  and so he must have known this existed when
he made the claim. It said it was treating the claim as a deliberate misrepresentation (that is
fraud) and cancelled his policy back to the date of the claim.
Mr R was very upset by this but not able to prove to LVs satisfaction that hed done any
repairs since 2015. But he says he has done work on the property, and his claim isnt
fraudulent.
When he complained, LV didnt change its stance, so he asked this service to look at his
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think LV had acted fairly. She thought it was reasonable for LV to
decline the claim itself  but didnt think it had provided enough evidence to say the claim
was fraudulent. So she thought LV should reverse any actions it had taken with regards to a
fraudulent claim. She also thought LV should meet the contents claim.
LV didnt agree, so I was asked to decide the complaint.
I issued my provisional findings in January. In that I said that, although I agreed in the main 
with our investigators recommendations, I didnt think LV need do as much as she 
suggested to put things right.
This is a summary of my findings:
When LV agreed to consider Mr Rs claim for storm damage, it sent a contractor to look at 
the damage. After considering the report, it said it wasnt going to meet the buildings claim  
and that it need not consider the contents claim at all.
Deliberate misrepresentation
LV based that decision on the suggestion that Mr R had claimed for long standing damage, 
which it thought had existed from before Mr R bought his policy from LV in 2018. LV said   
Mr R must have known the damage existed before he claimed. So it said the claim as 
deliberate misrepresentation (that is fraud) and cancelled his policy back to the date of the 
claim. 
The reports from the contractor relied on photos taken after the claim and some from 
external sources taken in 2012 and 2015. The report concluded that damage seen in earlier 
years would have worsened without repair over the intervening years.
I said I thought saying a claim as fraudulent was a very serious thing to do, as it has long 
lasting effects on the customer. So I thought LV must have substantial evidence before it 
reached that conclusion. 
I didnt think LV could fairly rely on the reports to say the claim was fraudulent. I thought that 
because Mr R provided evidence that supported his assertion that hed had work done since 
2015, even if that hadnt prevented damage in 2020.
I could see in the photos Mr R provided that there was damage to the main roof in 2020 that 
wasnt there in either 2012 or 2015. There were no close photos that corresponded with the 
reported damage to the outbuilding roof, so no way of telling what might be old, or new, 
damage.
Mr R also provided a copy of an email from a builder who did work on the roof in 2015 
saying the main roof and gutters were ok at that point.  I also thought the photos of the 
outbuilding suggested Mr R had done work on that part of the building, as he said.
I concluded that I didnt think LV had taken all of the information into account before it 
decided the claim was fraudulent. So I didnt think it fair that it had recorded the claim this 
way and cancelled Mr Rs policy.
The building and contents claims
I did think LV could fairly say it wasnt going to meet the claim for damage to the building, 
which was considered under the storm damage part of Mr Rs policy. There were high winds 
and rain at the time Mr R said the damage occurred. But they werent enough to damage a 
well maintained roof. 
I thought the report LV had made some valid points about the majority of the internal 
damage (the contents claim) and how that could have been caused. Unlike our investigator, I 
didnt think LV need necessarily pay this claim  but I did think it should fully consider it, and 
ignore any exceptions in the policy referring to fraud when it did this.
Putting things right
I thought LV should:
Remove any records of a fraudulent claim form any shared industry databases and 
reverse any other actions its taken. That included re-instating the policy and noting in 
its internal records that the claim is no longer considered fraudulent.
Pay Mr R £250 compensation for the distress LV caused.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R responded, providing in the main copies of information weve already considered. Hes 
asked that the compensation be increased to reflect his worries and stress, although not 
given a figure.
LV asked initially for a copy of any new evidence wed relied upon. Once it considered that, it 
agreed to remove the fraud markers and re-instate Mr Rs policy  although that will by now 
have expired naturally. But it will no longer show as cancelled.
LV said that if it was to consider the contents claim then it wanted to be able to utilise the 
fraud exceptions in Mr Rs policy if it thought they applied.
Finally it said that as Mr R hadnt provided the email from his builder until the complaint 
came to us, it shouldnt have to pay any compensation. It said that was because the 
response from the builder was very quick  so Mr R could have provided that information 
much earlier.
Im pleased that LV has decided to remove the fraud conclusion and subsequent actions as I 
thought that was fair. So Im not going to say more about that.
I dont agree that LV can reconsider fraud with regards to the contents claim. I cant see that 
the circumstances surrounding that claim are any different from the buildings claim. Ive 
already considered those factors and come to the decision that LV couldnt rely on the 
information it collected to safely conclude the claim was fraudulent. LV has agreed with that 
having seen all the information. I see no reason why LV would need to revisit this issue.
Having said that, Im not saying LV need meet the contents claim, only consider it. Mr R 
could withdraw that claim if he so wished  although it will still show on his records going 
forwards. If LV does consider the claim and Mr R isnt happy with the result, then he may be 
able to bring a separate complaint to the Ombudsman Service in due course. I cant say if 
any review of such a complaint would succeed or fail.
Turning to the compensation, I still think £250 is an appropriate amount. Whilst I accept the 
information from the builder was provided late in the process, LV did have other information 
(like the photos) it could have used to reach the same conclusion its now agreed. So I do 
think LV caused Mr R unnecessary distress and inconvenience.  
I can understand why Mr R thinks LV should pay more. But as I said above, some of the 
information was only provided after he brought his complaint to us  and LV had given him 
an opportunity to provide that before it reached its conclusions about fraud. Im not going to 
ask LV to pay more than I recommended.
Putting things right
To put things right LV should:
Remove fraud markers from shared industry databases and re-instate Mr Rs policy.
Note its internal records that the buildings claim is not considered fraudulent.
Consider the contents claim excluding the exceptions regarding fraud.Pay Mr R £250 compensation for the way it handled the claim.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and require LV to take the actions outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman