DRN-4263636
The complaint
Mr S complains that the car he acquired financed through an agreement with Specialist 
Motor Finance Limited (SMF) wasn't of satisfactory quality.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and have been set out by the 
investigator in her view, so I won't repeat them here. Instead I'll focus on giving the reasons 
for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service asked SMF to provide the business file for this complaint including the finance 
agreement. Despite repeated requests it did not provide this. So my decision is based on the 
evidence available to me. SMF has agreed to unwind Mr S's agreement and for Mr S to 
return the car. So Im satisfied a regulated consumer agreement is likely in place and our 
service is able to consider complaints against it. Having considered the evidence I agree 
with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following reasons:
As the supplier of the car SMF is responsible for the quality of the car, and the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) employs terms into the agreement requiring the 
car be of satisfactory quality.
I'm satisfied from the testimony presented, which included two independent 
inspections before and after repair, that the car wasn't of satisfactory quality, and Im 
reassured that SMF has accepted this and agreed that Mr S can return the car and 
end the agreement. But it wasn't clear in its response to our investigator that SMF 
accepted all the recommendations our investigator made. It collected the car and Mr 
S has informed us that he has only received £132 refund with deductions for mileage. 
As well as recommending that Mr S be allowed to return the car and unwind the 
agreement our investigator made the following recommendations:
oRefund Mr Ss deposit, if applicable;
oRefund Mr Ss monthly repayments from December 2022 onwards;
oRemove all information from his credit file.
oPay £400 compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused;
oReimburse him £25 for the valet.
SMF provided no response to these recommendations. In its response it said: 
Please could you confirm that you will withdraw from the Ombudsman as we will 
look to go forward on the rejection. We are in the process of unwinding this 
agreement following further issues, after the adjudication was issued and as per 
Mr Ss request. SMF hasnt said whether it agrees with the refund of Mr Ss 
deposit or payments. Our investigator suggested to SMF that if mileage was 
being considered this would be a separate complaint. SMF disagreed saying  
this does not need to be treated as a separate matter as we have already 
explained this has been unwound  however, the customer still wanted it to go to 
a Final Decision.
Typically where we consider it fair that a customer is allowed to reject the vehicle 
we would expect the business to put the customer back in the position they were 
in had they not taken out the agreement. 
Despite our requests SMF hasnt provided a copy of Mr Ss agreement so its not 
clear to me if Mr S paid a deposit of if he part exchanged a vehicle when entering 
the agreement. SMF hasnt provided any evidence or argument against refunding 
any such payments made. So Im satisfied that its fair and reasonable for it to 
refund any deposit paid.
Mr S has said the car was undriveable from December 2022, and he had no 
courtesy car so had to arrange alternative transport. He said he stopped making 
payments in December 2022 and has since received Notice of Sums in Arrears. 
Its reasonable that SMF is able to deduct fair usage from any remedy available 
to Mr S. As Mr S hasnt been able to use the car since December 2022 I think it 
reasonable that payments from this date should be refunded or, if he hasnt paid 
them any associated adverse information is removed from his credit file. I also 
consider it fair and reasonable that SMF pay for any transport costs while Mr S 
was unable to use the car, on production of receipts or invoices. 
SMF hasnt provided any detail regarding the refund of £132 it made to Mr S but 
he has indicated deductions have been made for mileage. Mr S was able to use 
the car up until December 2022 and any deduction for usage has been 
accommodated in the above recommendation concerning payments. 
I can see that Mr S has tried very hard to get assistance from SMF, including 
through the credit broker, and has been increasingly frustrated with its lack of 
help and the time taken for it to respond. Our investigator recommended £400 
compensation for the inconvenience caused and I agree that this is fair and 
reasonable. 
When Mr Ss car came back after repair it was returned in an unacceptable state 
and provided photos to this service. He said he had to pay £25 (although did not 
get a receipt) for it to be cleaned before then realising the repairs had failed. I 
consider it fair and reasonable that he be refunded this amount. 
Putting things right
To put things right Specialist Motor Finance Limited must:
1. End Mr Ss finance agreement with nothing further to pay, if it hasnt already done so;
2. If Mr S paid a deposit or part-exchanged a vehicle when he took out the agreement 
then this amount must be refunded in full; 
3. Refund Mr S any monthly repayments he made from December 2022 onwards; 
4. Remove all information related to this agreement, including any adverse information, 
from his credit file; 5. The car has been collected, if there were any costs to Mr S for this collection then 
they should be refunded; 
6. Pay Mr S £400 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused; 
7. Reimburse Mr S £25 for the valet, no receipt required; 
8. Pay for any transport costs while Mr S was unable to use the car, on production of 
receipts or invoices; 
9. For 2 and 3 above pay 8% simple interest from the time it was paid to the date of 
settlement.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Specialist Motor Finance Limited must 
put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2023.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman