DRN-2028475
The complaint
Mr M complains that PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender lent to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
Between February 2012 and September 2018, Mr M borrowed five loans from Mr 
Lender. The lending history is set out as follows: 
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 01/02/2012 26/03/2012 1 £300.00 £397.00
2 28/03/2012 26/04/2012 1 £450.00 £585.00
3 03/05/2012 25/05/2012 1 £550.00 £715.00
4 05/06/2012 26/06/2012 1 £650.00 £845.00
5 16/09/2018 outstanding 4 £250.00 £142.50
Our adjudicator treated this borrowing as two separate chains. The first chain was loans 1 to 
4. As more than six years passed in between Mr M borrowing loans 4 and 5, our adjudicator 
treated loan 5 separately. In assessing the complaint, he didnt think Mr Lender should have 
agreed to lend loan 4. But he didnt think it was irresponsible to agree loans 1 to 3 and loan 
5. He also thought that Mr Lender could use the compensation for loan 4 to repay the 
outstanding balance on loan 5. This is called offsetting. 
Mr Lender accepted what our adjudicator said and made an offer to settle the complaint on 
that basis. Mr M disagreed. He said that he was in a debt management plan and so it wasnt 
fair for Mr Lender to retain those funds when he also had other creditors. He also told us that 
Mr Lender shouldnt have agreed to lend him more money so quickly after he had repaid 
another debt. He said this was the definition of irresponsible lending in his view. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
I think our adjudicator was correct when he said there were two lending chains in this case. 
There was a significant gap between loans 4 and 5 and so I think Mr Lender was entitled to 
treat loan 5 as an entirely new application. I have dealt with each chain separately below. 
Loans 1 to 4
As I said above, in the early stage of the lending relationship, I dont think a full check or Mr 
Ms finances would have been proportionate.
For loans 1 to 3, I can see that Mr Lender verified Mr Ms income and employment. It also 
undertook a fairly basic credit check, which did not reveal any adverse information. I think Mr 
Lender could have probably asked more questions around Mr Ms expenditure, but I havent 
been provided with any evidence to suggest that its decision to provide the loans would have 
been any different even if those enquiries had been undertaken. From the information it had, 
I think Mr Lender reasonably concluded that the repayments for loans 1 to 3 would have 
been sustainably affordable. 
 
However, by the time Mr M applied for loan 4, I think the balance had tipped and that Mr 
Lender should have done more. This was the fourth loan in four months. By this point, I think 
Mr Lender should have realised that Mr M was applying for a new loan very soon after 
repaying the previous loans and the amount he was borrowing increased each time. By now, 
I think Mr Lender should have reasonably seen that Mr M was using these loans to fill a gap 
in his finances and meet an ongoing need. I agree with our adjudicator that Mr Lender 
should not have agreed to provide loan 4. Mr Lender will need to take action to put that right. 
Loan 5
As set out previously, I think Mr Lender was entitled to treat loan 5 as an entirely new loan 
under different circumstances. I can see that this time, Mr Lender checked Mr Ms income 
and expenditure. Im satisfied that those checks were proportionate in these circumstances.  
From the information provided by Mr M and that which Mr Lender obtained, I can see how 
the repayments for loan 5 would have appeared to be sustainably affordable. I cant 
reasonably say that Mr Lender was irresponsible to agree to that loan. 
Offsetting 
I appreciate that Mr M feels strongly that the compensation in respect of loan 4 should be 
paid to him so he can share it amongst his creditors. The evidence Ive seen doesnt suggest 
Mr M is insolvent.  I appreciate Mr M would prefer the compensation to be paid to him, but I 
havent been provided with any evidence to suggest not doing so would cause him undue 
hardship. I cant say it would be unfair for Mr Lender to offset the compensation for loan 4 
against what Mr M owes it in respect of loan 5. 
Putting things right
As I said above, Mr Lender shouldnt have agreed to lend loan 4 to Mr M. Im aware there is 
an outstanding balance in respect of loan 5. If Mr Lender has sold that debt to a third party, it 
must buy it back from the third party, if its able to do so, and then take the following steps. If 
Mr Lender isnt able to buy the debt back then it should liaise with the new debt owner to 
achieve the results outlined below. 
Mr Lender must: 
a) Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance of loan 4, and treat any 
repayments made by Mr M as though they had been repayments of the principal on 
this loan. b) If this results in Mr M having made overpayments then Mr Lender should calculate 
these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from 
the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. 
c) If there is still an outstanding balance on loan 5, then the amounts calculated above 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on that outstanding loan. If this 
results in a surplus then the surplus should be paid to Mr M. However if there is still 
an outstanding balance then Mr Lender should try to agree an affordable repayment 
plan with Mr M. I remind it of the need to treat Mr M sympathetically.  
d) Mr Lender should remove any adverse information about loan 4 from Mr Ms credit 
file. 
*HMRC requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest and provide Mr M with a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if he requests one. If Mr Lender intends to 
use the refund to reduce the amount Mr M owes, it must do this after tax.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partly upholding this complaint. PDL Finance Limited, 
trading as Mr Lender, must put things right as set out above 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2020.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman