DRN-3581103
The complaint
Mr C complains about the actions of eBay Commerce UK Ltd after he attempted to sell items 
online. Hes also raised concerns about his debit card details being retained and used by 
eBay as he doesnt believe hes given it authority to do so.
What happened
Mr C made several purchases through eBay as a guest, using his debit card to make 
payment. In early 2022, Mr C noticed that his payments were going through without eBay 
asking for his payment details. He was concerned that eBay had kept his card details in its 
system.
Mr C then tried to sell two items vie eBay but the buyer didnt pick them up. Mr C says it was 
agreed that payment would be made on pick-up. However, eBay told him that the money for 
the items was in his eBay account. Mr C says eBay opened the account without his 
authority. He was also unhappy to find that eBay was charging him a sales fee of around 
£10 despite there being no sale. 
The buyer raised a payment dispute with the financial institution they had used to pay for it, 
which was found in the buyers favour. eBay charged Mr C £14 for handling the dispute.
Mr C didnt think he should have to pay the sales fee or dispute fee. He was concerned that 
eBay would try to take the payments from his bank account. He says he had to spend a lot 
of time getting his bank to put a stop on all attempts from eBay to take money from his 
account.
eBay pursued Mr C for a balance of around £25 on his eBay account, which he disputes 
owing.
Mr C says he had difficulty contacting eBay and when he eventually managed to speak to 
someone, they didnt sort things out. Mr C complained to eBay but didnt get a response, so 
he asked our service to help him with his concerns.
Our investigator didnt think we could consider Mr Cs concerns about payments being taken 
from his debit card. She thought eBay had handled the buyers payment dispute fairly and 
reasonably. Our investigator concluded that it was fair for eBay to charge Mr C the dispute 
fee and it didnt need to take any further action.
Mr C disagreed with our investigators view. He also told us that the debt collection agency 
eBay had instructed to pursue him for the balance on his account had informed him they 
were dropping their action. Mr C believes this proves eBays actions against him are without 
legal merit. So, his complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain 
why.
Id like to reassure Mr C that Ive considered all of his points, including what hes said in 
response to our investigators view. However, Ive focused on what I believe is most relevant 
to the outcome of this complaint, rather than addressing each of his points individually.
The rules that apply to this service say that we can only consider complaints about 
businesses that are authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to carry out certain 
activities, which include regulated activities and payment services. These rules are 
contained in the FCA Handbook (available online) and are known as DISP. The relevant 
section here is DISP 2.3.1R.
eBay as an online marketplace and auction site isnt a regulated financial business, so we 
cant consider complaints about it. But we can consider complaints about certain other eBay 
companies where they are regulated. Here that means we can consider part of Mr Cs 
complaint against eBay Commerce UK Ltd, where it relates to an activity that it is regulated 
for  this activity being a specific type of payment service.
I appreciate this is frustrating for Mr C, but the rules mean I only have the power to consider 
part of the complaint hes brought to us. Im unable to consider Mr Cs concerns about his 
card details being used, an eBay account being set up for him and the sales fee hes been 
charged. These are to do with eBay as a marketplace. They arent to do with a payment 
service provided by eBay Commerce UK Ltd.
The only part of Mr Cs complaint I am able to consider is eBay Commerce UK Ltds role in 
handling the dispute the buyer raised via their payment institution, as an extension of its 
managed payments service. I understand Mr C is also unhappy with the actions of the 
payment institution. To be clear, I can only consider the actions of eBay Commerce UK Ltd 
in this decision, where Mr Cs complaint arises out of his relationship with it.
Here eBay Commerce UK Ltd is providing a payment service to Mr C. It refers to this service 
as Managed Payments and the relevant terms relating to this are contained in eBays 
Payments Terms of Use. These explain that eBay will notify a managed payments user 
(here Mr C) of a dispute and then gather any information a customer wishes to provide, 
before submitting that to the relevant payment institution. The terms explain that this process 
needs to be followed in a timely manner and that there may be other timeframes set out by 
the rules of the payment institution. 
Mr C disputes agreeing to eBays terms of use on the date it said he did. However, Mr C 
would have needed to agree to eBays user agreement in order to list the items he wanted to 
sell online. So, Im satisfied Mr C agreed to eBays terms, even if this was on a different date 
to the one eBay has said.
eBay also explains that it provides payment dispute seller protection in circumstances where 
the seller is eligible for this. However, eBay says that Mr C didnt qualify for seller protection 
because he didnt respond to the payment dispute and take action within the required 
timeframe. Having reviewed eBays terms, Im satisfied this is correct.
 
Ive seen that eBay sent Mr C a message on 28 February 2022 informing him that the buyer 
had filed a payment dispute with their payment institution for the order placed on 24 
February. eBay told Mr C that the reason for the dispute was that the buyer hadnt yet 
received their item. eBay asked Mr C to respond by 5 March 2022. As Mr C didnt respond, the dispute was closed on 10 March 2022. So, eBay notified Mr C of the dispute, explained 
what hed have to do and told him the timeframe he needed to respond by. All of this was in 
line with the relevant terms, as was the decision to close the dispute when Mr C didnt 
respond in time.
Mr C says he didnt respond to eBays message of 28 February because hed spoken to a 
representative from eBay the day before. He says eBay knew it was holding the money, 
rather than him. 
I appreciate Mr C might not have realised that the buyers payment was being held in an 
eBay account in his name and he may have been under the impression that the matter was 
being dealt with. However, I think eBays message made it clear that he needed to respond 
to the dispute by 5 March 2022. In any event, even if Mr C had responded in time, I dont 
think he would likely have met eBays eligibility requirements for seller protection. I say this 
because the items hadnt been delivered or collected by the buyer, and Mr C didnt appear to 
have refunded any of the buyers payment to them in a way that would qualify him for this 
protection.
eBays terms allow it to charge a dispute fee if a seller is found responsible for a chargeback 
or other disputed amount if the dispute isnt eligible for seller protection. Im satisfied the 
amount eBay charged Mr C is in line with what its terms allow it to charge. So, I think eBay 
has dealt with the buyers payment dispute fairly and reasonably.
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr C, who has raised various concerns about 
eBays customer service and communication with him. However, as explained I only have 
the power to look at one aspect of his complaint. And as far as that matter is concerned, Im 
not persuaded eBay has done anything wrong. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman