DRN-4436066
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC failed in its duty to support him as a
vulnerable consumer when his compulsive spending problem resulted in him losing his life
savings and amassing huge debt
Background
Mr C is a lifelong customer of Barclays. He has complained about the banks failure to pick
up on clear signs of vulnerability and gambling across three credit cards and his overdraft
facility. He has said that he was using the credit facilities provided by Barclays to invest in
spread-betting high-risk portfolios. This ultimately resulted in Mr C accruing over £106,000 in
debt. Mr C believes Barclays failed to identify him as vulnerable and offer support which may
have helped to limit the overall debt he now has.
Barclays has said that Mr C was properly maintaining his accounts and although he used his
credit cards for investment purposes it was unaware he was doing this or that he was
becoming increasingly financially vulnerable. Although it sympathises with Mr Cs situation it
doesnt believe its the result of any failings on the part of the bank. It has conceded that Mr
C didnt always get the appropriate support when speaking to its telephone banking
representatives and has offered him £125 in recognition of those failings.
Mr C disagreed with Barclays response and brought his complaint to our service. I issued a 
provisional decision on 2 October 2023 upholding Mr Cs complaint. In it I said that Barclays 
missed clear signs that Mr C was becoming over reliant on the credit it had provided to him 
and that it shouldve checked why this was happening in case it was linked to any potential 
vulnerabilities. I said that by March 2022 there was a clear and established pattern of 
overspending and reliance on credit and upheld Mr Cs complaint from this point. I explained 
I intended on asking Barclays to refund all interest and charges added to the three accounts 
from that time on as well as pay Mr C some compensation. I asked that both parties respond 
by 30 October 2023 with any further comments. 
Barclays accepted the findings and recommendations made in the provisional decision. 
Mr C, via his representative asked that the interest and charges refund be back dated to 
March 2021 instead of March 2022 as this was when the first signs of problematic spending. 
They also asked that I consider holding Barclays partly liable for the money Mr C lost from 
March 2021 as they believe had Barclays intervened at that time it couldve prevented Mr C 
from losing as much money as he did.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the sake of clarity, I will repeat some of the findings I made in the provisional decision. I 
will then address the questions raised by Mr Cs representative. 
Mr C has explained that he has a compulsive spending problem which resulted in him 
investing hundreds of thousands of pounds over almost seven years without Barclays 
checking to make sure he was comfortable with the debt he was incurring. In order to 
properly understand what happened its important to set out what the limits of the three credit 
cards were and how they were managed by Mr C.
All three cards had very high limits, card one had a limit of £14,000, card two had a limit of
£11,600 and card three had a limit of £15,000 which means Mr C had access to a total of
£40,600 of credit across all three cards together.
Mr Cs representative has pointed out that between 2015 and 2023 Mr C spent just under
£540,000 on transactions to a single trading website Ill call G. This was across both his
overdraft and his credit cards but looking at this card usage there are frequent, almost daily
transactions to G and these were often for hundreds of pounds at a time.
Barclays has said that Mr C was maintaining his card well, meeting his required monthly
minimum repayments and that as G is an investment website and not a gambling one, there
was nothing on the accounts to trigger a review. It has said that there are no obligations to
monitor how consumers use their cards and Mr C wasnt using his card in a way that went
against the terms and conditions. So, it was unaware that Mr C was potentially vulnerable or
that his card usage may be causing him harm.
However, I disagree with Barclays on this point. I do think there were warning signs that Mr
Cs reliance on credit was becoming problematic and that this was linked to how he was
spending the funds provided to him by Barclays.
By March 2021 Mr C was sitting very close to, or just slightly over, the limit on all three
cards. And over the following months he exceeded his limit on a few occasions while only
ever making minimum repayments. That continued throughout the rest of the year. And while
I accept there are some occasions where Mr C made more than the minimum repayment to
bring the balance down, for the most part he was just paying the minimum balance which
meant the capital amount owed never reduced in any meaningful way.
So, I think that by mid-2021, the behaviour on Mr Cs accounts was starting to show
indicators that he was struggling to manage his finances.
This pattern continued across all three cards into the following year and by March 2022 Mr C
has exceeded the limit on two of the three cards, continues to make minimum payments only
and cant get the accounts back into good order. However, Barclays continue to allow him
access to the credit without checking why the accounts are showing signs of stress. It has
said that it started to send letters to Mr C in 2022 about his credit card accounts and to try to
speak to him about repayment plans.
However, calls to set up repayment plans are unlikely to be sufficient on their own in cases
where consumers are genuinely vulnerable, which Mr C clearly was at this time. Its unclear
to me why no one in Barclays checked to see how Mr C was using his cards and why he
was becoming so reliant on credit. If it had the frequent and multiple transactions to G
wouldve been apparent and Barclays couldve signposted Mr C to organisations that could
help him. It could also have reduced Mr Cs credit limits in an incremental way thus reducing
his ability to use credit to facilitate his compulsive spending addiction.
Mr Cs representative has asked that I consider asking Barclays to refund all interest and 
charges from March 2021 when the first signs of stress appeared on the accounts. I have 
considered this however Im mindful that although the problematic behaviour first appeared 
on the accounts in March 2021 they werent consistently over the limit from that time on. Rather between March 2021 and March 2022 the outstanding balance fluctuated between 
being over the limit and then sitting under it. In addition, Mr C had some months between 
these two dates where he repaid more than the minimum payment due. So, while I can see 
March 2021 as a date when there was first evidence of problematic usage appearing on the 
accounts, I dont think it would be reasonable for me to say that Barclays should refund all 
the interest and charges from that point on as Mr C still had some months where he 
managed the cards well after that. However, by March 2022 this was no longer the case, 
which is why I think thats the more reasonable date to request the refund from. 
Im unable to make a finding that if Barclays had contacted Mr C by March 2022 it wouldve
stopped him from spending money on G. But I do think there were some practical things
Barclays shouldve done to offer support to a potentially vulnerable consumer. In the first
instance, while I accept a gambling block wouldnt have stopped transactions to G, as its not
classified as gambling website but rather an investment website, I dont think that was the
only option open to Barclays had it wanted to help Mr C. It wouldve been possible to block
transactions to G specifically, or to reduce the available credit limits across all three cards in
a way that was supportive of Mr C. It could also have looked at offering him financial advice
across all of his accounts. Even sign posting to charities and organisations that support
compulsive spending addicts couldve potentially have been helpful. It is extremely
disappointing to see Barclays did nothing at all until the accounts eventually ran into
problems and were on the verge of defaulting.
Mr Cs representative has asked that, given I think Barclays shouldve offered genuine help 
and support in March 2022, I should hold it partially liable for some of the losses he incurred 
after that date. I can understand why Mr C feels that way. However, in order for me to make 
that finding I would need to be satisfied that if Barclays had offered to block all payments to 
G from Mr Cs cards he wouldve agreed to it. And Ive not seen anything that indicates Mr C 
wouldve agreed to that if it had been suggested. So, I dont think it would be reasonable for 
me to hold the bank liable for the losses. But I do think it should pay Mr C compensation in 
recognition of the failure to offer that support at the time. 
Mr C now finds himself in a position, post retirement, where he has enormous debt to try to
repay and no personal savings at all. As Ive mentioned above I dont think Barclays is liable 
for this debt, but I do think it failed to offer support or recognise a pattern that spoke of stress 
and potential financial vulnerability that shouldve been apparent based on how Mr C was 
managing his accounts.
As mentioned above throughout 2021 and 2022 there were indications that Mr C wasnt
properly managing his accounts and that he was becoming over reliant on the credit
available to him. By March 2022 he is consistently exceeding the agreed credit limit while
only just making his monthly minimum repayments. So, I think this was the date that
Barclays shouldve proactively reviewed Mr Cs accounts in order to understand why that
was happening and reached out to him to offer tailored and specific support.Putting things right
Therefore, in order to put things right Barclays should refund all interest and charges added 
to all three credit cards from March 2022 onwards. This amount can then be deducted from 
the total amount owed by Mr C. I know this will disappoint Mr C, but I do think he still needs 
to repay the capital amount he spent across the cards, not all of which was lost on Gs 
website.
In addition to the above, and in recognition of the enormous and devastating impact the lack
of support offered by Barclays, it should pay Mr C an additional £375 compensation, on top 
of the £125 it has already offered, bringing the total compensation paid to £500.
My final decision
Your text here
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Karen Hanlon
Ombudsman