DRN-1983379
The complaint
Mrs H complains that HSBC UK Bank plc trading as first direct (HSBC) didnt provide her 
with sufficient support in recalling two online payments she had made in error. 
What happened
Mrs H in error made two online payments in 0ctober and November 2019 to an incorrect 
beneficiary. Mrs H says that the change in the layout of the online banking contributed to her 
making these errors and  after she advised HSBC of this mistake, they didnt provide her 
with the level of support and help she would expect in getting the money back from the 
beneficiary bank. Mrs H says that HSBC also gave her misleading information about the 
recall process and about funds she had received into her account. Mrs H says this has 
caused her a great deal of stress and while the funds have since been returned, she doesnt 
feel she has been adequately compensated by HSBC for the upset she has been through.
HSBC says they recalled the two payments once they were made aware of this mistake by 
Mrs H, but the beneficiarys bank was unable initially to recall the funds due to lack of 
available funds on the beneficiarys account. HSBC admit that they could have been clearer 
to Mrs H when part of the recalled payments was received but they believe have adequately 
compensated Mrs H for this mistake and to reflect the number of telephone calls she made 
to them. 
HSBC say they have followed their procedures correctly and havent done anything wrong 
here. 
Mrs H was unhappy with HSBCs response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the information available but didnt uphold Mrs H complaint as 
the investigator felt HSBC had followed the correct procedures when recalling the payments 
and in line with expected timescales. She felt that the compensation offered for the time Mrs 
H had spent in making calls and for the misunderstanding over part of the recall payment 
received was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mrs H was unhappy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
When coming to my decision I have looked at whether HSBC were responsible for the 
incorrect online payments made from Mrs H bank account and if they could have done more 
to speed up the   recall of these payments. I have also considered if the compensation paid 
to her reflected the inconvenience caused as a result of its actions here.
I can understand that it must have been a worrying time for Mrs H when she realised she 
had sent payments to the wrong beneficiary and not knowing whether these funds would be 
returned. 
What happened here is Mrs H made two online payments from her HSBC bank account in 
October and November 2019 to the same incorrect beneficiary. Mrs H thought she had 
made these to another beneficiary she had paid by this method before and says that the 
change in the layout of her online banking contributed to this. Mrs H says that when she 
contacted HSBC about this mistake, they were unhelpful in trying to get these monies back 
and suggested she needed to contact the beneficiarys bank. Mrs H says that when a 
smaller amount was credited to her account HSBC were unable to advise her what this was, 
when in fact this was a part of the payments she had sent in error.
I have considered these points made by Mrs H and like the investigator I am not able to tell 
HSBC how they should set up their online payment systems. I cant see from the information 
I have seen that HSBC can be held responsible for Mrs H incorrectly sending a payment to 
the wrong beneficiary  after all, it is the responsibility of Mrs H, like all bank customers, to 
check the details of the payments before they send them. I am satisfied that Mrs H would 
have been prompted to do this when she made the payments. 
As far as HSBC not providing sufficient help and support at the time, I can see that as soon 
as Mrs H advised them of the payments error, they initiated a recall to the beneficiarys bank. 
At this point HSBC are relying on the beneficiarys bank to carry out the recalling of the 
monies sent. What happened here is that the beneficiarys bank was unable to recall the 
monies as there was insufficient funds available in the bank account where the monies had 
been sent and they were only able to return a small proportion of these funds. I cant see 
that HSBC are at fault here as they did carry out Mrs H instructions and they are unable to 
influence the actions of the beneficiary with another bank. It follows it is understandable why 
HSBC suggested to Mrs H to contact the beneficiary and their bank to retrieve the funds.  
I can see that HSBC should have told Mrs H that the part payment received into her bank 
account was related to the payments she made and this added to an already confusing and 
stressful time for Mrs H, that said I am pleased to see that HSBC have made compensation 
payments totalling £125 to reflect this error and that Mrs H had to make a number of phone 
calls. I feel this is a fair amount of compensation given the circumstances here. 
I am pleased to see that Mrs H has now received a full refund of the payments she made 
and this may well be a result of both the actions Mrs H took when involving the police and 
HSBC initiating the recall promptly. I am satisfied that HSBC have acted correctly here and 
in line with what I would expect to happen when attempting to recall the payments made in 
error.  Its worth mentioning there is no guarantee that recalls will be successful especially 
given the time between the payments made and the request from Mrs H asking HSBC to 
make the recall. 
Whilst I understand Mrs H will be disappointed with my decision, I am satisfied HSBC have 
acted fairly and it follows I wont be asking anymore of them here. My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2020.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman