DRN-3548482
The complaint
Mr D complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited irresponsibly granted him a conditional sale 
agreement that he couldnt afford to repay. Mr D also complains that he was told that he 
could hand the vehicle in question back after a year. 
Mr D is represented in this matter and representations have been made on his behalf; 
however, for ease of reference I will just refer to Mr D.
What happened
In September 2018, Mr D acquired a used car financed by a conditional sale agreement from 
Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn). Mr D was required to pay an advance payment of 
£528 and then 59 monthly repayments of £337.09. The total repayable under the agreement 
was £20,416.31.
Mr D says that Moneybarn didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Moneybarn didnt agree. It said that it 
carried out a thorough assessment which included reviewing two months worth of payslips 
and carrying out a credit check. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought Moneybarn didnt 
act unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement. And he didnt think that 
there was enough evidence that the dealership that Mr D visited had said that he could hand 
the car back after a year. 
Mr D didnt agree and said it wasnt fair for our investigator to say that the results of 
Moneybarns credit checks would have been roughly the same as those shown on a more 
recent credit file he had sent us. Mr D said that numerous defaults had dropped off his credit 
file and that he had significant arrears with his local council. He also said that Moneybarn 
would have clearly seen that he had no sort of income had they asked to see a copy of his 
bank statements when they considered his application. Mr D felt that Moneybarn should 
have carried out more checks than they did. 
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneybarn will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. Our investigator also went into detail 
about this in his view. 
I note that Moneybarn asked Mr D to provide proof of his income in the form of two months 
worth of payslips. I will come to this part later on in my decision as I know this has been a 
particular bone of contention. Moneybarn didnt though ask Mr D about his expenditure. 
Although they say they completed a credit check, this wont have indicated what Mr Ds 
regular living expenses were. Without knowing what his regular committed expenditure was, 
Moneybarn wouldnt have got a reasonable understanding of whether the agreement was 
affordable or not. It therefore didnt complete proportionate checks. 
I would just add here that Moneybarn hasnt been able to send us a copy of the credit check 
that they say they did. So, even if I thought that this was a reasonable method in determining 
Mr Ds creditworthiness, I havent been able to see whether they used that information fairly 
and appropriately. 
I cant be certain what Mr D would have told Moneybarn had they asked about his regular 
expenditure. I dont think Moneybarn needed to request bank statements, but in the absence 
of anything else, Ive placed significant weight on the information contained in Mr Ds bank 
statement that he shared with us, and other information provided by him, as an indication of 
what would most likely have been disclosed. 
Ive looked at the bank statement, which covers the three months leading up to the 
application for finance with Moneybarn, and can see that there was one recurring direct debit 
of about £25 for a gym membership and a direct debit to a telecommunications company for 
about £26. Mr D also said that he didnt have other committed monthly expenditure because 
he was living at home and wasnt responsible for rent, utilities or other household costs. So, 
there doesnt appear to have been much in the way of regular expenditure at the time. 
Ive also looked at the credit file Mr D sent to us. This shows that he had some defaulted 
accounts on his credit file. That could be a strong indication that Mr D had struggled to meet 
previous credit commitments. However, the defaults in questions were from around three 
years before his application with Moneybarn. I think it reasonable therefore for Moneybarn to 
have placed less weight on this because of the passage of time. Aside from the defaults, 
there wasnt anything of potential concern shown on the credit file. 
Ive mentioned that Mr D isnt happy that our investigator used the information shown on his 
credit file from early 2021 as a basis to compare what Moneybarn would have seen from 
their credit check in 2018. I agree that such a comparison wont necessarily be accurate 
because of the passage of time, and the information may well have changed during that 
time. I havent solely relied on this, but it does give some indication of what may have been 
on Mr Ds credit file at the time and what Moneybarn may have taken into account. 
Ive also looked at other evidence available to me. Mr D has recently sent copies of several 
debt collection letters as well as letters from bailiffs and evidence of court fines, as evidence 
about the financial difficulties he has experienced. Ive seen though that these letters were 
all from around 2015. So, much like the defaulted accounts, this shows to me that Mr D was 
struggling financially at that time. It doesnt though show me that this was the case some 
three years later when he applied for finance with Moneybarn. Bearing in mind Mr Ds level of committed monthly expenditure, and apparent lack of recent 
issues with meeting financial commitments, it appears the agreement was affordable to him. 
I dont think it likely that Mr D would have disclosed anything to Moneybarn that would have 
shown a different picture, had he been asked. 
There is another element here that I need to consider though, which Ive mentioned above, 
and that is Mr Ds monthly income. Moneybarn based their affordability assessment on two 
months worth of payslips that they say were provided by Mr D. These show an average of 
around £2,700 take-home pay without taking overtime into account. So, if this was an 
accurate representation of Mr Ds income at the time, it appears to show the agreement was 
affordable considering the monthly repayments required under the conditional sale 
agreement, and Mr Ds likely monthly expenditure.
Mr D though says that these payslips are false because he wasnt earning anything close to 
this at the time. Ive considered this point, however I cant see on what basis Moneybarn 
ought to have questioned this. Theres nothing from what I can see that looks unusual or 
suspicious about the payslips. And I havent seen sufficient evidence that these were 
falsified by the dealership or that they facilitated anything to falsify them. I think it was fair for 
Moneybarn to have relied on these as accurate. I dont think they ought to have tried to verify 
Mr Ds income by any other method (such as looking at his bank statements). 
Mr D has said that he suffers from dyslexia and that this meant he didnt understand the 
agreement he was entering into with Moneybarn. Businesses such as Moneybarn (and the 
dealership Mr D visited) have an obligation to make reasonable adjustments where 
appropriate so that consumers clearly understand the nature of the contracts and 
arrangements into which they are entering. Mr D though hasnt said that he made either 
business aware of this. That doesnt mean that businesses should do nothing until they are 
made aware. Ive not been persuaded though that Mr D wasnt made aware of the terms of 
the agreement and I likely think this was explained to him verbally as well as in documentary 
form. 
Ive lastly considered Mr Ds complaint point that the dealership told him he could hand the 
car back after a year or so. I cant though be sure that this wasnt simply the dealership 
explaining to Mr D that he had a possible option to do so, rather than a guarantee. I cant 
therefore be satisfied that the financial arrangement was misrepresented to him. 
For the reasons Ive given, Im not persuaded that Moneybarn acted unfairly in approving the 
finance. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Daniel Picken
Ombudsman