DRN-3655277
The complaint
Mr R complains about Revolut Ltd. 
He says that Revolut didnt do enough to protect him from becoming the victim of a scam 
and would like Revolut to refund him the money he has lost. 
What happened
Mr R was contacted by G by telephone. G presented itself as a successful cryptocurrency 
trading firm. 
Mr R was persuaded by G to open an account with Revolut, and to fund this account with 
transfers from his account with S. He was then further persuaded to purchase crypto from P, 
a legitimate crypto exchange.
Once he realised he had been the victim of a scam, Mr R complained to both Revolut and S.
Neither S nor Revolut upheld his complaints, so Mr R brought the complaints to this Service.
Our Investigator considered this complaint but didnt think that it should be upheld. Mr R 
remained unhappy, so the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know that this will be 
disappointing for Mr R, so Ill explain why.
Was Mr R the victim of a scam?
It isnt in dispute here that Mr R had been the victim of a scam. He was contacted out of the 
blue by G who persuaded him to invest in crypto, and to download Anydesk software onto 
his PC. He was then told to open a new account with Revolut and to fund this with his 
account held with S before using these funds to purchase crypto from a crypto exchange. 
Mr R has never been able to access his funds after the crypto was purchased and has since 
found reviews online indicating that G was a scammer.
Did Mr R authorise the payments?
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Mr R isnt liable for payments 
he didnt authorise, unless he failed with gross negligence or intent to comply with the terms 
of the account or keep his personalised security details safe.
Mr R says that he only authorised the first payment of £15,000, but that the other three 
payments totalling £55,000 were not authorised by him. Mr R says that G had access to his 
PC through Anydesk and made the payments without his consent. 
However, while I understand Mr R had been tricked into instructing Revolut to make the 
payments and never intended the payments to go to the scammers, I think that he did 
authorise them. Ill explain why.
Revolut has provided the internal logs for the three transactions that took place which show 
that they were made using Mr Rs trusted mobile phone  and not his PC where he had 
downloaded Anydesk on the instruction of the scammers. He has also confirmed that he did 
not allow access to his mobile phone to the scammers. 
Recovery of Mr Rs payments
After Mr R made the payments, I wouldnt expect Revolut to do anything further until it was 
notified of the scam.
Mr R made his payments by bank transfer, so I dont think that the payments were likely to 
be recoverable after they had been made. While Revolut could have contacted the 
merchant, P, to try and recover the funds, it was a legitimate exchange  and it provided Mr 
R with the services requested of it, which was the purchase of crypto.
While I understand that Mr R then went on to move the crypto to another wallet which was in 
the control of the scammer, this isnt the fault of P, and therefore, I dont think Revolut could 
have recovered any of the payments in dispute.
Should Revolut have reasonably prevented the payments in the first place?
I can only uphold this complaint if I think that Revolut reasonably ought to have prevented 
some or all payments Mr R made in the first place  therefore preventing the loss before it 
happened.
As Ive explained above, Im satisfied Mr R authorised the scam payments in question here  
so he is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
That said, as a matter of good industry practice, Revolut should have taken proactive steps 
to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or uncharacteristic 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. However, there is a 
balance to be struck: banks had (and have) obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to 
act in their customers best interests, but they cant reasonably be involved in every 
transaction.
Taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider having been good industry practice at the time, I consider
Revolut should fairly and reasonably:
Been monitoring accounts  including payments made and received  to counter 
various risks including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
This leads me to consider the payments that Mr R made and if Revolut should have 
intervened  and if any intervention would have made a difference.
Mr Rs initial payment to P was for £15,000  a large sum of money, and the first ever 
payment Mr R made from his Revolut account. 
Revolut has confirmed that when Mr R opened his account, he told Revolut that he intended 
to use the account for making transfers (which is what he did) and that it didnt have any 
transaction history for Mr R so it didnt have anything to compare his usual spending with, 
and that this could have been normal for Mr R.
It says that when Mr R set up his first payment to P, Mr R was presented with several 
screens that asked if Mr R trusted the payee  and gave the following warnings;
Please beware if youve been:
Contacted by someone you dont know or have recently met to move money from 
your account
Told your account is at risk, to move funds to a safe account or to take out a loan
Threatened with additional fines or being arrested
Given an offer that seems too good to be true.
You risk losing money that we may not be able to recover
The same screen then gives options to read about scams in Revoluts blog, or to get advice 
from an agent.
Mr R continued with the payment.
But while these screens did provide a warning  I dont think this goes far enough. £15,000 
is a large sum of money, so despite Revolut not having any historical transactions to 
compare Mr Rs usual spending with, I think that it should have got in touch with Mr R and 
asked him about the payment, the intention being to uncover or disrupt a fraud or scam that 
could put Mr R at risk of financial harm. 
However, as I have explained above, I need to be sure that this failing would have resulted 
in the scam being uncovered, and the payments being prevented. And Im not persuaded 
that an intervention from Revolut would have made a difference here. Ill explain why.
When Mr R was initially approached by the scammer, he was instructed to move his money 
from his account with S to Revolut before purchasing crypto. S blocked the first payment he 
tried to make and spoke with him about what he was doing and why. I have been provided 
with a copy of this call.
Unfortunately, Mr R wasnt truthful with S. He told it that he was opening his account with 
Revolut off his own back  and no one else was involved. Mr R had also downloaded 
software onto his PC but didnt divulge this information to S either. 
I understand that Mr Rs representative does not agree with my view on what happened on this call. It says that Mr R didnt lie to S, and that the call was mostly about safe account 
scams and not the one that Mr R fell victim to. They say that Mr R told S that the money was 
going to Revolut  which it was.
But I disagree here. While S did talk about safe account scams, it also asked Mr R if he had 
been approached by anyone, or if he had received any cold calls, been directed to download 
any software onto his computer. It also asked him if he had been asked to open the account 
with Revolut by anyone else. All of these things had happened to Mr R  but he chose not to 
divulge this to S. 
So I think that even if Revolut had questioned Mr R about the payments he was making, it is 
unlikely that Mr R would have divulged any further information to it either  and would have 
maintained that he was acting on his own behalf.
Was Mr R vulnerable?
Mr R is represented in his complaint by a third party, who have said that Mr R was 
vulnerable due to his age and lack of technical knowledge and computer literacy. But just 
because someone is older doesnt mean that they are not capable of managing their own 
financial affairs or are vulnerable. Mr R also tested out his account with Revolut to see how it 
worked by transferring and returning money to his account with S and was using moth 
mobile banking and online banking before and after the scam took place.
I do have a great deal of sympathy for the situation Mr R now finds himself in. He has been 
the victim of a cruel scam and has lost a significant amount of money as a result of this. 
However, the loss suffered was ultimately caused by the scammers themselves, not Revolut. 
And I cant ask Revolut to refund the money Mr R has lost when I think a missed opportunity 
by Revolut to intervene wouldnt have prevented the loss.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman