DRN-3091613
The complaint
Ms O complains that Northern Bank Limited (trading as Danske Bank) didnt do enough to 
help prevent her losing money to a scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
In 2017, Ms O made a number of Mastercard debit card payments to a merchant Ill refer to 
as B. At the time, Ms O believed the payments were for education and towards online 
trading. The relevant payments were:
£1,000 in March 2017;
£4,000 in April 2017;
£1,000, £10,000 and £2,000 in June 2017.
In September 2019 Ms O contacted Northern Bank and asked that they refund her the 
payments shed made in 2017. Northern Bank declined to do so. A complaint was made and 
later referred to our service. One of our investigators ultimately didnt recommend that the 
complaint should be upheld. 
In summary she agreed that Ms O was too late for chargeback to be an option. She did 
however think the £10,000 payment was unusual activity for Ms Os account and that 
Northern Bank should have intervened, asked some questions and provided a suitable 
warning. But she didnt conclude that this would have made a difference and thought Ms O 
would have instructed the payment despite a warning. 
Ms O disagrees and has asked for an ombudsman to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same outcome as our investigator and for similar reasons. 
I know this will be disappointing for Ms O, so Ill explain why. 
Northern Bank are bound by the card scheme providers chargeback rules which in this case 
is Mastercard. Whilst there is no right to a chargeback, I generally consider it to be good 
practice that a chargeback be raised if there is a reasonable chance of it succeeding. But a 
chargeback can only be made within the scheme rules. 
Mastercards rules are clear that any chargeback must be made no later than 120 days from 
the date of the transaction. As the transactions all took place in 2017 and this issue wasnt 
raised until 2019, the deadline had already passed. Given this, I think Northern Banks 
decision to not further pursue a chargeback was fair and reasonable. 
Our investigator concluded that the £10,000 payment was sufficiently unusual that Northern 
Bank ought to have intervened. I dont think this was an unreasonable conclusion. In these 
circumstances I have to make my findings based on what I think most likely would have 
happened if Northern Bank had blocked the payment and spoken to Ms O at the time. 
When considering this I find the evidence of what happened in 2019 (when Northern Bank 
did intervene in different transactions) to be persuasive. In 2019 Northern Banks systems 
flagged a payment due to leave her account. Ive listened to the call where their agent 
explains that they believe Ms O is sending the money as part of a Bitcoin scam. Ms O is 
absolutely adamant that it is her money and that the payment should go as shes instructed. 
She isnt open to heeding any warning and is very frustrated at what she sees as the bank 
interfering in her private business. 
Ms O has since explained that at that point she was experiencing a very difficult time. She 
says she was also being coached by someone who had contacted her saying they could 
help her recover her money. But she had to make certain payments upfront first. They were 
telling her how to respond in her dealings with Northern Bank. It looks like this turned out to 
be a further scam. Ms O says had there been an intervention in 2017, she would have 
responded differently and been more open to a warning. 
Ive taken what Ms O has said into consideration. But Im not persuaded that any reasonable 
level of intervention by Northern Bank would have prevented the transaction. And I dont 
think this is a case where there would have been grounds for them to refuse her instruction 
altogether. Ms O has said that she did her own research online prior to becoming involved 
with B. I think its most likely that she would have been reassured by this and would have 
continued with her payments.
Im really sorry to hear Ms O has lost this money and of the impact this has had on her. But it 
would only be fair for me to tell Northern Bank to refund her if I think they either caused this 
loss, or prevented its recovery. I dont think they did and so I cant fairly tell them to do more 
to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman