DRN-3107254
The complaint
Dr E complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HLAM) delayed 
the transfer of her ISA to a new provider as it didnt sell her holdings when it should have 
done.
What happened
Dr E provided  instructions  for transfer  of her stocks  and shares  to a new provider,  with 
HLAM  receiving  these  on 16 September  2019.  It provided  a valuation  to the new 
provider  on 18 October  2019,  just over a month  later.  The new provider  sent an 
acceptance  which  was received  by HLAM  on 1 November  2019,  but the acceptance  
wasnt  correct.  A further,  correct,  acceptance  was received  by HLAM  on 7 November  
2019.
The new provider  then contacted  HLAM  on 28 January  2020  to say it couldnt  hold all 
of Dr Es investments  and provided  a new transfer  request  for a cash  transfer  of her 
holdings.  Her holdings  were  sold on 16 March  2020  and HLAM  sent the new provider  a 
cheque  on 24 March  2020.
Dr E complained  to HLAM  who upheld  her complaint  about  there  being  a delay  in the 
transfer  and offered  her £250  for the distress  and inconvenience  caused.  It didnt  
accept  that Dr E had suffered  a loss as a result  of the delay.
One of our investigators  considered  the complaint  and thought  that it should  be upheld.  
She made  the following  key points:
HLAM  are responsible  for the delay  between  when  it first received  the transfer  
request  and when  it sent the valuation  on 18 October  2019.
HLAM  wasnt  responsible  for any delay  between  18 October  2019  and 7 
November  2019.
On 28 January  2020  HLAM  had all the information  it needed  to proceed  with 
sale of Dr Es holdings.
HLAM  is responsible  for a period  of delay  between  28 January  2020  and when  
it sent a cheque  to the new provider  which  it has provided  no reason  for. It is 
reasonable  to have  expected  it to sell the shares  within  three  weeks  of 
instruction.
There  was delay  after the cheque  was sent because  the new provider  then said 
it wasnt  accepting  cheques  and clarification  was subsequently  needed  as to 
which  bank  account  HLAM  needed  to transfer  the money  to. HLAM  isnt 
responsible  for this.
Dr E didnt  fail to mitigate  her loss because  she didnt  contact  HLAM  directly  to 
request  the sale because  as far as she was aware  HLAM  had been  provided  
with her instructions  through  the new provider.
HLAM  should  pay Dr E redress  calculated  by comparing  what  she received  on 
sale of her holdings  and what  she would  have  received  three  weeks  after 28 
January  2020.
HLAM  responded  and said that, whilst  it still thought  it was reasonable  for it to have  
expected  Dr E to contact  it and request  the sale during  the transfer  process  if she 
wanted  to sell, it was prepared  to accept  the investigators  opinion  that the sales  
should  have  taken  place  sooner.
However,  HLAM  made  the point  that rolling  the sale of holdings  back  by around  three  
weeks  didnt  represent  what  should  have  happened,  as it ignores  delays  caused  by the 
new provider.  If the transfer  had taken  place  within  normal  timescales  the sale of the 
holdings  would  have  taken  place  in November  2019.
The purchases  that Dr E then made  through  the new provider  also need  to be 
considered  as Dr E would  have  benefitted  from the low market  values  when  she traded  
in March  2020.
The investigator  said she was satisfied  that the holdings  should  have  been  sold three  
weeks  from 28 January  2020.  She also said she wasnt  taking  account  of what  Dr E 
did afterwards  as her loss crystalized  at the point  her investments  were  sold.
HLAM  responded  and continued  to argue  that the whole  period  of delay  needed  to be 
considered  and in effect  the investigators  opinion  suggested  that Dr E would  have  
remained  in cash  for four months  before  reinvesting.  It queried  what  losses  would  be 
paid by the new provider  given  the delay  it was responsible  for.
The investigator  didnt  change  her opinion  so the matter  has been  referred  to me for 
review.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I agree with the investigator that this complaint should be upheld, and 
redress should be calculated as she has set out. 
HLAM have made two main points regarding the investigators opinion. The first is that Dr E 
failed to mitigate her loss because she could have contacted it during the transfer process 
and asked it to sell her holdings. 
However, instructions had been given to HLAM, through the new provider, for it to sell her 
holdings. In the circumstances I dont think it was unreasonable for Dr E to leave the sale of 
her holdings in the hands of HLAM or that she failed to mitigate because she didnt instruct it 
separately to sell her shares. In short, I dont think she was required to do anything further. 
The second point made by HLAM is that the whole of the period of delay should be looked at 
including delay caused by the new provider. I acknowledge the argument that HLAM has 
made but I am only considering the complaint made to it and I am not in position to make 
any findings on the actions of the new provider. I need to decide what is a fair and 
reasonable outcome to this complaint.Having said that I accept that HLAM isnt responsible for delaying the transfer for the whole 
period between 16 September 2019 to 24 January 2020. I also accept that if HLAM had 
received a transfer request for the sale of the holdings earlier, then the sale could have 
taken place earlier and if that had happened Dr E may not have suffered a loss. 
However, having considered this I think it is fair and reasonable to hold it responsible for 
losses arising from the delay after it received the instruction to sell. Regardless of any 
previous delay and what might have happened but for that delay, what is certain is that 
HLAM was provided with a transfer request which required it to sell the holdings which it 
didnt then act on as it should have done.
It has acknowledged that it shouldnt have taken six weeks to sell the holdings. It has 
indicated that it agrees with the investigator that a period of three weeks isnt unreasonable. 
If Dr E suffered a loss as a result of its delay in acting on the transfer request it did get, then 
it is fair and reasonable it pays Dr E for that loss. 
I note that HLAM asked for the investigator to provide a date as to when it should calculate 
what the holdings would have been sold for but for its delay. The investigator said three 
weeks from 28 January 2020 which is 17 February 2020.
There is one other point that HLAM made initially in response to the investigators opinion  
namely that account should be taken of the purchases that Dr E made with the proceeds it 
sent to her new provider on 24 March 2020. Those purchases have no relevance to the 
redress I have awarded as set out below.  
I also note that Dr E wants the money to be paid into her ISA. My understanding is that she 
can make payment into her ISA of any money awarded for the loss in value of her holdings 
through what is called a defaulted investment subscription. Dr E has said that she has 
checked with her new provider who has also told her that the money can be paid into her 
ISA. She has asked for the redress to be paid to her new provider accordingly.
Putting things right
 HLAM should compare the total amount Dr E received on sale of her holdings in March 
2020 with what she would have received if they had been sold on 17 February 2020. If it 
calculates that the overall amount that she would have received on 17 February 2020 is 
more than she did receive she has suffered a loss and HLAM should pay the difference to 
her new provider. It should provide Dr E with its calculations in a simple and straightforward  
format so she can see how it has arrived at the amount payable.  
HLAM should also pay Dr E the £250 it offered her for the inconvenience caused by the 
delays.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint for the reasons I have explained. Hargreaves Lansdown Asset 
Management must calculate and pay redress as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Dr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman