DRN-4423629
The complaint
Miss S complains about the quality of some hair extensions which she purchased using her 
debit card supplied by Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax).
What happened
In October 2022, Miss S purchased hair extensions from a supplier Ill refer to as D for 
£190. She paid for the hair extensions using her debit card which was issued by Halifax.
Miss S says one week after the purchase, she told D she was unhappy with the quality of the 
hair. She says she was told the hair extensions were advertised as real human hair, but she 
says after she applied the hair extensions, the hair would singe and burn when heat was 
applied to it. Miss S says she took the hair extensions out and returned them to D. But she 
said D told her it didnt offer refunds. 
Miss S raised a claim through Halifax. Halifax provided Miss S with a temporary refund whilst 
it raised a chargeback claim. D disputed the claim and Halifax challenged this. 
On 19 December 2022, Halifax contacted Miss S and said it couldnt continue with her claim, 
but asked her to let it know within 10 days whether she had any further evidence. It said if 
she didnt do this, the refund would be taken out of her account. 
Miss S contacted Halifax in January 2023 and said her refund had been taken out of her 
account. She said she didnt provide further evidence because she had previously been told 
Halifax had enough evidence to dispute the chargeback. 
Halifax issued its response to Miss Ss complaint and said the chargeback was declined as 
D said the hair extensions were as described. Halifax apologised that it couldnt help further. 
However it accepted it had provided poor service when it told Miss S to send further 
information in, after she told it she didnt receive an email from it requesting further 
information. It said at this point it was already out of time to challenge the chargeback. It 
offered Miss S £40 in recognition of the poor service it offered.
Unhappy with this, Miss S referred her complaint to this service. She reiterated her complaint 
and said she was unhappy that Halifax had declined her chargeback claim.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but thought Halifax had handled Miss Ss 
chargeback claim fairly. She also said she thought the £40 compensation Halifax had offered 
for its errors was fair. 
Miss S disagreed. She said she received Halifaxs emails requesting further information after 
the date it sent them. She said she had provided supporting information to demonstrate this.
Our investigator said the screenshots provided by Miss S didnt indicate what the content 
was and Halifax had provided evidence to show it sent Miss S the email requesting 
information on 19 December 2022. Our investigator said that even if Miss S had seen the 
email earlier, her outcome would remain the same as there wasnt any independent 
evidence to confirm the hair wasnt real human hair.
Miss S said she couldnt open the email when she tried because the code had expired. She 
said the supporting information she had sent showed the hair was of extremely poor 
condition.
As Miss S remains in disagreement, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file and acknowledge that Miss S has raised a number of 
different complaint points. Ive concentrated on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on 
any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it  but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
What I need to decide in this case is whether Halifax correctly raised a chargeback and 
whether it acted unfairly in any other way. If I think it has acted unfairly, Ill need to decide 
whats fair, if anything, to put things right. 
Chargeback 
A card issuer can attempt a chargeback in certain circumstances when a cardholder has a 
dispute with a merchant  for example where goods never arrived or where goods are faulty 
and not as described. Before a chargeback can be initiated by a card issuer, like Halifax, its 
generally expected that the cardholder has attempted to resolve matters with the merchant 
first. 
Chargebacks arent decided on the merits of the dispute between the cardholder and 
merchant, but rather theyre decided on the relevant card schemes rules. Chargeback isnt a 
legal right and theres no guarantee the card provider will be able to recover the money this 
way. In this case, the guidelines are set by VISA and Halifax have no power to change them. 
When there is a dispute about goods not being as described, generally the rules of the VISA 
chargeback scheme require the cardholder to return the goods to the merchant. But the 
rules do allow for circumstances where the cardholder has attempted to return the goods to 
the merchant, but has been unable to. 
When Miss S raised a claim to Halifax, she explained why she thought the hair extensions 
werent as described and she said she had returned the hair extensions. However, D 
provided a response saying it only sold 100% human hair extensions. It also provided 
aftercare advice to keep the hair extensions healthy for a longer period. Halifax disputed this 
and said D had provided no evidence to show the hair extensions were as described and D 
now had funds from Miss S and the hair extensions. D disputed this and said there was no 
evidence that Miss S had returned the goods and it had proven the hair extensions had 
genuine human hair. It said the damage to the hair extensions was caused by Miss Ss own 
negligence and failure to follow the correct aftercare.
Having thought about this carefully, its unclear whether Miss S returned, or attempted to 
return the hair extensions to D or not. Miss S has said she did, but D has said she hasnt 
done this. The rules of the chargeback scheme required Miss S to return or attempt to return 
the hair extensions to receive a refund. But no supporting information such as a receipt, or 
correspondence between Miss S or D, to show the hair extensions being returned or 
attempted to be returned, has been provided. 
In addition, D said its company only uses human hair extensions, but Miss S said the hair 
extensions she was provided were of poor quality. There is no independent information to 
dispute that the hair extensions provided to Miss S were not 100% human hair. Miss S said 
she has videos of the hair but this wouldnt independently confirm that the hair extensions 
provided to her were not as described.
Overall, Ive reviewed the actions of Halifax when it raised the chargeback and the 
representment documents sent to Halifax by D. Having done so, Im satisfied the chargeback 
was raised correctly by Halifax and I think it acted reasonably when it challenged the 
representment from D. As this was disputed by D, the VISA chargeback scheme was exhausted and so, Halifax could do no more. So I dont think it needs to do anything further 
here.
Did Halifax act unfairly in any other way?
Miss S says she didnt receive an email from Halifax asking her to provide further 
information. However, Halifax has shown it sent Miss S an email on 19 December 2022. In 
this email, it asked Miss S to send it information within 10 working days. Miss S has shown a 
number of emails sent to her from 10 January 2023. However her email inbox also shows 
she received communication from Halifax before this date. And the screenshots Miss S has 
sent this service from 10 January 2023 simply say she has received a message from Halifax. 
Miss S says she didnt think she needed to provide further information, as Halifax sent her a 
text message on 5 December 2022 explaining that D had defended the chargeback. 
However, Halifax said it thought it had enough details to continue to dispute the payment. 
Halifax said if Miss S didnt hear from it within 40 days, this would mean the merchant had 
agreed with her concerns. As Halifax has shown it contacted Miss S within 40 days of          
5 December 2022, I dont think it has acted unfairly when it asked Miss S for further 
information.
On balance, as Halifax has shown it sent Miss S an email on 19 December 2022, Im 
satisfied Halifax sent an email to Miss S and let her know she had 10 days to provide further 
information. 
Having said this, when Miss S spoke to Halifax in January 2023 and let it know she hadnt 
received its email of 19 December 2022, Halifax accepted it incorrectly told Miss S to send 
further information despite being outside the chargeback timeframe. Im satisfied it made an 
error here and I think the £40 it offered to Miss S in recognition of this error is fair and 
reasonable.
My final decision
Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax has already made an offer to pay £40 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax should pay £40.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman