DRN-2722444
The complaint
Mr L complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC took too long to update its records with his new 
address. He says the price of his investments fell and he wants the bank to compensate him 
for the loss in value.
What happened
Both parties are familiar with the background to this complaint and our investigator set out in 
some detail what happened. So, rather than repeating that here, I will focus on giving the 
reasons for my decision.
Our investigator concluded that Barclays had done enough to compensate Mr L for the 
mistakes it made.
Mr L didnt agree. He said, in summary, that:
He was told he needed a membership number and a telephone passcode to sell his 
investments. Hes never received a phone passcode.
On 20 February 2020, having spoken to Barclays the day before, and following news of 
the Covid-19 pandemic, he and his wife decided they wanted to buy a motorhome to 
enable them to escape our four walls. They couldnt proceed with their planned 
purchase following the rapid decline in the value of their investments which caused Mr L 
and his wife much distress.
Mr L attempted to sell his investments on 2 March 2020 but was told he needed the 
phone passcode. Barclays should supply a recording of this call.
In assessing the compensation due to him, Mr Ls age, health and circumstances have 
not been taken into account and doesnt reflect the distress and frustration hes been 
caused.
Whilst their investments have since increased in value, prices of motorhomes have 
increased considerably, so they still cant realise their plans.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator. I think Barclays 
offer of compensation is fair and reasonable for the following reasons:
Im not persuaded that Mr L told Barclays he was moving house in December 2016. When 
he first contacted Barclays in January 2020, he told the bank it was possible that he hadnt 
given it his new address. In later correspondence, he says that he did write to the bank, but 
Barclays has no record of receiving a change of address notification in 2016 or 2017. Mr L 
says that he received correspondence to his new address about his holding of Barclays 
shares. But this most likely would have been from the registrar rather than Barclays PLC. So 
I think its more likely than not that Mr L didnt tell Barclays of his change of address until he 
contacted it in 2020. 
Barclays continued to send correspondence to the address it held in its records until it 
received a return of post marked gone away. It then put a marker on Mr Ls investment 
account and didnt send any further mail. 
Its not clear what prompted Mr L to realise in or around January 2020 that he hadnt been 
receiving any statements about his investment account. But he wrote to Barclays on 
26 January in an attempt to trace his investments. Barclays replied to say that he should 
phone and have his telephone passcode ready. As Mr L didnt have a telephone passcode, 
he needed to provide paperwork to evidence his identity. He says he posted this as 
instructed, but it wasnt received by the bank. This was unfortunate, but I cant conclude the 
paperwork wasnt received because of something the bank did wrong. He was advised to 
take the paperwork to his local branch instead. 
Mr L received poor service when he took his identification paperwork to a local branch as 
instructed. The branch did not follow the right procedures even though Mr L told the member 
of staff what was required. The branch wrongly arranged for the paperwork to be sent to 
Barclays Smart Investor in the post. And Barclays Smart Investor couldnt update Mr Ls 
address until it received this.
Mr L says that Barclays mistakes and delays have caused him a financial loss. As noted 
earlier, he says he and his wife had planned to buy a motor home but  by the time he was 
able to sell his investments - theyd lost value. I am not unsympathetic to the position in 
which Mr L finds himself  he explains that although the price of his investments has 
somewhat recovered, the price of motorhomes has increased. But I dont find that Barclays 
needs to compensate him for this because:
Mr L has not sold his investments; so he hasnt lost any money.
During his initial conversations with Barclays, he made it clear that he was simply trying 
to get access to his investments. On 19 February 2020 he said, theres no rush, its not 
as though I want this money now. And on 28 February he said, Had I wanted to take 
the money out it would have cost me a lot of money, which suggests he didnt want to 
take the money out at the time. And, whilst Mr L says he phoned to sell his shares on 2 
March, Barclays doesnt have a record of a call on that day. So I cant conclude Mr L 
made it clear that he wanted to sell his investments. Mr L had not had access to his 
investments for three years and, when he first contacted Barclays in 2020, he didnt have 
any intention of selling his investments. Im not persuaded that, if hed been able to 
access his investments any earlier, that he would have decided to sell them. I think, by 
the time he started expressing that he might want to sell the investments, theyd already 
fallen in value.
Mr L needed a membership number and an online passcode to place dealing instructions 
on his account. And he couldnt get an online passcode until the bank had successfully 
verified his identity and his new address. He says he needed a membership number and 
telephone passcode to give dealing instructions by phone. But Barclays told us it could 
have accepted Mr Ls dealing instructions by phone, once he passed its phone security 
checks. I think Mr L misunderstood this  and I dont think Barclays made that clear to 
Mr L but that was because, as noted above, Mr L didnt tell it that he wanted to sell his 
investments.Mr L says he still hasnt received a phone passcode. Barclays records only retain the most 
recent date for the despatch of a passcode and its confirmed one was sent to Mr L on 
21 February 2021.
Barclays has made mistakes here. And Mr L spent an awful long time on the phone trying to 
sort things out. It must have been incredibly frustrating for him. But, taking everything into 
account, I think Barclays offer of £250 compensation is fair and reasonable. Mr L says his 
personal circumstances havent been taken into account at arriving at this compensation 
figure. Ive thought about this carefully and in particular the fact that Mr L had to travel to a 
branch to present his identification paperwork. But I think the distress and inconvenience he 
was caused is fairly reflected in the amount Barclays offered. Barclays says its sent Mr L a 
cheque for that amount and that its been cashed. So I dont require it to do anymore.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman