DRN-3859669
The complaint
Mr B complains that Stagemount Limited trading as Quidmarket (Quidmarket) gave him 
loans he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
Mr B took three loans from Quidmarket between April and November 2021. Ive outlined a
summary of his borrowing below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(months)monthly 
repayment
1 £600.00 04/04/2021 30/04/2021 6 £191.13
2 £750.00 04/06/2021 15/10/2021 5 £356.71
3 £400.00 23/11/2021 28/02/2021 3 £212.38
Following Mr Bs complaint, Quidmarket issued its final response letter. In summary, it said it
had carried out proportionate checks which included asking Mr B about his income and
expenditure as well as carrying out a credit search before each loan was approved. Based
on these checks, Quidmarket was confident Mr B would be able to afford his monthly
repayment. Although, Quidmarket didnt uphold the complaint, as a gesture of goodwill it
offered to remove these loans from Mr Bs credit file.
Mr B didnt agree and instead referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. The 
complaint was considered by an adjudicator. She concluded Quidmarket had made a
reasonable decision to lend loans 1 and 2 and so didnt uphold them.
However, by loan 3, the adjudicator was satisfied the credit check results showed some
concerning information such as Mr B fully utilising his overdrafts and he was in an
arrangement to pay. The adjudicator thought, this along with evidence of other loans was
enough to show that Mr B was having problems repaying his other creditors.
Mr B appears to have accepted the adjudicators findings.
Quidmarket responded and didnt agree, and Ive summarised its response below.
Evidence of Mr Bs income was taken when loan three was granted.
The third loan was his smallest one.
Mr B was within the agreed overdraft limit of both accounts and hadnt exceeded the 
limit at any point within the last two years.
There was only one new loan taken by Mr B visible on his credit file, for £3,000 on 14 
October 2021.
Overall, Mr Bs indebtedness had decreased between loans 2 and 3.
There were no obvious repayment problems and Mr B had sufficient disposable 
income to afford the loan.
As no agreement has been reached, the case was passed to me for a decision.
I issued a first provisional decision explaining why I thought, given the credit checks results 
for loan 3, Quidmarket needed to have carried out further checks before granting the loan. 
I explained that while I had some bank statements from Mr B covering the period of time 
when loan 3 was approved, there wasnt enough in them to be able to conclude that had 
Quidmarket carried out better checks it wouldve decided not to lend. So, I proposed not to 
uphold Mr Bs complaint.
In response to the first provisional decision, Quidmarket emailed the Financial Ombudsman
confirming it accepted the findings as outlined.
Mr B didnt agree with the findings, and he said the bank statements showed he had multiple 
other loans. Mr B provided further bank statements, and Ive reviewed these and all the other
evidence I previously had and decided that a second provisional decision was needed to
reach a fair outcome.
I then issued a second provisional decision where I explained the findings for loans 1 and 2 
remained the same. But I was then intending to uphold the complaint about loan 3 only. The 
findings from the second provisional decision can be found below in a smaller font following 
this section and forms part of this final decision.   
What I said in my second provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Quidmarket had to assess the lending to check if Mr B could afford to pay back the amount
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate
to the circumstances. Quidmarkets checks could have taken into account a number of
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Bs
income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Quidmarket should have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr B. These factors include:
Mr B having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr B having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of
time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr B coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr B.
Quidmarket was required to establish whether Mr B could sustainably repay the loans  not
just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr B was able to repay
his loan sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without unduedifficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Bs complaint.
Loan 1
Quidmarket has shown, that as part of the affordability assessment it asked Mr B for details
of his income and expenditure. Mr Bs income has been recorded as being £3,349 per
month. Mr B also declared his monthly outgoings were £630. However, following further
checks (including a credit search which I comment on below) Quidmarket increased his
living costs by a further £440.
This left Mr B with disposable monthly income of £2,509. This was more than sufficient for
Quidmarket to believe Mr B could afford the largest repayment of around £192. The loan
therefore, looked affordable.
Quidmarket also was given a screen shot of Mr Bs bank statement which confirmed his
monthly income. As Mr B had provided a screen shot of the bank statements, Ive also
considered whether there was anything else in that statement which ought to have
concerned Quidmarket. However, I cant see anything, expect for, that even after Mr B
received his salary, he was still overdrawn.
Before this loan was approved Quidmarket also carried out a credit search and it has
provided the Financial Ombudsman Service with a copy of the results it received. I want to
add that although Quidmarket carried out a credit search there isnt a regulatory requirement
to do one, let alone one to a specific standard.
Therefore, its possible that the information Quidmarket received may not entirely reflect the
information Mr B may be able to see in his own credit report. There could be for a number of
reasons for this, such as Quidmarket only asking for certain pieces of information. But what
Quidmarket cant do, is carry out a credit search and then not react to the to the information
it received  if necessary.
Quidmarket was also entitled to rely on the information it was given by the credit reference
agency. So, Ive taken a look at the results to see whether there was anything contained
within it that wouldve either prompted Quidmarket to have carried out further checks or
possibly have declined Mr Bs application.
Having reviewed these results, I can see Mr B had 5 active credit accounts with outstanding
balances of £4,078. However, Quidmarket was aware that there hadnt been any adverse
credit file data, such as a default or other insolvency recorded in the credit search results.
There is also no evidence that Mr B was regularly using high-cost credit, for example, Mr B
hadnt opened any new credit facilities within the last six months.
There was also nothing else in the information that Ive seen that wouldve led Quidmarket to
believe that it needed to go further with its checks  such as verifying the information Mr B
had provided through his bank statements.
Given it was early in the lending relationship, I think it was reasonable for Quidmarket to
have relied on the information Mr B provided along with the income and expenditure figures
to show he had sufficient disposable income to afford the repayments he was committed to
making. So, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint about the loan.
Loan 2
Mr B repaid loan 1 much quicker than Quidmarket had anticipated, and he returned just overa month later for a slightly larger loan to be repaid over a longer period compared to loan 1.
Quidmarket carried out the same sort of checks for this loan as it had done before loan 1
was granted. After considering the income and expenditure information provided, and after
making adjustments from what Quidmarkets credit report. Quidmarket calculated Mr B had
£1,870 a month in disposable income. Again, this was more than enough to cover the
instalment amount of around £357.
A credit check was also carried out by Quidmarket, and a copy of the full report has been
provided and which Ive considered it. Quidmarket knew Mr B had opened new credit
accounts since its last credit search, but one of those new accounts wouldve been loan 1.
Mr Bs total indebtedness had increased, significantly to £9,767. This seems to have been as
a result of Mr B opening two new loan accounts (sperate to the Quidmarket loan) in
April 2021, with combined monthly payments of around £320. This isnt an insignificant sum
but given the way the previous loan had been repaid and what was visible on the credit file, I
think it was reasonable for Quidmarket to have approved this loan.
So, even taking account of the existing credit commitments, I think the checks Quidmarket
did were proportionate, and it showed Mr B could afford the repayments. I again, dont think
Quidmarkets checks needed to extend to it reviewing Mr Bs bank statements.
So, for the same reasons as loan 1, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint about this loan.
Loan 3
Yet again, Mr B settled loan 2 slightly earlier than planned. Then around a month later Mr B
returned for his smallest loan, to be repaid over the shortest period of time.
The adjudicator upheld this loan because in her view, the repayment arrangement on the
overdraft accounts and new loans ought to have alerted Quidmarket to the fact that Mr B
would have problems repaying this loan. Ive thought about this and while I agree there were
signs of distress, I dont think that automatically meant the loan was unaffordable for Mr B.
Once again, following the checks Quidmarket did before this loan (which were the same as
before loans 1 and 2) it believed that Mr B had around £1,865 a month in disposable income.
Like loan 1, Mr B provided a screen shot of his bank statements which showed that the
income Mr B declared was accurate.
A credit search was also carried out and once again the results have been provided. It
appears two new loan accounts had been opened within the last six months but one of those
was loan 2, as detailed above. Quidmarket knew in October 2021, Mr B had opened a
new bank loan of £3,000 with monthly repayments of £288.
Overall, Mr Bs debts had decreased since loan 2 to £9,138 but this was still about double
the overall indebtedness Mr B had compared to his first loan. And I think there were now
signs of financial distress in the credit check results.
Both of Mr Bs current bank accounts were now subject to a payment arrangement,
presumably to help him reduce the two overdraft balances, which were both close to the
account limit at the time this loan was approved.
Ive considered what Quidmarket said that Mr B wasnt going over his overdraft limits, but the
fact remains, that the banks which provided those overdrafts must have been sufficiently
concerned about his overall indebtedness and his financial position because of the two
payment arrangements.
However, while Mr B was subject to a payment arrangement on his overdraft there didnt
appear to have been any other problems when he settled previous credit accounts. I also
have considered that this was Mr Bs smallest loan with the smallest repayment term. Theincome and expenditure check also suggested that Mr B could afford this loan, but I do think,
at this point in time, Quidmarket needed to go further with the checks.
I think, it ought to have started to verify the information Mr B had provided. It was already on
notice, from its own checks that Mr B may have potentially been under reporting his
expenditure as Quidmarket had to increase his declared expenditure for each previous loan.
So, I think, checking Mr Bs income and expenditure wouldve been the prudent thing to do.
Quidmarket couldve gone about doing that a number of ways, it couldve asked for
documentation from Mr B in the form of wage slips and / or copy bills, or it couldve asked to
see Mr Bs bank statements.
I accept there is no regulatory requirement for Quidmarket to have viewed the bank
statements but in this case, I think it was proportionate to do so.
In my first provisional decision, I concluded, based on what I had at the time, that had further
checks been carried out I dont think Quidmarket wouldve seen anything that wouldve
prevented it from lending to Mr B.
But as part of the provisional decision, Mr B was invited to send in any further information
and / or evidence  which he did. Ive now considered this new evidence, and having done
so, Im satisfied that had Quidmarket carried out what I consider to be proportionate checks
it wouldnt have lent to Mr B. I say this for the following reasons.
In the weeks leading up to loan 3, Mr B paid three other high-cost credit providers nearly £900 
to service loans  this excludes the payment made in October to Quidmarket. If the 
Quidmarket loan is included this comes to over £1,200  which is a significant sum, before 
any other of Mr Bs living costs are considered.
In addition, on another bank statement there is another loan  I dont know the lender, but the 
payment is sent as loan for £276. So, Mr B, had spent in the weeks leading up to loan 3, 
nearly £1,500 serving outstanding loans. In my view, this is a significant portion of his income 
on going towards debt repayment before any of his living costs are taken into account.
Mr B was also at or near his overdraft limit even after he was paid, and I can see several 
transfers between his various accounts and sub accounts known as pots. But having 
reviewed each pot  there is no savings being kept and / or additional money. Indeed, money 
is frequently moved between the pots and Mr Bs two main current accounts. It seems to me, 
that Mr B is trying to move money around to prevent payments being returned as unpaid and 
/ or to keep the accounts within the agreed overdraft limits.
Indeed, even doing this, I can see times when Mr B exceeded his overdraft limit on the 
account where he received his salary  even thought this account was subject to a payment 
arrangement. I think this is further evidence that Mr B was likely having financial difficulties.
Overall, considering the overdraft balance as well as the payment arrangement, how Mr B
was trying to manage those each month and with at least 4 other loans (and at least 3 of
these were high-cost credit loans). I dont think given the circumstances that had Quidmarket
carried out a proportionate check it wouldve thought Mr B would be in a position to repay
this loan in a sustainable manner.
Im therefore intending to uphold Mr Bs complaint about loan 3 only.
Responses to the second provisional decision
Both Mr B and Quidmarket were asked to provide anything further for consideration as soon 
as possible, but in any event, no later than 15 December 2022. 
Mr B emailed the Financial Ombudsman confirming he accepted the findings that were 
reached in the provisional decision. Quidmarket responded to the second provisional decision, and Ive outlined its comments 
below.
The ombudsman accepts this was the smallest loan to date. 
The payment arrangnets for the overdraft doesnt mean Mr B was in financial 
hardship. Instead, it could be due to the bank reducing the balances of overdrafts for 
customers who were continiously overdawn. 
In the first provisonal decision, the ombudsman concluded that proportionate checks 
were carried out for loan 3  this has now changed. 
This was a short lending chain where Mr B declared a significant  level of disposable 
income. 
Feedback has been provided to the industry reglator in relation to ombudsmans 
decision that seem to look for reasons to uphold the complaint rather than taking an 
objective view. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, to be clear, I did conclude in the first provisional decision that the checks Quidmarket 
carried out before loan 3 was approved, werent likely proportionate and it ought to have 
done more before lending to Mr B. But based on the evidence I had at the time, I didnt have 
enough to say the loan was unaffordable, which is what led to the first provisional decision. 
The first provisional decision was a different outcome to the one the adjudicator had 
reached.   
However, as further information was provided by Mr B in response to the first provisional 
decision, it is my role to reconsider the complaint and include this. Having done so, I was 
satisfied that the further information highlighted that Mr B couldnt afford the repayments he 
was due to make for loan 3.  
While Ive considered that Quidmarket says about the possible reasons why the bank 
accounts were subject to a payment arrangement. Whatever the reason, the fact that Mr B 
was significantly overdrawn to the extent that further support was needed in the form of a 
payment arrangement isnt in my view a positive indicator that someone is in good financial 
health. In addition, information, about the payment arrangement was being reported in the 
credit check results provided by Quidmarket. 
But the payment arrangement on the overdraft wasnt the only reason why the complaint 
was upheld. There was also, as explained in the second provisional decision, in my view, a 
significant amount of money being spent on servicing other credit commitments.  
I appreciate what Quidmarket says about it has approached the regulator about other cases 
it has decisions on, but based on the individual circumstances of this case, Im satisfied that 
further checks needed to have been carried out before loan three was approved. And had 
proportionate checks been carried out, then Quidmarket in my view, wouldnt have advanced 
this loan to Mr B. 
Im therefore still upholding Mr Bs complaint about loan three and Ive outlined below what 
Quidmarket needs to do to put things right for Mr B. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Quidmarket should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about whatmight have happened had it not lent loan 3 to Mr B, as Im satisfied it ought not to have. 
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mr B may have simply left matters there, not
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative 
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to reconstruct now accurately. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Mr B in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Mr B would more likely than not have taken up any one of these
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Quidmarkets liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Quidmarket shouldnt have given Mr B loan 3.
A. Quidmarket should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr B towards 
interest, fees and charges on this loan.
B. Quidmarket should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Mr B which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr B originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Quidmarket should pay Mr B the total of A plus B.
D. Quidmarket should remove any adverse information it has recorded on Mr Bs credit 
file in relation to loan 3.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Quidmarket to deduct tax from this interest. Quidmarket
should give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the second provisional decision, Im upholding 
Mr Bs complaint in part.
Stagemount Limited trading as Quidmarket should put things right for Mr B as directed 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman