DRN-3124553
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy at the interest and charges HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) applied to her 
account over the years.
What happened
Mrs B complained to HSBC that her personal situation has been affected by the charges 
applied to her account and that she is in financial hardship because of this. One of our 
adjudicators looked into her concerns and reached the conclusion HSBC hadnt done 
anything wrong or treated Mrs B unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mrs B disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
Why I think we can only look at part of your complaint
The rules applying to this service say that, I cant look at a complaint made more than six 
years after the event being complained about  or (if later) more than three years after the 
complainant was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, of cause for complaint. 
This is Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R(2)  which can be found online in the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys handbook.
Mrs B raised her complaint on 3 November 2019 in relation to charges applied to her 
account between 2005 and 2018. Six years before she raised her complaint is 3 November 
2013. And as the charges for use of the overdraft wouldve been notified to Mrs B at the time 
they were being applied, I think she ought to have known enough to decide whether they 
were unfair or causing financial difficulty. So, I dont think that three years from when she 
ought to be reasonably aware she had reason to complaint provides Mrs B with a longer 
period than the six year rule. As she didnt complain until 2019, I can only look at charges 
applied from 4 November 2013. 
I can still look into Mrs Bs complaint about overdraft charges outside this time if Im satisfied 
the failure to complain earlier was due to exceptional circumstances. Mrs B has told us that 
she is dyslexic and cannot read bank statements and that she has children which have 
conditions that required extra support  so she prioritised their wellbeing over bringing her 
complaint earlier. 
I sympathise with Mrs B and accept that she had a lot to cope with over the years. But in 
coming to my decision I have to be fair to both Mrs B and HSBC and what I have to decide
is whether I think the circumstances outlined by Mrs B wouldve prevented her from referring 
her complaint earlier had she chosen to do so.
I have thought carefully about everything Mrs B has told us about her circumstances during
the relevant period. But some of the charges she is complaining about were applied over 15 
years ago and she has told us she was able to hold down a job during this period as well as 
arrange and manage the renovation of an rental property.  
I understand why referring the complaint to us may not have been a priority for Mrs B. But I
think she still could have referred her complaint about the charges incurred between 
November 2005 and 2013 within the time limits, especially as it only takes an email or 
telephone call to do so.
And as such I dont think that exceptional circumstances apply so I am unable to look at 
charges applied before 4 November 2013. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail. 
Ive seen that Mrs B has in some of her correspondence referred to the proportionality of the 
charges applied to her account. But before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I 
havent considered whether the various amounts HSBC charged over the years were fair 
and reasonable, or proportionate in comparison to the costs of the service provided. 
Ultimately, how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt 
something for me to get involved with. That said, while Im not looking at HSBCs various 
charging structures or processes per se, it wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards 
Mrs B if it applied any interest, fees and charges to Mrs Bs account in circumstances where 
it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware Mrs B was experiencing 
financial difficulty.
So Ive considered whether there were instances where HSBC didnt treat Mrs B fairly and 
reasonably. I dont think that HSBC did treat Mrs B unfairly or unreasonably here though. I 
say this because having looked at Mrs Bs statements I cant see anything to suggest that 
HSBC ought to have realised she might have been experiencing financial difficulty prior to it 
being notified of this. 
Mrs B may argue her regular use of her overdraft was in itself an indication that she was 
struggling. But while Im not seeking to make retrospective value judgements over Mrs B 
expenditure, nonetheless there are significant amounts of cash withdrawals and other non-
committed discretionary transactions. 
Furthermore, the amount being credited to Mrs Bs account each month didnt indicate that 
there was no reasonable prospect of her seeing a credit balance at any stage either. Indeed, 
most months Mrs Bs account balance was in credit for a short period of time. 
I accept this doesnt necessarily mean that Mrs B wasnt experiencing financial difficulty. But 
there isnt anything in these transactions in themselves which ought to have alerted HSBC to 
any potential financial difficulty.
So, in these circumstances I dont think that it was unreasonable for HSBC to proceed with 
adding the interest, fees and charges it did in light of how Mrs Bs account was being used. 
So overall and having considered everything, I dont think that HSBC ought to have realised 
that Mrs B might have been in financial difficulty and I dont think HSBC treated Mrs B 
unfairly or unreasonably which means that Im not upholding this complaint. 
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mrs B  especially as shes been waiting 
some time for this answer. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman