DRN-3812103
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited trading as Alphera Financial 
Services (Alphera) incorrectly added a £4,000 advance payment to his agreement and 
charged interest on this amount.
What happened
In July 2016, Mr A was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement with 
Alphera. The cash price of the car was £21,262. Mr A paid an advance payment of £4,000 
and the agreement was for £17,262; with 47 monthly repayments of £249.86, and an 
optional final payment of £9,577 if Mr A wanted to keep the car at the end of the agreement.
Mr A paid the agreement by direct debit. And his direct debit payments for January, May and 
August 2019 were all missed. However, these missed payments were made up on either the 
same or following month. Mr A missed further direct debit payments in April, May, and June 
2020, meaning his agreement was three-months in arrears when it was scheduled to end. 
And the optional final payment (also known as a balloon payment) wasnt paid in July 2020 
when it fell due.
Despite Mr A sending Alphera what he considered to be legal notices that stopped them 
doing this, Alphera passed Mr As account to a third-party firm of solicitors to collect the debt 
on their behalf.
Mr A complained to Alphera, disputing the amount they say he owed them, and complaining 
about the actions theyd taken to pursue this debt. But Alphera didnt think theyd done 
anything wrong. Mr A wasnt happy with this response, and he brought his complaint to us 
for investigation. 
Our investigator said that Alphera had taken the advance payment into consideration, and 
the agreement was based on the cash price of the car less this £4,000 payment. So, he 
didnt think the agreement was incorrect, or that interest had been calculated on the incorrect 
amount. Which meant that the amount Alphera had asked Mr A to pay was correct.
The investigator also said that, because the amount had remained overdue for more than a 
year, Alphera had acted reasonably by passing the debt to a firm of solicitors to recover the 
arrears owing and seek to repossess the car due to the balloon payment not having been 
paid. So, he didnt think that Alphera had done anything wrong.
Mr A didnt agree with the investigator. He said that the finance shouldve been calculated 
based on £17,262, and not the £21,262 cash price of the car. And Alphera should never 
have received the £4,000 he paid to the dealership.
Mr A also didnt agree that Alphera had the right to pass his personal information to the third-
party solicitors, especially as this was against his express consent and request not to do 
so. He thinks he should have the right to be able to deal with Alphera as the original 
creditor, and that the legal notices hes sent have all been ignored. Finally, he says he hasnt 
been provided with a full breakdown of what he paid, despite requesting this; and that his 
offer to pay £7,000 over two payments (an amount less than what Alphera says he owed) 
has been rejected.
Given this, Mr A also didnt believe that wed taken into consideration the impact of Alpheras 
actions on his health, well-being, or family life.
Because Mr A didnt agree with the investigator, hes asked for an ombudsman to make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr A was supplied with a vehicle under a 
hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means 
were able to look into complaints about it. 
Ive noted that, after this complaint was sent to me to make a final decision, Mr A contacted 
the investigator to confirm that I am now able to understand and agree with you as to how 
and why the £4,000 was added to the total amount payable. 
Because of this, hes confirmed that his outstanding complaints are that Alphera didnt 
provide this breakdown when he requested it in writing on both 21 September and 5 October 
2021, and he had to wait eight months before the solicitors provided this to him. Hes also 
said that he was willing to resolve this matter with Alphera but they chose to ignore my 
offers of payment [and] chose instead to go to Litigation and repossess my vehicle.
Ive seen a copy of the agreement Mr A signed on 5 July 2016. This clearly states the cash 
price of the car to be £21,262, that Mr A paid a £4,000 advance payment, and that the 
amount of the credit was £17,262. The agreement also clearly shows the interest rate Mr A 
is being charged, and the total credit charge (interest) hes paying. 
Based on the rough calculation Ive been able to do, Im satisfied that the interest Mr A is 
being charged is calculated on the £17,262 amount of credit, and not on the £21,262 cash 
price of the car. Taking this into consideration, as well as looking at the payments Mr A has 
made, Im also satisfied that the amount Alphera were asking Mr A to pay was correct. And 
he was only entitled to keep the car if he made this payment, made up of the arrears and the 
balloon payment.
In the agreement Mr A signed, under the heading Missing payments, it clearly says we 
may issue legal proceedings against you to enforce the debt. Under the heading Our use 
of your information, the agreement also says we may pass your information to our  
agents  for the  enforcement or settlement  related to this agreement.
The car didnt become Mr As property until all payments owing under the agreement had 
been paid. And all these payments werent made. As such, given the amount of time these 
payments were outstanding, Alphera were entitled to take action to recover their goods.Under the terms of the agreement, Alphera were entitled to use a third-party solicitor to deal 
with the collection of the outstanding payment and, where this wasnt paid, deal with the 
repossession of the car. And they didnt need Mr As agreement or consent to do so.
As such, I dont think that Alphera did anything wrong by asking the solicitors to recover the 
debt/car on their behalf. Im aware that Mr A has sent Alphera what he considers are legal 
notices, and that theyve ignored these. The Financial Ombudsman Service is an alternative 
to the courts, and the point Mr A is raising is a legal matter. Given this, I wont be specifically 
addressing the notices Mr A sent. And, if he thinks Alphera have acted illegally by not 
actioning these, then this is a matter best dealt with by the courts.
I appreciate that Mr A initially disputed the balance Alphera said he owed. And, because his 
financial circumstances had changed by the time the agreement ended, he wasnt in a 
position to clear the arrears and pay the balloon payment so he could keep the car. 
However, the balloon payment and arrears totalled £10,325.58, and Mr A offered to pay 
Alphera £7,000 (over two payments) to clear this debt in full, allowing him to keep the car. As 
this was less than he owed, Alphera werent obliged to accept his offer. And they didnt do 
anything wrong by not doing so. So, they were entitled to continue to pursue him for the full 
amount.
Finally, Mr A has said that Alphera failed to send him a breakdown of his account, despite 
him asking them to do so. Ive seen that he was sent an annual statement every July, 
breaking down the last 12-months payments. And, on 13 October 2020, they also sent Mr A 
a letter which broke down the amount outstanding into missed monthly payments and the 
unpaid balloon payment.
It's the case that Alphera didnt provide a full breakdown of all the payments in a single 
document until 11 July 2022, around 10-months after Mr A first asked for this. And I think 
they shouldve provided this sooner. However, because Mr A had already been provided 
with this information by way of the annual statements and the October 2020 breakdown, Im 
satisfied that hed already been provided with the information he was asking for. As such, 
although the delay in dealing with Mr As request shouldnt have happened, I wont be asking 
Alphera to compensate him for this. And I wont be asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr As complaint about BMW Financial Services 
(GB) Limited trading as Alphera Financial Services.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman