DRN-3828647
The complaint
Miss G complains that West Sussex and Surrey Credit Union Limited trading as Boom! 
Credit Union irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint where I set out the background to this 
complaint.  I explained why I was inclined to reach different conclusions to the adjudicator 
and gave both parties the opportunity to provide further comments and evidence before I 
considered my final decision.
Key parts of my provisional decision are below;
What happened
Boom! Credit lent Miss G a loan of £2,500 in April 2017, the loan was due to be repaid in 30
monthly instalments of £130. The loan agreement also required Miss G to deposit £10
monthly into her savings account. So, Miss G essentially had to pay £140 towards servicing
the loan. Miss G has had difficulties repaying the loan.
When Miss G complained to Boom! Credit, it didnt uphold her complaint but as a gesture of
goodwill offered to write off 50% of the interest on the loan and remove adverse information
from her credit file. Miss G didnt accept the offer and the case was looked at by one of our
adjudicators.
Our adjudicator thought Boom! Credit did enough before lending and so he didnt
recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Miss G disagreed and asked for an
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to
complaints about high cost lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good
industry practice - on our website.
Boom! Credit needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. It
needed to lend in a fair and reasonable manner. Ive carefully considered all of the
arguments, evidence and information provided in this context and what this all means for Miss 
Gs complaint, Boom! Credit has provided evidence to show that before lending the
loan, it searched Miss Gs credit file and considered her monthly income and expenses.
At the time of application Miss G told Boom! Credit she was in significant financial difficulties
and was behind on some of her priority bills which had been attached to her earnings. She
also told Boom! Credit she had tried every loan company around and no one would help me
with my credit history. She said she was on reduced payments on one of her loan
repayments and was taking out this loan to consolidate her borrowing. From this information
Boom! Credit should have approached lending to Miss G with caution. It is clear to me that
she was in financial distress when she approached Boom! Credit for this loan and it should
have been looking to gain a detailed picture of her financial circumstances before lending.
Looking at the checks Boom! Credit carried out, it worked out Miss Gs income to be around
£2,100. Miss G had over £3,00 worth of unsecured debt so this loan wasnt enough to fully
repay what she owed. And considering the debt consolidation which reduced her monthly
credit commitments from over £300 to around £190, Miss G was due to repay £2,095
towards her living costs and remaining credit commitments. This meant Miss G would have
been left with £5 disposable income after repaying this loan commitment.
Miss G had a dependent and told Boom! Credit she was a single mum, so even without
taking its checks further Boom! Credit saw that she couldnt afford the repay the loan without
struggling to keep up. In those circumstances it wasnt fair or reasonable to lend.
Boom! Credit has lent to Miss G when it shouldnt have, and she has suffered loss as a
result and it needs to put things right.
Both parties have responded and agreed with my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties agree with my provisional findings and I havent seen any further evidence to 
persuade me otherwise, I see no reason to depart from those findings.
Boom! Credit lent to Miss G when it shouldnt have and it needs to put things right.
Putting things right  what Boom! Credit needs to do
remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan;
treat all payments made by Miss G as payments towards the capital amount of
£2,500;
if this results in an overpayment pay interest of 8% simple a year on any
overpayments from the date they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
if theres still a balance outstanding, Boom! Credit should come to a suitable
repayment arrangement with Miss G.
remove any negative information about the loans from Miss Gs credit file once the 
loan capital has been repaid.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Boom! Credit to take off tax from this interest. Boom! Credit must 
give Miss G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Miss Gs complaint and direct West Sussex and 
Surrey Credit Union Limited trading as Boom! Credit Union to put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman