DRN-4484801
The complaint
Mrs R complains that J.P. Morgan Europe Limited trading as Chase wont refund the money 
she lost in a scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
Mrs R had a credit card with Bank S. On 1 March 2022, she received a text message 
purporting to be from Bank S with a One Time Passcode (OTP) for a payment she didnt 
recognise. The message read, If this was not you, please call us on 0330 818 2102. 
Mrs R contacted Bank S via its live-chat facility to query the message. She provided a 
screenshot of the message, which the agent said looked genuine and advised her to call the 
number provided.
Mrs R clicked the number in the message and was connected to someone claiming to be an 
agent from Bank Ss fraud team who Ill refer to as the scammer. The scammer explained 
that someone had attempted to make a payment from her credit card and that they had to 
block it while they sorted out the problem. The scammer asked Mrs R if she banked with 
other institutions as different bank frauds were happening, so she should move her money to 
keep it safe. 
As Mrs Rs entire pension was stored in her Chase account and she thought the scammer 
was a genuine employee of Bank S, she agreed to move the money. He placed her on hold 
telling her he needed to discuss the matter with his colleagues before coming back on the 
phone to tell her she would have to move her money as soon as possible. He also said that 
given the amount, Chase might stop the payment, so she should say it was for building 
works. 
Mrs R tried to make the payment of £9,950 to the account details provided by the scammer 
and Chase blocked the payment and asked her to contact it to verify the payment. During 
the call, Mrs R said the money would be used to pay for extension on her house and she 
wasnt being forced to make the transfer. The call handler told Mrs R that if the payment 
turned out to be a scam, it wouldnt be able to refund the money. They offered her the 
chance to keep the payment on hold while she did due diligence on the payee, but she 
declined this and asked for the payment to be processed.
When Mrs R realised shed been scammed, she contacted Chase but it said it couldnt 
guarantee a refund and that she should contact the beneficiary bank. But Mrs R wasnt 
satisfied and so she complained to Chase with the assistance of a representative who said 
she didnt know what a safe account scam was or that scammers could impersonate banks 
or replicate phone numbers. They said it should have warned her that number spoofing is a 
feature of impersonation scams so she could have been more protected and that when it 
intervened, it failed to as probing enough questions to understand the context of the 
payments or to provide effective warnings. 
Chase said it was able to recover £40 from the beneficiary account which was returned to 
Mrs R following the scam claim. But it refused to refund the rest of the money shed lost. It 
said it had flagged the payment and asked Mrs R if her account was under attack and 
whether someone had asked her to move the money. She was given an opportunity to read 
its scam advice and have the payment put on hold, which she declined. And she was told 
that if it was a scam, she may not be able to get the funds back. 
Chase also said it followed the correct process when flagging the payment, but she didnt 
answer the questions truthfully and she had failed to do due diligence before moving the 
funds.
Mrs R complained to this service with the assistance of a representative. She said she sent 
the payment in the belief that the scammer worked for Bank S and Chases telephone 
intervention wasnt effective as the scammer had coached her to lie and it was easy to 
mislead the call handler. She said that if Chase had done more to understand the true nature 
of the payment, it could have deterred her from making the payment.
She explained the scammer was extremely professional and when she rang the number 
from the text message, it sounded like a genuine line. Further, the scammer made her feel 
under pressure her to act immediately, which gave her no time to think. She also said the 
level of customer service she received was poor and she felt dismissed and brushed aside. 
She had to wait three weeks before receiving any correspondence and it failed to provide 
any scam education.
Her representative said Mrs R didnt regularly make payments this large to new payees and 
she hadnt made any outgoing payments in the months prior to the scam, so the payment 
was unusual for the account.
They said that when it did intervene, the call handler was mainly concerned that Mrs R was 
the one who was making the payment and the questions she was asked werent tailored to 
the particular scam. They said it should have asked her whether someone had told her to 
say the payment was for building work and whether someone was forcing her to make the 
payment. It should then have provided an effective warning and Mrs R wouldnt have made 
the payments. 
Our investigator noted that Chases T&Cs state: If, taking everything into account when the 
payment was made, we find you should've known you were being tricked into sending 
money to a fraudster you wont get a refund. She explained that Mrs R wouldnt have known 
she was speaking to a scammer and she was satisfied she had reasonable basis to believe 
her money was at risk, especially as she sought advice from Bank S to check if the text 
message was genuine.
She noted that when Mrs R contacted the number in the text message, she was presented 
with a holding ringtone before options were given to select the department to speak to and 
she was satisfied Mrs R genuinely believed she was speaking to a representative from Bank 
S. Mrs R didnt know about safe account scams, so everything seemed plausible, and the 
representative even put her on hold explaining they needed to speak to colleagues to 
confirm this was the right way to protect her money.
Our investigator was satisfied Mrs R was under the spell of the scammer, and fearing her 
pension money was at risk, she acted quickly to move her it into what she thought was a 
safe account. She didnt think Mrs R knowingly sent funds to a scam, so she recommended 
Chase should refund the money shed lost.Finally, she didnt think it should pay compensation or legal fees as she couldve brought the 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service herself.
Chase has asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. It has argued that 
Mrs R was told by Bank S that she should contact their online banking team, but she used 
the number in the text. It has said that to be contacted out of the blue is suspicious and the 
number Mrs R contacted was a normal mobile number, which should have raised concerns. 
It has also said that it asked Mrs R the correct questions, but she wasnt honest when 
answering the questions. And it provided scam education and specifically asked if the money 
was being moved to a safe account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. 
The Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) doesnt apply in this case 
because Chase isnt a signatory to it. 
Im satisfied Mrs R authorised the payments for the purposes of the of the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. So, in broad terms, the 
starting position is that a bank is expected to process payments and withdrawals that a 
customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment Services Regulations and 
the terms and conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that into account when 
deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case. 
Theres no dispute that this was a scam, but although Mrs R didnt intend her money to go to 
scammers, she did authorise the disputed payments. Chase is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, but where the customer 
has been the victim of a scam, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to 
reimburse them even though they authorised the payment.
Prevention
The payment did flag as suspicious on Chases systems and Mrs R was required to contact 
it before the payment was released. But as Mrs R was dishonest about the purpose of the 
payment, Chase was unable to detect that the payment was being made to a scam.
However, Chases T&Cs state If, taking everything into account when the payment was 
made, we find you should've known you were being tricked into sending money to a 
fraudster you wont get a refund. So, Ive considered whether Mrs R should have known she 
was being tricked when she made the payment.
Chase has argued that Mrs R ignored some clear red flags including the fact she was 
contacted out of the blue via a text message, and the number in the message was a mobile 
number. It disputes that Bank S told her to contact the number in the text message and it 
has pointed out that Mrs R should have been concerned that she was told to lie to her bank. 
It has also said that she ignored the scam warnings it gave during the intervention call.
Its clear from her account of events that Mrs R did have some doubts about the text 
message that she received, but she was reassured when she was told by Bank S that the 
message looked genuine. I accept that this didnt mean the message was genuine but in contacting Bank S, Mrs R had done what she considered to be reasonable due diligence and 
Im satisfied that was reasonable in the circumstances.
Mrs R has also said that she was told by Bank S to contact the number in the text message, 
but Chase has suggested she was told to contact their online banking team. Theres no 
evidence of what Mrs R was told by Bank S, but I think its unlikely that Bank S would have 
told her to contact the number in the text message and I think Bank S probably told her to 
contact its online banking team and that Mrs R misunderstood the advice and instead 
contacted the number in the text message.
Ive listened to the intervention call and I accept that Mrs R wasnt open about the purpose of 
the payment. But she has explained that the scammer told her that Chase might stop the 
payment and so she should say it was for building works. I accept this meant that Chase 
was unable to prevent the scam but Im satisfied that Mrs R trusted what she was being told 
by the scammer and that she thought it was necessary to protect her money.
I also accept that Mrs R was warned about scams, Chase didnt specifically warn her about 
safe account scams or ask whether shed been told to lie, and she didnt want to delay the 
payment to do further due diligence because she was trying to move her money quickly to 
what she thought was a safe account. So, in the circumstances, while I accept Chase did 
provide a scam warning, I dont think it was enough to alert her that she was being tricked 
into sending money to a fraudster.
When Mrs R contacted the number in the text message, she heard a holding ringtone and 
was required to select from a number of options. She was also asked security questions. 
The scammer made her feel under pressure to act quickly to save her money and so she 
didnt have time to think. So, I dont think it was unreasonable that she failed to identify some 
of the warning signs that she was being scammed.
Overall, Im satisfied this was a sophisticated scam and, taking everything into account, 
including the fact Mrs R didnt know about the risk of safe account scams, Im not persuaded 
she shouldve known she was being tricked. Because of this, I agree with our investigator 
that Chase should refund the money Mrs R lost to the scam.
Compensation
Finally, I agree with our investigator that Mrs R isnt entitled to any compensation or legal 
fees because any distress and inconvenience was caused by the scammers and while I 
accept she was unhappy with the customer service she received, I havent seen any 
evidence that it fell below a reasonable standard.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, my final decision is that J.P. Morgan Europe Limited 
trading as Chase should refund £9,950 plus 8% simple interest*, per year, from the 
respective dates of loss to the date of settlement.
*If J.P. Morgan Europe Limited trading as Chase deducts tax in relation to the interest 
element of this award it should provide Mrs R with the appropriate tax deduction certificate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Carolyn BonnellOmbudsman