DRN-4285753
The complaint
Mr J has complained HSBC UK Bank plc added a marker against his name to the industry 
fraud database, CIFAS and closed his business account.
What happened
In 2020 Mr J closed down his business, in the name of R. At that time R held an account 
with HSBC.
HSBC contacted Mr J in January 2020 to query a payment R had received into their account. 
This was for £4,285. Mr J confirmed hed accepted this payment into Rs account from a 
friend of a friends and was told he could keep 2% as commission and pass the remainder to 
an overseas account and £500 to his friend.
As HSBC knew the money into Rs account had been transferred as the result of a malicious 
scam, they decided to block account and later added a fraud-related marker against Mr Js 
record. They felt the evidence theyd seen indicated Mr J was aware of what had happened 
and had been involved.
Mr J brought Rs complaint to the ombudsman service. 
Our investigator felt the evidence showed Mr Js involvement in what happened. He wasnt 
going to ask HSBC to do anything further.
Mr J continued to protest that hed not been aware that this was a scam. Hes asked an 
ombudsman to consider Rs complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
It is clear what the requirements are prior to lodging a marker. Specifically:
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial crime has 
been committed or attempted.
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could confidently 
report the conduct of the subject to the police.
So HSBC must be able to provide clear evidence that a financial crime was being committed 
and Mr J was involved. 
Ive seen the evidence about the funds paid into Rs account. These were the result of 
someone being scammed. Theres no doubt this money didnt belong to R or Mr J.
Mr J told us he knew this but was helping out a business acquaintance and thought he was 
transferring money to assist them.
I find this all a bit odd. Mr J sent some of this money straight back to the friend who 
approached him. Id have to wonder why he didnt ask the friend why he wasnt making this 
payment himself rather than asking Mr J to help out. I say this because Mr J admits he was 
allowed to keep over £250 from this payment just for receiving the money. That sounds like 
a considerable sum for hardly doing anything. That payment suggests to me that Mr J knew 
this was risky and could be illegal and was being paid for the risk he was accepting.
I know Mr J disputes this but overall Im satisfied that HSBC had sufficient clear evidence to 
lodge the CIFAS marker and close Rs account.
Mr J has also complained that he was unable to access the remaining funds in Rs account 
for seven months. Theres no doubt thats poor customer service and HSBC has offered 
£250 in compensation for the inconvenience. Taking everything into account that seems fair 
and reasonable. 
This offer was made before our services consideration of the complaint, and I leave it to 
Mr J to decide whether he wishes to accept this. I say this as R has been dissolved so I cant 
oblige HSBC to make a payment relating to a business account for a business that is no 
longer in existence.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Js complaint against HSBC UK 
Bank plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman