DRN-3633528
The complaint
Miss B is complaining about a credit card provided to her by Vanquis Bank Limited, 
(Vanquis), which she said was irresponsibly provided to her.
What happened
Miss B was provided with a credit card by Vanquis in October 2017. She said Vanquis 
should never have allowed her to open an account. Initially, she was pre-approved for the 
credit card online. Miss B said that she didnt provide any extensive income or expenditure 
information and to her surprise a month or so later, she received the credit card with a 
£1,000 credit limit. She was in a very vulnerable state when she applied, having been 
recently bereaved leaving her to be the breadwinner of the family. Miss B had to look after 
her mother and her young child. She said that Vanquis should have checked her credit 
report. Her credit score was poor because she was having a lot of problems with her existing 
debt. From June 2016 up until she applied, she had several accounts in default and several 
accounts with three to five payments in arrears. It was evident from her credit report that she 
had other debt problems before she applied for the credit card. The account should have 
been refused. The credit card was unaffordable, and Miss B couldnt even afford to make her 
first payment. The debt and charges have since escalated. She has made no payments at all 
directly to Vanquis. Miss B has had severe panic attacks and experiencing anxiety from 
every letter posted through the door, every knock at the door, as she was in fear that she 
had a debt that she couldnt repay.
Miss B would like Vanquis to refund her all the interest she paid and any late payment 
charges on the account. She would also like any late payment and default markers to be 
removed from credit records after this point. Ideally, she would like the account closed and 
the debt to be wiped off, as the lending was completely irresponsible, and the credit card 
should never have been sent.
In its final response letter, Vanquis upheld the complaint and said it would arrange to refund 
the interest incurred and subsequent charges. It would also pay 8% simple interest for any 
period that C has been deprived of money (if relevant). It would apply the refund to any 
balance outstanding on the account. Vanquis also said it would remove adverse entries from          
Miss Bs credit file when the balance had been cleared.
The adjudicator said that Vanquiss settlement offer appeared to be in line with this Services 
guidelines on redress. He believed the lender had acted fairly.
Miss B asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint.
As this complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, as an 
ombudsman, to review and resolve. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time. 
Im sorry to hear that things havent been easy for Miss B. I appreciate her strength of feeling 
on this matter and can understand why she feels that Vanquis shouldnt have agreed to lend 
to her. But I agree with the adjudicator that Vanquis has made a fair offer and I dont think it 
would be appropriate to ask Vanquis to write off the principal balance outstanding here. I 
appreciate that this will be disappointing for Miss B and I hope my explanation makes it clear 
why Ive come to this conclusion.
I can see that Vanquis recognised that it shouldnt have provided the credit card to Miss B as 
in its final response letter, it said that it had arranged to remove all interest and charges on 
the account and to remove the debt from Miss Bs credit file once it had been paid. Vanquis 
also said that the account had been passed to a debt collection agency (T) in       
December 2019. It said it would retrieve Miss Bs account from T and the next steps would 
depend on the balance outstanding. I think Vanquiss offer in its final response letter was fair 
and in line with this Services usual approach to putting things right where we find a credit 
card has been irresponsibly provided. It seems entirely reasonable to me that Miss B 
shouldnt have to pay any interest or charges applied to her credit card. But I also think that 
Miss B should repay the amount of her transactions balance. She has had the use of 
Vanquiss money to make those transactions. I also haven't seen enough to make me think it 
would be reasonable to ask Vanquis to write that amount off. I also agree that Vanquis 
should remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Bs credit file in relation to the 
credit card once the balance outstanding has been repaid.
As Miss B is experiencing financial difficulties, I would remind Vanquis of its duty to treat 
Miss B sympathetically and positively about the amounts she should repay.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont think that Vanquis should do more 
than it has already agreed to do in its final response letter.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 November 2022. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman