DRN-4405343
The complaint
Mr E, represented by a third party, complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua was 
irresponsible in its lending to him.
What happened
Mr E applied for an Aqua credit card in April 2013, and this was provided with an initial credit 
limit of £250. The credit limit was increased on six occasions bringing the credit limit in 
November 2016 to £6,150. Mr E says that the lending was unaffordable, and it made his 
already poor financial situation worse.
NewDay issued a final response letter dated 28 March 2023. It said that Mr E had brought 
his complaint too late as the last lending decision had been made more than six years before 
he raised his complaint. However, following Mr Es referral of his complaint to this service, 
NewDay consented to this complaint being considered.
NewDay said that Mr Es account was mainly used for retail spend with only a few instances 
of cash advances. It said his payments were generally more than the minimum amount 
required and there were no signs of financial difficulty reported at the credit reference 
agencies when the limit increases were offered. It said that Mr Es account was closed in 
March 2023 with the full balance being paid in April 2023.
Our investigator explained that consumer credit became a regulated activity on 1 April 2014 
and that he could only consider the lending decisions from that date. He said that there was 
limited information available in regard to the credit limit increases that took place between 
August 2014 and December 2015 and so he couldnt say whether the checks carried out 
before these were reasonable. But he said that before these increases there were signs that 
Mr E wasnt managing his account as he should.
Our investigator noted the information gathered before the fifth credit limit increase but said 
there was no detailed information about Mr Es credit position and noted that Mr E was 
making more use of the cash withdrawal facility and incurring over limit charges. Before the 
final credit limit increase Mr E s account still showed he was reliant on cash withdrawals.
Based on the information available, our investigator upheld this complaint in regard to the 
credit limit increases from 31 August 2014.
Mr E accepted our investigators view. NewDay didnt respond. As a response wasnt 
received from NewDay, this case was passed to me, an ombudsman, to issue a decision.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint the details of which are set out below.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator explained that providing consumer credit became a regulated activity on 1 
April 2014. However, between 2007 and 2014, consumer credit was overseen by the Office 
of Fair Trading which provided guidance on irresponsible lending which included the need to 
carry out proportionate affordability checks. NewDay was authorised and fell under our 
jurisdiction from 2011. I have therefore considered this complaint in regard to the initial 
provision of the credit card and all the credit limit increases.
Given the time that has passed since the account was opened and credit limit increases 
applied, there is limited information available to say what checks NewDay carried out and 
whether these were proportionate. But as the initial credit limit provided was £250, it is likely 
that this would have appeared affordable and without evidence to the contrary I do not find I 
can say it was wrong to provide the credit card with this initial credit limit.
The credit limit was increased in September 2013 to £1,050. Before this increase, Mr E was 
managing his account within its limit, was making his repayments and hadnt made any cash 
withdrawals. So, while this was a substantial increase to Mr Es credit limit, without further 
evidence, I do not find I can say that proportionate checks would have shown this to have 
been unaffordable.
A year later, in August 2014, Mr Es credit limit was increased to £1,850. Again, the only 
available information I have to assess whether it was reasonable to consider that this 
additional lending would be affordable to Mr E is his account management to that date. This 
shows that Mr Es balance had increased to near the new limit around three months after the 
previous credit limit increase had occurred. He then exceeded the credit limit on three 
occasions in December 2013, February 2014 and March 2014. The balance then stayed at 
just under the limit for the months leading up to the August 2014 credit limit increase. I think 
proportionate checks would have shown signs that Mr E might be becoming dependent on 
the borrowing but as he was making his repayments at this time and I have nothing else to 
show that NewDay should have been aware that he might be struggling financially, I do not 
find I have enough at this point to say NewDay was wrong to provide the credit limit 
increase.
The third credit limit increase took place in January 2015. This took Mr Es credit limit to 
£2,800. This limit was now more than ten times the size of the initial credit limit provided less 
than two years before and was a large increase only a few months after the previous limit 
increase. In the four months leading up to the limit increase, Mr E had exceeded his credit 
limit twice and while he was making his monthly payments his balance was remaining close 
to his limit. Given his history of borrowing, I think proportionate checks at this time would 
likely have shown that Mr E had become dependent on the debt and that it wasnt 
reasonable to provide further credit.
Further credit limit increases took place in December 2015, June 2016 and November 2016. 
This took Mr Es credit limit to £6,150. During this period Mr E continued to go over his limit 
on occasions and his balance would increase to near the new limit a few months after the 
limit increase suggesting he continued to be reliant on the debt and that this reliance 
increased with each credit limit increase. Mr E has provided copies of his bank statements 
from 2015 and these show that he was operating in his overdraft for a substantial part of 
each month. Given this I do not find that providing more credit was reasonable.
While there has been limited information available in this case due to the timing of the 
issues, on balance, I find it more likely than not based on what I have seen that 
proportionate checks would have suggested the credit increases from January 2015 
shouldnt have been considered reasonable.
Mr E accepted my provisional decision and NewDay said that it had nothing further to add.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no new information was provided in response to my provisional decision, my conclusions 
havent changed. I have set out my reasoning above but in summary, I do not find I have 
enough evidence to say that NewDay was wrong to provide Mr E with a credit card account 
with an initial credit limit of £250 or that the first two credit limit increases shouldnt have 
been provided. However, I think that had proportionate checks been undertaken before the 
third credit limit increase in January 2015, NewDay would likely have realised that Mr E had 
become dependent on the debt and that it wasnt reasonable to provide further credit. 
Therefore, I uphold this complaint in regard to the credit limit increase in January 2015 and 
the subsequent increases.
Putting things right
As I dont think NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua should have increased Mr Es credit limit above 
£1,850, I dont think its fair for it to charge any interest or charges on any balances which 
exceeded that limit. I understand that Mr Es account has been repaid.
To settle this complaint, NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua should:
Rework the account removing all interest, fees, charges, and insurances (not already 
refunded) that were applied to balances above £1,850.
Any credit balance resulting from this should be refunded to Mr E along with 8% 
simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the date of 
settlement.
To the extent relevant, any adverse information recorded on Mr Es credit file after 31 
January 2015 in relation to the account should be removed.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires NewDay to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must 
give Mr E a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint. NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua should 
take the actions set out above in resolution of this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman