DRN-1545424
 
The complaint
Miss G complains about how Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) dealt with 
the cancellation of her home insurance policy.
What happened
On 10 June 2019, Miss G called LV to cancel her home insurance policy, as shed be 
moving to a new address. LVs call handler asked Miss G which date she wanted the 
cancellation to be effective from. Miss G chose 11 July 2019. The call handler told Miss G 
thered be a final balance to be paid and that cover would end on 11 July 2019.  
LV sent Miss G an email after this call confirming her policy would be cancelled on 11 July 
2019. It also set out the small outstanding balance Miss G needed to pay. LV went on to 
write-off this balance. The policy was cancelled. Miss Gs move didnt go ahead as planned.
On 12 July 2019, Miss Gs mobile phone was stolen. She called LV the next day to make a 
claim for the phone. But LV turned down Miss Gs claim because her policy had been 
cancelled. So she hadnt been covered at the time of the theft.
Miss G wasnt happy with LVs decision. She said she hadnt realised the policy had been 
cancelled. She thought LV would only cancel it once the outstanding balance had been paid. 
It hadnt let her know itd written it off. She said LV had cancelled the policy on 10 July 2019 
rather than 11 July 2019 as shed asked. She asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Miss Gs complaint should be upheld. Shed listened to the call 
between LV and Miss G. She thought Miss G had clearly said she wanted the policy 
cancelled on 11 July 2019. She didnt think the call handler had led Miss G to think the policy 
would only be cancelled when the balance was settled. And she didnt think the cancellation 
email LV had sent suggested this either. Overall, she didnt think Miss G was covered by LV 
when her phone was stolen. She thought LV had acted fairly.
Miss G disagreed. She reiterated that LV hadnt sent her anything after its original email 
cancelling the policy.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I think LV has treated 
Miss G fairly. Ill explain why.
Both parties agree that Miss G called up LV on 10 June 2019 to ask it to cancel her policy. 
Ive listened carefully to this call to understand exactly what was said. Im satisfied the call 
handler clearly asked Miss G when she wanted the policy to be cancelled from. Miss G said 
the 11 July 2019. The call handler explained what the cancellation fee would be. He went on to say the policy had been cancelled and thered be no cover from 11 July 2019. Miss G 
confirmed this was ok.
I dont think the call handler said anything to make Miss G think the policy wouldnt be 
cancelled unless the outstanding balance had been paid. I think he was clear that Miss G 
wouldnt be covered by her policy after 11 July 2019. Miss G seemed happy with this. So Ive 
gone on to look at the cancellation email she was sent after the call on 10 June 2019. Ive 
seen LVs records which show the email was sent to the address we have on file. And Miss 
G accepts she got the email when it was sent.
The email stated, at the top, Policy cancelled from 11 July 2019. Under the greeting, it said, 
Were sorry youve chosen to cancel your policy with usYour policy has been cancelled 
and theres an outstanding amount of £18.44. Please give us a call to pay this within the next 
7 days.
I think its clear that Miss Gs policy had been cancelled. The email said the policy had been 
cancelled, not that it would be cancelled upon payment of the outstanding balance. I dont 
think theres anything here to suggest cancellation was conditional on payment of the 
outstanding amount. 
Miss G says LV didnt let her know itd waived the balance. I accept it didnt do so. But it was 
open to Miss G to contact LV and let it know the move hadnt gone ahead, and she still 
wanted insurance cover. LV had planned to collect the outstanding balance by direct debit, 
but it hadnt been able to. So it made a commercial decision to waive this small amount. I 
think this was a fair decision in the circumstances.  
Its unfortunate Miss Gs cover had ended by the time her phone was stolen on 12 June 
2019. I appreciate it was only one day after shed asked for the policy to end. But LV simply 
wasnt insuring Miss G at this point. And I note Miss G says the policy was cancelled on 10 
July 2019 rather than 11 July. But it still wouldnt have made a difference to the outcome of 
Miss Gs claim. Thats because the theft happened after the date Miss G had asked for the 
policy to be cancelled. So whether the policy was cancelled on 10 or 11 July 2019, there still 
wasnt any cover in place on 12 July 2019.
Overall, while I sympathise with Miss Gs position, I cant fairly find LV did anything wrong in 
the way it handled the cancellation of her policy. It wasnt aware that Miss G didnt go on to 
move and it acted in line with her instructions. So I think it was fair for LV to turn down Miss 
Gs claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 6July2020.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman