DRN-1009870
The complaint
Miss S complains about a problem with the renewal of her contents insurance policy 
arranged by Ageas Retail Limited.
What happened
Miss S holds a contents insurance policy arranged by Ageas, which she used to pay for by a 
monthly direct debit. In January 2019, Ageas wrote to Miss S with an invitation to renew the 
policy. It said that if Miss S wished to continue paying monthly for the policy, the payments 
would now be subject to interest. 
Ageas then sent a confirmation of renewal to Miss S at the end of January, which included a 
breakdown of the monthly premiums and a credit agreement.
Miss S called Ageas as she didnt want to pay the interest on her premium. She asked if she 
could pay the premium in full instead. Ageas said that as the policy was about to renew, it 
had already requested the first payment to be taken by direct debit. And as it was already in 
the process of being taken it couldnt be cancelled. 
Ageas told Miss S they could cancel the remaining direct debits, refund all of the interest, 
and Miss S could pay the remaining balance of her premium as one payment.
Miss S said she was unhappy with how Ageas told her about the interest charges. She said 
she wasnt given the opportunity to find another insurance provider as the renewal 
information arrived too late.
Miss S paid the balance of her premium and complained to Ageas about the service 
received. She added that she was unhappy with the number of calls she made to fix the 
problem. She didnt think Ageas shouldve taken a payment as she hadnt signed the credit 
agreement. She also said she was unhappy Ageas had closed down the complaint without 
fully investigating her concerns.
Ageas didnt uphold Miss S complaint. It acknowledged her initial complaint should have 
been logged more accurately. But it said the renewal documents sent to Miss S highlighted 
the interest charges on her premium. It said it was satisfied Miss S was given a full 
explanation of her options when she spoke to its advisors. 
Miss S referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator looked at everything and didnt 
recommend the complaint be upheld. She felt that Ageas had acted fairly by refunding the 
additional cost of the interest to Miss S, after it took a payment without her consent. And she 
thought Ageas had provided enough information to Miss S about the interest costs on its 
renewal documents. So she didnt think it needed to do anything further.
Miss S disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint, so its been passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I wont be upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain why below.
Miss S says Ageas didnt give her enough notice about the interest charges on her monthly 
premium. She says this meant she couldnt look for alternative cover before the policy 
renewed. Ive seen the renewal pack Ageas sent to Miss S on 3 January 2019. Miss S 
policy renewed on 2 February 2019. The renewal pack included details of the interest 
charges on the front page, and information about what Miss S needed to do in regards to 
paying her premium. Having considered the renewal pack, Im satisfied it set out the main 
changes to Miss S policy, and was sent to her a reasonable time before the policy renewed.
Miss S says Ageas shouldnt have taken a payment from her account without a signed credit 
agreement. Ageas says that as Miss S didnt contact it prior to the policy renewing, it was 
taken as acceptance of the new terms and conditions applied to the policy from the renewal 
date. This is a common feature of most insurance policies that auto-renew. And I can see 
that Ageas stated in their invitation to renewal If youre happy with your renewal, you dont 
need to do anything, as your policy will renew automatically. 
Ive also checked the important information document within the renewal pack. It sets out the 
changes to Miss S policy including the introduction of a charge for credit. In summary, it 
gives Miss S two options. It states, Should you wish to continue to pay for your insurance by 
monthly direct debit, you must sign the Credit Agreementand return a copy to us. Theres 
also an option to do this online. The other option states, If you do not wish to pay interest for 
the credit, you will need to get in contact and make arrangement to pay the annual premium 
in full. 
So in this instance, I dont think that Miss S could renew her policy without taking some form 
of action. And I can understand why she feels strongly about a payment being taken without 
her consent.
I agree that it was a mistake for Ageas to take a payment without first confirming the credit 
agreement was signed. But I need to consider the overall impact this had on Miss S 
situation. I can see that Ageas looked to correct the problem as soon as Miss S made them 
aware of it. They refunded her the full interest on the premium, and took the remaining 
payment without any additional charges. I think this puts Miss S back in the position she 
wouldve been in had she made the full payment up front. 
Ive also considered Miss S comments about the number of calls she made to fix the 
problem. Ive listened to the calls and I dont think Ageas has acted unreasonably in trying to 
put the matter right. So I dont think it needs to do anything further here.
 
 
 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 August 2019.
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman