DRN-3030826
complaint
This complaint is about payment protection insurance (PPI) taken out with a credit card 
account. The type of account in question was a dual Visa / Mastercard one, and my 
experience of these is that they were set up at the same time, during the same sale, using 
one application form. Ill therefore address both cards in this decision as part of the same 
issue.
Mrs D says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her the PPI.
background
Our adjudicator didnt think we should uphold the mis-sale complaint. However, they thought 
Lloydss subsequent offer to pay back some of the cost of the PPI, because of non-
disclosure of high commission and profit share, was fair in the circumstances.
Mrs Ds representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. However, they didnt raise 
any new or additional points and repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
I have read and considered all the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, 
in order to decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint. When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account 
relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ds. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Ds complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission decided Lloyds should have disclosed some of the 
commission it received - but that its subsequent offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to 
compensate for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances and within the rules. 
did Mrs D agree to the PPI?
Its not entirely clear when the PPI was actually sold. From records Lloyds has still available, 
we know the dual account started in 1995. We no longer have the application form and we 
only have access to the account statements from 2000 onwards. This is unfortunate 
although not unusual given how long ago all this was; businesses arent required to keep 
records indefinitely. 
In the absence of the actual form Mrs D used, Lloyds sent us an example of one that was 
used around 1995. I note there was a section on this which invited the applicant to choose if 
they did  or didnt  want PPI with their new account. There is no dispute Mrs D was sold 
PPI, so I think its more likely she ticked the option to have it on the application. I also see 
the PPI charges appeared on her account statements, listed as PAYMENTS INSURANCE 
PREMIUM. As Ive said, we only have access to later statements, but If shed not given her 
consent, I think Mrs D would have been prompted to ask at some point what the charges 
were for if it was something she didnt want. Theres no evidence she did this.
I also note on her complaint form to us Mrs D herself said the PPI and terms were 
discussed. So overall, I think its much more likely she agreed to the PPI.
was the PPI suitable for Mrs D?
Lloyds probably recommended the PPI to Mrs D as part of an advised sale so it had to 
check that the PPI was right for her. In my view, the evidence about Mrs Ds circumstances 
at the time, shows that the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. For 
example, she was eligible for the cover and she had only limited other means to fall back on 
in the event of something unexpected happening, such as losing her job or being unable to 
work. I note Mrs D said she had no sickness protection with her job. The price of the policy 
appears to have been affordable for her and useful if something went wrong. 
Mrs Ds representative told us she had a pre-existing medical condition and implied this 
might have made claiming under the policy rules difficult for her. But I dont agree  we were 
told she had had an operation in 1962 which is around 40 years before the PPI sale. I dont 
agree that this would have affected her ability to successfully claim, or indeed made her 
think twice about buying the cover.
I think the policy was suitable for her.
was Mrs D told enough?
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been, particularly relating to certain policy limitations and exclusions. But in this case, 
these related largely to mental health exclusions, and also to back pain, where more 
evidence had to be provided for a successful claim. Its possible more should have been 
done to make these rules clear. However, Mrs D wasnt affected by these and Ive not been 
provided with any evidence that suggest she would have considered shortcomings about 
these conditions such that she would have changed her mind. 
I therefore dont think Mrs D would have declined the cover even if Lloyds could have done a 
better job at explaining some things. In all other aspects, what she was sold was very close 
to what I think she expected from the cover.
Mrs Ds representative raised a number of what I consider to be general points, which it says 
apply to all PPI complaints. These include: a claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is 
not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these 
policies represented poor value because of the number of significant exclusions and 
limitations of cover coupled with a low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant 
Lloyds should have disclosed the poor value and explained the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions and the impact on the chances of making a claim.
But Mrs Ds representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Ds individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints. 
Ive thought about these and how they might apply in Mrs Ds particular case. But these 
points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the mis-
sale element of this complaint. 
This means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs D.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Lloyds should have disclosed the commission it received in 
relation to one of the cards (the other falls outside the times where these rules apply). And I 
think that Lloydss offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for this unfairness 
caused on one card is fair. This has previously been comprehensively explained by our 
adjudicator. 
was there an unfair relationship?
Lloyds didnt tell Mrs D about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in relation 
to the Visa card. So taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Lloyds and Mrs D was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act because 
Lloyds didnt tell her about the high levels of commission and profit share in this case 
I dont think Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mrs D because it failed to 
disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mrs Ds representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on her complaint. In summary they have said Mrs D should get back all 
the money she paid for the policy because: Lloyds failed to tell Mrs D about the high 
commission and profit-share rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and 
exclusions on cover. Because they say that meant the policy was poor value, I should find 
that Mrs D wouldnt have taken out the policy had they known about the level of commission 
and she should receive a refund of all the premiums she paid.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipBut I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a 
consumer would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; 
and
- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge 
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance 
about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
Mrs D in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Lloyds not disclosing the high level of 
commission to her before she purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mrs Ds representative suggests, driven to conclude that she wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for Lloydss failure to disclose the level of commission for the 
reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for Lloyds to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some of the money Mrs D paid for her PPI policy. I consider this fairly removes the 
source of the unfairness because it leaves Mrs D with the policy Ive concluded above she 
would still have taken out if Lloyds had done everything it should have done  but with lower 
commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that Lloydss subsequent offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the 
commission and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs as Ive described 
above (plus associated interest where applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is 
fair in all the circumstances.
 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, I do not uphold the mis-sale element of Mrs Ds 
complaint or make any award in favour of her for this part of the complaint.However, because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that 
Lloyds Bank PLC should pay Mrs D an amount equivalent to the commission and profit 
share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost as Ive explained above (plus associated 
interest where applicable). I understand this money has already been paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs D to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman