DRN-3429625
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy that he was unable to log on to his online account with Leeds Building 
Society (LBS) and that there were then delays before he could make online transactions.  
What happened
In October 2021 Mr K opened an online savings account with LBS. A few days later he tried 
to log on to his account but was unable to do so. He contacted LBS and was told that 
someone would call him to help. He didnt receive a call, so made a request for one on the 
website. At the same time, he raised a complaint. He then sent an email to the Head of 
Customer Support.  
Mr K received a call the following day, and his account was unlocked. 
Several days after that, Mr K logged onto his account again. He noticed however that his 
contact details were not verified. This meant that, had he wanted to make transactions on 
the account, two-factor authentication would not have been available, and any transactions 
might have been declined. 
LBS offered Mr K £50 in recognition of the difficulties he had experienced in logging on to his 
account. The issue with verification remained, however.
LBS told Mr K that it might take up to three months to resolve the verification issues. Mr K 
thought that was unreasonable and wrote to the building societys Chief Executive. The 
verification issues were resolved a few days later  some ten days after they had come to 
light and just over two weeks since Mr K had opened the account. 
LBS increased its offer of compensation to £100 in total, in recognition of both issues  with 
access to the account and verification. It also offered Mr K a gift, although did not specify 
what it might be. Mr K was not happy with that and referred the matter to this service. 
Our investigator considered what had happened and, having noted that there was no real 
dispute about the facts, agreed that £100 was fair compensation in the circumstances. Mr K 
did not accept that assessment and asked that an ombudsman review the case.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator noted, there is no dispute here about what happened. And LBS has 
acknowledged that Mr K should not have had any difficulty either in accessing the account or 
in having his contact details verified. Its offered compensation in recognition of that.
In my view, the compensation offered is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I note that 
LBS has not specified any particular gift, but no doubt something acceptable can be 
arranged if and when Mr K accepts my decision. For the avoidance of doubt, though, I think 
that a payment of £100 would be sufficient to resolve this complaint, whether or not a further 
gift is offered. In my view, such a payment would be in line with awards in similar cases and 
with our published guidance. 
In reaching that conclusion, I have taken into account the relatively short time that the online  
account could not be accessed or could not be used fully, and the fact that Mr K does not 
appear to have wanted to carry out any transactions in that time.   
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I dont require Leeds Building Society to take any 
further steps to resolve Mr Ks complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2022.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman