DRN-3028982
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1997. Mr and Mrs B say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold that PPI policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs B took out a joint mortgage, but the PPI was set up to cover only Mr B. Other 
than that, the background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr 
and Mrs Bs circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, 
limitations and exclusions of cover, arent materially disputed. So I havent repeated all of 
that information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint, and they thought Lloyds subsequent 
offer to pay back some of the cost of the PPI because of the non-disclosure of high 
commission and profit share Mr and Mrs B paid   was fair in the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs Bs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for afinal 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Bs. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr and 
Mrs Bs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided Lloyds should have disclosed the 
commission it received - but that Lloydss offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to 
compensate for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. Ive summarised my 
reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
 
Was PPI mis-sold?
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are as follows. 
Mr and Mrs B cant remember how or where PPI came to be sold to them. Lloyds told us the 
sale took place during a face to face meeting in one of its branches. The evidence Ive seen 
doesnt suggest that Lloyds is wrong on that point. I cant know what was said during that 
meeting. As Mr and Mrs B cant remember anything about it, Ive relied on the documentary 
evidence to help me decide what most likely happened at the point of sale. 
The first thing Ive considered is whether Lloyds made it clear that Mr and Mrs B didnt have 
to take out the PPI if they didnt want it. I can see from the mortgage application form that Mr 
and Mrs B had to indicate they wanted a PPI policy, and they had to answer some relatively 
basic questions about the cover to see if they were eligible for it. I think the person selling 
the cover probably followed the questions as set out on the application form. On that basis, I 
think Mr and Mrs B were probably presented with a choice about whether take this policy 
out. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs B so it had to check that the cover was suitable. 
To help me decide whether the cover was a good fit for them, Ive looked at what we know 
about the terms and conditions of the policy. And Ive also thought carefully about what we 
know about Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances at the relevant time. 
I can see Mr and Mrs B said they didnt think the cover was suitable because Mr B was self-
employed and Mrs B had only just started a new job. Looking at the terms and conditions, I 
dont think it would have been more difficult for Mr B to make a claim because he was self-
employed than if he was an employee. And as the cover was set up to cover Mr B only, I 
cant say Mrs Bs employment status would have affected the suitability of this cover. 
Mr B didnt have any sick pay entitlement, which is in line with what I would expect if he was 
self-employed. So I think he and Mrs B may well have struggled to keep up with their 
mortgage repayments if he was out of work. I can see they had some savings, but the PPI 
would have lasted longer than those savings. And with this cover, they could have kept 
those funds for their other essential expenditure at what would have no doubt been a very 
stressful time for them if Mr B was out of work.  
Mr and Mrs B told us Mr B had broken a bone and had a chest infection in the early 1980s. 
Their representative argued this meant the cover was not right for them. But the evidence 
Ive seen doesnt suggest those medical conditions caused Mr B to have any ongoing 
symptoms in 1997 when the cover was sold. So I cant reasonably say that these isolated 
conditions at least 15 years before the cover was sold would render the PPI unsuitable. 
With all of this in mind, I think Lloyds suitably recommended PPI to Mr and Mrs B. Having 
said that, I accept its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs B about the PPI 
wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose to take it out - so it looks 
like they wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable as I 
concluded above. It doesnt appear to have been too dissimilar to what they reasonably 
thought they were buying from the information given. It also looks like it was affordable  so 
it seems like it could have been useful if something went wrong with Mr Bs job. Because of 
this I dont think Mr and Mrs B would have declined the cover had Lloyds done anything 
more.While the policy contained exclusions on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, this didnt make the policy fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. So I think 
they would have still thought they had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs B would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could 
provide a useful benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. I also think 
the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought it was. And in those 
circumstances, I think that they would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs Bs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Lloyds should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Bs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mr and Mrs Bs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Bs particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold the mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs B.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Lloyds should have disclosed the commission it received and 
that Lloydss offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused 
is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Lloyds didnt tell Mr and Mrs B about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in 
this case. So taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipgave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Lloyds and Mr and Mrs B was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 
because Lloyds didnt tell them about the high levels of commission and profit share in 
this case 
I dont think Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr and Mrs B because it 
failed to disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mr and Mrs Bs representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on their complaint.
In summary they have said Mr and Mrs B should get back all the money they paid for the 
policy because: Lloyds failed to tell Mr and Mrs B about the high commission and profit-
share rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because 
they say that meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mr and Mrs B wouldnt have 
taken out the policy had they known about the level of commission and they should receive a 
refund of all the premiums they paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a 
consumer would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; 
and
- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge 
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance 
about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
Mr and Mrs B in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Lloyds not disclosing the high 
level of commission before the policy was sold.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mr and Mrs Bs representative suggests, driven to conclude that they 
wouldnt have purchased the policy but for Lloydss failure to disclose the level of 
commission for the reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for Lloyds to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some of the money Mr and Mrs B paid for their PPI policy. 
I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Mr and 
Mrs B with the policy Ive concluded above they would still have taken out if Lloyds had done 
everything it should have done  but with lower commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that Lloydss offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
 
As Lloyds has already paid Mr and Mrs B compensation on this basis, I dont consider it 
should do anything further. 
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mr and Mrs Bs complaint or make any 
award for this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that Lloyds 
Bank PLC should pay Mr and Mrs B an amount equivalent to the commission and profit 
share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable) if it 
hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman