DRN-4088099
The complaint
Mr G complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) wont refund the money he lost 
when he was the victim of what he feels was a scam.
What happened
In early 2022, Mr G was looking to get some landscaping work done at his property. He 
came across a trader advertising landscaping services on a social media platform. And after 
meeting the trader, checking their company online and seeing examples of other work they 
had done, Mr G agreed for the trader to carry out the work. Mr G then made a number of 
payments to the trader to pay for materials, including two payments from his RBS account 
totalling £1,000.
Unfortunately the trader then didnt start the work when agreed and, shortly afterwards, Mr G 
received a message that the traders company had gone into liquidation. After finding out 
other people had been left in similar positions by the trader, Mr G reported the payments to 
RBS as fraud and asked it to refund the money he had lost.
RBS investigated but said it thought the trader was operating a genuine company at the 
time, so it didnt think this was a scam. It said it considered this to be a civil matter between 
Mr G and the trader, so didnt agree to refund the money Mr G had lost. Mr G wasnt 
satisfied with RBSs response, so referred a complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the case. They thought it was likely that the trader was 
operating a genuine company at the time and hadnt intended to scam Mr G. So they thought 
it was a civil dispute between Mr G and the trader and RBS didnt need to refund the money 
Mr G had lost. Mr G disagreed with our investigator, so the complaint has been passed to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think it would be fair to require RBS to refund the money Mr G has 
lost. Ill explain why below.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
customer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the customer even though they 
authorised the payment.
RBS is a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (the 
CRM code). This requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victim of certain 
types of scams, in all but a limited number of circumstances. But customers are only covered 
by the code where they have been the victim of a scam.
The CRM code says that it doesnt apply to private civil disputes, such as where a customer 
has paid a legitimate supplier for goods or services but has not received them, they are 
defective in some way or the customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier. So in order 
to determine whether RBS should refund the money Mr G lost under the CRM code, I need 
to consider whether he has been the victim of a scam  or, in other words, whether the 
trader set out from the beginning with the intent to defraud him.
Mr G says he first saw the trader advertising on a social media platform, and then checked 
and saw that they were registered on Companies House and on an online directory for 
tradespeople. And I wouldnt necessarily expect a scammer to be registered in this way.
Mr G also said the trader came to his property three times to assess the work to be done. 
And that he was shown pictures of other work the trader had done, spoke to several other 
people who had work done by the trader and saw some other work the trader had completed 
at a nearby property. But I wouldnt usually expect a scammer to have this much in-person 
contact with someone before receiving any payment, and I wouldnt usually expect a 
scammer to be able to arrange these kinds of examples of work or previous customers.
The trader also allowed Mr G to pay some of the up-front cost by credit card. Whereas 
scammers will usually want people to pay them in cash or by bank transfer, as there is less 
chance of these types of payments being recovered or traced.
The bank the payments were sent to has also told us that the activity on the traders account 
is consistent with their nature of business. And from what Ive seen of the activity on the 
account the money was sent to, it appears to have been run as I would expect a legitimate 
account to have been.
I appreciate how Mr G feels about this case, that no work was ever done at his property and 
that other people appear to have been left in similar positions by the trader. Hes suggested 
that the trader was acting fraudulently if he knew his company was in trouble but kept taking 
payments. And it is possible that this is the case. But I havent seen anything to show the 
trader knew he wouldnt be able to complete the work, rather than just hoped he could work 
through the trouble his company was having.
Where the evidence available is incomplete or inconclusive, I must make a decision on what 
I think is most likely to have happened. And, based on the evidence Ive seen, I think its 
more likely the trader here was attempting to operate as a legitimate business at the time 
and that other factors ultimately meant the landscaping work wasnt completed. I dont think 
the trader set out from the beginning with the intent to defraud Mr G, or that Mr G has been 
the victim of a scam here.
So I dont think the payments Mr G made to the trader are covered under the CRM code, or 
that RBS should be required to refund the money he lost.
I sympathise with the position Mr G has found himself in, and Im in no way saying he did 
anything wrong or that he doesnt have a legitimate grievance against the trader. But, for the 
reasons Ive explained above, I dont think it would be fair to hold RBS responsible for the 
money hes lost.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2023.
 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman