DRN-4116061
The complaint
Mrs B complains about Lloyds General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) who declined her claim 
under her home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs B contacted Lloyds to make a claim as she noticed that there was a leak in her home.  
Lloyds sent a surveyor to assess the damage. The surveyor said that the leak had been 
caused by a failed shower seal and as this wasnt an insured event, Lloyds declined her 
claim. 
Mrs B accepted the decision to decline the claim and went about getting a contractor in to 
carry out the repairs. The contractor also assessed the damage and found that the source of 
the leak wasnt the shower seal but the bath trap. He also found that damp readings were 
higher in the bath area, and none was found in the shower area. 
Mrs B found that as the escape of water from the bath trap was an insurable event, went 
back to Lloyds and asked it to re-consider the claim, in light of her contractors conclusions. 
In its final response, Lloyds said that her claim had been declined fairly, as there wasnt 
enough evidence to overturn the decision. It also said that there had been delays in the 
service that Mrs B experienced for which it apologised and offered £400 compensation for 
the trouble and upset caused. 
Mrs B was given her referral rights and referred a complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. She said that she 
was more persuaded by Mrs Bs expert report who found that the source of the leak was the 
bath trap, than the report from Lloyds expert. She said this was due to the photographs 
(from both partys experts) that showed damage under the bath and damp readings in the 
bath area. So, she recommended that Lloyds cover the cost of the repair work (£9,090) that 
was done, as well as give Mrs B a further £100 compensation for the additional trouble and 
upset caused. 
Mrs B accepted the view, Lloyds did not. It requested Mrs Bs builders invoice, as she had 
had the work completed. It offered to pay 50% of the invoice cost, as it believed that it was 
likely that the leak had started around 4 years earlier. But as there was no evidence to fully 
support this contention, it made this offer, as well as agreed to paying a further £100 
compensation, as recommended. 
Our investigator put the offer to Mrs B, who accepted the offer. And this was communicated 
to Lloyds. Following this, Lloyds then asked for Mrs Bs builders invoice and said that it 
would only now pay for items that had been damaged as a direct result of the leak. It also 
said that the other items on the invoice it considered to be betterment and it wouldnt cover 
the cost of those items. It asked for a full breakdown of the costs, so that it could determine 
how much it would cover. Lloyds did not make a payment (despite having had a copy of the 
invoice) as such the matter has been referred for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I considered the complaint, and I thought the complaint should be upheld. I issued a 
provisional decision on 13 April 2023 and asked both parties to send me anything else by 11 
May 2023. In my provisional decision I said:
Having done so, I intend to uphold this complaint, but for slightly different reasons than that 
of our investigator. And I hope my provisional findings explain why I think this is fair. 
Mrs B contacted Lloyds as she discovered a leak at her home. It sent a surveyor to assess 
the damage. He found that the source of the leak was due to failed shower seals, which 
wasnt covered as an insurable loss under the policy and the claim was declined.  
During the remedial works, Mrs Bs contractor found that the source of the damage came 
from a bath trap, and not the shower seal. There was further evidence of the leak originating 
from the bath, such as, rotten floorboards, high damp readings in the bath area compared 
with no damp readings in the shower area (which was located in another part of the 
bathroom) Mrs B asked Lloyds to reconsider the claim. 
Although Lloyds didnt accept Mrs Bs contractors opinion, it agreed to pay for 50% of the 
contractors costs as well as a total of £500 compensation for service failings. Mrs B 
accepted this settlement offer from Lloyds, but Lloyds didnt pay the settlement. It asked for 
a breakdown of the costs instead. As Mrs B didnt get a resolution, I think the main issue of 
this complaint is whether the 50% contribution offer from Lloyds, was fair.
Lloyds made the 50% contribution offer after it had been sent a copy of the invoice from Mrs 
Bs contractor. Lloyds asked for a breakdown of the work, after the offer had been accepted 
by Mrs B. Having reviewed the invoice, Im satisfied that all the work undertaken was 
particularised. For instance, it mentions: to cut out four rotten joists and replace with treated 
timber. 
Equally, the invoice mentions work that could be deemed as extra work such as: remove the 
complete bathroom suite, fit shower valve, run cold and hot feeds to shower. So, I can 
understand why Lloyds wanted a further breakdown, as to the costs attributable to the 
damage the leak caused. 
In addition, Lloyds mentioned that the leak could have been historical, in that it could have 
started around four years earlier. But I have seen no evidence to support this contention, 
and Im not persuaded by it. 
Nevertheless, Im persuaded by the report from Mrs Bs contractor as to the source of the 
leak and the actual damage caused. The report stated that the source of the leak came from 
the bath trap and joists were damaged under the bath due to being saturated with water. It 
also mentions that due to the leak, there was damage to the room below and some of its 
contents. 
I note that the bath wasnt in the same area as the shower, toilet, or sink, yet on Mrs Bs 
contractors invoice it indicates that the entire bathroom suite was removed. All the flooring 
was removed, and a towel rail was replaced. From the evidence, I cant see that all of these 
items were directly affected by the leak.  I must also take into consideration, that the purpose of insurance policies is to put a 
policyholder back into their pre-loss condition. They are not in place for betterment, and I do 
think some of the work carried out was for betterment. For this reason, I think its fair that 
Lloyds pay Mrs B half of the cost of the remedial works as it originally offered. I say this as it 
had sight of the invoice before it made the offer. And I think by contributing to half of the 
invoice costs, this would consider any issues regarding betterment. 
Lloyds accepted that there were service failings, in particular the delays that Mrs B 
experienced and I do think that compensation is warranted.  Im satisfied that given the 
trouble and upset caused, Lloyds should pay Mrs B a total compensation of £500 (a further 
£100) as it originally agreed to. 
Taking all the circumstances into consideration, I intend to ask Lloyds to put matters right by 
making a 50% contribution to the invoice costs namely, £4,545. As well as pay a total of 
£500 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
If either party has any further evidence for me to consider, I will ask that this be provided. But 
currently, I think this is a fair and reasonable outcome.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs B had nothing further to add to my provisional decision but did accept it.
Lloyds said that it didnt dispute the compensation of £500 in total. But it felt that as Mrs B 
had undertaken work that wasnt necessary as it didnt remedy the damage caused, it wasnt 
fair or reasonable for it to pay 50% of the entire value. It said that its offer, which it was 
reiterating, was for it to pay 50% of the necessary works to remedy the damage. 
It felt that the source of the leak came from the shower seals and not from under the bath. It 
sent two surveyors to find the source of the leak. The first surveyor couldnt be sure of the 
source of the damage until strip out works had been carried out. Lloyds then sent another 
surveyor and that surveyor found that the source of the leak was due to the defective shower 
seals. That surveyor also said that there was no leak under the bath but removed the bath 
panel and saw rotten floorboards. 
Lloyds said that as Mrs Bs claim had been declined, she then carried out a strip out of her 
bathroom and refurbished it, which it said was logical for a homeowner to want to update the 
area. But it felt that Mrs Bs expert was too specific in what they concluded was the cause of 
the leak. 
Lloyds felt that the actual leak under the bath occurred most likely some time ago (although 
it accepted that there was no actual evidence to support this contention) and prior to the 
policy inception. It still maintained that the leak originated from the shower seals that had 
failed. And that it was fair and reasonable for it to make a 50% contribution to the necessary 
repairs to remedy the damage caused by the leak.
I have carefully considered the comments made by both parties. Mrs B has accepted the 
provisional decision and I make no further comment regarding this. 
Lloyds said that the offer it originally made was to pay 50% of the necessary works to 
remedy the damage caused solely by the leak. So, Ive had a look into this further and in 
particular what it said about the contribution it would make. In an email sent to our investigator Lloyds said the following: I propose that a contribution of 
50% is made to the cost of the remedial works. Im satisfied that the offer did not specify that 
the contribution would only extend to the damage caused solely by the leak. But in any 
event, I took into consideration that some of the reinstatement works included repairs that 
could be considered to be betterment. And as a result, I didnt think it was fair or reasonable 
that Lloyds contribute towards that. Which is why I think a fair and reasonable contribution 
would be for Lloyds to pay 50% of the total costs of the repairs carried out. 
I understand that Lloyds has said that the damage was due to failed shower seals and that 
the damage under the bath pre-dated the policy inception. But Im more persuaded by Mrs 
Bs expert and Ill explain why. 
Lloyds sent in two surveyors. The first one couldnt provide an opinion as to the cause of the 
leak. This it said was due to the fact that no strip out had occurred. The second found that 
the shower seals were the cause of the leak. But at the time, no strip out had occurred. By 
the time that a strip out had happened by Mrs Bs expert, he found that the cause of the leak 
was coming from under the bath. There were rotten floorboards, high damp readings and no 
damp readings from the shower area. 
I have found the following communication from Lloyds in March 2021, who appear to 
question whether the shower seal was the proximate cause: We await a response from 
Absolute as they said that the pipe works were fine under the bath, but they made no 
comment to the extent of damage under the bath. We would need confirmation that the 
shower sealant failure is the sole proximate cause. I find this unlikely looking at the extent of 
the damage under the bath.. 
In addition, given that there was little evidence of damage or high damp reading from the 
shower area, Im satisfied that the proximate cause came from the bath and not as a result 
of the failure of the shower seals. Especially as Mrs Bs expert had carried out a full strip out 
before arriving at their opinion. And that the first surveyor sent by Lloyds said that a full strip 
out would be required before a definitive opinion could be given about the source of the leak. 
Putting things right
Taking all the circumstances into consideration, I think its fair and reasonable for Lloyds to 
put matters right by making a 50% contribution to the invoice costs namely, £4,545. As well 
as pay a total of £500 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Bs complaint. 
Lloyds General Insurance Limited to make a 50% contribution towards the total cost of the 
invoice of £4,545.
Lloyds General Insurance Limited to pay Mrs B £500 for the trouble and upset caused. 
Lloyds General Insurance Limited must pay the above amounts within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mrs B accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay 
interest at 8% a year simple on the above amounts, from the date Mrs B paid for the repairs 
to the date of settlement to reflect that she has been deprived of these funds.If Lloyds General Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs B how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mrs B a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman