DRN-4045997
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc has not refunded them after Mr W was 
the victim of a safe account scam. 
Whilst this complaint concerns a joint account, it was Mr W that fell victim to the scam and is 
acting on behalf of both account holders in bringing this complaint  so I have only referred 
to him throughout this decision.
What happened
Im not going to cover all the points raised in detail. The view of 31 March 2022 covered the 
detailed timeline of the transactions and the details of Mr Ws testimony. But briefly:
On 19 January 2021, Mr W says he received a call from someone who he believed was from 
HSBCs fraud department. Mr W told us he called the number on the back of his bank card 
and was given a password to verify the caller  which led him to believe the caller was 
genuine. The following day (20 January 2021) an attempt to transfer £17,000 via Mr Ws 
online banking was made. However, this was declined, and Mr W was asked to visit one of 
HSBCs branches. Mr W did so later that day. The branch called the fraud team who spoke 
with Mr W directly. Mr W told the fraud team the payment was for building works. The block 
on Mr Ws account was lifted and the transaction for £17,000 successfully transferred via 
online banking the following day (21 January 2021). 
On 25 January 2021 a transfer of £25,000 was attempted  but declined. Again, Mr W was 
asked to visit a branch - which he did later that day and the transfer was completed. He told 
staff the payment was for his son. Two further attempts to transfer £25,000 were made in the 
days that followed - but both payments were blocked. Following the last attempted transfer 
on 28 January 2021, HSBC evoked the Banking Protocol and the police visited Mr W. They 
reported back to the bank that they had no concerns over the payments Mr W had made for 
his son and for building works.
On 3 February 2021, Mr W visited a branch and explained to staff he was told to lie to the 
police and branch staff by the scammer and now realised he had been the victim of a scam.
HSBC declined to refund the transactions under the Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM) Code. It said it gave the consumer an effective warning and Mr W didnt make any 
additional checks prior to making the payments.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint as he felt HSBC had done all it could when 
questioning Mr W about the transactions and Mr W ought to have been concerned about the 
legitimacy of the transactions he was making. 
I issued my provisional decision on 7 March 2023. HSBC hasnt responded. Mr W doesnt 
agree for a number of reasons and believes he should be fully reimbursed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered Mr Ws response to my provisional decision. 
Many of the points Mr W has raised dont change the outcome here and I dont need to 
address every single point thats been raised if it is not material to the outcome. No 
disrespect is intended, and it doesnt follow that the points havent been considered, simply 
that I dont need to particularise every point in reaching an outcome I consider to be fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. Ive instead concentrated on the issues I think are 
central to the outcome of this complaint.
First, I want to make it absolutely clear that I am in no way doubting Mr W was a victim of a 
cruel and callous scam. This is a difficult decision to make; Im sorry Mr W has lost a 
considerable amount of money and I can understand why he would like to be compensated 
for more of his losses. But Im only considering whether the bank, which had no involvement 
in the scam itself, should be held responsible for what happened and whether it is fair to hold 
it responsible for all of Mr Ws losses when there were signs that things were not quite right.
Second, it is not a question of me not believing Mr W and I am not saying he has been 
untruthful. As I mentioned in my provisional decision, where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of 
the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
I dont doubt at the time of the scammers call(s) Mr W was tricked into believing he was 
speaking to HSBC. Furthermore, I accept Mr W may have been tricked into believing that he 
called the number on the back of his card and tricked into believing he had genuinely verified 
the individual as a representative of HSBC. But as Mr W acknowledges himself, he has 
always been aware the mobile call history doesnt reflect his version or recollection of the 
events. And as I have mentioned above  I have to base my conclusions on the evidence 
and what I think is more likely than not. 
It is not for me to get Mr Ws phone analysed (or disprove the facts simply because that is 
not how Mr W recalls the events). I have no doubts that the call history reflects what 
happened here  albeit this is not how Mr W recalls the events (or was tricked into recalling 
things differently by the fraudster). 
In any event, I dont think the call history changes anything here (so there is no need for me 
to wait for Mr W to do further research into this matter). I accept Mr W may have been 
tricked into thinking he had called the genuine HSBC number  indeed this is a common 
tactic used by fraudsters (and this may have been what happened when the long number 
combining both the 0345 and 0800 number shows on the call history). The photo labelled 
time of my first call to HSBC is an incoming call from 0800 not an outgoing call to 0800. I 
believe this is likely the spoofed 0800 call from the fraudster. The fact remains Mr W did not - 
at any point - get through to the genuine HSBC or a genuine HSBC employee on 19 January 
2021. I did not say the initial contact was an incoming call to his mobile not the landline. I dont 
have the evidence in relation to the landline - but in my provisional decision I said:
I accept that Mr W was called by a spoofed number and dont doubt the possibility that this 
was initially on his landline.
I apologise if my double negative has caused confusion - but to confirm - I accept there was 
a possibility Mr W was also called on the landline and I accept that a much longer call may 
have happened there.
Whilst I am not entirely sure of the relevance of this point, I dont agree with Mr W that the 
banks email of 8 April 2021 denies the 0800 number was a valid HSBC number. On the 
contrary, it says:
I understand the call appeared to come from 0800., which is an HSBC Private Bank 
phone number. If youd have researched the number, youd have known this and questioned 
why HSBC Private Bank would be contacting you when your account is held with HSBK UK.
And
you advised youd dialled a number youd found on the back of your card, 0345. , and 
spoken to a member of staff who confirmed a password the fraudster had told you. This is 
not an HSBC phone number and isn't detailed on any HSBC cards. Conducting research on 
the number confirms this.
I also dont doubt Mr W had a newly activated card and that there appeared to be suspicious 
activity on the card. And I understand, and accept, this was the premise on which the 
scammers call was made. In any event, this point it not material to the outcome of the 
complaint.
So, I accept Mr W was the victim of a scam and was tricked into thinking the bank had called 
him. I accept Mr W was tricked into believing he had called the number on the back of his 
card. At this point, and in the moment of the call, I accept he had a reasonable basis for 
believing this was a genuine situation. But for the reasons outlined in my provisional 
decision, I think this changed by the time the transaction was actually made.
With reference to the call and online transfer on 20 January 2021, I accept Mr W may not 
have been aware of these. It seems the bank had concerns over the voice in the call and the 
size of transfer being made. I think its possible that these attempts were made by the 
fraudster himself  who by now had access to Mr Ws banking details. It is also possible the 
online transfer (BP standing for Bill Payment) was made by the fraudster too and that if Mr W 
didnt make the transfer himself  he was tricked into providing the information on the key 
generator to the fraudster  albeit he does now not recall. There is no other plausible 
explanation.
I appreciate Mr W may have believed (and possibly tricked by the fraudster into believing) 
that the transfer happened whilst in the branch  but again the evidence does suggest 
otherwise. The banks internal notes, along with Mr Ws own bank statements reflect the fact 
this was done the following day  21 January 2021- by online Bill Payment. In my provisional decision, I explained how for both transactions, Mr W made it difficult for 
HSBC to give a tailored and impactful warning (albeit, he believed he was helping the HSBC 
fraud department by not telling them the true purpose of the transaction). This means it 
would not be fair for me to say HSBC has failed in its obligation to provide an effective 
warning. The warnings given during the last two branch visits arent relevant here  as no 
transactions took place.
The call that took place during the first branch visit did not warn about rogue traders as Mr W 
seems to recall  although this was the cover story Mr W gave the fraud team for the 
purpose of the payment. As I explained in my provisional decision  that call did specifically 
cover impersonation scams. And I also explained that aspects of the warning were good, for 
example the caller warns not to transfer funds in response to any suspicious calls asking Mr 
W to move money. And although, lost in a list of other trusted organisation, the fraud team 
member asked Mr W if he had received calls from HSBC.
In response to my provisional decision, Mr W says he had no reason to be suspicious. But 
this is not what was said during the call with the bank when he finally realised hed been the 
victim of a scam. As I outlined in my provisional decision, Mr W said there were a lot of 
things he didnt understand, a lot of things didnt make sense. He acknowledged he was 
being asked to do some stupid things and that he did some stupid things. He says he 
knew something wasnt right. 
I have noted Mr Ws comments regarding the red flags I listed, but it was a combination and 
accumulation of red flags that I feel ought to have reasonably caused concern. I 
acknowledge that there could be an explanation behind each of the points Ive mentioned, 
when they are all taken into consideration together and holistically, I think there was enough 
going on to question and check things further.
Having considered Mr Ws further submissions and in the absence of any from HSBC, I see 
no reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision. For 
completeness, I have set this out below.
HSBC is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
CRM Code (CRM Code) which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the 
victims of APP scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances.  HSBC says one 
or more of those exceptions applies in this case. The exceptions relevant to this case are: 
The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that: the 
payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate. 
The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made.
There are further exceptions within the CRM Code, but they do not apply in this case.
The CRM Code also outlines the standards a firm is expected to meet. And it says that when 
assessing whether the firm has met those standards, consideration must be given to 
whether compliance with those standards would have had a material effect on preventing the 
APP scam that took place.I am also mindful that when Mr W made these payments, HSBC should fairly and reasonably 
also have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). And in some 
circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken additional steps, or 
make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases declined to make a 
payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from 
fraud. For branch transactions, those steps may include following the Banking Protocol 
where appropriate.
Did HSBC meet its obligations under the CRM Code and did Mr W ignore an effective 
warning?
The CRM Code says that Effective Warnings should be risk based and, where possible, 
tailored to the APP scam risk indicators and any specific APP scam types identified through 
the user interface with which the Customer is initiating the payment instructions.
The first transfer for £17,000 was actually made on 21 January 2021 (although there was in 
fact earlier intervention from the bank the previous day which I will come on to later). When 
considering what happened when the transfer was actually made, I can see HSBC did 
provide a light box warning before the transaction was processed. Mr W was asked to 
choose a reason for the payment, and he chose 'paying a bill' rather than unexpected 
request from bank/police/organisation. While Mr W says he doesn't remember choosing or 
seeing a warning (in fact, its not clear to me if the consumer made the online transfer 
himself or whether the scammer did it on his behalf), HSBC has confirmed the real reason 
for the transfer (i.e. its unexpected request from bank/police/organisation) was an option at 
the time. But I am also mindful that Mr W was coached by the scammer into choosing a 
warning that wasnt the real reason. 
 
I haven't repeated the warning that was shown during on the online payment process 
because Mr Ws choice made it very difficult for HSBC to give a tailored and impactful 
warning. It wouldn't be fair to suggest that HSBC had failed to adhere to an obligation that it 
was never possible for it to meet. It's also the case that, had its unexpected request from 
bank/police/organisation warning met the definition of 'Effective' under the CRM Code (that's 
not a finding I need to make here), it would be irrelevant because Mr W didnt see that 
particular warning. So, I don't find that HSBC has failed in its obligation to provide an 
effective warning, but I also cant say Mr W ignored an effective warning either. 
Turning to the warnings on the second transfer for £25,000 that was completed in the branch 
on 26 January 2021, there is some contradictory evidence as to whether a warning was 
given. The notes relating to the branch visit at 16:08 (page 9 of 33 of HSBCs complaint 
summary document) indicate in answer to select warning msg relayed that warning not 
required was chosen. I appreciate the later testimony of that member of staff revealed this 
was a clerical error and in fact questions in relation to family and friends scams were 
asked, along with more general questioning. But this - and the consumers responses - are 
not evidenced. In more recent submissions, HSBC provided the friends and family light box 
warning. But as I understand it  the second transfer was done in branch and not via online 
banking  so Im not sure how relevant this is  unless this was read out to the consumer in 
branch.
In any event, this was again a scenario where Mr W made it difficult for HSBC to give a 
tailored and impactful warning (albeit, as with the first payment, he believed he was helping 
the HSBC fraud department by not telling them the true purpose of the transaction). So for 
the same reasons as the first transaction - I don't find that HSBC has failed in its obligation 
to provide an effective warning but I also cant say Mr W ignored an effective warning either. Warnings during bank intervention on 20 January 2021
HSBC had stopped the payment for £17,000 the day before it was finally transferred. The 
contemporaneous notes indicate HSBC had concerns over the consumers voice during a 
call on 20 January 2021 at 12:42 and asked Mr W to visit the branch. Mr W visited the 
branch and from there he spoke to the fraud team over the phone with a branch staff 
member present.
During this call, Mr W was asked what the payment was for and he explained it was for 
some building works. He confessed he only knew the builders first name and struggles to 
pronounce the second name. No further questioning around the building work was explored. 
This is a common cover story given in scam cases and I think, given the consumers 
hesitation over the payee name and purpose of payment, it warranted further exploration. 
Especially given HSBCs concerns earlier that day with the voice mismatch and the further 
concerns that were revealed during this call about a failed login attempt  which Mr W 
confirmed wasnt him.
The fraud team member does go on to ask more generic scam type questions and 
specifically covers off impersonation scams. So, it seems HSBC had identified the particular 
scam Mr W was falling victim to. Aspects of the warning are good, for example the caller 
warns not to transfer funds in response to any suspicious calls asking Mr W to move money. 
However, I dont think the warning is impactful  as it doesnt ensure that Mr W understood 
the consequences of continuing with an irrevocable payment. The specifics of the bank and 
HSBC are lost in a list of other trusted organisations. It doesnt bring to life what scams of 
this nature look and feel like and could, for example, have pointed out that HSBCs fraud 
team would never call to ask a customer to transfer money. In any event, the warning is not 
timely - as the payment is not actually made at this time.
As Ive said, there were other concerns during this call - as the fraud department clearly had 
qualms that someone else has logged on to Mr Ws account and the caller does say to the 
branch staff member theres something fishy here. I think, given the concerns over a 
potential impersonation scam and the clear worries that someone else had tried to logon to 
Mr Ws account, that HSBC could have taken further steps here. I think HSBC should have 
evoked the Banking Protocol at this point.
Ive gone on to consider whether an effective warning and evoking the Banking Protocol at 
this point would have made a difference. I am mindful that when the Banking Protocol was 
eventually evoked sometime later - on 28 January 2021 it did not initially make a difference. 
Mr W misled the police and police intervention did not break the spell he was under so its 
difficult to see how an effective warning at this time would have made a difference. 
But after a few days (six days to be exact) Mr W seems to have had had time to think things 
through and went into the branch realising, at that point, he was the victim of a scam. So 
even if HSBC had given an effective warning and evoked the Banking Protocol on 20 
January 2021, I dont think it would have made a difference to the first £17,000 payment. I 
think Mr W would probably have transferred that payment anyway - in the day or days that 
followed. So I cant fairly instruct HSBC to refund this payment.
But I think by the time the second payment for £25,000 was made (six days later)  Mr W 
would have had time to think things through and would probably have realised he was the 
victim of a scam before the second transaction was completed in branch on 26 January 
2021. So, I dont think the second transaction for £25,000 would have been made and 
should be refunded.Did Mr W have a reasonable basis of belief or could he have done more to mitigate his 
losses?
I need to consider not just whether Mr W believed he was sending money under instruction 
from HSBCs fraud department, but whether it was reasonable for him to do so. Ive thought 
about the steps Mr W took to reassure himself about the legitimacy of the transactions and 
whether it was reasonable for him to proceed with the payments. 
This was clearly a sophisticated scam. Mr W says the original spoofed call was on his 
landline and he used his mobile to verify the individual calling the number of the back of his 
bank card. But Mr Ws testimony does not quite reflect what I can see on the mobile call 
history provided. 
That history suggests he was called on his mobile from a spoofed HSBC number which 
matched the number on the back of his bank card. But I dont think the mobile call history 
shows that he called the number on the back of his card to verify the individual. And if he 
had done  then I think on balance, HSBC would have a record of that call. It is of course 
possible he did dial the 0800 number on the back of his card from the landline, whilst 
fraudsters were still on the line and it might have seemed that hed got through to HSBC  
but I dont think he ever got through to the genuine HSBC.
I accept that Mr W was called by a spoofed number and dont doubt the possibility that this 
was initially on his landline. As Ive said, the mobile call history suggests he was called by 
the number of the back of his bank card on 19 January 2021. The history indicates Mr W 
then made an outgoing call (possibly tying in with his testimony that he verified the original 
caller) to a 0345 number. This number is not officially recognised as the banks and I feel its 
likely the number was given to him during the initial call with the scammer - as a way to 
verify the caller. Of course, this number took him through to a second person involved in the 
scam - who was able to give a password that the first person would be able to confirm. 
So, Mr W was called by a spoofed HSBC number which matched the number on the back of 
his card, and he believed he had verified the caller by making an independent call. He says 
he was given a password which the scammer was able to confirm. So, I dont agree with 
HSBC that he didnt do any checks. In the moment of a call like this, I think it might have 
been difficult to start making more extensive checks when what he had seen seemed - at 
first glance  genuine and verified.
It is also worth noting that whilst HSBC considers Mr W did not do enough checks. There is 
no standard of care or specific responsibilities placed on customers via the Code, and in any 
event, the Code does not bind customers. This is something the Lending Standard Board 
pointed out in its 2022 Review of adherence to Contingent Reimbursement Model Code 
https://www.lendingstandardsboard.org.uk/wp-content/uploads/2022/09/CRM-22-Summary-
report-Final-0922.pdf 
That said, the transactions in dispute were not made during the initial scam call. Mr W was 
not under immediate pressure to make the payments. In my view, there was a lot of activity 
and time for reflection between the call on 19 January 2021 and when the first transfer was 
actually made on 21 January 2021. I think there was time in the two days that followed to reflect on what he was being asked to 
do and there were a number of red flags that ought to have caused Mr W concern about the 
person he was dealing with and what he was being asked to do. 
Mr W had time to reflect on his mobile call history and check the number he had 
actually dialed to verify the individual - which did not match the number on the back 
of his bank card. A quick internet search of the 0345 number does not reveal any 
links to HSBC or bring up any official bank pages. In fact, the first result does show 
the number could potentially be connected with a scam.
I think there was time to question why the fraud department couldnt have made the 
transfers themselves and why it needed his help.
The initial payment was blocked and whilst the conversation Mr W subsequently had 
with HSBCs genuine fraud department on 20 January 2021 doesnt amount to it 
giving an effective warning, there were points within that call that ought reasonably to 
have caused Mr W concern. In particular he had had a call from his bank - HSBC and 
had been asked to transfer money. I think some of these points ought to have 
resonated with what Mr W was being asked to do by the scammer. He had time to 
reflect on that conversation too  before the payment was actually made the following 
day.
He was asked to share his computer screen with the fraud department and 
download software so they could take control, but he didnt question why the bank 
couldnt access all his banking details without the need to take control of his 
computer. I think this request ought to have caused concern.
By his own admission during the call with the bank on 19 February 2021 - when he realised 
hed been scammed - Mr W said there were a lot of things he didnt understand, a lot of 
things didnt make sense. He acknowledged he was being asked to do some stupid things 
and that he did some stupid things. He says he knew something wasnt right but kept going 
back to the fact that hed spoken to the fraud department. But overall, I dont think that was 
enough to disregard some of the clearer warning signs here.
I therefore feel it is appropriate to reduce the amount of redress HSBC has to pay the Mr W 
on the £25,000 transaction by 50%.
Did HSBC do enough to recover Mr and Mrs Ws funds?
Ive thought about whether HSBC took reasonable steps to recover Mr and Mrs Ws funds 
once it was made aware, Mr W was the victim of a scam. 
The scam payments were made on 21 January 2021 and 26 January 2021. According to 
HSBC notes, Mr W reported the scam to HSBC on 3 February 2021 at 16.40. HSBC has 
now confirmed it first contacted the beneficiary banks on 19 February 2021 in accordance 
with its internal note at 17:44 confirming that the beneficiary bank had confirmed no funds 
remained. The same note suggests an email was sent to the beneficiary bank of the first 
transaction and it appears the remaining £4 were recovered and returned to the consumer at 
this time.
So, HSBC did not contact the receiving bank within reasonable time scales. The Best 
Practice Standards which I understand HSBC is signed up to, says banks should contact the 
receiving bank immediately. But it contacted the receiving banks over two weeks after Mr W 
reported the scam.I have considered whether HSBCs delay in recovery made a difference. But I dont think it 
does  as the money for both transactions was removed almost immediately (except for the 
£4 recovered and returned). I understand that Mr W didnt know he was the victim of a scam 
before 3 February 2021, but the delay means any recovery action would not have been 
successful at that point.
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Mr and Mrs W, I require HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
Refund 50% of the second transaction (so £12,500) with interest from the date of transfer to 
the date of settlement. 
Interest should be paid at the originating account rate. 
Its not clear based on the information HSBC has provided - but I understand Mr W cashed 
in an ISA to fund the transaction. So, I think fair compensation should reflect the position he 
would have been in (as closely as possible) had the funds remained there.
Mr W confirmed his ISA has been cashed in and reinvested elsewhere. I assume Mr W will 
be able to pay the refunded amount back into a Cash ISA elsewhere if he chooses to do so. 
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold the complaint in part and require HSBC UK Bank Plc to put 
things right for Mr and Mrs W as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman