DRN-2390773
The complaint
Mr W complains that Northern Bank Limited (trading as Danske Bank) acted unfairly when it 
decided to stop exchanging €500 notes.
What happened
Mr W says hes banked with Danske Bank for many years and has regularly exchanged 
€500 notes for smaller denominations. Mr W complained to Danske Bank around October 
2019 after being told by branch staff that he couldnt carry out the exchange without being 
charged.
Danske bank agreed to continue providing Mr W this facility, but explained it could only do 
so temporarily, as the €500 note would be going out of circulation. The bank says it added a 
comment to Mr Ws account so he could continue exchanging €500 notes in branch. 
Mr W escalated his complaint to this service and since the banks policy changed, so it can 
no longer exchange €500 notes. To resolve his complaint, Mr W wants the bank to reinstate 
this facility. Mr W says he needs regular access to two different currencies and doesnt have 
access to another method of exchanging the €500 notes. Mr W added that the bank failed to 
live up to its agreement that it would provide him with advance notice before stopping this 
service. 
Our investigator concluded that the bank acted fairly when it decided to allow Mr W to 
continue exchanging €500 temporarily. The investigator explained that the €500 note had 
gone out of circulation and that the bank gave Mr W as much notice as it couldve when it 
decided to stop accepting this note. The investigator also didnt think Danske Bank had done 
something wrong when it decided to stop providing this service. 
Mr W didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im also of the view that Danske Bank acted fairly. Ill explain why:
Ill point out that its not within my remit to tell a bank what its policies should be or 
how it should conduct its business. I can only consider whether it treated Mr W fairly 
in the circumstances  which I think it did.
Danske Bank says it stopped accepting €500 notes because of a policy change. The 
banks call notes indicate that it told Mr W that most countries had stopped printing 
the €500 note and the remaining countries would follow. It seems that shortly after  
Mr W complained, Danske Bank reviewed its policies and decided to stop accepting 
€500 notes in order to minimise the risk of money laundering.
It seems to me that the decision to do so was most likely an inevitable outcome of the 
note being taken out of circulation. And the banks aim to minimise the risk of money 
laundering is, in my opinion, a reasonable justification. Moreover, as I explained 
before, its up to Danske Bank to determine its policies and decide how it conducts its 
business. So I cant say that the bank acted unfairly when it changed its policy to stop 
accepting €500 notes.
Mr W is unhappy that Danske Bank didnt give him notice of the policy change. But 
the bank says the policy change was made with little notice. And it says that a 
Danske Bank representative contacted Mr W to update him as soon as the policy 
change information came through at branch level. Danske Bank says it isnt normal 
practice to let customers know when a policy change like this happens, but it chose 
to let Mr W know given the temporary arrangement it had with him. In my opinion, 
Danske Bank appears to have updated Mr W as soon as it could have (even though 
it isnt normal practice to do so), so I cant say its done something wrong because of 
this.
When Mr W first complained, Danske Bank says it made an exception and agreed to 
continue exchanging his €500 notes for as long as possible. The bank says it also 
offered to complete a bulk exchange of all the €500 notes Mr W had at the time  
given it was unclear how long it could continue accepting this note - but Mr W 
declined. From the records the bank sent me, I can see that Mr W made successful 
exchanges in October and November 2019. So I think the bank did enough to help 
Mr W at the time, as well as let him know about the possibility that he may not have 
access to this facility indefinitely. 
In summary, I think Danske Bank acted fairly when it made an exception and allowed Mr W 
to continue exchanging his €500 notes. In my opinion, the banks decision to change its 
policy and stop accepting €500 notes isnt unreasonable and I think it did what it could to let 
Mr W know as soon as possible. So I wont be asking Danske Bank to do anything 
differently.
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2021.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman