DRN-2057362
The complaint
Mr S complains that Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold him a monthly 
premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in 2001 when he applied 
for a credit card.
What happened
Mr S complained to this Service. He bought a PPI policy in 2001 during a meeting. He says 
he bought because he always thought PPI was needed. He also told us more recently that 
the information given was not clear, so he could not make an informed decision about it; he 
had good sick pay and no savings. He concludes he did not need PPI.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should not be upheld. Mr S disagreed with 
our adjudicator's view and asked for the matter to be looked at again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr S's case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mr S's complaint. I know this will be 
a disappointing result, so Ill explain why.
As the sale happened a long time ago, Mr S hasnt told me exactly what happened that day 
or what he was told about PPI. So I have been looking at the documents to decide what 
most likely happened.
I first looked at whether RBS made it clear the policy was an optional product. RBS 
produced a copy of Mr S's credit card application. I can see there was a separate section 
of the form headed Payment Protection with an invitation saying For cover just tick this 
box. I can see Mr S (or the RBS representative) ticked this section and entered his 
personal details and I noted he declined other offers on the form. So I think he completed 
the form diligently by choosing the products he wanted. I think his signature means RBS 
probably made it clear enough that Mr S didnt have to take out the PPI and yet he chose 
to take it out  although I can understand why he may not be able to remember this.
I noted Mr S was eligible to buy PPI. RBS said the policy wasn't recommended so it had to 
make sure Mr S received enough information which was clear, fair and not misleading so 
he could make an informed decision.
Its possible the information given to Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it could
have been. But as I think he chose to take it out, it looks like he wanted this type of cover. 
And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something went wrong because he 
told us he had no savings and some sick pay. So the PPI could have been useful if he 
wasnt able to work or had lost his job. I say this because the PPI could have lasted for 
longer than and in addition to his sick pay  helping him at a time when he would have 
needed it most. So I dont think that having any more detailed information would have put 
Mr S off from buying PPI.
RBS should also have pointed out the things the policy did not cover (the exclusions). 
I dont know how it did this, but it does not appear that Mr S was affected by the main 
exclusions. So - even if hed been given a full list of the exclusions - I dont think it 
would have put hm off from buying the PPI.
Taking everything into account, I think the policy was most likely shown as optional and 
Mr S was probably given enough information to make an informed decision. So I am 
not going to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2020.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman