DRN-1866604
The complaint
Mrs F's representative, a claims management company (CMC), complains on her behalf that 
she was mis-sold a Guaranteed Capital Investment Mini Cash Individual Savings Account 
(GCIB ISA) by The Co-operative Bank Plc (trading as Britannia).
What happened
Mrs F took out the GCIB ISA in 2007. Its performance was linked to the FTSE 100 index, but 
it guaranteed to return at least the sum of the original investment at the end of the five year 
term, even if the index fell in value. She invested £3000 and received her initial investment 
back at the end of the five-year term. 
In 2019 her representative complained to Britannia. They said, in summary:
Mrs F was 71 at the time of the sale and was only entitled to the state pension, 
having no private/employee pension of her own.
She was in her local Britannia branch when she was told that they had some new 
products that may be better for her. The cashier asked her various questions about 
her circumstances and advised her to place £3,000 into the GCIB ISA.
The cashier then completed the application form and marked an X showing Mrs F 
where to sign.
At the time of the sale in 2007, sales targets were in place at Britannia and cashiers 
were rewarded for advising their building society members to place their money into 
structured products.
The five-year GCIB ISA had a potential maximum return at the end of the term 
of 40% or around 6.96% per year. The product either offered nothing or the full 40% 
depending on the performance of the market.
At the time of the sale the Bank of England base rate was at 5.75% and many high 
street banks were offering rates as high as 6.45%, rates which Mrs F could have 
received gross as she was a non tax payer. The maximum return of the 
GCIB ISA  was only negligibly higher than the 100% guaranteed savings account 
rates on offer.
The fact that Mrs F was a retired pensioner further exacerbated the illogical nature of 
the advice, she was risking a long five-year nil return for virtually no possible 
advantage.
 
Britannia didn't uphold the complaint. They said, in summary:
Their records showed that Mrs F didn't open the GCIB ISA following a financial 
review and no report or recommendation was produced. She attended a Non 
Advised Review which meant the advisor didn't provide any advice or 
recommendations but simply provided factual information about the product.
Mrs F signed the declaration confirming that she didn't receive any recommendations 
from the advisor and that she took the GCIB ISA out based on her own decision.
The advisor's salary structure was made up of a basic salary, and they did not 
receive a commission payment in respect of each account take out by a customer.Mrs F also signed the application form which confirmed she understood the nature of 
the product. They appreciated she may not have read the terms and conditions while 
at the branch, but she would have been provided with a copy to take home. If the 
product wasn't suitable, there was a 14-day cooling-off period to close the account 
without penalty.
In addition to this, they sent a letter confirming the start value of the FTSE 100 
Index. This letter again confirmed the interest payment was dependent on the 
performance of the index.
Taking everything into consideration, they were unable to uphold the complaint 
because they found no evidence to suggest that the GCIB ISA was mis-sold or that 
they misled Mrs F in any way.
 
Unhappy with Britannia's response, Mrs F's representative referred her complaint to this 
service where it was considered by one of our investigators. The investigator didn't uphold 
the complaint. She thought the documentation she'd seen made it clear how the GCIB ISA 
worked and what the potential return could be. And she wasn't persuaded that Mrs 
F received advice to invest in the product.
She considered what the CMC said about the application form and the "X" that was 
placed where a signature was required. But she didn't think that meant that advice was 
provided. She thought it was possible that Mrs F was simply informed where she needed to 
sign if she wished to proceed.
The investigator also thought that Mrs F was not an inexperienced investor. She had 
previously invested £3,000 in a guaranteed capital investment bond in 1997 - which had 
returned the £3,000 plus just over £1,500 in 2002. So, she thought it was possible that Mrs 
F was interested in investing in a similar investment and was happy to do so without advice.
She also noted that Mrs F left instructions to transfer the maturity amount of her 1997 
investment into a 3-year fixed rate bond. And this suggested that Mrs F was not averse to 
making her own investment decisions.
The CMC didn't agree with her opinion. They said, in summary:
They didn't see how transferring the money out of an investment into a fixed rate 
bond showed that Mrs F was comfortable making her own investment decisions. This 
was no different from someone simply surrendering their investment and this is 
something all savers/investors do. The proceeds from the investment had possibly 
sat in some kind of cash holding account no longer linked to the stock market, in that 
case her instruction would have been to simply transfer money between two 
cash accounts.
In 2007 Mrs F was 70 and retired, and therefore had a different set of circumstances 
from 1997 when she was 60. Additionally, in 2007 as an example, another building 
society (and they assumed many other institutions) had a policy that advice (as 
opposed to taking out investments on a non-advised basis) for structured products 
was strongly recommended for investors between 65-79 and mandatory for investors 
over 80. This was because a nil return can have a much more serious detriment to a 
customer's financial health when they are in retirement. Its therefore probable that 
Britannia would have been even more likely to have provided advice in 2007 than 
they did in 1997.
Mrs F strongly recollected being given advice, if she really was an experienced 
investor as claimed they didn't see why she would struggle with the application form 
and need help with where to sign.
 The investigator wasn't persuaded to change her opinion so the complaint has been passed 
to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I'm not going to uphold this complaint. I will now explain why.
I appreciate the CMC feels very strongly that Mrs F was mis-advised about the GCIB ISA, 
and she was incorrectly persuaded into investing when it would've been more suitable in 
her circumstances to have simply placed the money into some sort of fixed-rate deposit 
product.
I've noted Mrs F's recollections of the sale but I have to take into account that the sale took 
place over 13 years ago and recollections can fade over time. This is not to say I don't 
believe what she's said, but I must weigh this up against the documentary evidence from the 
time of the sale. And crucially, the documents I've seen from the time - such as the Non 
Advised Review form which Mrs F signed - indicates that this was a sale conducted without 
advice.
For instance, the form had a declaration which said "I confirm that the record of the matters 
discussed is true and accurate and that I have not received any recommendations from the 
advisor. Any products taken out by me / us are based on my / our own decision with no 
advice or recommendations being required."
I've also taken into account the fact that Mrs F previously held a similar product to the 
GCIB ISA - specifically the guaranteed capital product she took out in 1997. I think this 
shows that she had some experience with this type of investment and would have had some 
idea how it worked. She had made a reasonable return on the 1997 investment which makes 
it likely that she would have wanted to invest in a similar product.
I'm not persuaded that the "X" showing where to sign on the form gives any indication of Mrs 
F's experience levels or that it shows that she struggled with the application form. I agree 
with the investigator that it possibly just showed Mrs F where to sign if she wished to 
proceed.
So because I haven't seen anything to suggest that any formal advice was given, and also 
taking into account Mrs F's previous experience with this type of product, I think it's more 
likely than not that this was a non-advised sale. Therefore, Britannia can't be held 
accountable for the suitability of the advice. 
As a non-advised sale Britannia's responsibility was therefore limited to providing clear 
information about how the GCIB ISA worked and its risks, so Mrs F could make her own 
informed decision about whether to proceed. From all that I have seen, the documentation 
provided to Mrs F by Britannia met this requirement.
My final decision
For the reasons I've given above, I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2020.Marc Purnell
Ombudsman