DRN-1655784
The complaint
Mr K and Mrs C have complained that CIGNA Life Insurance Company of Europe SA-NV 
failed to make them aware that the excess under their group private medical insurance 
policy had increased from £100 to £200.
What happened
Mr K and Mrs C were members of a group private medical insurance policy provided through 
Mr Ks employer. The policy was underwritten by CIGNA.
In September 2019, Mrs C contacted CIGNA to seek authorisation for an appointment with a 
specialist to whom shed been referred by her GP. CIGNA provided this authorisation.
Afterwards, Mrs C received a bill for £200 for the policy excess. She understood the excess 
on the policy was only £100. She rang CIGNA to query this. CIGNA explained that when the 
policy renewed in April 2019, the excess had doubled to £200.
Mrs C complained to CIGNA that it hadnt informed her of this increased excess when she 
sought authorisation for her claim.
CIGNA didnt uphold her complaint. It noted that there were three calls which Mrs C made to 
it during September 2019 and in each call its adviser had offered to run through the terms 
and conditions of her policy but on each occasion Mrs C had declined this. It said its adviser 
inferred from this that Mrs C was aware of the terms and conditions of her plan which had 
previously been made available to her. It was satisfied that the £200 excess had been 
correctly applied.
Mr K and Mrs C were unhappy at CIGNAs response. They referred their complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. She was satisfied 
that CIGNA had done enough to try and make Mrs C aware of the policy excess.
Mrs C didnt accept the investigators findings. She said on every other claims call shed had 
with CIGNA, it had made her aware of the policy excess. She considered it should have 
done so on the calls she made in September 2019. She said that, if it had done so, she 
probably wouldnt have gone ahead with the appointment.
In view of the continued disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy is offered through Mr Ks employer. CIGNA has provided an email the employer 
sent in advance of the April 2019 renewal to those employees, including Mr K, who were 
members of the scheme. This drew specific attention to the change in the policys excess.
CIGNA has also provided copies of the policy documents which it says would have been 
available for Mrs C to view on the members portal. Im satisfied these make clear that in the 
policy year starting in April 2019, the excess was £200.
I have listened to the telephone calls which Mrs C had with CIGNA when she was seeking 
authorisation of her specialist appointment. Im satisfied that the adviser on each occasion 
offers to run through the terms and conditions of Mrs Cs policy but that she declines this. 
I recognise that Mrs C thinks the adviser should nonetheless have drawn attention to the 
increased excess. However, I consider that this increase had already been specifically 
brought to Mr Ks attention (it was Mr K who was the lead member of the policy) as well as 
mentioned in the policy documents. I therefore consider it was reasonable for the adviser to 
assume from Mrs Cs response that she was familiar with the relevant policy terms, including 
the policy excess. I therefore dont think it was necessary for the adviser to draw attention to 
the excess.
It is unfortunate that Mrs C may have incurred cost which she otherwise wouldnt have 
incurred had she known of the £200 excess. However, I consider that CIGNA is not at fault.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 December 2020. 
David Poley
Ombudsman