DRN-3614973
The complaint
Ms H complains that Skipton Building Society delayed the transfer of her ISA savings to her 
new stocks and shares ISA provider.
As a result of the delay Ms H says she lost out on nearly £750 of investment growth and she 
would like Skipton to compensate her for this lost investment growth.
What happened
In early December 2020, Ms Hs new ISA provider sent a request to Skipton to transfer 
nearly £16,000 from an ISA Ms H held with Skipton, to her new ISA provider.
Unfortunately, Skipton has no record of having received this transfer request. The 
information available shows that Ms Hs new ISA provider sent a chaser to Skipton on 17 
December 2020, and again on 5 January 2021. Again, Skipton has no record of having 
received these chaser letters. 
I understand that Skipton scans any letters and documents received by post, these items are 
then linked to the customers profile. Having checked its records Skipton confirmed it had no 
record of having received the transfer request Ms Hs new ISA provider sent in early 
December 2020, or the chaser letters it sent on 17 December 2020 and 5 January 2021.
Ms Hs new ISA provider then telephoned Skipton on 25 January 2021, to chase up the 
transfer. Skipton explained that it had no record of having received an ISA transfer authority 
form (TAF). Ms Hs new ISA provider said it would re-send the necessary form.
The records available show that Skipton received a TAF, dated 26 November 2020, from 
Ms Hs new ISA provider on 12 February 2021. On 16 February 2021, Skipton sent Ms Hs 
ISA funds to her new ISA provider.
Once Skipton has received all the information for an ISA transfer it is required to complete 
the transfer within 15 working days. In Ms Hs case the transfer was processed two working 
days after the TAF was received.
Ms H was unhappy with the delay in transferring her ISA funds and complained to Skipton.
Skipton did not uphold Ms Hs complaint. It explained that it had no record of having received 
a TAF for Ms H before 12 February 2021. The transfer had been processed on 16 February, 
two working days after the TAF was received. In view of this it said it didnt think it had 
caused any avoidable delays in this matter.
Ms H was not satisfied with Skiptons response and referred the matter to this service. 
Having carefully considered Ms Hs complaint our investigator said he didnt think he could 
reasonably hold Skipton responsible for the delay in transferring her ISA to her new provider. 
He explained that, based on the information available, it appeared that Skipton had not 
received the letters and TAF Ms Hs new ISA provider had sent to it in December 2020 and 
January 2021.
He noted that the letters and TAF had not been sent by tracked mail and had been sent at a 
particularly busy time of year for the postal service. He said he felt it was more likely than not 
that the letters had not reached Skipton and he couldnt hold it responsible for any problems 
at Royal Mail.
Ms H did not accept the investigators view. She said, in summary:
You are essentially saying that Skipton lost numerous communications sent to them and 
thats ok. In that case, many other institutions could 'lose' correspondence which could 
become a barrier to customers withdrawing money.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sympathetic to Ms Hs position and I do understand why she feels Skipton should 
compensate her for the investment growth she missed out on as a result of the delay to her 
ISA transfer. But I cant safely find that Skipton did delay her ISA transfer. Ill explain why.
As our investigator explained, it is not in dispute that Ms Hs new ISA provider wrote to 
Skipton twice in December 2020 and again in January 2021. However, there is nothing to 
show that these letters were received by Skipton.
I have carefully considered whether, on the balance of probabilities these letters were 
misplaced by Skipton, or whether, for whatever reason, they did not reach Skipton. 
Having done so I dont think I can reasonably find that Skipton did misplace these letters. In 
reaching this view I have taken into account that December is a particularly busy time for the 
postal service. I am also mindful that Skipton scans letters and documents received by post 
and these are then linked to the relevant customers account. As the letters from Ms Hs new 
ISA provider clearly stated her Skipton ISA account reference, I am satisfied that Skipton 
would have linked the letters to her account if it had received them.
I am also mindful that the TAF that did reach Skipton was received on 12 February 2021, but 
the covering letter was dated 26 January 2021. So, it would appear this letter took over two 
weeks to reach Skipton. When this delay is taken into account, I think it is more likely than 
not that due to problems with the postal service, the letters sent in December 2020 and 
January 2021 did not reach Skipton.
Once it did receive the TAF on 12 February 2021, I am satisfied that Skipton promptly 
arranged the transfer. I note that the transfer was processed on 16 February 2021, two 
working days after the TAF was received.
I do understand that this is not the decision Ms H was hoping for, but based on the 
information I have seen I cant reasonably hold Skipton responsible for the delays Ms H 
experienced.My final decision
My decision is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman