DRN-2236982
The complaint
Mr M complains Scottish Widows Limited refused to honour a charging arrangement it had 
previously agreed to
What happened
In 2018 Mr M set up a stakeholder pension policy (ending 692) with Scottish Widows which 
had an annual management charge (AMC) of 0.55%. A few months later he decided to 
transfer it to another provider to invest in the same fund as his workplace pension. When the 
new provider reviewed its available funds Mr M decided to transfer back to Scottish Widows. 
So in October 2019 he started a new policy (ending 883) with Scottish Widows but 
discovered the AMC was 1%. When Mr M queried the increased charge he was told the 
0.55% hed previously been charged for policy 692 was an administrative error which 
Scottish Widows had honoured. But for his new policy the correct charge of 1% would apply. 
Mr M feels as its the same product as he had the previous year he should only pay 0.55%. 
He complained Scottish Widows should have warned him when he transferred away hed 
lose the concessionary rate. 
Scottish Widows explained stakeholder pensions have a clear charging structure with only 
an AMC, no policy fees, platform fees or additional charges. It wouldnt agree to reduce the 
charge but apologised for the mistake and paid Mr M £100. It said he could close policy 883 
within the 30-day cooling off period if he let them know by 8 November 2019. Mr M didnt 
want to close the policy, he wants Scottish Widows to honour the charge. He provided a 
table of charges from Scottish Widows website which showed an AMC of 0.55% applicable 
to policies with more than 12 years to selected retirement date, as Mr M is, rising 
incrementally to 1.00% when less than one year to retirement age. Scottish Widows 
explained those charges only applied to policies set up through two particular introducers. 
Whereas Mr Ms policies were both set up through Scottish Widows direct sales so that 
charging structure didnt apply to him. And it gave him a further period of time to decide 
whether to cancel the policy and receive a refund of his premiums. 
Mr M complained to this service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didnt 
uphold it. He said it had been fair of Scottish Widows to honour the 0.55% charge on policy 
692 but he didnt expect it to have warned Mr M when he decided to transfer away. He didnt 
think Scottish Widows needed to honour the charge or pay more compensation. 
Mr M responded by providing a thread of comments from an online financial forum where a 
contributor said stakeholder pensions should charge no more than 0.6%. Our investigator 
considered these, but they didnt change his mind. 
So Mr M has asked an ombudsman to make a decision as he says Scottish Widows will 
honour the 0.55% charge if our service directs it to. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. Let me explain why.
The charges for stakeholder pensions are capped at 1% or in some cases 1.5% for the first 
ten years and 1% thereafter. So Mr M is being charged correctly for the second policy, and 
was charged 0.55% for policy 692 in error. This wasnt Mr Ms fault, so it was fair for Scottish 
Widows to honour the reduced charge as long as he held that policy. 
I understand why Mr M would like me to, but Im not going to direct Scottish Widows to 
reduce the AMC for policy 883 to 0.55%, as he opened that one effectively as a new 
customer. The role of this service is to put the consumer in the position theyd be if an error 
hadnt taken place. But theres been no error in the way policy 883 was set up. Mr M decided 
to transfer to another provider to access the same funds as his existing workplace pension. 
In making that decision he must have considered the pros and cons of doing so, including a 
comparison of the charges. Im not sure what Mr M was being charged but the other 
providers website suggests an AMC of 1%. It seems likely if the new provider hadnt 
changed its fund offering Mr M would have stayed. He only went back to Scottish Widows 
because the new provider changed its product, so it wouldnt be fair to hold Scottish Widows 
responsible for that. And I wouldnt expect Scottish Widows to have told Mr M that he was 
effectively giving up a subsidised charge by transferring away after only a few months, 
particularly as he wasnt doing so because of the charges. 
I dont consider the comments in an online forum are relevant to my consideration of this 
complaint. There may be a range of charges available in the marketplace as long as they 
dont exceed the maximum, but that doesnt mean Scottish Widows is obliged to reduce its 
charges in relation to Mr Ms stakeholder product. And the extract from the impartial 
Pensions Advisory Service website which Mr M also referred to, confirmed the maximum 
annual charge of 1.5% reducing to 1% as set out earlier. This service doesnt have a 
regulatory role, but most online forums do warn that contributions are personal opinions only 
and may not be reliable. 
So while I appreciate Mr M will be disappointed and may regret his original decision to leave 
Scottish Widows Im not going to ask it to do anything else.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2020.
 
Sarah Milne
Ombudsman