DRN-3273600
The complaint
Miss B (through a representative) has complained that S.D. Taylor Limited trading as Loans
at Home didnt carry out proper affordability checks before it provided her with lending. Had it
done better checks, Miss B says it wouldve discovered she was in a debt spiral and she
couldnt afford the loans.
What happened
Our adjudicator partly upheld Miss Bs complaint. LAH didnt agree with the adjudicators 
opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision explaining the reasons why the loans fell within this 
Services jurisdiction. I then I went on to explain which loans I was intending to uphold.  A 
copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings follow this in italics and 
form part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Miss B took eight loans from LAH between May 2011 and May 2016. A summary of her
borrowing, based on the information provided to us from LAH, can be found below:
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment per 
loan
1 £300.00 26/05/2011 15/11/2011 32 £15.00
2 £0.00 15/12/2011 15/12/2011 32 £15.00
3 £400.00 15/12/2011 08/11/2012 32 £20.00
4 £300.00 15/11/2012 07/11/2013 32 £15.00
5 £250.00 27/12/2012 12/12/2013 41 £10.00
6 £450.00 10/04/2014 09/04/2015 52 £15.00
7 £450.00 09/04/2015 28/04/2016 52 £15.00
8 £500.00 12/05/2016 27/04/2017 45 £20.00
In effect, Miss B was given seven loans as no funds appear to have been issued on the
second loan. But for ease, Ive kept the numbering of the loans the same as that in the final
response letter (FRL) and the adjudicators assessment.
Following Miss Bs complaint, LAH issued its FRL on 30 April 2021. It explained that loans 1
 6 in the above table were complained about too late. So, in its view, these loans were time
barred. It then explained why it didnt think an error had been made when it approved loans
7 and 8.
One of our adjudicators looked at Miss Bs complaint. The assessment was split into two
parts.
In the first part, the adjudicator concluded that he couldnt see a reason to suggest that the
first six loans were outside of this services jurisdiction and therefore they werent time
barred. He therefore concluded that this Service could consider all of Miss Bs loans. This
led the adjudicator to consider whether LAH had done anything wrong in advancing these
loans.
The adjudicator didnt uphold Miss Bs complaint about loans 1  3. But the adjudicator
thought loans 4  8 should be upheld. He concluded that by loan 4, and all future loans had
become harmful to Miss B and the repayments were no longer sustainable.
Neither Miss B nor her representative responded to the adjudicators findings.
LAH didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment. In its response to the adjudicator LAH
didnt focus on the merits of the case, instead it focused on whether this Service had the
jurisdiction to consider loans 1  6. In summary it said:
It disagreed with the approach this Service had taken with this case.
The approach is at odds with other complaints LAHs parent company had received
in relation to loans from another lender of the group  that being aware of a default or
arrears ought to have been sufficient to have raised a complaint. LAH provided
examples of cases where this approach had been taken.
In this case, Miss B missed a number of loan repayments in 2011 and received
arrears letters in 2012. Which is more than three years before Miss B logged her
complaint.
The adjudicator has disregarded LAHs points about jurisdiction as per the
regulations this Service must follow.
No evidence has been provided as to why this case is in this Services jurisdiction.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice
at the time the loan was provided.
The first aspect of this complaint is to address whether this Services has jurisdiction to
consider all the loans in question. Its clear that loans 7 and 8 are within this Services
jurisdiction and LAH agrees with this as these are the loans that it dealt with in the FRL.
Why I can look into this complaint
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments provided by Miss B and LAH to
decide whether we are able to look at all loans being complained about. Having done so, I
have reached the same conclusion as the adjudicator  that I have the power to consider all
the loans being complained about. Ill explain why.
The rules I must apply say that, where a business doesnt agree, I cant look at a complaint
made more than six years after whats been complained about, or if later, more than three
years after the complainant (in this case, Miss B) knew, or ought really have known they had
reason to complain. This is set out in Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R and can be found online
in the FCAs Handbook.Its clear loans 1 to 6 were complained about more than six years after they were taken.
However, Ive not seen anything to persuade me Miss B was aware or ought to have been
reasonably aware more than three years before she raised this complaint, that she had
reason to complain.
LAH has said that when Miss B experienced repayment problems in 2011 this shouldve
caused her to realise, she had reason to complain. But I dont think this is enough in this
particular case to demonstrate that.
I say this because whilst experiencing repayment problems and therefore struggling to repay
the lending would no doubt have led Miss B to realise there was a problem (in terms of the
financial difficulty), Im not persuaded this would have (or ought to have), in itself, made her
aware that these problems were caused by LAH doing something wrong when it agreed the
loans.
And I havent seen anything else to persuade me that Miss B was or ought to have been
aware earlier of cause to complain more than three years before they complained.
So, like our adjudicator, I think loans 1 to 6 were raised within the time limits I need to apply
and that I do have the power to consider all of the loans Miss B was given. Ill now go on and
consider whether or not I think all the loans complained about were lent responsibly.
Irresponsible lending
LAH needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss B could
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts, and
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that LAH should fairly and reasonably have done
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss B. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become or was becoming
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to say that LAH was required to establish whether Miss B
could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a
strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meetthe repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre
unlikely to be able to do so without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all mean for Miss Bs complaint.
Loans 1  3
The adjudicator didnt uphold Miss Bs complaint about these loans. Miss B didnt disagree
with the adjudicators findings, but for completeness Ive looked at these loans. Having done
so, I agree with the adjudicators findings.
LAH has only provided this Service with limited information about these loans. It seems that
for each of these loans, LAH wouldve asked Miss B some questions about her weekly
income and expenditure. For loan 1, LAH has recorded Miss Bs income as £284.70 per
week. With outgoings of £100 per week. There is no information about loans 2 and 3.
This wouldve left Miss B with more than enough disposable income to be able to afford the
weekly repayments of £15.
Loan 2 was taken out and repaid on the same day, given the weekly repayment amount for
this loan is the same as loan 1, and to be repaid over the same term it is likely the loan
amount was the same as loan 1, £300.
Given, how quickly loan 2 was repaid, its likely Miss B wasnt charged any interest and
therefore hasnt suffered any financial loss as a result of being granted this loan.
Finally, loan 3, was granted around a month after loan 1 had been repaid. She borrowed
slightly more than before, but at this time LAH hasnt provided this Service with any
information it collected from Miss B when the loan was approved. Neither has Miss B, so I
cant be sure that even if I thought the checks LAH didnt go far enough it wouldve likely
have concluded this loan was unaffordable for Miss B.
So, Im intending, like the adjudicator to not uphold Miss Bs complaint about loans 1  3.
Loans 4  6
In the adjudicators view, this loan and all later loans ought to have been upheld because, it
had now reached the point where the lending had become unsustainable for Miss B taking
into account the time in debt, the number of loans and the pattern of her borrowing. So, he
thought, that these loans ought to not have been granted.
Ive thought carefully about this, but I dont agree with the adjudicators assessment as to
why these loans were upheld. Ive explained why below.
Loan 4, was effectively, her third new loan in around 17 months and this loan was smaller
than the previous one Miss B was granted. Whilst I accept that this loan was taken fairly
quickly after loan 3 had been repaid, I dont think this on its own is sufficient to now say the
lending was now unsustainable for Miss B.
In addition, there is a small gap of around 4 months between loan 5 being repaid and loan 6
being granted. Which, in my mind further reinforces my view that this lending pattern itself
wasnt unsustainable for Miss B when loans 4 - 6 were granted. Given there was a small
break between loans means that at the time Miss B didnt need further borrowing so its
difficult to argue that the pattern on lending was now harmful.However, that doesnt mean that these loans shouldnt be upheld. Ive looked at the limited
lending history that LAH has provided, as well as its comments around the arrears that
Miss B had.
When loan 4 was granted, it was taken shortly after loan 3 had been repaid. But, we know
from the repayment history provided by LAH that loan 3 ought to have been repaid after 32
weeks  assuming all payments were made in line with the contractual repayments. But it
actually took 47 weeks to repay. It took Miss H over a third longer to repay this loan than
LAH was anticipating. Indeed, LAH has confirmed that in 2012 Miss H was sent arrears
letters, presumably because of missed payments. So, Miss H has shown that she had, in my
view, significant repayment problems.
A month after loan 4 was approved, LAH gave Miss H loan 5. Again, in the same year shed
repayment problems which led to loan 3 being repaid over a longer period. Again, I think this
shows she was likely having financial difficulties.
Its also worth noting at this point, that loan 5 overlapped with 4, and so her weekly
repayment was now going to be £25 per week. Which is greater than the weekly repayment
she had to repay for loan 3  where she had repayment problems. So, I think its likely, given
the information that I have to hand, that there was a significant risk to Miss H not being able
to repay these loans due to signs of struggling to repay her previous loan.
Loan 6, also, in my view, should be upheld for the same reasons. This was the largest
capital loan to be taken to date. And although I accept, as Ive mentioned above, there was a
gap between loans 5 and 6, Im still minded to conclude that due to experiencing previous
repayment problems, it was likely that this loan was also unsustainable for Miss H.
In addition to the repayment problems at loan 3, Miss H also took longer to repay loans 4
and 5. It took 20 weeks longer than planned to repay loan 4, and 10 weeks longer than
planned to repay loan 5. This shows that Miss H had problems repaying her previous 3 loans
and so I dont think loan 6 should have been provided.
Im, therefore, intending to uphold Miss Bs complaint about loans 4  6 but for different
reasons to the adjudicator.
Loans 7 and 8
I havent looked in any detail about whether the checks for loans 7 - 8 were proportionate
and Ill explain why below.
It looks like, based on what has been provided, that LAH took the same sort of information
for each loan. It asked Miss B about her income and expenditure.
For these loans, LAH has recorded Miss Bs income to be £210 per week. With weekly
outgoings of £55. So, LAH may have thought that Miss H could afford the repayments she
was committed to making. However, at this stage in the lending relationship I dont think it
was reasonable of LAH to have relied solely on what Miss B was telling it.
It also seems that LAH may have carried out a credit check before these two loans were
approved, but it told us no bureau data available at time of issue. Miss Bs representative
has provided us with a copy of Miss Bs credit file, and Ive mentioned what Ive seen in that
below.
So, in addition to assessing the circumstances behind each individual loan provided to
Miss B, LAH also needed to consider the overall pattern of lending and what unfolded duringthe course of its lending relationship with Miss B.
Having looked at the overall pattern of LAHs lending history with Miss B, I agree with our
adjudicator that LAH should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or
otherwise harmful, at the time it provided loan 7. I say this because;
By loan 7 it was nearly four years into the lending relationship with only a four month 
period where Miss B wasnt indebted to LAH. And the loans generally overlapped, 
with up to two loans running at the same time. In my view, Miss Bs loan history up 
until this point was a clear indication that her underlying financial situation didnt 
seem to be improving.
Miss B has shown some problems repaying previous loans, for example loans 3  5 
had all run for longer than the contractual terms. To me this indicates that Miss B 
was likely having financial difficulties and Im not sure how offering loans to be repaid 
over a longer period of time was suitable.
Miss B took some loans around the same time previous ones were repaid, for 
example, loan 3 was taken a month after loan 1 was repaid and loan 7 was taken the 
same day loan 6 was repaid. LAH ought to have realised it was more likely than not 
Miss B, on these occasions, was having to borrow further to effectively cover a long 
term financial need. To me, this is an indication of her indebtedness not being 
sustainable.
Miss Bs credit file showed she was a regular user of other expensive, short term 
products. At times, especially around the point loan 8 was granted, she was 
borrowing from at least four other such lenders. So, it seems likely, the expenditure 
information LAH took wasnt correct, and it likely had information to support this 
through the credit check it completed. In addition, the use of other high cost 
products, at the same time, is a likely indicator that Miss B was having financial 
difficulties.
By the point of loan 8, as Miss B was making a commitment to make repayments to 
LAH for nearly another year, after already being indebted for the majority of the last 
five years, she was also taking her largest capital loan to date. The amount of time 
that Miss B spent indebted to LAH meant that she was servicing a debt to LAH over 
an extended period.
I think that Miss B lost out when LAH provided loans 7 and 8 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Bs indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive credit over an extended period and;
the number of loans and time in debt was likely to have had negative implications on 
Miss Bs ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for these 
high-cost loans.
So, overall, Im also intending to uphold the complaint about loans 4 - 8. Ill go on to set out
what LAH should do to put things right.
Responses to the provisional decision
In response to the provisional decision, both Miss B and LAH were asked to provide any 
further comments, information or evidence the parties wanted this Service to consider no 
later than 21 January 2022.  
Neither party has responded to the provisional decision, so there is nothing new for this 
Service to consider. The deadline for a response has also passed, so I see no reason to 
delay the issuing of this final decision. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
An neither party has raised any further points for this Service to consider I see no reason to 
depart from the findings I reached in the provisional decision. I still think, this Service can 
consider all of Miss Bs loans, and LAH shouldnt have advanced to Miss B loans 4  8. 
Ive outlined below what LAH needs to do in order to put things right.
 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress LAH should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what
might have happened had it not provided lending from loan 4, as Im satisfied it ought to
have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Miss B may have simply left matters there,
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative 
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Miss B in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Miss B would more likely than not have taken up any one of
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce LAHs liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
LAH shouldnt have given Miss B loans 4 - 8.
A. LAH should add together the total of the repayments made by Miss B towards
interest, fees and charges on these loans.
B. LAH should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Miss B  
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss B originally made 
the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. LAH should pay Miss B the total of A plus B.
D. LAH should remove any adverse information LAH have recorded on Miss Bs credit 
file in relation to loans 4 - 6. The overall pattern of Miss Bs borrowing for loans 7 and 
8 means any information recorded about them is adverse, so LAH should remove 
these loans entirely from Miss Bs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires LAH to take off tax from this interest. LAH must give 
Miss B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, Im upholding Miss Bs 
complaint in part.
S.D. Taylor Limited trading as Loans at Home should put things right for Miss B as directed 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman