DRN-2906914
The complaint
Mr B complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax didnt approve a refund after he 
raised a chargeback claim.
What happened
In November 2020 Mr B purchased a damaged vehicle from a salvage trader (the merchant) 
and paid a £1,000 deposit using his Halifax debit card. The remaining funds were paid via 
bank transfer. Mr B says the merchant told him it would cost £3,000 to repair the vehicle. 
The merchant says Mr B inspected the car for around an hour and sent images of the 
damage to a mechanic. 
Mr B says he had to pay around £4,000 to complete the repairs on the car and contacted 
Halifax to raise a chargeback claim. Halifax temporarily refunded the £1,000 deposit Mr B 
had paid and raised a chargeback claim.
The merchant defended the chargeback claim and said, as a salvage trader, it only sells 
damaged repairable vehicles and does not guarantee parts and repair costs. The merchant 
forwarded a copy of the invoice and associated terms and conditions. The invoice and terms 
say vehicles are sold as seen without a guarantee. They also say it is the customers 
responsibility to investigate the condition of the vehicle to their satisfaction before making a 
purchase. 
Halifax declined Mr Bs chargeback claim and he raised a complaint. Halifax didnt uphold Mr 
Bs complaint so he referred the matter to this service. And investigator looked at Mr Bs 
complaint but thought Halifax had dealt with him fairly. Mr B asked to appeal, so his 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider how Halifax handled Mr Bs chargeback claim and whether it treated him 
fairly when it declined it. Mr B says the car he purchased wasnt as described by the 
merchant because it wasnt repairable within the figures quoted. On that basis, Halifax 
temporarily refunded the £1,000 deposit he paid via his debit card and started a chargeback 
claim. Chargeback claims arent guaranteed and, in this case, the merchant responded to 
defend its position. 
The merchant explained all the vehicles is sells are salvaged and damaged. As a result, it 
doesnt offer a guarantee concerning the level of defects a particular vehicle may have. The 
merchant says Mr B was able to inspect the vehicle at some length and decided to proceed 
with the purchase. The merchant sent Halifax a signed invoice that says all vehicles are sold 
as seen with no guarantee. And the merchant also provided a copy of the associated terms 
that say a buyer has to satisfy themselves before deciding to purchase a car. 
I appreciate Mr B says he didnt see the terms before he purchased the vehicle. But the 
invoice contains a bold warning above where the customer signs that says Please read the 
terms and conditions before purchasing. Mr B signed the invoice so I think Halifax acted 
reasonably when it considered this as part of the evidence provided by the merchant. 
Ultimately, Halifax declined Mr Bs chargeback claim. Im satisfied Halifax had reasonable 
grounds to decline the chargeback claim so Im not telling it to pay Mr B the disputed £1,000. 
Mr B told our investigator he was advised the chargeback couldnt be challenged due to time 
limits. I can see that, after the merchant responded and the chargeback claim was declined, 
Mr B asked to attempt it again. Whilst I can see Mr B was told the case had run out of time, 
as the chargeback claim was reasonably declined in the first instance I havent been 
persuaded he lost out. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr B but Im satisfied Halifaxs decision to decline the chargeback 
claim was reasonable. It followed the correct process, temporarily refunding the payment 
and contacting the merchant for evidence. Im satisfied Halifax made a fair and reasonable 
decision to decline the chargeback claim on receipt of the merchants evidence. As Im 
satisfied the chargeback was fairly declined Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman