DRN-3581644
The complaint
Mr G has complained about the way Advantage Insurance Company Limited handled a 
claim he made under his car insurance policy.
All reference to the insurer Advantage in my decision includes its agents.
What happened
Mr G was involved in an incident on 31 October 2021 near to his place of work. This was a
Sunday. Mr G explained that he regularly commutes to work, which is around a 180 mile
round trip. He said hed been staying for the previous two nights at a local guest house (GH).
He said he regularly works six to seven days a week.
Mr G contacted his insurer Advantage to report the incident and to make a claim. Advantage
arranged for Mr Gs car to be recovered. It should have been recovered to an approved
repairer (AR) but it was instead recovered to temporary storage. Mr Gs car was recovered
to an AR near his home address on 5 November 2021.
Mr G chased Advantage daily for a replacement car during this time. And he extended his
accommodation stay as he believed a replacement car would be available within a couple of
days.
On 5 November 2021, which was the following Friday, the AR offered Mr G a replacement
car . Advantage accepts this was offered to Mr G three days later than it should have been 
and so it said this was the delay it was responsible for. It said Mr G declined the offer.
Mr G says he didnt decline the offer. He says the AR offered him a replacement car for
Monday 8 November 2021. But they told him they wouldnt deliver the replacement car to his
location as he was too far away and Mr G would therefore have to make his own
arrangements to collect the replacement car. So Mr G arranged for a hire car for two days:
from Saturday 6 November to Monday 8 November 2021. When Mr G contacted the AR on
Monday 8 November 2021, he said they told him they no longer had a replacement car
available for him.
Advantage said that between 5 and 10 November 2021 the AR inspected the damage to Mr
Gs vehicle and decided it was a total loss. Advantage said Mr G was made aware of this
decision by 10 November 2021. And once his car was declared a total loss, Mr G wasnt
entitled to a replacement car.
For the delay it caused, Advantage paid Mr G £65.
Mr G asked us to look at his complaint. He wanted Advantage to reimburse him for his
losses which he says were due to the poor service it provided. Mr G said he stayed in
accommodation for nine nights, so taking into account a two day allowance to arrange a
replacement car, hed like to be reimbursed for seven nights costing £280.
Mr G wants Advantage to reimburse him in full for his car hire costs, which came to £264.86
for two days from 6 to 8 November 2021 and £626.11 for 10 days from 11 to 20 November
2021.
In addition Mr G wants Advantage to provide a refund of the premium he paid for insurance
for two months.
Our Investigator recommended Mr Gs complaint should be upheld in part. He thought
Advantage should reimburse Mr G for the car hire costs in full including any unclaimed car
hire costs up until 3 December 2021 when a decision as to how to settle his claim was
reached. But he thought Mr G could have mitigated his losses by arranging his own car hire
sooner. So he didnt recommend Mr Gs accommodation costs be reimbursed. He thought
the compensation Advantage had paid of £65 was fair.
Mr G didnt agree. He said he couldnt have known how long it was going to take Advantage
to provide a replacement car  he thought it would be a couple of days. He wants to be
reimbursed in full for the accommodation costs.
Mr G says he hasnt asked for compensation for distress and inconvenience. But he clearly
was by Advantages poor service. He said that after he returned the second hire vehicle, he
used his wifes car. He says this caused inconvenience for childcare arrangements and
disruption to family life. So he believes a fair outcome is to have his costs reimbursed in full.
Advantage didnt agree. It said Mr G was entitled to a replacement car for the duration of
repairs. As his car wasnt being repaired, Advantage isnt responsible for car hire costs.
I issued a provisional decision on 6 June 2022. I intended to uphold it but made different 
recommendations to the Investigator. I thought Advantage should do the following:
Reimburse Mr G in full for the costs he paid for car hire and in part for
accommodation from 31 October 2021 to 5 November 2021 inclusive in line with
the receipts he has provided from 6 November to 3 December 2021.
Pay interest on the reimbursed amounts at a rate of 8% simple interest form the
date Mr G paid to the date Advantage pays him.
Reimburse Mr G for any other reasonable car hire or travel costs until 3
December 2021 with interest, subject to proof.
I said I would consider any new representations each party may wish to make before making 
a final decision. 
Mr G accepted my provisional decision. He explained that his wife was caused 
inconvenience while he used her car. He would like consideration of compensation for that. 
Advantage didnt reply to my provisional decision. So the case has been passed back to me 
to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Gs comments in relation to the inconvenience caused to his wife. As the 
policyholder and complainant, I can only consider any distress and inconvenience caused to 
Mr G. For this reason my final decision remains along the same lines as my provisional 
decision.Mr Gs policy with Advantage says it will provide a replacement car while his car is being
repaired. Advantage seem to accept that Mr G should have been provided with a
replacement car from the date his car arrived at the AR and that a reasonable date for this to
have happened was by 2 November 2021. It says it is therefore responsible for a delay of
three days: from 2 to 5 November 2021. Advantage says Mr G was offered a replacement
car on 5 November 2021 but declined it.
However, Mr G says that when he discussed a replacement car with the AR on the Friday
(5th) to collect on Monday, he was told it couldnt be delivered to him as he was outside of
the radius limit for the ARs area.
Advantage says Mr Gs call with the AR arent recorded. I can see from Advantages notes
on 1 November 2021 with the AR that it checked if recovery was possible given the location
was outside its radius. So on balance, Im satisfied that when Mr G discussed a replacement
car with the AR on 5 November 2021 its more likely than not he was advised of the radius
issue in respect of the replacement car. So I dont think its fair for Advantage to conclude
that Mr G simply declined the offer of a replacement car.
Advantage says Mr G is responsible for mitigating his circumstances and so it says he could
have chosen public transport to get home (or to the nearby AR) rather than car hire  in
order to be able to receive a replacement car..
According to my checks on an online map website, Mr G would have to take at least three
buses and two trains and taxis over a four hour period to get home from the location he was
staying in. Mr G was travelling with equipment for work which would not have been practical
to transport this way. I dont know how much a taxi would have cost for the whole journey 
but this is likely to have been considerable as Mr G was 90 miles away from home. I can see
that Mr G hired a small basic hatchback car for two days. I think he tried to mitigate his
losses here.
So I think Mr Gs decision to arrange alternative car hire from the evening of Saturday 6 to
the morning of Monday 8 November 2021 was a reasonable decision to take  and I think
Advantage should reimburse him for these costs with interest.
Advantage says Mr G was told by the AR on 9 November 2021 that his car was a total loss.
However we know that Advantage then went on to instruct an independent assessor to
inspect Mr Gs car to decide if it was repairable.
So I dont think its fair for Advantage to rely on this date in its timeline. When Mr G raised his
complaint with us on 30 November 2021 he said he still hadnt received a decision from
Advantage about how it intended to settle his claim. He said he should have still had use of a
replacement vehicle.
I agree with Mr G. I think Advantage poorly communicated with Mr G. And given it accepted
Mr G should have had use of a replacement vehicle from 2 November  I think this should
have continued until it either repaired his car or told him it would write it off.
So despite Advantage telling Mr G in its response to his complaint on 11 November 2021
that he was aware his claim would be settled as a total loss by 10 November 2021, its clear
that Advantage wouldnt have settled Mr Gs claim by paying him the market value for his car
until over a month later. So I think its within our inquisitorial remit for me to take this
information into account even though it happened after Advantage replied to Mr Gs
complaint.Mr G arranged further vehicle hire from 11 November to 20 November 2021. I think
Advantage should reimburse Mr G for these costs in full with interest.
Mr G says that from 21 November 2021 to 3 December 2021 he had to use his wifes car
which caused considerable inconvenience to the family with childcare arrangements as he
has young children. Mr G says he hasnt asked for compensation for the inconvenience
caused. But he believes he should be reimbursed for the costs of the accommodation and
car hire in full.
In my provisional decision I said it wasnt clear to me why Mr G needed to stay in 
accommodation on 6 and 7 November 2021 as he had arranged his own car hire by that 
point. I dont think the reason for staying in accommodation for these nights was therefore 
caused by Advantages delay as he was no longer stranded  and this is a commute Mr G 
says he regularly undertakes for work. He had previously stayed in the accommodation for 
work purposes. So while I think Advantage is responsible for covering the alternative hire car 
costs from 6 to 8 November 2021, I dont think its also responsible for accommodation costs 
for the same period.
In response to my provisional decision, Mr G says he was advised to record all claims and 
stays, but accepts compensation isnt warranted for accommodation here.
While Mr Gs circumstances dont exactly match, Ive looked at what Advantages policy says
about cover for onward travel and accommodation when a claim is made. Advantage says it
will pay up to £50 for each person, up to a maximum of £250, if Mr G cant continue his
journey as a result of loss or damage to his car.
This can be spent on one of the following for Mr G and passengers in his car:
oTravelling expenses for people travelling in Mr Gs car towards reaching 
their destination.
oOne nights hotel accommodation for people travelling in Mr Gs car on the 
day of the accident or loss if he has to make an unplanned overnight stop.
Ive taken on board the daily rate of £50 when considering the costs Mr G paid for
accommodation - as he wasnt able to continue his journey to reach his destination on
Sunday 31 October 2021. And I think Advantage is responsible for a delay after this date. I
think Mr Gs response that he expected a replacement car to take a couple of days to
arrange was reasonable. I agree Mr G couldnt have foreseen the delay when he made the
decision to stay in accommodation near his workplace at the beginning of the week.
So I think a fair outcome is for Advantage to reimburse Mr G for his reasonable
accommodation costs of £40 a night from Sunday 31 October 2021 to Friday 5 November
2021 inclusive, so for six nights totalling £240 with interest.
It seems Mr G was without use of a replacement car (when Advantage accepts it should
have provided him with one from 2 November 2021) for longer than the periods he paid for
his own hire car. I agree with the Investigators recommendation for Advantage to reimburse
Mr G for any other car hire charges he incurred until 3 December 2021. I understand from Mr 
Gs response to my provisional decision there may not be any further car hire costs as he 
used his wifes car. But for completeness I have kept this provision in my final decision.
I think Mr G has shown that Advantages poor service caused him inconvenience over and 
above what would be reasonably expected when dealing with a claim. I can see that Mr G 
made a number of calls to Advantage for updates on his claim and when he would receive a 
replacement car. However, overall I think the compensation Advantage has paid of £65 is a fair sum in this case  along with my recommendations  and enough to resolve Mr Gs 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited to do the following:
Reimburse Mr G in full for the costs he paid for car hire and in part for
accommodation from 31 October 2021 to 5 November 2021 inclusive in line with
the receipts he has provided from 6 November to 3 December 2021.
Pay interest on the reimbursed amounts at a rate of 8% simple interest form the
date Mr G paid to the date Advantage pays him.
Reimburse Mr G for any other reasonable car hire or travel costs until 3 
December 2021 with interest, subject to proof.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman