DRN-2819915
The complaint
Mr V and X complain that their mortgage application with HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) was 
delayed due to the actions of HSBCs conveyancer, which meant they had to pay more 
interest with their existing mortgage provider.
What happened
Mr V and X applied for a mortgage with HSBC on 4 June 2020 through a mortgage broker. 
They received an offer on 3 July and intended to complete on 3 August, which they felt was 
ample time to finalise the legal work. On 24 July, HSBCs conveyancer advised that there 
was a shortfall on the mortgage of £2,485.15 due to a payment holiday which hadnt been 
reflected in the mortgage balance at the time of application. Mr V and X were given three 
options: to pay the shortfall directly to the conveyancer, to increase the amount they were 
borrowing with HSBC, or to query the amount owed with their existing mortgage provider if 
they disagreed. They opted to borrow more money from HSBC in order to cover the shortfall 
and notified both the conveyancer and their own mortgage broker of this. 
Mr V and X were told by their broker that they were unable to increase the mortgage balance 
due to the conveyancer having already sent the Certificate of Title (COT) to HSBC prior to 
being told how the shortfall would be paid. The broker said this meant that no amendments 
could be made to the mortgage figure. At this stage, the two options available to Mr V and X 
were to pay the shortfall or to reapply for the mortgage from scratch. They were unable to 
pay the shortfall at that time so had to reapply, which meant they didnt complete until 21 
August.  This delay cost £658.98 in additional daily interest from their existing mortgage 
provider. 
Mr V and X say that had the conveyancer either contacted them to discuss how the shortfall 
would be paid or waited for their response, then they could have borrowed the shortfall and 
completed by 3 August as expected. They feel that this is an error by the conveyancer on 
behalf of HSBC in sending the COT while being aware there was a shortfall and knowing 
that the application couldnt be amended once this was sent. They would therefore like to be 
refunded the extra interest they paid as a result of the delay. 
HSBC says that Mr V and X were on a payment holiday and therefore the additional interest 
accrued on their mortgage was not taken into account in the application made through their 
broker. It says that it is the customers responsibility to apply for enough lending to pay off 
their previous lender. The fact that they had applied for the wrong amount would not have 
been highlighted until a redemption figure was received. Therefore, HSBC says that its 
conveyancer cannot be held liable for Mr V and X not borrowing enough funds to cover the 
outstanding balance and that the delays were a direct result of Mr V and X applying for an 
incorrect amount. 
HSBC says the sending of the COT did not stop Mr V and X from applying for more funds as 
this could be cancelled by the conveyancer at any time before the funds were released and 
a new application started regardless of whether this had been sent. HSBC says that Mr V 
and X would have had to make a new application or a request to increase their lending 
regardless of whether the COT had been sent as the amount they wanted to borrow was 
more than the amount in the offer. As affordability had only been checked up to the initial 
amount requested, this would require underwriting and the bank would be obliged to 
undertake a further affordability check if they wished to borrow more money than previously 
agreed. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and concluded that HSBC didnt need to take any 
further action. He found that once Mr V and Xs broker had submitted the application and the 
offer had been received, this was the cut-off point and the sending of the COT did not 
matter. As the broker had submitted an incorrect figure on the application, the investigator 
found that Mr V and X would always have needed to reapply to borrow a higher amount as 
this was what was required by HSBC.
Mr V and X disagree with this, so the case has come to me to make a decision. They say 
that all lenders are able to amend any offers after they have been issued and that HSBC 
allows clients to make any amendments necessary at any stage after the offer. Mr V and X 
maintain that the conveyancer did not wait to receive a response from them before sending 
the COT to HSBC and that it was this which meant they had to apply for a new mortgage. 
They say that the conveyancer therefore forced them into a situation where they could not 
afford to do anything other than start a new application - and that there was nothing they 
could have done differently to have avoided the financial penalties incurred.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at the evidence I agree with the investigators view for broadly the same 
reasons and I've explained my reasons further below.
I will start by saying that I understand that the crux of Mr V and Xs complaint is that the 
actions of the conveyancer in sending the COT to HSBC before it had received their 
response in relation to what they wanted to do about the shortfall caused the completion to 
be delayed in this case. However, in order to properly assess that issue it is necessary for 
me to deal with the surrounding events in the timeline.
Mr V and X received a mortgage offer on 3 July, following their application for the original 
amount. It is unclear as to how this amount was calculated and that is not something which I 
need to determine in order to decide this complaint. However, I will deal briefly with it as it 
appears to me that, had the figure in the original application been correct, there would have 
been no shortfall and consequently no reason to delay the ongoing application. 
I note from the email chain between Mr V and X and their broker that, in their email of 19 
May, they notified the broker about the mortgage holiday and queried whether the amount in 
relation to this could be added to the total for the HSBC mortgage and included in the 
repayment of the balance of the existing mortgage. The broker responded saying that, as 
they had taken a payment holiday, he would check with the existing mortgage provider to 
ensure they had the correct balance prior to submitting the application. The broker later said 
he had done this and based the mortgage application on what the existing lenders system 
showed as the existing balance. So it is possible that the existing lender has provided an 
incorrect redemption figure. In any event, this was not something in the control of either 
HSBC or its conveyancer.
The conveyancer discovered that there was a shortfall between the amount in the mortgage 
offer and the redemption figure once the redemption statement had been received from Mr V 
and Xs existing lender and notified them of this on 24 July. I can see that the redemption statement was requested by the conveyancer from the existing mortgage provider on 6 July 
and that this request was chased on 17 July. There would be no way of HSBC or the 
conveyancer being aware of the shortfall until it received the redemption statement and I am 
satisfied that they acted reasonably in obtaining this within the timeframe.  
I can see that the letter sent to Mr V and X by the conveyancer on 24 July notified them of 
the shortfall, provided them with possible options and advised that the shortfall would need 
to be resolved before the mortgage could be completed. The letter also stated If you choose 
to borrow more we will require an amended mortgage offer. This will delay completion of 
your mortgage. Should you choose to pay the shortfall amount, please arrange payment 
immediately to avoid a delay in completion.  
Because there was a shortfall, this would need to be paid before completion could take 
place. As Mr V and X were unable to pay the difference outright, the only option open to 
them at that stage was to apply to borrow more money from HSBC. And I think that the letter 
sent to them on 24 July would have made them aware that this may take some time as it 
made it clear that, if they chose to borrow more, a new offer would be required and that this 
would delay completion. 
On the same day, the conveyancer sent the COT to HSBC with the amount of borrowing 
agreed in the original mortgage offer. I understand that Mr V and X are of the view that it was 
the conveyancer doing this before it received their response to the letter which meant their 
application could no longer be amended. However, I am satisfied from the evidence that this 
is not the case. They would always have had to obtain a new offer as set out in the letter 
because the amount of borrowing applied for originally was insufficient to redeem their 
existing mortgage. So the sending of the COT did not affect whether the application could be 
amended. 
I also disagree with Mr V and X that amending the amount to be borrowed would have 
simply been an administrative task had the COT not been sent. Lenders are required to 
carry out affordability checks before offering to lend money. As this was an increase in the 
amount of borrowing, it would always have been necessary for this to go through the 
underwriting process and for a further affordability assessment to be carried out based on 
the higher amount before a new offer could be made. So the sending of the COT had no 
bearing on whether or not the amount of borrowing could be increased and the time taken 
for this to happen.  
I am satisfied that the reason for the delay in this case was due to the original application 
being made for the incorrect amount of borrowing and the need for this to be rectified and 
not due to the conveyancer sending the COT to HSBC. The application for the increased 
amount was made on 8 August and completion took place on 21 August. So I think the time 
taken at this stage between the amended application and completion was reasonable.  
I know my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr V and X, but I can't say that HSBC 
or its conveyancer have acted unreasonably in the circumstances of this case and I dont 
uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint and dont require HSBC 
UK Bank Plc to do anything.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V and X to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 November 2021.
 
Rachel Ellis
Ombudsman