DRN-2437391
The complaint
Mr J says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr J took out a PPI policy after applying for a mortgage in March 1995. 
The policy cost £13.80 per month. And if Mr J was too ill to work or made involuntarily 
redundant, the policy would have paid a monthly benefit of £200 for up to 12 months per 
claim.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr J disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Js case. Having done so, I wont be upholding 
Mr Js complaint and Ill explain why.
Halifax had to make it clear to Mr J that the policy was optional. And it had to get his consent 
before it added PPI to his account. Halifax says it would have done this. But Mr J says he 
was forced to take the policy in order to get his mortgage. 
The sale took place a long time ago, so neither party has been able to provide the point of 
sale documentation. And what Mr J has said isnt enough on its own for me to be able to 
uphold his complaint. So, Ive had to decide what I think is most likely to have happened.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr Js said about being forced to take the policy, but this is 
a subjective area  what one person perceives as pressure may be different to another. Mr J 
hasnt provided a detailed account of what made him feel forced to take the policy  only that 
he was asked to go back to the branch to discuss something further and he thought not 
taking the PPI might cause problems with his mortgage. But hes also confirmed the 
mortgage had already been approved at that point. So, as I cant know exactly what would 
have been said during the meeting, without more information from Mr J, I cant say he was 
pressured into taking the policy.
Weve seen a number of examples of the paperwork Halifax used around the time Mr Js 
policy was sold. From what I know, usually, Halifax gave its customers an option to take out 
PPI and the mortgage agreement often highlighted that it wasnt necessary to take any 
insurance from Halifax. So, I think its more likely than not that Mr J was aware he had a 
choice about buying the PPI, and that he chose to take it at the time. 
Halifax has treated the sale as though it gave Mr J advice and I think thats fair, because it 
puts more responsibility on Halifax. It means that as well as giving Mr J enough information 
about the policy, Halifax also had to check it was suitable for him. So, Ive considered the 
case on the basis that advice was given. Having done so, the policy appears to have been 
suitable for him. I say this because Mr J was eligible for the policy and he doesnt seem to 
have been affected by any of the terms which might have made it harder for him to make a 
claim, such as having a pre-existing medical condition or unusual employment 
circumstances.  
Mr J says he was only entitled to statutory sick pay and redundancy pay. He also told us he 
only had limited savings, but his family would have helped him if necessary. Ive thought 
about this carefully, but the policy would have paid out in addition to any statutory pay Mr J 
received and potentially for a much longer period. Mr J could also have made repeat claims 
subject to a requalification period. The PPI would have enabled him to use his savings for 
any other financial commitments he may have had at what could be a difficult time. And 
while his family may have wanted to help, circumstances could change, which means help 
from family could not always be relied on. So, I think the policy could have been useful to 
Mr J if he fell on hard times.
I also understand Mr J says he wanted to keep costs down, but I havent seen anything to 
suggest the policy was unaffordable for Mr J at the time it was taken. And it could have been 
cancelled at any time without penalty.
Its possible Halifax didnt give Mr J all of the other information he needed  I dont know if 
the terms and cost were made clear. But for the same reasons as Ive explained above, I 
think the policy was suitable for Mr J, so I dont think better information would have changed 
his decision to take the policy.
The mortgage was a big and long-term commitment, secured against Mr Js home. And the 
repercussions of not keeping up with repayments could have been serious. So, I think the 
policy could have been useful to Mr J and I dont think he lost out because of anything 
Halifax did wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman