DRN-2881414
The complaint
This complaint is about a single premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
alongside a loan in 1994. Mrs W says The Co-operative Bank Plc mis-sold her PPI.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mrs Ws 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mrs Ws representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new 
or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ws. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Ws 
complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
I think The Co-operative Bank made it clear that Mrs W didnt have to take out the PPI 
and she chose to take it out. I say this because the cost of the insurance was shown 
separately on the credit agreement, and I think this is likely to have come about following 
a conversation with Mrs W. Had she not expected to be paying for insurance or had not 
requested this I expect she wouldve queried this before signing the agreement.
The Co-operative Bank recommended the PPI to Mrs W so it had to check that the PPI 
was right for her. And the evidence about Mrs Ws circumstances at the time, shows that 
the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. For example Mrs W was 
eligible for the cover and she had limited means to fall back on, so she had a need for 
cover.
There was nothing about Mrs Ws employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for her to claim. And she hasnt told us about any pre-existing medical conditions 
that could affect her ability to claim. There were also no additional restrictions on cover 
for mental health or back problems.
Its possible the information The Co-operative Bank gave Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like 
she wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mrs W, or too 
dissimilar to what she reasonably thought she was buying from the information she was 
given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would have been useful for 
her if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mrs W would have declined 
the cover had The Co-operative Bank done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mrs W would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could provide 
a useful benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. I also think the policy 
was sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mrs Ws representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant The Co-operative Bank should have disclosed the 
poor value and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it 
had on the chances of making a claim.
But Mrs Ws representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Ws individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Ws particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint.
This means The Co-operative Bank doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2021.
 
Phillip Lai-FangOmbudsman