DRN-2619187
The complaint
Mr H acquired a household fixture in November 2018, using his Nationwide Building Society 
credit card. He complains that the fixture was not fit for purpose. He wants Nationwide to 
reimburse the costs he incurred in adapting his house to make the fixture fit for purpose.
What happened
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 22 January 2021, as follows. 
Mr H acquired a bespoke fixture, measured by the supplier to fit into part of his house, and 
costing over £1,100. Although the supplier did not install the fixture. Mr H employed an 
installer to undertake this task.    
Mr H said:
When the installer had largely completed this task, he realised the fixture did not 
have enough clearance from a wall in the house, in order to function properly  so, 
Mr H complained to the supplier
The supplier inspected the installation, and offered to use its staff to adapt the fixture, 
in order to create the required clearance
The supplier also made an alternative offer, to make a payment of £200 to Mr H
Neither of these offers were acceptable to him  
ohe thought he had acquired a high quality (and expensive) item
ohe was willing to accept a replacement fixture, made to the correct 
dimensions  but he thought an adaptation of the installed item would result in 
a lower quality item, which he could not accept
ohe thought the better solution would be to make an adaptation to a wall in the 
house, in order to create the required clearance  and the cost of these works 
would be roundly double the £200 payment offered
So, Mr H referred his complaint to Nationwide in January 2019. He also commissioned the 
wall adaptation work, which would resolve the clearance problem.
Nationwide initially considered whether it could use the chargeback scheme associated with 
its credit card, in order to reclaim the payments Mr H had made to the supplier. It concluded 
that the scheme could not be used, because of a requirement to return the item acquired in 
the same condition as it was delivered to Mr H. Mr H had accepted delivery of the item, 
which was being installed when the problem complained about became apparent.
Nationwide then considered whether Mr H could make a claim under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). Mr H provided to Nationwide pictorial and documentary 
information, relating to acquisition of the fixture and the wall adaptation work. 
Nationwide concluded:
There was insufficient evidence to show that the fixture was not fit for purpose  it 
said that any judgement of whether there was enough clearance was subjective, and 
not backed up by specifications recorded when the fixture was ordered
In addition, Mr H did not either allow the supplier an opportunity to rectify the issue 
about which he complained, or accept the alternative offer of compensation, and 
instead commissioned his own tradesmen to resolve the problem in a different way  
in these circumstances, Nationwide could not accept that Mr H had made reasonable 
attempts to mitigate any losses he might have incurred
On this basis, Nationwide told Mr H that it would not accept any liability towards him.  So, 
Mr H referred his complaint to us. 
Our investigator did not think the complaint should be upheld:
He agreed with Nationwides reasoning that its chargeback scheme could not be 
used to reclaim the payments made by Mr H to the supplier
He acknowledged that, before the fixture was ordered, Mr H and the supplier had 
discussed the need for good clearance  but he also agreed with Nationwide that the 
required clearance was not specified and recorded in the order
He agreed as well with Nationwide that judgements about clearance were subjective 
 and he noted that the supplier felt the clearance provided was reasonable, and 
enabled the fixture to be used as intended
He said there was insufficient evidence to conclude that the supplier had 
mis-represented the fixture, including its clearance when installed, to Mr H
He did not feel, in these circumstances, that Nationwide could be held liable under 
CCA section 75
Mr M disagreed with our investigator. He said the suppliers business was bespoke fixtures, 
and he could not understand why the supplier had not provided a drawing of his fixture with 
measurements and clearances  he had trusted the supplier to provide a stunning fixture, 
only to be let down. So, this complaint was referred for review by an ombudsman.
my provisional findings
I explained why I disagreed with our investigators view that the complaint should not be 
upheld. I thought it should be upheld in part.
I agreed with our investigator and Nationwide that the relevant chargeback scheme could not 
be used to reclaim the payments made by Mr H to the supplier, for the same reasons as 
those put forward by Nationwide.  
But Nationwide did have a responsibility (under the CCA) to ensure that goods of 
satisfactory quality, and corresponding to their description, have been supplied. This meant 
that a reasonable person would have regarded the goods as satisfactory, taking into account 
all relevant circumstances.
And, as summarised above, this responsibility related both to how the goods are 
represented to the customer, and to their quality. 
Our investigator said that there was not enough evidence to conclude that the supplier 
mis-represented the fixture to Mr H. The supplier and Mr H agreed that appropriate 
clearances were required when the fixture was installed, but it appeared that they had 
different understandings of what was appropriate.  And, unfortunately, the required 
clearances were not specified and recorded, when the fixture was ordered.So, given the evidence was incomplete, and on the balance of probabilities, I shared our 
investigators view that the supplier did not mis-represent the fixture to Mr H.
But, in my view, the evidence provided by Mr H strongly suggested that the fixture was not of 
satisfactory quality. And I thought the suppliers offer to modify the fixture, in order that it 
could fulfil its intended purpose to Mr Hs satisfaction, supported my view.
So, on balance, I found that the fixture was not of satisfactory quality. In these 
circumstances, it was fair and reasonable to allow the supplier the opportunity to undertake a 
repair, in order to make the fixtures quality satisfactory. If this repair had turned out to be 
unsuccessful, then:
Either the supplier would have needed to replace the fixture
Or the goods would need to have been rejected, and Mr Hs payment would need to 
have been refunded
But Mr H had not allowed the repair opportunity, or accepted the suppliers compensation 
offer, and had incurred costs in resolving the clearance problem another way. I was unable 
to disagree with Nationwides argument that he had not make reasonable attempts to 
mitigate the losses he had incurred. And, in these circumstances, it would not be fair or 
reasonable for Nationwide (or the supplier) to be required simply to refund Mr Hs costs.
I found that the only way forward for Mr H was to accept the suppliers compensation offer, if 
it was still available. 
Our investigator asked Nationwide if it would honour the compensation payment, if the 
supplier was unwilling or unable to do so. Nationwide argued that it would not honour the 
payment, because there was no breach of contract or misrepresentation of the goods, which 
meant that it had no responsibility in this matter.
I agreed with Nationwide that there was no misrepresentation. But I disagreed that it has no 
responsibility in this matter, because I found (on balance) that the fixture was of 
unsatisfactory quality. This meant it had an equal and shared responsibility with the supplier. 
My provisional settlement recommendations
 
I found that Nationwide should make the £100 compensation payment to Mr H. It could then 
look to recover this payment from the supplier, if it was able to do so.
Nationwide responded, accepting my provisional findings and settlement recommendations. 
But Mr H felt there were things missing from my decision:
The bespoke fixture actually cost him over £1,500 (rather than over £1,100)
The supplier offered to replace part of the fixture with a skinny alternative   
owhich was different from (and inferior to) what he had viewed in the suppliers 
showroom, before he agreed to acquire the fixture
oand which, in any case, would not have resolved the clearance problem
I omitted to confirm that the fixture was not fit for purpose, and I said there was 
insufficient evidence to reach this conclusion
Mr H expected the supplier to record the appropriate clearance required, when this 
was agreed with him before he agreed to acquire the fixture
In Mr Hs opinion, the suppliers staff involved in this acquisition were incompetent
The suppliers compensation offer was made simply to enable this problem to be 
taken off its hands  What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach 
my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and wider circumstances. 
I sympathise with Mr H:
I apologise that I understated the cost to him of the bespoke fixture, but this does not 
affect my findings or decision 
I appreciate that Mr H would not accept an adaption to the fixture that included parts 
of inferior quality, but he acted prematurely in commissioning wall adaption work, 
before the supplier had been given the opportunity to provide something that could 
have been of satisfactory quality
And if, having been given this opportunity, the supplier had failed to provide goods of 
satisfactory quality, then a suitable resolution to Mr Hs complaint could have been 
decided, before he incurred expenditure on wall adaption
In my provisional decision, I did say (on the balance of probabilities) I shared our 
investigators view that the supplier had not mis-represented the fixture to Mr H  but 
I also said (again, on balance) the fixture supplied was not of satisfactory quality
I note as well Mr Hs comments about the suppliers paperwork, staff and compensation 
offer. But I had already taken these factors into account in reaching my provisional decision.
And so, in conclusion, Mr Hs response does not lead me to change my provisional findings 
an d settlement recommendations. 
 
Putting things right
As stated in my provisional decision: 
In the circumstances, it would not be fair or reasonable for Nationwide (or the 
supplier) to be required simply to refund Mr Hs costs
The only way forward now for Mr H is to accept the compensation offer
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In 
full and final settlement of it, I order Nationwide Building Society to pay compensation of 
£200 to Mr H.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2021. 
Roy Mawford
Ombudsman