DRN-4158344
The complaint
Mr P complains FUND OURSELVES Limited trading as Fund Ourselves (Fund Ourselves) 
gave him loans without carrying out the correct affordability checks.
What happened
Mr P was advanced two loans by Fund Ourselves and below is a table summarising his 
borrowing. 
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
instalmentshighest 
repayment
1 £500.00 04/03/2022 28/04/2022 4 £241.00
2 £450.00 01/05/2022 sold 4 £219.60
Fund Ourselves said Mr P had problems repaying his final loan and the loan was 
subsequently defaulted and then sold to a third party in October 2022. 
Mr P referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman after it has been reviewed by 
Fund Ourselves who didnt uphold it. 
The complaint was then considered by an adjudicator, and she didnt think Mr Ps complaint 
should be upheld because proportionate checks had been carried out and there was no 
indication that either Mr P was in financial difficulties, or the loans couldnt be repaid in a 
sustainable manner. 
Mr P didnt agree, saying Fund Ourselves shouldve done some further checks before 
lending to him because at the time he had been rejected from some of their competitors. 
He said he had other cases that had been upheld where there had been back-to- back loans 
and he doesnt understand why this case is different. Finally, Mr P says that he has being 
harassed by the collection agency which he doesnt think is right. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me to resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Mr P says that he is being harassed by a third-party legal firm. Fund Ourselves has sold the 
outstanding balance onto a third party  details of which were contained in the final response 
letter. As Fund Ourselves has sold the balance, it is no longer responsible for the collection 
of the debt and therefore isnt responsible for the actions of the third party. If Mr P is 
unhappy with the actions of the third-party, he will need to raise a separate complaint with it. 
Fund Ourselves had to assess the lending to check if Mr P could afford to pay back the 
amounts hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Fund Ourselves checks couldve taken into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, 
and Mr Ps income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Fund Ourselves should 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr P. These factors 
include:
Mr P having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr P having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr P coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr P. As there were only two loans 
granted within a little under two months the adjudicator didnt think this applied to Mr Ps 
complaint and I agree. 
Fund Ourselves was required to establish whether Mr P could sustainably repay the loans  
not just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr P was able to repay 
his loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ps complaint.
As part of his applications, Mr P declared a monthly income for both loans of £3,300 from full 
time work. Fund Ourselves says that this income was verified using a tool provided by a 
credit reference agency. And the result of that check indicated the income declared by Mr P 
was likely to be accurate. 
Mr P was also asked to declare his outgoings across a number of different variables, such 
as travel, rent, utilities, food and commitments. Mr P declared his outgoings were £940 per 
month. These were the first two loans of the lending chain and I think it was, at this time, 
reasonable of Fund Ourselves to have relied on the information Mr P had provided. 
Fund Ourselves believed, based on the information Mr P provided that he had enough 
disposable income to afford the largest monthly loan repayment of £241. Therefore, it 
wouldve been reasonable for Fund Ourselves to believe the loans to be affordable for Mr P. 
Before the loans were approved Fund Ourselves doesnt appear to have carried out a credit 
search before lending. But there wasnt a requirement for it to do so. Therefore, I cant 
uphold Mr Ps complaint solely because a credit search wasnt carried out when I consider 
the other checks to be proportionate. Loan one had been paid earlier then contracted for and without any apparent difficulty. So, 
when Mr P had returned for loan two a few days later, for a smaller sum and a smaller 
monthly repayment I dont think this wouldve triggered Fund Ourselves to have carried out 
further checks before granting the loan. 
I appreciate Mr P says that he has had other complaints  where loans have been given 
back-to-back and these have been upheld. But my remit is to consider the individual 
circumstances of this complaint. And there are a number of factors that go into deciding 
whether either a loan or loans should be upheld, or further checks ought to have been 
carried out. 
I have already outlined earlier on in this decision some examples of what may lead the 
lender to carry out further checks. But as always it will be dependent on the individual 
circumstances of each loan application. And some of the factors that are considered  but 
not limited to, what any other lender knew about Mr P (and what he had declared) the 
number of loans granted, the monthly repayment that Mr P was due to make and the results 
of any other checks that may have been carried out. 
In this case, I certainly, cant say that a two-loan lending chain, where the second loan as 
smaller than the first ought to have been a red flag for Fund Ourselves to have carried out 
further checks or to have declined the lending. The lending chain also wasnt large enough 
to have made Fund Ourselves conclude that Mr P was using the loans in an unsustainable 
manner. 
Ive also thought about what Mr P says about being declined for other loans from 
Fund Ourselves competitors  and this may have been as a result of the types of checks 
those lenders carried out, how much Mr P was asking for and the repayment term. But I 
dont need to know the details of those declined loans in order to reach a fair outcome for 
what Fund Ourselves did in the circumstance of this complaint. 
Overall, Fund Ourselves carried out proportionate checks before each loan was approved 
which showed Mr P could afford the repayments he was committed to making. Im also 
satisfied it was entitled to rely on the information Mr P declared about his income and 
expenditure. There also wasnt anything else to suggest these loans would either be 
unaffordable or unsustainable for him. 
This has led me to conclude that Fund Ourselves didnt do anything wrong when it approved 
the loans for Mr P and it therefore follows that I cant uphold the complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Ps compliant. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman