DRN-3444540
The complaint
Through his representative, Mr L complained about an instalment loan he took out with 
Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk.
To keep things simpler, Ill just refer to the borrower Mr L in my decision. 
What happened
MoneyBoat provided a loan to Mr L as follows: 
Date taken Loan status Monthly 
InstalmentsLoan 
amountTypical
monthly 
repayment
September 
2020Outstanding 6 £800 £204.09
Mr L mainly said MoneyBoat failed to conduct proportionate checks and could have done 
more before agreeing to lend this loan.  
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr L and MoneyBoat told us about this loan. 
In summary, our adjudicator thought:
given the loan amount, what was apparent about Mr Ls circumstances at the time 
and his history with the lender, it wouldnt have been proportionate to ask Mr L for the 
amount of information needed to show the lending was unsustainable
there wasnt anything in the information Mr L provided, or the information MoneyBoat 
shouldve been aware of, which meant that MoneyBoat shouldve taken steps to 
verify the information Mr L had declared
our adjudicator didnt think that the loan amount or the period of time Mr L was 
borrowing meant his loan history, on its own, was enough to show MoneyBoat he 
mightve been experiencing underlying financial difficulty.
Mr L disagreed and asked for a final decision by an ombudsman. So the complaint comes to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive used this 
approach to help me decide this complaint.
Ive reviewed the complaint independently and having done so, I've come to the same view 
as our adjudicator for broadly the same reasons. Ill explain why I say this. 
MoneyBoat provided Mr L with a high-interest loan intended for short-term use and so it 
needed to make sure that it didnt provide the loan irresponsibly. 
In practice, this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mr L could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
Mr Ls income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. 
Before lending to Mr L, MoneyBoat asked Mr L for information about his financial situation, 
such as his monthly income and his outgoings. It also asked about any other credit 
commitments and carried out credit checks. 
It recorded his income was around £1,260. After looking at all the information it had 
gathered, MoneyBoat didnt think Mr L could afford to borrow as much as hed asked for and 
it agreed to lend Mr L a loan it worked out shouldve been comfortably affordable for him.
This was Mr Ls first (and only) loan with MoneyBoat. I dont think MoneyBoat had any 
particular reason to think it couldnt potentially rely on the information Mr L provided. Looking 
at the loan repayment amounts and the loan term and taking into account all the information 
MoneyBoat had on record for Mr L, I think its fair to say this loan looked affordable for Mr L. 
I must be impartial and fair to both parties. Ive taken into account that Mr Ls credit report 
does show some information that is concerning. But overall, keeping in mind that borrowers 
applying for this type of high cost lending might often have other borrowing or an impaired 
credit history, this wouldnt necessarily be a bar to lending to Mr L if the loan otherwise 
looked affordable  as it did here. 
I think its fair to say that although the credit history showed that Mr L had an established 
record of using credit, including high cost short-term and unsecured loans, and hed had 
some evident money problems, I dont think the credit checks that MoneyBoat acquired 
revealed enough concerning information for me fairly to say it should have put off a 
responsible lender from providing this loan to Mr L or that MoneyBoat ought to have been 
prompted to do more in-depth checks before agreeing to lend. 
I say this because the county court judgements on his record dated back more than 2 years 
and he had no recent defaults within the previous 12 months. MoneyBoats checks showed 
that he was well within his overdraft limit at the bank. And whilst it appeared that Mr L had 
previously relied to some extent on using his credit cards for cash advances, which is a 
particularly expensive way to obtain spending money and can be a sign of money problems, 
he didnt appeared to have stopped doing this during the 12 months running up to him 
applying for this loan. He wasnt shown as being in bankruptcy or having entered into any 
formal arrangement with creditors. 
So, whilst it was evident that hed had some serious money problems in the past, I think its 
fair to say that overall this no longer seemed to be the case and it looked like Mr L appeared 
to have got on top of his most pressing financial difficulties. I can see that MoneyBoat did carefully consider Mr Ls application in light of the information it 
saw  it reduced the amount it was prepared to lend to him (hed applied for £1,200). I dont 
think I can fairly say the information gathered showed that he was in such serious financial 
difficulty that it would be irresponsible to provide this reduced loan amount to him. 
Im sorry that Mr L has a problem with debt and that repaying this loan is proving so difficult 
for him. I accept that in reality Mr Ls actual circumstances possibly werent fully reflected 
either in the information he provided or the other information MoneyBoat obtained. 
But MoneyBoat was entitled to decide Mr Ls lending application based on the information 
I would reasonably expect it to have found out at the time. I dont think it was unreasonable 
for MoneyBoat to lend  especially as there wasnt anything obvious, in the information it 
had, to suggest Mr L was unlikely to be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way. And 
I dont think proportionate checks wouldve required MoneyBoat to probe any more deeply 
into Mr Ls finances or ask Mr L to prove what he was declaring or check other information 
sources to verify what he had told them (or not said) about his financial circumstances and 
how he was spending his money.
In order to uphold this complaint I have to be able to say a lender did something wrong. And, 
in this case, I dont think that MoneyBoat did anything wrong in deciding to lend this loan to 
Mr L. 
I understand that what Ive said will come as a disappointment to Mr L. But I hope that 
setting out the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.
If Mr L is still struggling with debt and would like help to manage his finances or to talk to 
someone about his situation theres more information about how to get free advice on 
our website  or we can provide contact details if he gives us a call.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman