DRN-2700444
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are seeking to recover approximately £26,000 from HSBC UK Bank Plc 
(HSBC), which they lost from their account as the result of a third-party scam. 
HSBC says it is not liable for the loss because Mr H unwittingly authorised the payments 
himself  and it could not reasonably have intervened or done more to try to recoup the 
money from the receiving bank. 
What happened
The details of this case have been clearly set out by our investigator when they wrote to both 
parties recommending that Mr and Mrs Hs complaint be upheld. As such, the facts are well-
known to all involved, so I dont need to repeat them at length here. However, in summary, 
Mr and Mrs H have been the victim of a scam. In January 2019 they were tricked into 
sending approximately £26,000 from their HSBC account to what they thought was an 
investment but which included cryptocurrency. Mr H read an article which said a celebrity 
chef had appeared on a morning television programme to show viewers how much money 
they could make, with relative ease, through a type of cryptocurrency. He then went on a 
video streaming platform to ask questions about cryptocurrency, and was contacted by an 
agent purportedly working for a legitimate investment company who persuaded him to make 
an initial investment which he made via a credit card payment. This initial investment  has 
now been refunded. However, throughout the course of the scam, Mr H spoke to three 
different agents for the company, and he was persuaded to send the further following 
payments from his HSBC account to an international account by online banking transfer: 
4 January - £6,833.24 (also incurring a £4 charge) 
14 January - £19,000 (also incurring a £4 charge) 
Mr and Mrs H also sent a further payment from an international account held with another 
bank  but this doesnt form part of this complaint. On all three occasions, Mr H allowed the 
agent remote access to his computer so that they could help him make the payments, as he 
was not particularly confident with technology. After he had started to invest, the scammers 
sent him videos and graphs every day to show him how his investments were doing. He 
said the agents and the content he was sent seemed  legitimate and professional 
throughout. 
The scam came to light when a friend told them it all sounded suspicious, they found 
negative reviews for the company online and the scammers gave excuses as to why they 
couldnt withdraw some of their funds to their HSBC account. Mr H reported it to relevant law 
enforcement agencies, and the banks he used to send money as part of the scam  
including HSBC. The other bank was able to get most of the money back for the payment 
they had processed. Mr and Mrs H said that HSBC provided poor customer service, and 
believed they should have done more to help recoup their losses  like their other bank had. 
HSBC thought that theyd done all they reasonably could to recoup Mr and Mrs Hs losses  
and that ultimately Mr H had willingly allowed access to his computer for the scammers to 
make these transactions  so they should not be liable for the loss. 
Mr and Mrs H remained unhappy, so they came to our service. Our investigator reviewed 
what happened and recommended that the complaint be upheld. They felt that the 
transactions were unusual and out of character when compared to Mr and Mrs Hs usual 
account activity, and should have triggered a response from HSBC. They also thought that 
had HSBC responded by contacting Mr and Mrs H and asking them some probing questions, 
it would have come to light that something about the investment wasnt quite right, the scam 
wouldve come to light and Mr and Mrs H wouldnt have made the payments at all. 
HSBC didnt agree. They said they had tried to contact the international receiving bank, but 
there were no funds to be returned. 
They also said that if Mr and Mrs H should be refunded at all, they should bear at least 
partial responsibility for their loss. They said that: 
Mr H had allowed a third party to take over his computer and make the payments 
online which means that the reasons for the payments would have been input by the 
scammer, and any warnings would have been ignored by the scammer. So even if 
effective warnings were given by HSBC, it would not have prevented the scam.
Mr and Mrs H carried out no checks in respect of the investment opportunities, 
which HSBC say shows they acted extremely carelessly. Save for exceptional 
circumstances, such as where such checks would clearly not have made a 
difference, that should result in at least partial responsibility on the customers part. 
HSBC said customers are expected to take reasonable steps to protect themselves 
from fraud  and so Mr and Mrs H should not be absolved of any responsibility for 
their failure to make no independent checks.. 
They thought our investigator had departed from recent caselaw without giving a 
clear rationale for doing so
They dont agree that they should have intervened. But they said that even if they 
had intervened and   asked the detailed questions our investigator suggested  they 
didnt think  the scam would have been uncovered necessarily anyway. 
Our investigator reviewed what HSBC said, but it didnt change their opinion on the fair and 
reasonable outcome for this complaint. So, the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.  
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the account. However, taking account of the law, regulatory rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider HSBC should fairly and reasonably: 
Have been monitoring accounts  and any payments made or received  to counter 
various risks including anti-money-laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams;Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks and building societies are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm or fraud. 
This means that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated scams in recent years, there 
are circumstances where a bank should fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make 
additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make a 
payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm. 
So, in this case, I need to decide whether HSBC treated Mr and Mrs H fairly and reasonably 
in its dealings with them when they transferred the two payments to scammers and when 
they contacted HSBC after realising they had fallen victim of the scam, or whether it should 
have done more than it did. 
It is common ground that the disputed payments were authorised by Mr and Mrs H for the 
purposes of the relevant regulations. This is because Mr H allowed the scammers remote 
access to his computer and  provided them with his  legitimate security credentials , and 
consented to the payments being made from their account. These payments must be 
regarded as authorised, even though Mr and Mrs H were the victim of a sophisticated 
scam. So, although they did not intend for the money to go to the scammers, under the 
relevant regulations, Mr and Mrs H are presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. But 
there are situations in which HSBC ought reasonably to have had a closer look at the 
circumstances surrounding transfers, as I have explained above. So, I consider that as a 
matter of good practice HSBC should have been on the lookout for unusual and out of 
character transactions. 
Ive thought about whether the initial transfer Mr and Mrs H made could be considered out of 
character when compared to their usual account activity. And, having reviewed their 
statements for the months leading up to the scam, it appears a payment of nearly £7,000 
was unusual and out of character for the account  there had been no comparable legitimate 
payments in recent times. The transfers were both significantly higher than those made from 
the account previously and they were being made to a new, international payee. And so, I 
am satisfied that HSBC ought fairly and reasonably, and as a matter of good practice, to 
have done more here. I think it ought to have made enquiries about the purpose of, and the 
circumstances leading up to, the first and second payment before it processed them. 
Because Im satisfied HSBC should have spoken to Mr and Mrs H to discuss the payments 
before it processed them, I have to consider whether any further intervention would have 
ultimately made a difference or not. 
It is impossible for me to say exactly how any conversation between Mr and Mrs H and 
HSBC would have unfolded. And so, I must base my decision on what I think is most likely to 
have happened had HSBC intervened further. Ive done this by considering the usual types 
of questions I would have expected HSBC to ask them had it contacted them  alongside 
what Mr and Mrs H told us about the circumstances that led to them making the transfers. 
Having done so, I do think further intervention would have made a difference. Im persuaded 
that its most likely the scam would have been uncovered and Mr and Mrs H would not have 
gone ahead with the payments. Ill explain why. Mr and Mrs H were not knowledgeable investors and this is a well-known scam. And so, Im 
persuaded that had bank staff asked some probing questions such as what the investment 
was for, its expected returns, what paperwork they had received, how they had found the 
investment opportunity, how they had been contacted, and whether theyd done any checks 
into the company  including whether they were a regulated firm  some clear red flags 
would have been raised and it is likely that Mr and Mrs H would have put HSBC on notice 
that they may be at risk of financial harm. 
Mr and Mrs H had not been provided with a cover story to provide to HSBC and so I am 
satisfied that had Mr and Mrs H been asked these questions they would have said that 
theyd seen an article about a celebrity chef appearing on a morning television programme 
and talking about cryptocurrency. Theyd have most likely been honest that they then went to 
the online video streaming platform to ask about cryptocurrency, and were called by the 
company unexpectedly out of the blue. They likely would have said that they had relied on 
what the caller had told them, and not carried out any independent checks. 
At this point, Im satisfied that HSBC would have realised something was amiss  before it 
was too late. Mr and Mrs H had simply trusted an alleged cryptocurrency investment 
company that had found them via a video streaming platform  and theyd simply relied on 
what they were told rather than doing any independent checks. At this point HSBC could 
have educated Mr and Mrs H about this particular type of scam and its key characteristics. 
Mr H has told us that he didnt know that scammers could post things on the video streaming 
platform website and so he trusted the caller was legitimate  and Ive no reason to doubt 
this. Further, its clear when someone else  Mr and Mrs Hs friend  educated them they 
searched online and quickly realised this was a scam company. And so Im satisfied that if 
HSBC had done this, Mr and Mrs H would not have gone ahead with the first or the 
subsequent transactions. 
In other words, had HSBC carried out further questioning at the time Mr and Mrs H were 
attempting to make the first transaction, it seems probably that Mr and Mrs H would have 
become credulous about the scam in time and decided not to make the first, and ultimately 
the following payments at all. The fraud would have failed; and Mr and Mrs H would not have 
lost their money. 
Should Mr and Mrs H also bear some responsibility for their loss?
Despite regulatory safeguards, there is a general principle that consumers must still take 
responsibility for their decisions. In this case, I do not think Mr and Mrs H were to blame for 
what happened; that they did not foresee the risk of this sort of harm or any harm. It is clear 
that Mr and Mrs H were not aware at the time of authorising the payments that these would 
have been the consequences of their actions  they were in the dark and simply didnt 
appreciate what they were doing. They thought they were sensibly investing their savings in 
order to provide for themselves during their  retirement. At the time of the payments, there 
was information in the public domain about the company, but you needed to understand how 
to locate such information, as well as the need to look for such information in the first place. 
But I do not place too much weight on general but arcane information in the public domain  
there is an information imbalance between financial professionals and ordinary consumers. 
Ultimately, Mr and Mrs H were simply the unwitting and blameless victims of clever 
fraudsters. The bank was the professional in financial matters; Mr and Mrs H were 
laypeople.
Up until the point Mr and Mrs H were prevented from withdrawing funds from their account, 
the account had seemingly been steadily earning profits and Mr H had no cause for 
concern. Unaware that this was one of the common deceptive tactics of scammers, I do not 
think he could have foreseen the risk that the company he was dealing with was a scam and the trading account he was viewing was a simulation the scam company used to gain further 
funds from their victims. 
In the circumstances, I do not think it would be fair to reduce compensation on the basis that 
Mr and Mrs H should share blame for what happened. 
Putting things right
In the circumstances, I am satisfied that HSBC should fairly and reasonably reimburse Mr 
and Mrs H for the loss they suffered without any reduction together with interest of 8% to 
compensate them for being deprived of the money they lost. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require HSBC to: 
Refund the two payments 
Pay an additional 8% interest from the dates of the losses until the money is 
refunded
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Katherine Jones
Ombudsman