DRN-3814262
The complaint
Mr M complains about the way  that Vanquis Bank Limited (Vanquis)closed his account with 
no appeal process in place. He would like Vanquis to acknowledge its failings.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
I have noted Mr M didnt feel that all his complaint issues have been addressed, although 
he hasnt specifically stated what he feels was overlooked. So, I think its helpful to say 
that even, if I dont refer to all his points, I have considered them but I have concentrated 
on  the crux of the issues in this final decision.
I appreciate it must have been inconvenient for Mr M to have had his credit limit reduced 
to £0 just before Christmas. Vanquis terms and conditions allow it to reduce credit limits 
where an account balance has been substantially below the current credit limit for a 
period. In Mr Ms case, he hadnt used the card for nearly a year when Vanquis wrote to 
him to advise of the reduction in the credit limit, so I think Vanquis actions were within its 
terms and conditions.
Vanquis terms and conditions also allow it to give 60 days notice to close an account. 
From what I have seen Vanquis wrote to Mr M on 17 November 2020 giving him the 
necessary 60 days notice and telling him it had reduced his credit limit to £0. However, I 
would agree with Mr M, that reducing his credit to £0 in effect closed his account with no 
notice.
I dont agree with Mr M that Vanquis has no appeals process or that it should have one 
under GDPR. I am not aware of anything in the GDPR that says there should be an 
appeals process. However, Vanquis stated in its letter to Mr M dated 15 January 2021 
that the right of appeal is by way of raising a complaint which is what Mr M did. Vanquis 
considered  his complaint and decided not to reopen his account. That was a business 
decision Vanquis was entitled to make. 
Vanquis paid Mr M £50 for the delay in responding to him. It has also accepted that  it 
left Mr Ms account open and issued a replacement card when it shouldnt have done so. 
In Mr Ms complaint form he said he wanted Vanquis to acknowledge its failings and in 
this respect I think it has. Additionally, Vanquis has  apologised and offered £200 
compensation for the inconvenience. I think this is reasonable response 
I have considered if its appropriate that Vanquis pay more than the £200 compensation 
offered given I have found it in effect closed Mr Ms account without notice by reducing 
his credit limit to £0. Mr M has told us he had to borrow money as a result but he hasnt 
evidenced this, or that he didnt have any other financial means he could access. Also, 
given he hadnt used his account for nearly a year when Vanquis closed the account, I 
am not persuaded that, even if  there had been a credit limit he could use during the 
notice period, he would have used it. Taking all this information into account I dont think 
I have any grounds to ask Vanquis to pay compensation over and above what it has 
already offered.
My final decision
My final decision is that the Vanquis Bank Limited has made  a fair offer.
In full and final settlement of this complaint if it has not already done so, Vanquis Bank 
Limited should pay Mr M £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by 
the way it closed his account.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman