DRN-2939402
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A are trustees of an account held with Barclays Bank UK Plc. They complain 
that Barclays have not provided appropriate advice and service on setting up the trust 
account which left Mr A unable to access his money for a period of time. 
What happened
In May 2020 Mr and Mrs A contacted Barclays to open a trust account, of which Mr A was 
the beneficiary. The account was for the management of a financial settlement Mr A 
received following an accident which had left him severely disabled. Although this complaint 
is on behalf of both Mr and Mrs A, I will refer to Ms A throughout as she is the lead 
complainant. 
Mrs A says that she had to make several phone calls to Barclays lasting up to an hour in 
which the information given was poor and left her unable to open the account. She was 
eventually asked to go into her nearest branch. 
On attending the branch with Mr A, Mrs A says that they were made to wait outside, which 
was difficult for Mr A because of his disabilities, that once inside he was not offered a seat 
and that she then received poor quality information, including being told they would get no 
interest on the account. 
Although the account was then opened, they didnt receive their personal identification 
numbers (PIN) despite requesting them several times, and they were left unable to cash 
machines. They couldnt make withdrawals easily as the nearest branch was 60 miles away 
and Mr A is severely disabled. Mr A also didnt have access to online banking as his 
authentication card hadnt arrived. 
Mrs A complained and so Barclays gave her £100 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience, and the complaints hander reordered the authentication card and PIN.
However, this still didnt resolve the issues and the complaint had to be escalated. In August 
2020 it was finally resolved, as Mr A received his authentication card on 25 July 2020 and 
his PIN on 7 August 2020 and was then able to fully operate his account. 
Mrs A requested £500 compensation for distress and inconvenience, and Barclays agreed 
and paid this. 
In their final response, Barclays apologised for the service that Mr and Mrs A had received 
which they accepted was below the level to be expected. They explained that there was a 
technical error in the process of ordering the PIN, which meant that it kept being rejected, 
but that it had now been resolved and the PIN had been sent. 
  
Mr and Mrs A brought the complaint to us and it was looked into by one of our investigators, 
who thought that Barclays had made a fair offer.   
Mr and Mrs A disagreed with our investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision, so it has come to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have not upheld the complaint and I will explain my reasons below. 
I have reviewed all information provided by both Mr and Mrs A and the business, and I have 
read Mrs As testimony about what happened and the impact on herself and Mr A. 
Barclays have accepted that their customer service on this occasion didnt meet the 
standard it should have, and they have apologised. I agree that Mr and Mrs A were caused 
distress and inconvenience by this poor customer experience and incorrect advice about 
interest rates and so the question for me to decide is whether the compensation that has 
been offered is fair and reasonable. 
Mr and Mrs A had difficulty opening the account, and Barclays asked them to go into the 
branch. I can see that this must have been very difficult for Mr and Mrs A as the local branch 
was 60 miles away, and Mr A is severely disabled. I also accept what Mrs A has said about 
being asked to wait outside, no one offering them a seat on arrival and staff not having the 
right knowledge about trust accounts to give them accurate advice. I can see that all of this 
would have been upsetting and impacted Mr A particularly. 
Mrs A also says that the banks treatment of Mr A was not in adherence with the Equality Act 
2010 and caused him embarrassment both inside and outside their branch. I can see that 
the practice of asking customers to wait outside the branch in line with Covid 19 social 
distancing measures would have disadvantaged Mr A, as would not providing seating for 
disabled persons inside the branch. Reasonable adjustments could and should have been 
made for Mr A. 
  
Despite the challenges Mr and Mrs A faced, the account was opened in branch and Barclays 
have apologised for this poor experience including the incorrect advice about interest rates. 
They offered an initial £100 and provided feedback to the Area Director for improvements.
 
Following the account opening, further problems arose as the card reader and PIN should 
have been sent out for Mr and Mrs A to access the account. Mrs A complained on 7 July 
2020 as it hadnt been received, and again on 13 July 2020. Barclays identified an IT issue 
on 15 July 2020 as being the reason it hadnt been received, but on 21 July 2020 Mrs A 
received hers was able to access the online banking for the trust account through her 
existing online banking account.  
Mr As PIN didnt arrive until 7 August 2020 and he was then able to access his online 
banking. 
This means that there was no access to the funds deposited for a period of around a month 
as the branch was too far away for Mr and Mrs A to make in branch withdrawals.  I can 
understand that this must have been frustrating and compounded the poor experience they 
had already had. 
Although I can appreciate how strongly Mr and Mrs A feel about their experience, and I 
agree that the service provided was not of the level expected, including the incorrect advice 
and failure to make reasonable adjustments when Mr and Mrs A visited the branch, I think 
that the £600 that Barclays have offered and paid is fair and reasonable for the distress and 
inconvenience suffered. I have taken into account the length of time they were inconvenienced, the additional impact on Mr A as a result of his disability, and the poor 
quality of customer service provided both by phone and in person. 
  
 In view of the above I wont be recommending that Barclays do anything further.   
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint 
about Barclays Bank UK Plc.  
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 March 2022.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman