DRN-2197905
The complaint
  Mrs S is unhappy how Jennifer Watson dealt with her Employment Tribunal claim.
What happened
 In August 2016, Mrs S instructed Jennifer Watson (JW), a regulated Claims Management 
Company (CMC), to deal with her Employment Tribunal claim. Three claims were submitted 
to the tribunal and Mrs S was awarded a £48,000 settlement. JW then invoiced her for 
£22,170 for their outstanding fees.
Mrs S has complained that:
JWs fees are unreasonable for the work thats been done.
JW didnt have sufficient expertise in employment law to adequately represent her.
There were avoidable delays in the claim.
JW acted outside of her best interests.
JW gave her false hope and misled her about the settlement of the claim.
One of the claims was submitted out of time.
JW didnt agree with the complaints, so Mrs S brought them to the Claims Management 
Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman service) for investigation.
Our investigator initially said Mrs S agreed to pay JW £140 per hour plus expenses. And 
JWs fees were calculated on this basis. He said that, in September 2017, JW agreed to cap 
their fees at where they were at that point - £20,000. But the investigator didnt think that was 
fair because, at that point, he said JWs fees were only £15,120. He didnt think JW acted 
reasonably by misleading Mrs S into thinking her fees were £20,000, so he thought the fees 
should be capped at £15,120.
The investigator said that JW was a CMC, not a legal professional. And during the claim JW 
were gaining insight and advice from a barrister. Because of this he thought JW knew the 
limits of their legal expertise and took advise where necessary. He also said that, from the 
evidence submitted and the judgement, there were no negative comments about JWs 
representation. So he didnt think JW had done anything wrong.
The investigator noted that this case took a long time to progress through the various stages, 
but he hadnt seen anything to show him there were any unnecessary or unavoidable delays 
caused by JW. He did think that JW shouldve given Mrs S a copy of the settlement in writing 
before agreeing to it. But he didnt think this wouldve made any difference  Mrs S still had 
the opportunity to raise queries, and he didnt think the agreement wouldve been changed if 
Mrs S had received a written copy of this first.
Mrs S said JW told her shed win £100,000, but the investigator didnt see any evidence of 
this. He said hed seen nothing to show him that the expected settlement was higher than it 
actually was, although he acknowledged that unrecorded conversations mayve taken place.
But the investigator said JW had until 2 February 2017 to submit the whistleblowing claim, 
and they didnt do so until 7 March 2017. Because of this the tribunal struck out the claim as 
being out of time. He thought it was reasonable to expect JW to know the timescales for 
submitting claims, and to make sure these werent missed. So he thought JWs total fees 
should be reduced by 33% to account for this failure to submit this claim on time.
JW didnt agree with the investigator. They said the costs incurred at the point of the fee cap 
were over £23,000, not £15,120. And they didnt agree that the whistleblowing claim had 
been submitted out of time, or that a 33% reduction in the fees was fair.
The investigator recalculated the fees and issued a second view. He said that the 
recalculated fees were more that the capped amount Mrs S was being charged for. So he 
thought the fee cap stood, and the outstanding invoice was due. 
He also reviewed the whistleblowing claim in light of the evidence and comments made by 
JW. He said Mrs Ss witness statement for this part of the claim said the date of the final act 
of detriment was the internal investigations carried out by her employer. But the tribunal 
didnt agree with this, and said it was an earlier date in November 2016. It was the tribunal 
determining the earlier date which led to the claim being out of time. And this wasnt 
something JW couldve reasonably been aware was going to happen when they submitted 
the claim. So he didnt think JW had submitted the claim out of time.
Given this, the investigator didnt think the claim should be upheld, and didnt think JW 
needed to do anything more.
Mrs S didnt agree with the investigator. She said she did not have any thoughts on when 
the detriment ended  and the judgement clearly states that since I had legal representation 
my representative should have the knowledge to ensure that the claim was submitted on 
time. Mrs S has also said she believes it is a reasonable expectation to be kept up to date 
with charges especially when an hourly rate is being charged. If a single piece of work will 
cost over £1000,00, surely it should be mentioned to the client.
So this was been passed to me to decide the case. I issued a provisional decision on 1 
December 2020, where I explained my intention to uphold the complaint. In that decision I 
said:
Up until 31 March 2019, CMCs were regulated by the Claims Management Regulator. And 
complaints were dealt with by the Legal Ombudsman. On 1 April 2019 the regulation of 
CMCs switched to the Financial Conduct Authority, and complaints moved to the Claims 
Management Ombudsman. Because the events Mrs S is complaining about took place both 
before and after this change in regulation, my decision also takes into consideration the 
approach the Claims Management Regulator and Legal Ombudsman wouldve taken. 
While Mrs S raised a number of different complaints about JW, based on the comments Ive 
seen from both parties, the only points of contention that remain are the overall fees and the 
whistleblowing claim. So my decision will concentrate on those areas.
Fees
JW started working for Mrs S before they were formally instructed. This isnt unusual and 
can be some initial pre-instruction conversations when some advice is given. 
If Mrs S had never instructed JW to act for her, then I wouldnt expect her to be charged for 
the pre-instruction work. But, once they had been instructed, its only fair that JW can charge 
for all the work theyve done.But Ive seen an email from JW dated 20 July 2016, in response to Mrs Ss request for 
details of any costs so far. In this email, JW say I have had no problem with assisting you 
pro-bono just because you have been badly treated. So its clear from this that JW werent 
charging Mrs S up to this point.
When JW were initially instructed to work for Mrs S, this was on an hourly rate basis - the 
switch to a capped fee didnt happen until later. When working on an hourly rate basis, Id 
expect JW to confirm the hourly rate being charged and provide an initial estimate of the 
overall costs. And if this estimate couldnt be provided at the outset, Id expect it to be 
provided as soon as possible afterwards.
Id also expect, if the costs turned out to be more than was originally expected, that a revised 
estimate would be provided. And Id expect this to explain why the costs were more than 
originally anticipated, and what the revised costs estimate was. And, like the original 
estimate, Id expect this to be provided in writing.
Ive seen a copy of the Client Care Letter, signed by Mrs S on 22 August 2016. This says 
that JW would be charging £140 per hour plus disbursements. There was no obligation 
within this agreement for JW to pre-approve individual items of work over a specific value. 
So I wouldnt expect them to do so.
There isnt a total costs estimate contained within the Client Care Letter. Nor have I seen 
that JW provided Ms S with a written estimate of her costs, either at the outset or afterwards. 
But, based on what Ive seen, Mrs S was provided with a verbal estimate of around 20,000 
pounds. While this shouldve been provided in writing, not doing so doesnt make the costs 
estimate invalid.
In an email dated 4 September 2017 JW told Mrs S that the overall costs could be £23,000. 
Although it was at this point they agreed to cap the fee at the amount of the unpaid fees to 
date. This was calculated to be £22,170. 
JW have provided details of the time worked on Mrs Ss case from 19 July 2016 until 4 
September 2017 - 12,000 minutes were charged. But there was also work done for no 
charge, and work where a nominal time was charged, not the actual time spent.
Having reviewed this, Ive reduced the total chargeable time by 30 minutes. This is because 
30 minutes were charged on 19 July 2016 and JWs email of 20 July 2016 confirms this work 
to this point was being done pro bono i.e. free of charge. This makes 11,970 chargeable 
minutes, or 199.5 hours. At £140 an hour, this is £27,930. And there were £650 
disbursements to be added to this. At this point, Mrs S had already paid £5,727.79, which 
left £22,852.21 outstanding. 
As the chargeable time is more than the £22,170 fee cap, Im satisfied the fee cap is correct. 
And I wont be asking JW to reduce this.
Its not my role to assess JWs costs, and to say whether the work they did for Mrs S 
wouldve taken the time they said it did. If this is something Mrs S wants to check, then she 
would need to appoint a Law Costs Draftsman to do this for her.
Whistleblowing ClaimIve seen a copy of the Employment Tribunal Judgement. This says the whistleblowing claim 
was outside of the primary time limit  the claimant should have presented her claim 
(ignoring early conciliation extension) by 2 February 2017, she did not engage in early 
conciliation until 7 March 2017 and although conciliation finished that same day the claim 
was not presented until more than three weeks after that date 
We have heard no evidence from the claimant which would demonstrate that she did not 
know about or did not have the facility to find out about time limits. The claimant was 
represented at early stages by her trade union, and whistleblowing was raised as an issue 
in March of 2016. In addition to this the claimant had the assistance of [JW] as a 
representative, certainly before November 2016. Whilst [JW] is not legally qualified, she 
regularly represents claimants in tribunals on a professional basis. In our judgment on those 
facts the tribunal is unable to conclude that it was not reasonably practicable for the claimant 
to present her claim in time.
Mrs S believes this shows JW shouldve known when the latest time to submit the claim was. 
But JW said they went on the dates in the witness statement, which they prepared for Mrs S.
As I understand it, the timeframe for making a claim like this depends on the date of final 
detriment. JW questioned Mrs S and produced the witness statement for her. As a CMC 
experienced in these matters, something which was confirmed by the tribunal, Id expect JW 
to have reasonably known what the tribunal wouldve considered to be the final date of 
detriment. And if they werent sure, then Id expect them to have sought clarity on this point.
I dont think just relying on the dates Mrs S provided was acceptable, as doing so ran the risk 
of missing the deadline for submitting the claim  which is exactly what happened. So I think 
JW were responsible for the deadline being missed, and for the tribunal striking out the claim 
as being out of time. And they should do something to remedy this.
In his initial view, the investigator said JW should reduce their fees by 33%, because this 
was one of three claims. I disagree with this, as the work done on all claims wasnt equal, 
and some work done was useful for more than just one claim.
But I do think the work done by JW on the whistleblowing claim was of no value to Mrs S, as 
their failure to correctly identify the date of final detriment resulted in the claim failing. Given 
the work JW wouldve needed to have done to prepare this claim, I think its fair to reduce 
their fees by the value of eight hours work - £1,120.
I cant say, if JW hadnt made the error that resulted in the claim being struck out, whether 
the whistleblowing claim wouldve been successful or not. And if it had been successful, I 
cant say what, if anything, Mrs S wouldve been awarded by the tribunal. So I dont think its 
fair to also ask JW to pay Mrs S an amount for the potential value of the claim. 
But I do think they should compensate Mrs S £500 for the frustration and upset of her never 
knowing if the claim wouldve been successful, or how much she mightve been awarded. 
Ive noted that JWs fees have been outstanding for a long period of time, because Mrs S 
has disputed them. So, in the circumstances, I also think its fair for JW to be able to offset 
this compensation against the outstanding bill.For the reasons explained above I intend to uphold Mrs Ss complaint. Jennifer Watson 
should reduce their outstanding bill by £1,620, made up of:
£1,120 fee reduction for the work of no value done on the whistleblowing claim; and
£500 compensation for the frustration and upset suffered by Mrs S never knowing 
whether the whistleblowing claim wouldve been successful, offset against the 
outstanding fees.
Responses
JW didnt agree with my provisional decision. They said that, because I hadnt agreed with 
most of the complaints raised by Mrs S, they objected to the outcome of this complaint being 
recorded as upheld, and this forming part of a public record. They considered this an 
unmerited slur on my personal name and professional standing for all to see.
JW also didnt agree they shouldve reasonably known what the tribunal wouldve considered 
to be the final date of detriment, and there was no evidence whatsoever to support such a 
conclusion. They didnt think that the tribunals strange finding couldve been reasonably 
foreseen. And they recommended that Mrs S appeal, but she didnt do so.
So JW dont consider it reasonable that this complaint is upheld because it arises from an 
error of law from the Employment Tribunal. And theyve provided a legal argument as to why 
they consider an error of law to have happened. 
Mrs S agreed with my provisional decision that JW shouldve known the tribunals timescales 
for submitting claims. But she also said that the fact that the third claim was dismissed as 
whistleblowing to the tribunal is not in the public interest and has no foundation in law is also 
a negative comment about JW as she wasted time and money pursuing a claim that did not 
exist in law.
Mrs S has also said she wasnt given the opportunity to raise any queries on the agreement. 
And, if she had been given the opportunity, she wouldve rejected it and gone to court for a 
full remedy hearing if necessary.
Mrs S is unhappy with the lack of proper estimates from JW, and that these werent provided 
when asked for. And she never received regular invoices. Shes also said that shes already 
paid JW £15,757 plus £2,000 for all of the disbursements, and that this should be considered 
when calculating what (if anything) she still owes. And that any costs should be calculated 
based on the £20,000 she was given. Even though the fees were capped at £21,394 and not 
the £22,170 I quoted in the provisional decision.
Mrs S also doesnt agree that its fair to say that JW only did eight hours of work on the 
whistleblowing claim. Especially as Ive said that a Law Costs Draftsman would be needed to 
assess whether JWs costs were correct. So she thinks that a 33% reduction is fairer as it 
was one of three claims.
Mrs S believes its clear from the tribunals judgement that the whistleblowing claim wouldve 
been successful if it wasnt submitted out of time. So she thinks JW should pay her what she 
wouldve received. And, based on the initial verbal estimate that her claim was worth 
£100,000, then she should receive the £52,000 difference between this estimate and what 
she actually received.
Finally, Mrs S feels that £500 compensation is too low, as this case went on for three years, 
and doesnt take into consideration the work her and her husband completed.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Before I address the comments raised, Id like to clarify my reference to JW as a firm. JW 
have said theyre actually a sole trader, so they should be referred to as an individual. But 
my decision isnt about JW as an individual, its about JW the regulated CMC; referred to as 
a firm on the Financial Conduct Authoritys Financial Services Register. Because of this, Ill 
continue to refer to JW as a firm and not an individual.
We have an obligation to publish our decisions, and when the outcome differs to that which 
the financial business originally offered to the customer, we record this as an uphold. And 
this is regardless of how many complaint points were raised, and how many were upheld. 
But I can reassure JW that we publish the whole decision, not just the outcome. So anyone 
reading this decision will know exactly what was upheld, and why.
In addressing the comments raised by JW about the tribunals findings, my provisional 
decision referred to the judgement itself. And this said we have heard no evidence from the 
claimant which would demonstrate that she did not know about or did not have the facility to 
find out about time limits. The claimant was represented at early stages by her trade union, 
and whistleblowing was raised as an issue in March of 2016. In addition to this the claimant 
had the assistance of [JW] as a representative, certainly before November 2016. Whilst [JW] 
is not legally qualified, she regularly represents claimants in tribunals on a professional 
basis. In our judgment on those facts the tribunal is unable to conclude that it was not 
reasonably practicable for the claimant to present her claim in time.
So the tribunal were quite clear that Mrs S shouldve known about the time limits. And this 
was because she was represented by JW, who regularly represented claimants in tribunals. 
JW consider the tribunal made an error of law, and its therefore not reasonable for me to 
rely on what was said. But Im not considering the merits of the claim itself, only the service 
provided by JW. And Im unable to overturn the decision of the tribunal and decide if there 
was an error of law and if Mrs Ss claim was actually made in time. To do so would involve a 
legal process.
So, if JW thought thered been an error of law that unfairly blamed them for not presenting a 
claim in time, Id expect them to have raised this issue with the tribunal at the time. And if 
necessary, appealed the decision to protect their professional name. But I havent seen that 
theyve done so.
Given this, Im satisfied its reasonable for me to rely upon the decision of the Employment 
Tribunal. So, if the tribunal consider JW shouldve known about the timescales or shouldve 
found out about the timescales if they didnt know, to properly advise Mrs S, and they didnt 
do so; I consider it reasonable for me to conclude that JW were at fault for missing the 
tribunals timescales. And they should compensate Mrs S appropriately for this failure.
Because of this, JWs comments dont change my provisional view.
Mrs S has said the whistleblowing claim was also rejected for other reasons, and not just for 
it being submitted out of time. And she says the judgement is clear on this. But shes also 
said that, if this claim hadnt been submitted out of time it wouldve been successful. So she 
feels that JW should pay her the value of this part of the claim.These arguments counter each other as, if the claim was rejected for multiple reasons, then 
it couldnt have been successful if it had been submitted in time  the other reasons for 
rejection would still remain. Ive re-read the judgement, and nowhere does it clearly state 
that if the whistleblowing claim had been made in time it wouldve definitely been successful. 
So, even though I remain satisfied that JW were at fault for the claim being submitted out of 
time, I wont be asking JW to pay Mrs S any part of the potential value of this claim.
Turning to the value of the work JW did for the whistleblowing part of the claim, which I said 
was around eight hours. As I explained in my provisional decision, some of the work JW did 
was useful for more than one claim, while some of the work wasnt charged for. So its 
impossible for me to say exactly how much charged work was done that specifically related 
to the whistleblowing claim only. Because of this Ive followed what the Legal Ombudsman 
wouldve done in the circumstances, which is to consider the overall work that was done and 
estimate how much that was charged was only for the whistleblowing claim. And Ive 
estimated this to be eight hours.
This is different to how a Law Costs Draftsman would assess the costs. They would consider 
that, for example, if a piece of work was charged at five hours, would it have taken five hours 
to complete that piece of work. And Mrs S still has the option to ask a Law Costs Draftsman 
to assess JWs costs.
As I explained in my provisional decision, Im in agreement that JW didnt provide proper 
costs updates to Mrs S. But, as Mrs S has said, some costs estimates were provided. And 
JW agreed to cap their fees on 4 September 2017. So, when calculating the fee reduction Ill 
be directing, JW need to base this on the fee cap agreed on 4 September 2017 and deduct 
all of the costs Mrs S has paid; including what shes paid towards the disbursements.
Mrs S has raised the issue of her not having the opportunity to raise any queries on the 
agreement. While my provisional decision concentrated on the remaining points of 
contention  the fees and the whistleblowing claim  I did consider this when making my 
decision. And I was satisfied from the evidence I saw that Mrs S had been given this 
opportunity, albeit after the agreement had been accepted. And JW answered her queried to 
her satisfaction. Mrs S didnt express her wish to reject the agreement at the time and insist 
that this was taken to the tribunal for them to decide. So, while Mrs S may now have a 
different view, my decision that Mrs S had this opportunity is based on what actually 
happened at the time. 
Finally, when considering the compensation Im directing JW to pay, this is for the error they 
made in not submitting the whistleblowing claim on time only. I appreciate Mrs S was heavily 
invested in the claim for a long period of time, and that she did some of the work toward this 
herself. But this would always have been the case, regardless of whether the whistleblowing 
claim was made on time or not. 
Had the service JW provided been fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances, Mrs S 
wouldnt have been any less invested in her claim, nor would she have not put work into this 
herself. Because of this, only compensating her for the failure in JWs service is the fair thing 
to do. In these circumstances the Legal Ombudsman wouldve awarded around £500, and 
nothing Mrs S has said has shown me that this should be changed.
Because of this, Mrs Ss comments dont change my provisional view.
 
Putting things right For the reasons explained above JW should reduce their outstanding bill by £1,620, made 
up of:
£1,120 fee reduction for the work of no value done on the whistleblowing claim; and
£500 compensation for the frustration and upset suffered by Mrs S never knowing 
whether the whistleblowing claim wouldve been successful, offset against the 
outstanding fees.
 
My final decision
  For the reasons explained above I uphold Mrs Ss complaint. Jennifer Watson must follow 
my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman