DRN-3815317
The complaint
Mr Y complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc hasnt refunded card transactions which he says he 
didnt make or authorise. Hes also unhappy with how HSBC handled his complaint.
Mr Y is represented by Mrs Y, but Ill only refer to him throughout this decision.
 What happened
On 4 August 2021 four transactions were made using Mr Ys debit card details. The 
payments went to a merchant which mostly offers an international money transfer service.
This is a list of the disputed payments, along with other account activity from the time:
Time Transfer or payment Amount
14:12:20 Payment to merchant £352.99
16:21:34 Transfer from savings £90
16:28:55 Payment to merchant £192.99
17:18:09 Transfer from savings £1,000
17:36:54 Payment to merchant £502.99
17:44:22 Payment to merchant £502.99
18:33:50 Transfer from savings £500
18:35 Cash machine withdrawal £250
Mr Y has said he didnt make these transactions himself and had no knowledge of them. 
Hes explained that hed recently had a new card following attempted transactions to the 
same merchant a week or so before. 
Mr Y said he noticed the transactions pending on his account either late on 4 August or in 
the very early hours of 5 August 2021. He wanted to report them to HSBC right away, but its 
phone lines were closed. Mr Y has explained how, when he noticed the transactions pending 
on his account, he transferred money from his savings to stop himself going into an 
overdraft.
Mr Y told the bank hed been out for a walk when the transactions occurred and that hed not 
had his card on him. He also said hed not used or looked at his phone at all during this time 
because it was pouring with rain.
HSBC investigated the transactions after Mr Y contacted it on 5 August 2021. It concluded 
that it would be unable to treat the transactions as unauthorised. In summary, it said:
the transactions were made using Mr Ys new card details;
it sent a one-time passcode (OTP) to Mr Ys registered mobile phone number each 
time a transaction was being made. These OTPs were used to auhtorise each 
individual transaction;
Mr Y had moved funds from his savings to fund each of the transactions;
IP addresses matched across the banks and the merchants records for the device 
used to initiate and auhtorise the payments. The IP address also matched activity 
Mr Y hadnt disputed; and
information supplied by the merchant matched the banks records of Mr Ys personal 
details.
Mr Y wasnt happy with HSBCs findings and requested more information from the bank, 
including details of the OTPs and call recordings. This ongoing contact with the bank gave 
rise to complaints about several different aspects of how HSBC was handling things. HSBC 
recognised it could have handled some aspects of the complaint better and offered Mr Y 
compensation totalling £250. Most of that was paid to Mr Y, with £50 outstanding for a 
particular issue around misinformation given on the phone, as Mr Y didnt accept the offer.
As Mr Y wasnt happy with the answers given by HSBC, he brought the complaint to our 
service. One of our investigators considered the complaint and found HSBC had acted fairly 
and reasonably. She believed the evidence provided by HSBC was persuasive in 
establishing that the disputed transactions were more likely than not authorised by Mr Y.
Our investigator explained how the evidence showed that the OTPs were sent to Mr Ys 
correct phone number and then used to verify each payment. She also explained that she 
could see Mr Ys online banking had been used to fund each of the payments, with transfers 
being made from his savings account each time.
She didnt believe HSBC had acted unfairly in not reversing the disputed payments and went 
on to explain it couldnt simply take the money back once fraud was reported. 
Our investigator considered the customer service and complaint handling issues raised by 
Mr Y, but ultimately said the bank had done enough where it had acknowledged errors and 
offered compensation.
Mr Y remained unhappy and so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding Mr Ys complaint. Ill explain why.
The issue at the heart of this complaint is that of the disputed payments. I know Mr Y feels 
there have been other significant errors on the banks part, but it is true to say that all stems 
from the fact Mr Y flagged payments out of his account as being unauthorised. So that is the 
issue I will address first.
The regulations of particular relevance to this complaint are the Payment Service 
Regulations 2017. Broadly speaking, they say a customer is responsible for any transactions 
on their account that they authorise, meaning they make the transaction(s) themself or allow 
someone else use of their account. 
When a claim of fraud is raised a bank must investigate and, if it is to hold its customer 
responsible, show evidence that the disputed transactions were authorised. 
Where evidence is incomplete or where the circumstances of a complaint are in dispute, as 
is the case here, I must make my findings on the balance of probabilities. That is to say, I 
must determine what I believe is more likely than not to have happened.
I can see that Mr Ys card details were used to make four payments to the same merchant. 
The correct details were used each time and theres nothing to suggest the payments 
werent properly authenticated. The evidence also shows that the payments were more likely than not consented to. My 
reasons for saying so are along the same lines as those presented by both the bank and our 
investigator.
First, its evident that Mr Y was sent an OTP which had to be used before each payment 
would go through. Im satisfied these OTPs were sent to Mr Ys phone, which he has 
confirmed he had on him at the time of the payments. So, the only person who could have 
accessed and used them was Mr Y himself. That means he must have been aware of the 
payments being made at the time.
Second, it is true that the transfers from Mr Ys savings accounts take place in amongst the 
disputed payments out. This shows that his account was being funded in order to make the 
payments out. This shows an awareness of the payment values that were about to be made. 
Im not persuaded that Mr Y was only aware of a reducing balance around the same time of 
each transaction, and that he wanted to avoid going into an overdraft. The transfers into the 
account pre-empt the payments out.
Since our investigator started looking at the complaint its been suggested that Mr Y was 
aware that some payments needed to be made from his account for work he was having 
done on his bathroom. But its difficult to see how the use of the OTPs or the transfers from 
his savings might have been linked to this work. There doesnt seem to be anything to 
suggest they might have been connected, such as contact from the tradesmen involved and 
a request for payment.
These two points  regarding the OTPs and the transfers  are significant and even in 
isolation would likely lead to my not upholding the complaint. But it is true there are other 
pieces of evidence that show its more likely than not Mr Y authorised the transactions 
himself. It is true that the merchant had the same personal information as HSBC and this 
service. And a common IP address was used with the merchant and HSBC for both disputed 
and undisputed activity. 
With all of the above in mind I find its more likely than not Mr Y authorised the payments 
himself. Im not saying here that its impossible for an unknown fraudster to have been 
involved. I know Mr Y has raised the suggestion someone might have hacked his phone. But 
theres little to no evidence to suggest thats the more likely than not explanation. 
Im aware of failed attempts to make payments to the same merchant a week before, which 
prompted the replacement of Mr Ys card. But this doesnt persuade me that an unknown 
third party was involved. The transfers from Mr Ys savings account, which he has confirmed 
he made, show that he must have been aware of his reducing balance and therefore the 
payments being made to the merchant.
I know there are a number of customer service and complaint handling issues raised by 
Mr Y. Many of these, in isolation, would be outside of our power to issue findings on. 
Customer service and complaint handling are not regulated activities in their own right. And 
as Ive not upheld the main part of Mr Ys complaint, I cant go on to make an award of 
compensation for the issues that are ancillary to that complaint. 
I do note, however, that the bank has already agreed to pay Mr Y compensation for different 
issues hes highlighted as his complaint has progressed. Im not persuaded theres anything 
more that HSBC ought fairly and reasonably do, in light of the evidence and version of 
events presented, in resolution of this complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman