DRN-3494897
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J have raised a number of complaints arising from their mortgage account with 
Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax). Mrs J, who has dealt with the complaint 
throughout, says that Halifax:
refused to transfer the interest-only part of their mortgage onto a capital repayment 
basis;
refused to extend the term of the interest-only mortgage to match the end date of the 
repayment part of their mortgage;
would not allow them to take out a five-year fixed-rate product, and would only offer them 
a three-year fixed rate.
To settle the complaint, Mr and Mrs J want Halifax to put at least half of the interest-only part 
of the mortgage onto capital repayment and to be transferred onto a five-year fixed rate 
product.
What happened
In 2007, on the advice of an intermediary, Mr and Mrs J took out an interest-only mortgage 
with Halifax. They borrowed just over £112,500 on an interest-only basis over a term of 18 
years. Halifax was told that the repayment vehicle was an endowment policy. An interest 
rate product switch took place in 2014.
In January 2017, applying through an intermediary, Mr and Mrs J took out a new interest rate 
product and re-arranged their borrowing. They switched £22,970 onto a capital repayment 
basis and extended the term to 16 years. The remaining £82,515 remained on interest-only, 
on the original term, which at that point had 8 years 10 months left to run. A new fixed 
interest rate product was applied to the mortgage, which ran until 30 April 2019. Halifax was 
told that the interest-only part of the mortgage would be paid off at the end of the term from 
the proceeds of sale of a second property.
In March 2019 there was a further product switch, onto a two-year fixed rate until 31 July 
2021. By that point, due to overpayments, there was £79,400 outstanding on the interest-
only part of the mortgage (with a remaining term of 6 years 8 months) and £20,200 on the 
capital repayment part (13 years 10 months). 
In July 2021 Mr and Mrs J applied through their intermediary for an additional product switch. 
By this point, the interest-only part of the mortgage was due to end in November 2025, and 
the repayment part by January 2033. Initially, Mr and Mrs J wanted to switch part of their 
interest-only mortgage onto a repayment basis. This was declined, however, on the basis of 
affordability. 
A request was then submitted by the intermediary for an extension of the interest-only term 
from November 2025 to match the January 2033 end date of the repayment part of the 
mortgage. In order for Halifax to agree to this, with a sale of a second property as the 
repayment vehicle, Mr and Mrs J would need to show income of £50,000, which they did not 
have. As a result, the bank wasnt able to agree to the term extension either.
Mr and Mrs J also wanted a new five-year fixed rate product, but Halifax could only offer a 
three-year product. This was because the term on the interest-only part of the loan was due 
to expire in less than five years time, and so transferring them onto a five-year product 
wouldnt be possible. Mr and Mrs J took out the three-year product in July 2021, fixed to 
October 2024.
Mrs J complained to Halifax. She didnt think the bank was treating her and Mr J fairly. Mrs J 
explained that she owned a mortgage-free BTL property, as well as a property abroad which 
was mortgaged. Mrs J said she had the funds available to pay off the overseas mortgage but 
hadnt been able to do so due to Covid travel restrictions that had prevented her from going 
abroad to discuss in person the formalities of selling that property. 
Mrs J also told Halifax that she and Mr J had other debts of between £30,000 and £40,000, 
but that they also had savings (which Mrs J has since confirmed to us are about £30,000). 
Mrs J confirmed to Halifax that there was no longer any endowment policy. 
Mrs J said that the five-year fixed rate was necessary for financial stability, because she and 
Mr J had other creditors they wanted to pay off first before dealing with the mortgage. Mrs J 
said that, ideally, they wanted the whole mortgage on a capital repayment basis, until 
January 2033.
Halifax didnt uphold the complaint. In its final response letter the bank explained that a term 
extension or a switch to capital repayment wasnt affordable. Halifax noted that Mr and Mrs J 
were making overpayments and that, if they continued to do so, this would reduce the 
interest-only balance that would be repayable by 2025. Halifax also clarified the 
circumstances in which an early repayment charge would be payable for either a full or 
partial redemption, over and above the 10% annual allowance provided for in the mortgage 
contract.
Dissatisfied with Halifaxs response, Mr and Mrs J complained to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. An investigator looked at what had happened but didnt think Halifax had acted 
unfairly. He was satisfied Halifax was entitled to apply its lending criteria to both the term 
extension request and the request to switch to capital repayment. As both were considered 
unaffordable, he didnt think Halifax had done anything wrong. He was also satisfied that a 
five-year product wasnt appropriate, given that there was 4 years 4 months outstanding on 
the interest-only part of the mortgage.
Mr and Mrs J didnt agree with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to 
consider the matter. Mrs J has made some further points shed like me to take into account.
the length of time they have been Halifax customers;
they have been overpaying for a number of years;
the new product is on a lower interest rate;
their payment history;
that she has the funds to pay off the overseas mortgage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im afraid I have disappointing news for Mr and Mrs J; Im not upholding 
their complaint. These are my reasons.Halifaxs lending policy is a matter for its own commercial judgement, and I dont have the 
power to substitute my own lending decision for that of the bank. However, Id expect the 
bank to consider requests and applications on their own individual merits and to take 
account of individual circumstances  and to consider making exceptions where appropriate, 
in line with the banks regulatory obligations.
There are regulations in place that have flowed from the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
Mortgage Market Review (MMR) which took place after the financial crash in 2008. This has 
led to a series of major changes, effective since 2014, in the way residential mortgages are 
regulated. MMR regulations have brought about requirements for stricter lending 
assessments, aimed to protect consumers and encourage mortgage lenders to act more 
responsibly. 
The FCA recognised though that existing borrowers who wanted to make changes to their 
mortgages might have difficulties with this if they passed tests under the old rules but not 
under the new ones. So, it introduced certain rules to address this. The rules are contained 
in the Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (MCOB).
MCOB says a lender doesnt have to carry out an affordability assessment if a borrower 
wants to vary or replace an existing mortgage and there is no additional borrowing (other 
than for product fees) and no change to the terms of the mortgage material to affordability
There are also transitional arrangements which say that a lender doesnt have to carry out 
an affordability assessment if: 
the borrower has an existing mortgage taken out before 26 April 2014, and is applying to 
vary that mortgage or replace it with a new one;  
the application wouldnt involve any additional borrowing except for essential repairs to 
the property, or to add product fees to the balance; 
theres been no further borrowing (with some exceptions) since 26 April 2014; and  
the proposed transaction is in the borrowers best interests. 
So, under this rule, even where a change material to the affordability of the mortgage takes 
place, the lender can, if it chooses, waive an affordability assessment. If the lender decides 
to carry out an affordability assessment, it shouldnt use that as a reason to decline an 
application if allowing the application would otherwise be in the customers best interests. 
But the lender can take the assessment into account as part of its consideration of best 
interests.
This means there are two routes that an application for an existing borrower can go down. If 
theres no change to the terms of the mortgage contract material to affordability, theres no 
obligation to carry out an affordability assessment at all. And if there is a change to the terms 
of the mortgage contract material to affordability, a lender could still decide to allow an 
application without an affordability assessment if doing so would otherwise be in the 
borrowers best interests.
So first of all Ive thought about whether there was a change to the terms of the mortgage 
contract material to affordability.
Mr and Mrs J wanted to extend the mortgage term and transfer all or part of their mortgage 
onto a repayment basis. Both of these are changes that are material to affordability, 
particularly as the term extension to 2033 would have ended when Mr J was 69 and Mrs J was 70  so into their retirement, and a switch to capital repayment would have meant an 
increase in the monthly repayments.
In the circumstances, Im satisfied Halifax needed to consider the affordability of the request. 
As this was partially an interest-only mortgage, Halifax was also required to consider 
Mr and Mrs Js strategy for repaying the capital at the end of the term or extended term. But 
the MMR rules also apply here  as with affordability, Halifax could set aside the need for 
this assessment if the application would otherwise be in their best interests. 
So Ive looked at whether or not Halifax should have waived either the affordability 
assessment or consideration of the repayment strategy, using the best interests argument.
Mr and Mrs J werent able to satisfy Halifaxs affordability criteria for a capital repayment 
mortgage. I appreciate they were making overpayments, but these were voluntary and so 
could be reduced or stopped at any time, unlike the higher repayments that a full capital 
repayment mortgage would demand. Mr and Mrs Js income was insufficient to allow a 
transfer onto a capital repayment basis. Im satisfied that it would not have been in 
Mr and Mrs Js best interests to transfer them onto a capital repayment mortgage that ran 
until they were 69 and 70 years old respectively when they were unable to show they had 
sufficient income to support this. 
Ive looked at what Mrs J has said about her and Mr Js reasons for wanting to make 
changes to their mortgage. The request for a term extension and a five-year product was 
because Mr and Mrs J intended to prioritise other creditors ahead of paying off the interest-
only mortgage to Halifax. However, Mr and Mrs J had other assets available that could be 
used to repay the debt  two properties, one unencumbered BTL and one mortgaged 
property abroad. Halifax had previously been told that the sale of a second property was the 
intended repayment vehicle, and it seems that this was still available. 
I accept that, due to the pandemic, Mrs J hadnt been able to go abroad so she could pay off 
the mortgage on the overseas property and discuss in person arrangements to sell it. But I 
think its unlikely, given that overseas travel is now allowed, that Mrs J wouldnt be able to do 
this before the end of the mortgage term in 2025. Im also not persuaded that these things 
cant be done remotely.
Im also satisfied that a new five-year fixed rate product without a term extension wouldnt 
have been in the best interests of Mr and Mrs J. This is because the interest-only term would 
have expired before the five years was up, leaving Mr and Mrs J facing a large early 
repayment charge for making a capital repayment within the five-year fixed rate period at the 
point they repaid the outstanding interest-only balance.
Overall, taking everything not consideration, Im satisfied Halifax was entitled to waive the 
best interests argument and consider the affordability of both the capital repayment switch 
and the interest-only term extension. As these did not meet Halifaxs lending criteria, and as 
a five-year product switch would have been unsuitable for their circumstances, I am unable 
to find that Halifax has treated Mr and Mrs J unfairly or unreasonably.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 July 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman