DRN-2293664
The complaint
Mr M complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
MotoNovo Finance Limited (MotoNovo).   
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint MotoNovo, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr M acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then MotoNovo, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr M. The car here was 
about three years old and had already completed about 40,294 miles. 
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to 
assume it was present at the point of supply, when MotoNovo were responsible for its 
quality, unless they can demonstrate otherwise. 
the repair costs
Mr M explained that he wanted to be refunded for the repair costs he incurred that were not 
covered by his warranty. Those repairs were completed on 22 November 2019 exactly six 
months after he took receipt of the car. I think its likely they were identified before that point 
as the garage had completed work to the car throughout October and November 2019 and 
Mr M has explained they advised him of the problems. So, the relevant legislation puts the 
onus on MotoNovo to demonstrate those faults werent present when the car was supplied to 
Mr M. The repairs and costs were as follows:
front ball joints £81.76 + VAT
front brake discs £103.32 + VAT
front brake pads £47.50 + VAT
labour £140.00 + VAT
2 front tyres £137.60 + VAT
balancing £24.00 + VAT
wheel alignment £25.00 (no VAT under separate invoice)
The independent inspection didnt identify problems with the tyres, ball joints or brakes. But 
the inspector wasnt asked to comment on those areas. Ive considered the repairing 
garages comments about the issues. They have explained that the wrong ball joints were 
fitted to the car and that this would have affected the cars wheel alignment and resulted in 
excess tyre and brake wear. 
I dont think its likely Mr M fitted the wrong ball joints to his car and it therefore seems most 
likely that these were fitted at some point before Mr M took receipt of the vehicle. In those 
circumstances I find the garages comments persuasive and I think it is likely that the 
incorrect ball joints caused excessive tyre and brake wear. The garage explained that the 
brake wear was far in excess of what they would have expected given the cars mileage and 
I note the excessive wear to tyres and brakes was on the front of the car where the incorrect 
ball joints had been fitted.
So, I think MotoNovo should refund the charge Mr M had to pay under invoice ending 268, 
issued on 22 November 2019 of £641.02. They should also refund the £25 wheel alignment 
charge evidenced in a further invoice from 26 November 2019, for £25.
the labour charge
Mr M had to pay the labour cost for the work completed under warranty to his car. Hes 
explained that was £96 and hed like that refunded. 
Whilst the independent inspector didnt identify a problem with the gearbox actuator I think 
its clear there was one as Mr M had to have it repaired a couple of weeks later and there 
were fault codes for the gearbox noted, but unexplained, in the inspectors report. 
As the gearbox fault was identified within the first six months it was for MotoNovo to 
demonstrate it wasnt present when the car was supplied. I dont think they did that as the 
further investigations the independent inspector suggested, were never completed. So, I 
think there was a fault with the gearbox that was present or developing at the point of supply 
and MotoNovo should refund the £96 labour charge Mr M has paid.
the hire car costsMr M had to organise a hire car whilst his car was being repaired as he didnt want to drive it 
with all the faults that had been identified. As he was paying for a car that he couldnt drive I 
think it was reasonable to expect MotoNovo to keep him mobile. 
Mr M paid £1,155 for the hire cars but his warranty could have been used to provide £30 per 
day, for seven days, towards those costs. So, whilst I think MotoNovo should refund the hire 
car cost, Im reducing that by £210 as Mr M didnt mitigate the cost as much as he could 
have.
repair in February 2021
Mr M has provided an invoice for work completed to a wiring harness in February 2021. As 
that fault was identified 21 months and about 20,000 miles after he took receipt of the car it 
seems unlikely the fault was present or developing at the point of supply. I dont think Mr M 
was necessarily looking to have the costs refunded but, for clarity, I wouldnt think a refund 
of these costs was reasonable. I dont think it would be fair to suggest theres sufficient 
information the fault was present at the point the car was supplied to Mr M.
Putting things right
Im asking MotoNovo to refund the costs of the tyres, ball joints and brake replacement 
identified in the invoices of 22 November 2019 and 26 November 2019.
Im also asking them to refund the £96 Mr M paid for labour that wasnt covered under his 
warranty.
MotoNovo will also need to refund the hire car charges Mr M incurred although that cost is 
reduced as Ive explained above.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell MotoNovo Finance Limited 
to:
refund the cost of repairs to the ball joints and brakes and the replacement tyres 
identified in the invoice of 22 November 2019 and totalling £641.02;
refund the cost of the wheel alignment that Mr M has evidenced in a receipt from 26 
November 2019, totalling £25;
refund the labour cost for the warranty work of £96;
refund Mr Ms car hire costs of £945 (reduced as explained above);
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman