DRN-2363086
The complaint
Mr M complains Evolution Lending Limited was irresponsible in its lending decision.  He 
would like a refund of all the interest paid and for any adverse information on his credit file to 
be removed.
What happened
Mr M applied for a debt consolidation loan for £10,000 from Evolution in July 2014.  He told 
Evolution he had three properties in his name  two of which were providing a rental income 
but that he did not want to sell these in order to pay off his debts.  He confirmed why he was 
in debt and his employment status.
During his initial conversation with Evolution, an underwriter reviewed Mr Ms credit file. It 
was noted Mr M had two active defaults recorded  one from June 2014 and one from 2011.  
There was also a County Court Judgement (CCJ) recorded against him and evidence of 
mortgage arrears. 
Mr M explained his financial problems were down to paying for medical treatment for his 
mother  but that the treatment had now been paid for.
It wasnt until the following day when the underwriter called back that Mr M agreed to 
proceed with the loan and to do so over a four-year term. The agreement was finally 
approved having assessed Mr Ms credit file and documents provided by him in support of 
his application.
When Mr M complained to Evolution some years later, he said the loan was unaffordable 
and should not have been secured against his home.  He said he had had to borrow other 
sums in order to keep up with his payments and had subsequently defaulted on these.
Evolution did not uphold his complaint.  In its final response issued in April 2020 it said it had 
carried out sufficient checks and was satisfied that the loan was affordable.  It reminded Mr 
M of his right to come to this service.
When our investigator looked into Mr Ms complaint, he did not think he could ask Evolution 
to do anymore.  He explained this to Mr M in some detail.  But Mr M was not happy and 
asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My decision in contrast to the investigators view is going to be somewhat shorter.  I dont 
propose to rehearse all the facts here  but that doesnt mean I havent taken account of Mr 
Ms submissions and the issues he says he would like to raise.
At the time of this loan being approved, the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority 
and relevant guidance was included in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC).
The guidance does not specify particular checks a lender needs to carry out before 
approving a loan  and its really for the lender to make this decision. However, the checks 
need to be reasonable and proportionate when considering, for example, the size of the 
loan, the length of the term and the total cost of the credit.
What I then need to decide is whether Evolution carried out reasonable and proportionate 
checks.  If not, what would the evidence have shown if it had?
Like the investigator, I dont think I can fairly ask Evolution to do anything else here either.  I 
think it considered the size of the loan and made all the necessary and proportionate checks 
I would expect it to make. 
In summary:
- I remind myself Mr M had a duty to disclose all relevant information required;
- From the information provided by Evolution, it took account of Mr Ms income, 
expenditure and debts. Mr M had provided bank statements, pay slips and tenancy 
agreements as evidence of an income from properties;
- Evolution was aware of the CCJs and defaults on Mr Ms credit file.  It asked him 
about these as appropriate;
- During a call with Mr M, Evolution advised he should take financial advice before 
agreeing to the loan  especially as the loan would need to be secured against his 
property
- I have seen nothing to suggest it was unfair or unreasonable of Evolution to rely upon 
the tenancy agreements as evidence of an income nor was it unfair or unreasonable 
for it to take these into account when assessing Mr Ms disposable income;
- The interest rate applied to the loan is noticeably higher than say a high street bank  
but Mr M would have been aware of this rate before agreeing to the loan;
- I accept Mr Ms account was overdrawn on a regular basis  but I cant fairly say this 
means Evolution did not consider his income and expenditure.  Simply living off an 
overdraft would not be a bar to being approved for a loan;
- I dont agree with Mr M that Evolution advised him to pay off unsecured debts with a 
secured loan.  In fact, it was Mr M who told Evolution that this was his plan when he 
made contact.  He was correctly advised to seek advice before agreeing to anything.
So, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to ask Evolution to repay the interest on 
this loan or to remove the adverse information from Mr Ms credit file.  I think it made 
reasonable and proportionate checks when approving this loan.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2021.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman