DRN-2167225
The complaint
Miss F complains about BUPA Insurance Limiteds decision to turn down her private medical 
insurance claim.
Miss F is represented in this complaint by her father, Mr F. 
What happened
In May 2013, Mr F took out a private medical insurance policy with BUPA for his daughter 
(the first policy). In April 2017, he cancelled this policy.
Then on 12 February 2018, Mr F took out a further private medical insurance policy with 
BUPA for his daughter (the second policy). This was taken out on a fully underwritten basis, 
and the policy started the following day. 
Shortly after the second policy was taken out, Miss Fs mother made a claim on her 
daughters behalf, as Miss F was experiencing ankle pain. BUPA turned down the claim as it 
thought her ankle pain had predated the start of the policy, and this hadnt been disclosed 
when the policy was taken out. It applied a retrospective exclusion to the policy for her 
condition, which meant the claim wasnt payable. 
Unhappy with this, Mr F brought a complaint to this service on behalf of Miss F. He said the 
first policy had only been cancelled because BUPA had unfairly increased the cost of the 
premium, and if it had remained in force, the claim would have been covered. He thought 
BUPA should pay the claim.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Mr F had failed to 
take reasonable care when answering medical questions on behalf of Miss F when taking 
out the policy. She thought BUPA had therefore been entitled to apply the retrospective 
exclusion. 
Mr F didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I previously issued a decision on Miss Fs separate complaint against BUPA which related to 
its decision to increase the cost of her first policy. I found that complaint fell outside our 
jurisdiction. I therefore havent considered Mr Fs concerns about the increase in cost for the 
first policy, and have only considered whether BUPA was correct to turn down the claim 
under the second policy.
The second policy was taken out on a full medical underwriting basis. That meant that 
medical questions were asked as part of the application. As BUPA thinks that Mr F 
misrepresented information about Miss Fs health when he took out the policy on her behalf, 
I need to look at the matter in line with the principles set out in the Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012.
Ive therefore listened to the sales call that took place on 12 February 2018.
During the call, Mr F disclosed that his daughter had previously suffered a sprained ankle. 
He was asked Within the last three months has she [Miss F] experienced any symptoms, 
had any health problems or medical conditions for which medical advice has not yet been 
sought? Mr F answered no.
Mr F was then asked specifically about his daughters sprained ankle. He was asked Has 
she got any ongoing symptoms, investigations, treatment or review required or anticipated? 
Mr F answered no. 
I think these questions were clear. 
Three days after the policy started, Miss Fs mother called BUPA to make a claim for her 
daughters ankle problem. She advised BUPA that her daughters symptoms had been on 
and off since January.
Although Miss Fs mother described her symptoms as on and off since the previous month, 
I think its probably reasonable to say they were ongoing as they hadnt resolved. That being 
the case, I agree with our investigator that Mr F didnt take reasonable care in answering 
BUPAs questions, and so there was misrepresentation. 
Mr F has explained that he doesnt live with his daughter, and so he didnt know shed been 
experiencing symptoms when he answered BUPAs questions. However, given that Mr F 
was answering the questions on behalf of his daughter, I think he should have taken care to 
find out whether his answers to the questions were correct or not. I appreciate he didnt 
misrepresent the information deliberately, but I do think the misrepresentation was careless.  
BUPAs provided a statement from its senior underwriting manager to say that if it had 
known Miss Fs daughters ankle pain was ongoing, or hadnt resolved within the last three 
months, then it would have excluded this from cover. That means the misrepresentation was 
qualifying, and so BUPA was entitled to apply the exclusion retrospectively and turn down 
the claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2020.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman