DRN-3295599
The complaint
Ms W complains Vanquis Bank Limited didnt offer her an alternative way of authenticating 
that didnt involve phones when it implemented strong customer authentication. Ms W also 
complains Vanquis Bank Limited didnt remove an old number or send her statements in the 
meantime so she could check her account making it harder for her to manage her account.
What happened
Ms W opened a Vanquis account several years ago in part to help build her credit rating. 
Shes had difficulties with her finances in the past and has developed a system for managing 
her finances because of this that worked well. The system is important for her as she has 
disabilities that affect her memory and her mental health.
In October 2020 Ms W contacted Vanquis to say she was having difficulties managing her 
accounts online  which is an important part of her system  because she wasnt able to 
receive one-time passcodes as she didnt have a mobile phone or a landline she could use 
for this purpose. In the meantime, she asked Vanquis to send her statements so she could 
check her account. She wanted to know why she couldnt carry on receiving one-time 
passcodes to an email address. Ms W also asked Vanquis to remove an old mobile number 
from its records saying that she was worried what it might be sending to that number.
Vanquis looked into Ms Ws complaint and said that it had chosen to authenticate its 
customers by sending one-time passcodes to mobiles or landlines  and that it could no 
longer send one-time passcodes to an email address as that wasnt strong customer 
authentication compliant. Vanquis removed the old mobile number from Ms Ws records and 
offered her £50 in compensation as it accepted that there had been a delay in doing so. 
Vanquis said Ms W could also use its telephone banking service.
Ms W was unhappy with Vanquiss response for a number of reasons  for example, it kept 
on explaining to her how to use its app (which she couldnt as the whole point of her 
complaint was that she didnt have a mobile) rather than how to access its website. In 
relation to the options that Vanquis offered  namely sending a one-time passcode to a 
mobile or a landline  Ms W said that the FCA had issued guidance saying firms should be 
offering alternative ways of authenticating that didnt involve phones and that in any event 
Vanquis relying on phones only also meant that it was discriminating against her. She 
complained to us.
One of our investigators looked into Ms Ws complaint and said that they didnt think Vanquis 
had treated her fairly. They recommended that Vanquis pay her £200 in compensation and 
offer her an alternative way of authenticating that didnt involve phones. Vanquis didnt 
accept our investigators recommendations, saying that it had complied with strong customer 
authentication regulations by offering customers without a mobile an alternative, namely 
sending one-time passcodes to their landline. Vanquis asked for an ombudsman to look into 
Ms Ws complaint. So, thats what Ive done.
I issued a provisional decision in October 2022 saying that I agreed with our investigator that 
Vanquis ought to offer Ms W an alternative way of authenticating that doesnt involve 
phones. I said that this might include one of the alternatives UK Finance had suggested in 
papers it has published on implementing strong customer authentication in relation to 
vulnerable customers in particular. I also said the I thought Vanquis should pay Ms W £350 
in compensation for the distress and inconvenience it had caused her. Both sides were 
invited to reply to my provisional decision and both sides did.
Ms W was very disappointed with my decision and very disappointed that I hadnt said 
anything about late fees she believed shed been charged and adverse information that she 
believed Vanquis had recorded against her given the problems shes had managing her 
account ever since Vanquis made changes. She also wanted me to ask Vanquis to remove 
the landline number it had on its system for her. Vanquis didnt agree with my decision 
either. It said that it had no choice but to implement strong customer authentication and that 
the alternatives UK Finance had suggested breached strong customer authentication 
regulations as did other options wed suggested. Vanquis also said that offering Ms W 
another method of authentication wasnt achievable or proportionate particularly as she, 
according to Vanquis, chooses not to use a mobile phone or a landline. Finally, Vanquis 
said it had only charged one late fee since Ms W had complained  in September 2022  
and that it hadnt recorded any adverse information against her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Background
As I mentioned in my provisional decision, the majority of the facts in this complaint arent in 
dispute. It is, however, helpful to say a bit about Ms Ws background and the way she 
manages her finances. So, Im going to do so again here. It explains why Ms W is a 
vulnerable customer and why I consider Vanquiss response to my provisional decision 
unhelpful and disappointing.
Ms W had been a customer of Vanquis for many years before she complained about the way 
it had gone about implementing strong customer authentication and has had credit for many 
years. In the past, and in particular before she started using online banking regularly, its 
clear that Ms W had problems managing her finances given her memory problems. Its clear 
that the ability to use online banking  which she can access when she needs to (particularly 
when she remembers something late at night that she might forget by the following morning) 
and which allows her to see whats happening to her accounts (she finds it easier to see 
information than listen to information because shes a visual person)  has been invaluable 
in her getting on top of her finances. Its also clear she has been able to rebuild her credit 
score in recent years  a positive that Ms W is proud of, and rightly so. Indeed, this was one 
of the reasons why she was originally attracted to Vanquis as taking out a credit card with 
them was one of the steps she took to help rebuilding her credit score.
Ms W is able to use a mobile phone, but she doesnt have her own personal mobile phone. 
She has a work mobile but cant use this mobile for her own personal business. Her partner 
has a mobile phone too, which she uses from time to time, but they work away for long 
periods of time, so this isnt an option she can rely on. She used to have a landline, but she 
hasnt replaced the handset ever since it broke given the volume of scam calls she used to 
receive. And finally, her neighbour has a landline which she has sometimes borrowed, but 
this is not an option she wants to or can rely on. In short, she doesnt have regular access to 
her own phone  shes a visual person in any event. In the circumstances, given what Ive 
said about how she manages her finances and the reliance she places on being able to see 
rather than hear information, I can understand why she told Vanquis she didnt want to use its telephone banking  shes a visual rather than verbal person  and why she was worried 
that she might not be able to access her online banking easily going forwards given 
Vanquiss reliance on phones to authenticate its customers.
strong customer authentication
As Ive just mentioned, Ms W was happy with the way her online banking operated until 
Vanquis introduced changes to the way its online banking worked. Those changes involved, 
amongst other things, sending a one-time passcode to their customers mobile phone or 
landline so that they could authenticate themselves.
Vanquis has told us that it made changes to its processes in order to implement new 
regulations that came into effect in September 2019 that affected the whole banking sector  
namely the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs). Those regulations required 
payment service providers (PSPs) to apply strong customer authentication in certain 
circumstances. Those circumstances are set out in in Article 100 of the regulations which 
says:
A payment service provider must apply strong customer authentication where a 
payment service user
(a) accesses its payment account online, whether directly or through an account 
information service provider;
(b) initiates an electronic payment transaction; or
(c) carries out any action through a remote channel which may imply a risk of payment 
fraud or other abuses.
The FCA gave PSPs until March 2020 to implement strong customer authentication for 
online banking and gave the e-commerce industry until March 2022 to implement strong 
customer authentication for online payments. The e-commerce industry includes card 
issuers, payment firms and online retailers. There was, of course, nothing to stop firms 
bringing in strong customer authentication sooner than that, if they wanted to do so.
The Payment Services Regulations  which implemented an EU Directive from 2015 
commonly known as the revised Payment Services Directive  define strong customer 
authentication as:
authentication based on the use of two or more elements that are independent, in that 
the breach of one element does not compromise the reliability of any other element, and 
designed in such a way as to protect the confidentiality of the authentication data, with 
the elements falling into two or more of the following categories
(a) something known only by the payment service user (knowledge);
(b) something held only by the payment service user (possession);
(c) something inherent to the payment service user (inherence);
In short, strong customer authentication involves, amongst other things, checking that the 
person accessing a payment account online or initiating an electronic payment is permitted 
to do so. PSPs have to authenticate the person in question using factors based on 
knowledge, inherence or possession and must use at least two independent factors 
when doing so. They cant, for example, check using only knowledge based factors, but they can check using one or more knowledge based factors and one or more possession 
based factors.
Vanquiss approach to implementing strong customer authentication
As I said in my provisional decision, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable of Vanquis to 
implement strong customer authentication  its an important measure to help combat fraud. 
Nor do I think it was unfair or unreasonable of Vanquis to use one-time passcodes to help 
prove possession. But both the FCA guidance  which Im about to say more about  and 
the papers UK Finance have published also say its important that vulnerable people in 
particular arent excluded from online banking and shopping as this can be just as harmful as 
the fraud strong customer authentication is designed to combat.
Ms W doesnt disagree with strong customer authentication  but she believes that Vanquis 
hasnt acted in line with FCA guidance because it has only offered methods of authentication 
that involve phones. She believes that this is discriminatory as well as breaching the FCAs 
guidance. In the circumstances, as I did in my provisional decision, I think it would be helpful 
to explain what the FCA has said about strong customer authentication and its expectations.
What has the FCA said about strong customer authentication and its expectations?
The Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA) has published several papers about strong 
customer authentication and its expectations and it has written to firms about this too. In a 
paper published in June 2019  Payment Services and Electronic Money  Our Approach  
the FCA described its approach to the PSRs and payment services and e-money related 
rules in its Handbook. In paragraph 20.21 of its paper the FCA said:
We encourage firms to consider the impact of strong customer authentication 
solutions on different groups of customers, in particular those with protected 
characteristics, as part of the design process. Additionally, it may be necessary for a 
PSP [Payment Service Provider] to provide different methods of authentication, to 
comply with their obligation to apply strong customer authentication in line with 
regulation 100 of the PSRs 2017. For example, not all payment service users will 
possess a mobile phone or smart phone and payments may be made in areas without 
mobile phone reception. PSPs must provide a viable means to strongly authenticate 
customers in these situations.
The FCA has, in my opinion, made it clear in its paper and elsewhere that businesses 
shouldnt rely on mobile phones alone to authenticate their customers and should provide 
viable alternatives for different groups of customers. The FCA has, in my opinion, also made 
it clear in this paper and elsewhere that this includes people who dont possess a mobile 
phone or a smart phone and not just those who cant use one. The FCA has talked, for 
example, about managing the potentially negative impact of strong customer authentication 
on different groups of customers particularly the vulnerable, the less digitally engaged or 
located in areas with limited digital access. And the FCA has also talked about the need for 
firms to develop strong customer authentication solutions that work for all groups of 
consumers and has said that this means they may need to provide several different 
authentication methods for your customers.Why is Ms W complaining?
As Ive already mentioned, Ms W isnt complaining about the fact that shes unable to 
authenticate because she cant use a mobile phone  she can use a mobile phone and does 
use one. Her complaint is about the fact that Vanquis doesnt offer ways of authenticating 
that dont involve phones because she doesnt have regular access to her own phone  one 
of the mobiles she uses is a work phone (so not one she wants to use for personal matters 
or can use for personal matters) and the other mobile she uses is her partners (who is often 
away working for long periods of time)  and in any event shes a visual person. That means 
I have to decide whether or not Vanquis ought to have been providing alternatives that didnt 
involve phones before Ms W complained and whether or not what it has done in all the 
circumstances is fair and reasonable. At this stage I think its worth saying that I dont agree 
with Vanquis that Ms W chooses not to use a mobile phone or a landline. Ms W relies on 
online banking because she has disabilities that affect her memory and her mental health 
and because shes a visual person. Thats one of the reasons why she doesnt find it easy, 
for example, to manage her account using telephone banking  its not visual. Vanquis 
suggestion, therefore, that she chooses not to use a mobile phone or a landline  in other 
chooses not to use non-visual channels  is not only disappointing but also concerning as it 
suggests it doesnt have a good and sympathetic understanding of vulnerability.
Should Vanquis have done more for Ms W?
The FCA guidance doesnt, in my opinion, say that businesses shouldnt only offer 
alternatives that allow authentication by phone. The guidance talks about mobile phones and 
smart phones, rather than landlines, and the importance of providing different methods of 
authentication that dont involve mobile phones or smart phones. A landline could, therefore, 
be seen as an alternative method of authenticating, and for many people who dont own or 
cant use a mobile phone or a smart phone, it might well be an option that works well. Nor do 
I necessarily agree with Ms W that Vanquiss approach in itself was discriminatory. I do, 
however, agree that in her case Vanquis could have done more to help as it should have 
been clear from her complaint that Ms W was a vulnerable customer who relies heavily on 
being able to manage her account online and a visual person too.
As I mentioned in my provisional decision, UK Finance has published a paper  as part of an 
initiative to help the industry come up with strong customer authentication solutions, in 
particular for vulnerable customers  which identifies a number of options (including 
authentication via email) that businesses have been encouraged to consider. That paper 
says that firms might even consider using one factor authentication for vulnerable customers 
for whom there are few, if any options, that might work or exempting them entirely. The FCA 
has encouraged firms to get involved in UK Finances initiative. Given that I mentioned all of 
this in my provisional decision, it is disappointing that Vanquis has suggested that the 
options UK Finance have suggested dont comply with strong customer authentication 
regulations and that Vanquis hasnt appreciated that not being able to access online banking 
and shopping can be just as harmful as the fraud strong customer authentication is designed 
to combat. In its response Vanquis suggested that in the future it might consider terminating 
its relationship with a customer if the limited channels it offered didnt work for that customer 
as a way to prevent harm. That was a very disappointing response too.
It's clear from Ms Ws complaint that she was particularly worried that shed made late 
payments and had adverse information recorded against her because shes not been able to 
manage her Vanquis card the way she did before it made changes. I can see why that would 
be a real worry given the hard work shes done rebuilding her credit score. So, I hope its 
reassuring for her to know that Vanquis has only charged her one late fee  in September 
2022  and that it hasnt recorded any adverse information against her since she brought her 
complaint. Thats because shes paid off her balance in full every month  albeit late in September 2022  likely because of the statements she was receiving.
Putting things right
In my provisional decision I said that I agreed with our investigator that Vanquis ought to 
offer Ms W an alternative way of authenticating that doesnt involve phones. I also said that 
this might include one of the alternatives UK Finance had suggested. Given that Vanquis 
has made it clear it isnt willing to offer an alternative  despite everything the FCA and UK 
Finance has said  Im going to increase the compensation I awarded to Ms W to reflect the 
fact that her Vanquis credit card is not as manageable as it used to be. Im also going to 
require Vanquis to refund the late fee it applied in September 2022 as Im satisfied Ms W 
wouldnt have paid late had she been able to rely on the system shes developed over time. I 
consider £500 in compensation to be a more adequate remedy. I appreciate that 
compensation wasnt what Ms W was looking for and would understand if she decides she 
no longer wishes to be a Vanquis customer given its response to this complaint  at least if 
she did so she would have already achieved her aim of rebuilding her credit score. In the 
meantime, Vanquis ought to continue sending Ms W paper statements at no charge to help 
mitigate the problems the changes it has made will cause Ms W when it comes to managing 
her account.
My final decision
My final decision is that I require Vanquis Bank Limited to pay Ms W £500 in compensation 
and to refund the late fee it charged her in September 2022.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman