DRN-3028297
The complaint
Mrs H and Mr H complain that Nationwide Building Society wont refund to them the money 
that theyve claimed for the servicing of a boiler. 
What happened
Mr H used his Nationwide credit card in March 2020 to pay £2,528.40 to a supplier for it to 
supply and fit a replacement boiler. The supplier said that the boiler had a seven year parts 
and labour guarantee. Mr H contacted the supplier after hed found out that the boiler had to 
be serviced annually for the guarantee to be valid and he asked it to cover the cost of the 
annual services. 
It didnt agree to that so Mrs H and Mr H claimed £640.80 (which is six times the quoted cost 
of £106.80 for an annual service as the first service was included in the price of the boiler) 
from Nationwide under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. It said that the invoice 
and quote provided by the supplier didnt include the cost to service the boiler and that theyd 
received the service from the supplier that theyd paid for. Mrs H and Mr H werent satisfied 
with its response so complained to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that their complaint should be upheld. He didnt consider 
that there had been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier so he couldnt 
say that Nationwide had given the wrong answer to the complaint that had been made under 
section 75. 
Mr H has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He has responded to 
our investigators recommendation in detail and says, in summary, that the supplier failed to 
tell him that the guarantee was being made by the manufacturer and would require the boiler 
to be serviced annually at his expense in order for him to be eligible for it. He says that he 
wasnt expecting free annual servicing but was expecting the supplier to deal with any fault 
that the boiler developed in the first seven years at no extra charge to him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr H used credit provided by Nationwide to pay for the boiler and, in certain 
circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the 
supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier;
to be able to uphold Mrs H and Mr Hs complaint about Nationwide, I must be 
satisfied that theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier 
of the boiler and that Nationwides response to the claim under section 75 wasnt fair 
or reasonable  but Im not determining the outcome of their claim under section 75 
as only a court would be able to do that;
the suppliers quote and invoice for the boiler both refer to a seven year parts and 
labour guarantee  they dont say that the supplier is providing the guarantee and 
they dont set out the terms of the guarantee;
I consider that it would be reasonable to expect the terms and conditions of a 
guarantee to be set out in a separate document and for a guarantee for a boiler to 
include a requirement that the boiler was serviced in accordance with the 
manufacturers recommendations;
if the terms of the guarantee were important to Mr H, as it seems they were, I 
consider that it would be reasonable to expect him to have asked about the terms of 
the guarantee before he bought the boiler (and I dont consider that it was enough for 
him to rely on what he understood from the words set out on the quote and invoice);
the supplier has supplied and fitted the boiler and it is covered by a seven year 
guarantee so Im not persuaded that theres been a breach of contract by the 
supplier;
I dont consider that the supplier has misrepresented the boiler, the guarantee or the 
servicing requirements to Mr H and Im not persuaded that he was induced into 
entering into the contract for the boiler by a misrepresentation made by the supplier;
I consider that Nationwides response to Mrs H and Mr Hs claim has been fair and 
reasonable in these circumstances; and
I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require Nationwide to refund to 
Mrs H and Mr H the amount that theyve claimed for the servicing of the boiler, to pay 
them any other compensation or to take any other action in response to their 
complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mrs H and Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 October 2021.  
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman