DRN-2163597
The complaint
Mrs L has complained about her property insurer, Society of Lloyd's, because it has avoided 
her policy (treated it as though it never existed) and, by association, declined her claim for 
fire damage.
What happened
Mrs L owned a vacant property which she had cover for; she was intending to sell the 
property. In November 2017, in order to maximise the sale potential, Mrs L obtained 
planning permission for demolition of the property. Mrs L told her broker about the planning 
permission but when her policy renewed in February 2018 this information was not passed 
onto SOL.
SOL asked the following question at renewal:
Do you intend to, or have any plans to, or have you applied to demolish the property in part 
or in full?
The answer that SOL received was no. Renewal was agreed. 
In September 2018 Mrs Ls property was damaged by fire. She made a claim and during the 
claim process she mentioned the planning permission. SOL said it wouldnt have offered 
cover if it had known  it said it didnt matter that Mrs L had no intention herself to demolish 
the property. SOL initially felt the avoidance was reckless but it later amended its view on 
that and reimbursed Mrs Ls premium. 
But Mrs L remained unhappy as the avoidance would still have to be declared and she felt 
she had done everything right by telling her broker of the planning permission. Mrs Ls 
broker even appealed on her behalf, confirming she had told it of the planning permission. 
When SOL wouldnt revoke the avoidance altogether, Mrs L complained to us.
Our investigator felt that SOL had been misled into offering this policy at renewal. He was 
satisfied that if SOL had been told about the planning permission, and regardless of Mrs Ls 
intent when obtaining that, it wouldnt have offered the cover. He felt the voidance was fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mrs L said she felt very let down by her broker. But she clarified she wanted a final decision 
in respect of SOL to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I appreciate that this will be disappointing for Mrs L, I dont think SOL, based on the 
detail it was provided, did anything wrong here. Although Im pleased to note that as part of 
its complaint response SOL did amend the categorisation of the avoidance from reckless to 
careless.
Mrs L is a consumer. The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 
(CIDRA) sets out the rights and responsibilities of both parties when applying for and 
renewing insurance policies. If during that process a qualifying misrepresentation is made 
then CIDRA allows the insurer to act as it would have done if the correct information had 
been given to it.
Im satisfied that SOL asked a clear question. It is clear that incorrect information, in answer 
to that question, was passed to SOL. Whilst Mrs L had taken care to give the correct 
information to the broker, that correct information wasnt passed on by the broker. This 
complaint is against SOL so I cant assess what the broker did within this decision, but Ive 
seen what the broker told SOL when SOL was considering its decision to avoid the policy. 
The broker said it was clear Mrs L had not personally passed incorrect information to SOL 
directly and it did not want her to be affected by any carelessness on its part. Unfortunately 
for Mrs L, any error made by her broker is seen as her error. So I can understand why SOL 
felt reasonable care hadnt been taken to provide a correct answer to its question about 
planning permission. 
SOL has shared an extract from its underwriting criteria with this service. The extract says if 
an intent to demolish is indicated, the risk must be declined. I accept that obtaining 
planning permission, on the face of it, indicates an intent to demolish. Although I understand 
this was not Mrs Ls intent, SOLs underwriting criteria gives no option for further querying 
the intent indicated by the applicant when stating that theyve applied for permission for 
demolition, or for allowing cover if, following enquiries, it seems that they dont mean to 
utilise the permission. So Im satisfied that if SOL had been told yes Mrs L had applied to 
demolish the property, it wouldnt have offered cover.
As I said, CIDRA, in this situation, allows SOL to avoid the policy because if it had been 
given the correct information, cover wouldnt have been offered to Mrs L. I cant fault SOL for 
acting in line with the legislation in place. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Society of Lloyd's.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman