DRN-3165415
The complaint
Mr J has complained about the way The Shepherds Friendly Society Limited (Shepherds 
Friendly) has dealt with an income protection claim. 
What happened
Mr J had a group income protection policy via his employer, underwritten by Shepherds 
Friendly. In March 2020, Mr J became unwell and made a claim on the policy.
Shepherds Friendly declined the claim months later as it didnt think Mr J met the definition 
of incapacity as set out in the terms and conditions of the policy. It also said Mr J had 
received a significant level of income which exceeded the maximum benefit level.
Mr J said Shepherds Friendly had never asked for him to be assessed by an independent 
medical examiner and says this means his claim was assessed unfairly. He said he was 
examined by a doctor and that examination wasnt taken into account. He also said it didnt 
ask for all information at once, he had to chase for updates and considers the policy was 
unsuitable. And Shepherds Friendly should refund the premiums paid, plus interest. 
And so the case has been passed to me to decide
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should start by confirming that if Mr J considers the policy was unsuitable for him and 
therefore mis-sold, he would need to raise a separate complaint about the broker. My 
decision is limited to the complaint about the decline of the claim.
The relevant industry rules say an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy terms and conditions
The policy defines incapacity as follows:
If you are incapacitated such that you are not able to do your own occupation 
due to physical or mental illness or injury and as a result have a complete or partial 
loss of income
The terms also allow Shepherds Friendly to make deductions as follows:
If you are in claim and are also in receipt of other income, or income replacement 
benefit from any other source including other insurance policies, we will deduct that 
amount from the maximum benefit amount and pay you the balance.
Shepherds Friendly said: 
Mr J hadnt demonstrated that he was incapacitated to such a degree that he was 
unable to work.
Mr J had confirmed he had received £50,000 income  which would be deducted 
from any benefit that might be due. 
Had the claim been accepted, benefit wouldnt be payable until January 2023 due to 
the income Mr J had received. But as Mr J had recently emailed to confirm his 
intention to return to work as he was no longer incapacitated, no benefit would be 
payable, even if the claim was accepted.
Ive carefully considered what both sides have said and I dont think Shepherds Friendly has 
unfairly declined the claim. Its given clear reasons that even if Mr J met the definition of 
incapacity, no benefit would be payable due to the £50,000 Mr J received. 
Mr J has said the assessment of the claim was unfair as Shepherds Friendly hadnt 
arranged for him to have an independent medical examination (IME) and hadnt taken 
account of an examination he had attended. But I dont think Shepherds Friendly has acted 
unfairly as there is no requirement for it to arrange an IME and the onus is on Mr J to prove 
his claim. 
Shepherds Friendly is entitled to rely on the medical evidence available to it and there is no 
evidence that it excluded any available records. It requested and reviewed all of the medical 
evidence available to it from Mr Js GP. This included the fit note following the examination 
Mr J has referred to. The fit note confirmed Mr J was unable to work. 
Although the medical evidence shows that Mr J was unable to work for certain periods of 
time, the evidence doesnt show how Mr Js illness affected his ability to do his specific job 
and the limitations on his function. The medical evidence needs to show that Mr J is 
suffering from an illness which prevents him from doing his role. Suffering from illness on its 
own isnt sufficient as adjustments to the role may be appropriate in which case, Mr J 
wouldnt meet the definition, if he was still able to continue working. 
But even if Mr J did meet the definition of incapacity, as set out above, he wouldnt be 
entitled to any benefit due to the income he had received. And so I dont think his claim has 
been unfairly assessed.
Mr J also says he had to chase for responses. Shepherds Friendly has explained it has 
received an increased number of claims and as a result of the pandemic and remote 
working, the claims assessment process took longer than normal. I dont think it would be 
fair to criticise Shepherds Friendly for delays as a result of the pandemic and Im satisfied 
Mr J was kept up to date. Ive seen email chains between Mr J and Shepherds Friendly in 
which it asked Mr J to provide a variety of information and documents. The claim took a 
number of months to assess but I havent seen any evidence of any unreasonable or 
unavoidable delays within the file. Although Mr J did chase on occasions, Im satisfied that 
overall, Shepherds Friendly replied within a reasonable timeframe.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
Shamaila Hussain
 
Ombudsman
