DRN-2291560
The complaint
Mr R complains about the way in which Royal Bank of Scotland Plc asked him to pay the 
balance on his credit card.
What happened
Mr R held a credit card account with RBS since around 1996. In February 2020 he 
complained to RBS because hed received a letter advising him that unless he got in touch 
within 60 days his account would be suspended.
RBS investigated the complaint and responded to Mr R, stating that it had acted within the 
rules set out by the FCA in relation to persistent debt. It acknowledged that it hadnt logged 
Mr Rs initial complaint and offered to pay compensation of £50 for this.
Mr R wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service. He wants RBS to 
withdraw its threat to close his account and pay compensation.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. he aid RBS had followed the FCA guidance and 
hadnt made an error by issuing the letter.
Mr R didnt agree. He said that when he received the letter in February 2020, he contacted 
RBS and agreed to increase his monthly payments. He says the advisor told him it didnt 
matter how much he repay each month because his account would be closed if he hadnt 
repaid the balance by September 2020.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed Mr Rs statements and I can see that from the beginning of 2018 he was 
making the minimum monthly repayments on the account.
I can see that RBS wrote to Mr R during this time to let him know that his repayments were 
low in comparison to his outstanding balance.
It may be helpful if I explain the background to RBSs actions here. In March 2018 the FCA 
issued guidance on persistent debt. Persistent debt is when a customers repayments 
arent enough to ensure that the account balance is coming down quicker than the interest 
and fees/charges being added each month. The FCA required all lenders to identify 
accounts where persistent debt existed. All lenders had to comply with the FCA guidance by 
September 2018.
Based on what Ive seen from the account statements, I dont think RBS made an error when 
it identified Mr Rs account as being an account where persistent debt might exist. So I cant 
say that RBS made an error in sending the letters and Im satisfied that the content of the 
letters is in line with the FCA guidance.
I appreciate that Mr R was unhappy about the content of the letters, and in  particular the 
letter he received  in February 2020. I understand that it could have caused Mr R some 
distress to be asked to repay the account balance in a relatively short time. However, I dont 
think the letter was intended to be threatening and as Ive said already, Im satisfied that 
RBS was acting in line with the FCA guidance when it sent the letter.
Ive noted Mr Rs comments about having reached an agreement with RBS to pay £200 per 
month and being advised that his account would be close din 6 months in any event if he 
hadnt repaid the balance. Based on what Ive seen from the account statements, 
repayments of £200 per month wouldnt have cleared the balance in 6 months. So whilst I 
appreciate that Mr R started making increased payments, Im satisfied that the payment 
werent enough to clear the debt within 6 months which is what was required.
Taking everything into account, and whilst I appreciate that Mr R is unhappy about being 
asked to repay the balance on the account, Im unable to say that RBS has made an error in 
sending the letters or that it treated Mr R unfairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman