DRN-4183899
The complaint
Mr C complains that Fairmead Insurance Limited has treated him unfairly when it declined to 
provide his buildings insurance cover. Hes also questioned the price he paid for this 
insurance in earlier years. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in detail 
here. 
In summary, Mr C has two linked complaint points. He feels Fairmead Insurance unfairly 
declined to provide his buildings insurance cover after he questioned the total sum insured 
and how this was impacting the price of the insurance. He feels his previous years policies 
were overpriced as the sum insured was higher than it needed to be and hes lost out as a 
result.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and didnt think Fairmead Insurance had done 
anything wrong. She explained an insurer is entitled to decide who it provides cover to and 
there is no requirement on a business to offer cover at renewal. So when it declined to 
provide this cover, she didnt think it had done anything wrong.
Our investigator explained this Services role when considering complaints about pricing is to 
determine whether the business treated the customer fairly. And it is not our role to tell a 
business how to calculate the price of the policies they offer. She was satisfied from the 
information shed been provided that Fairmead Insurance had treated Mr C fairly when 
deciding what it should charge for the insurance offered.
Mr C disagreed with the outcome. He said he believed the price of the policy had been 
unfairly increased and the total sum insured was far greater than he required. As a result of 
an earlier settlement for fire damage, he is concerned that any total loss claim would be 
reduced by the previous settlement amount and he was in fact over insured. He feels 
Fairmead Insurance failed to offer the insurance with a more realistic total sum insured and 
hes lost out as a result. 
Because Mr C disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. I appreciate Mr C will be disappointed with this outcome, but Ill explain why I 
dont think Fairmead Insurance has done anything wrong. 
Mr C is concerned that he was over insured for a number of years as the sum insured was 
greater than he would have needed or been paid had there been a total loss incident. I 
understand why he has a question over this as he had previously received a large cash 
settlement for a fire damage claim and this work hadnt been completed. But I dont think 
Fairmead Insurance was wrong to rely on its estimated reinstatement value.
Although Mr Cs previous claim had work outstanding, this had been settled and Fairmead 
Insurance had an expectation that work would be completed to bring the property up to the 
pre-loss condition. And once this had happened, the insurance would provide cover for the 
repaired work as well as anything which hadnt been affected. It is usual after a large claim 
for an insurer to allow a reasonable amount of time for reinstatement work to be completed 
and in this case, Fairmead Insurance allowed a number of years. 
When it became apparent the work hadnt been completed as Mr C questioned whether the 
total sum insured was more than was needed, it reassessed whether it wanted to continue to 
provide the cover. As the policy provides cover for properties that are in a good state of 
repair and completed, Fairmead Insurance took the decision that it was no longer willing to 
offer to provide the insurance. This is a decision it is entitled to make and Ive not seen 
anything to suggest it has acted unfairly when it has taken this position.
Mr C is also concerned that the previous years policies have been priced unfairly because 
of the reinstatement costs being greater than was needed. But as Ive said above, I think it 
was right that the total reinstatement cost was covered to allow for what this would have 
been after the work was completed. If it was reduced, Mr C may have been underinsured 
once the work was completed.
Mr C has questioned whether the price of the policy should increase because of the cost of 
maintaining the sum insured. Having looked at the information provided by Fairmead 
Insurance, Im satisfied the price of his policy didnt increase because of this, but because of 
the impact of the claim made. I cannot share the specific details of this with Mr C, but Im 
persuaded that Fairmead Insurance hasnt acted unfairly when pricing his policy as it has. 
Overall, Ive not seen anything to suggest that Fairmead Insurance has treated Mr C unfairly. 
It decided it was unable to continue to provide the insurance to Mr C based on its view of the 
risk after the remedial works, following a claim hadnt been completed. It didnt withdraw the 
cover because of Mr C questioning the price, but because it highlighted the condition of the 
building some years after the claim had been settled. And I think it was correct to base the 
total sum insured on its view of the total reinstatement cost but this had no bearing on the 
cost of the policy increasing. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman