DRN-3481413
The complaint
Mrs R complains that John Lewis Financial Services Limited (JLFS) unfairly declined to 
process a chargeback. 
What happened
In December 2021, Mrs R purchased food which she says was in poor condition and made 
her feel unwell. She disposed of the food and contacted JLFS to raise a chargeback. 
JLFS said perishable goods were excluded in the chargeback rules, so it didnt raise one. 
But it offered to refund the cost of the food as a gesture of goodwill, which came to £19.40.
Mrs R contacted JLFS several times requesting a copy of the rules showing the exclusion. 
She also let it know the refund hadnt been received. JLFS apologised and increased its 
gesture to £35 to recognise the delays. And when Mrs R still didnt receive this payment, 
JLFS offered an additional £150 compensation for what went wrong.  
Mrs R brought her complaint to our service as she was unhappy with the customer service 
shed received. And she still hadnt been provided with a copy of the exclusion. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said JLFS were correct in saying that it 
wouldnt be possible to raise a chargeback, but incorrect about why. 
He explained there was nothing in the rules to say perishable goods couldnt be claimed for, 
and that this could fall under reason code 53  goods defective / not as described. But that 
to do so, Mrs R wouldve had to have shown shed returned the food to the retailer and 
attempted to resolve things with them directly in the first instance. As there was nothing to 
show shed done this, there would be no evidence to base the chargeback claim upon. 
Although he felt JLFS had given incorrect reasoning here, our investigator was satisfied that 
the compensation offered  and subsequently paid  was a fair resolution to what went 
wrong. So he didnt think it needed to do more. 
But Mrs R didnt agree. She says JLFS paid compensation in relation to the delays making 
the payments  not the incorrect reasoning. She also questions whether its reasonable to 
expect a customer to hold on to defective food and try to return it.
As our investigator wasnt able to resolve things, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Chargeback is a process that is provided by the card schemes, which allows disputes to be 
settled between card issuers and retailers. It allows customers to ask for a transaction to be 
paid back to them if theres a problem with the goods or services theyve paid for, provided 
that it falls within a specified category or reason code. 
Theres no automatic right to a chargeback. Nor is chargeback a guaranteed method of 
getting a refund. Its for JLFS, as the card issuer, to decide whether it submits the claim or 
not and it will base this decision on whether the claim is valid and likely to be successful. 
In this case, JLFS decided not to raise a chargeback as it didnt think it was a valid claim. Its 
reasons for this werent quite right  I cant see anything in the chargeback rules to say that 
perishable goods are excluded. But to raise this claim, JLFS wouldve required Mrs R to 
prove that shed tried to return the food to the retailer, or at least notified them of the 
problems with it. 
I understand Mrs R has reservations over the practicalities of returning defective food. Shes 
questioned whether its reasonable to expect a customer to retain food that will become out 
of date and try to return it. But the chargeback process makes no exceptions in these 
circumstances when it comes to requiring Mrs R to attempt to resolve things with the retailer 
first.
As there was no evidence to show this had been done, Im persuaded that even if JLFS had 
considered the claim correctly under reason code 53, it still wouldve declined to raise a 
chargeback on the basis that it was unlikely to be successful. And on the information Ive 
seen, Im inclined to agree that its unlikely it wouldve succeeded due to the lack of 
persuasive evidence available to show the good were unsatisfactory. So Im satisfied that 
had JLFS acted correctly, Mrs R would be in the same position shes in now.  
In any event, JLFS offered to refund the cost of the food itself, as a gesture of goodwill. It 
wasnt required to do this, and it meant that Mrs R got her money back without a chargeback 
being initiated. So she isnt out of pocket or disadvantaged in any way by JLFS deciding not 
to take the chargeback forward  regardless of its reason why. 
I appreciate there has been some failings in JLFS customer service, namely the delays in 
receiving the payment and the amount of calls Mrs R has had to make to chase this. I can 
see that it took five and a half weeks from the date Mrs R raised the claim to the date she 
received the refund, which by this time had been increased to £35. Im satisfied the 
additional £150 more than fairly compensates Mrs R for the five weeks she was without the 
£19.40. And as Ive explained above, JLFS didnt have to do this. 
Ive also looked into Mrs Rs concerns about rude behaviour from JLFS staff, but Ive found 
no evidence of this within the written or verbal correspondence it had with her. However 
even if I accepted that the service from JLFS couldve been better, Im satisfied the £150 
additional compensation paid fairly covers this, as its far more than I wouldve awarded for 
the delays alone. 
Overall, Im satisfied the compensation paid is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
this complaint and Im not asking JLFS to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2022.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman