DRN-3439305
The complaint
Miss H complains that PRA Group (UK) Limited didnt pass on a refund it received. Miss H 
also complains about the end date used by PRA in relation to an IVA. 
What happened
Miss H has told us she was in an IVA that came to an end around February 2021, when she 
made the final payment. An account that formed part of Miss Hs IVA was owned by PRA. 
The original debt came about by way of a credit card account with another business (B). 
In May 2021 B contacted Miss H and PRA to explain it had completed a remediation 
exercise and decided to refund £86.76 applied to the outstanding balance. At the time B 
issued the refund, Miss Hs account balance was around £2,800. 
PRA used the refund to reduce the outstanding balance on Miss Hs account. Miss H 
complained and said her IVA had already ended. Miss H asked PRA to forward the refund to 
her. 
PRA issued several responses to Miss Hs complaint and paid her £50 for the inconvenience 
caused by delays in forwarding a statement. But PRA didnt agree it had acted unfairly by 
using the refund to reduce the outstanding balance. PRA also said it had contacted Miss Hs 
IVA practitioner and been advised the correct end date came in September 2021. PRA also 
said the end date of Miss Hs IVA didnt influence its decision not to forward the refund to 
her. 
An investigator at this service looked at Miss Hs complaint but thought PRA had dealt with it 
fairly. Miss H asked to appeal and said her IVA practitioner had no issue with her receiving 
the refund. As Miss H asked to appeal, her complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I understand why Miss H feels a refund mayve been due to her directly, Im not 
persuaded PRAs acted unfairly in this case. When B reviewed Miss Hs account, it decided 
to reduce the outstanding balance by £86.76 because of the way it had applied fees, interest 
and charges. But if the account had remained with B, the refund wouldve been used to 
reduce the outstanding balance, not paid to Miss H directly. In my view, that approach 
doesnt change on the basis that B sold the debt to PRA. 
After PRA was contacted by B it reduced the outstanding balance by £86.76 which left 
around £2,800 outstanding. I havent been persuaded that PRA acted unfairly by reducing 
the outstanding balance by the remediation refund. 
Miss H has told us she made her last IVA payment around February 2021 and that it 
shouldve ended shortly after. PRA has provided a call recording with Miss Hs IVA 
practitioner and they gave the end date as September 2021. Im satisfied PRAs acted in line 
with the IVA end date given by the IVA practitioner. If Miss H remains unhappy with the way 
her IVA was managed and closed, she has the option of raising this with the IVA practitioner. 
Im satisfied PRA acted reasonably by using the end date providing by Miss Hs IVA 
practitioner. 
PRA offered Miss H £50 for delays in providing a statement. In my view, that fairly reflects 
the level of inconvenience caused to Miss H so Im not telling PRA to increase the award. 
Im sorry to disappoint Miss H but as Im satisfied PRA dealt with her complaint fairly Im not 
telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Miss Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman