DRN-4334080
The complaint
Miss P complains Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited delayed a withdrawal.
What happened
Miss P holds an investment ISA with Scottish Friendly and wanted to withdraw some money 
for a holiday.
Scottish Friendly didnt action the withdrawal for several days, meaning Miss P had to 
borrow money from her partner. Miss P complained to Scottish Friendly, and it said her 
withdrawal had been handled in line with its policy.
Scottish Friendly said it needs ten days to pass following a direct debit being taken, and 
Miss Ps withdrawal request had come in the ten-day window.
Scottish Friendly said the period of non-withdrawal was so it could ensure there was enough 
time for units in the investment to be purchased using the money from the direct debit.
Scottish Friendly accepted this wasnt in its terms and conditions but didnt think it had done 
anything wrong.
Miss P brought her complaint to this service and an investigator looked into things. The 
investigator thought Miss Ps complaint should be upheld. The investigator felt the ten-day 
period of no withdrawals should be in the terms and conditions of the account.
The investigator thought if Miss P had been aware of this limitation to withdrawals, she 
would have requested the withdrawal sooner. Had this happened, Miss P wouldnt have 
needed to borrow money, which was embarrassing.
The investigator thought Scottish Friendly should pay Miss P £50 to compensate her for the 
embarrassment. Miss P accepted the investigators outcome but Scottish Friendly didnt.
Scottish Friendly said the period of non-withdrawal was its process and it isnt at fault for 
this. Scottish Friendly asked for an ombudsman to decide things.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Scottish Friendly not allowing someone to withdraw against a recent direct 
debit, but this wasnt what Miss P was doing. Miss P had enough money in her ISA to 
withdraw the money she needed without using the recent direct debit amount.
Scottish Friendly say the lack of information in its terms and conditions has been raised 
before. I think Scottish Friendly should consider making the ten-day window of no 
withdrawals much clearer to consumers.
I cant compel Scottish Friendly to alter its terms and conditions, or tell it how it should run its 
internal processes. But I can uphold complaints when terms and conditions or internal 
processes lead to unfair outcomes for consumers.
In Miss Ps case, Im persuaded she would have asked for the money sooner had the terms 
been clear about when she could access her money. So, I think the lack of information in 
Scottish Friendlys terms and conditions has meant Miss Ps been unfairly treated.
And I dont think its fair for Scottish Friendly to simply rely on the fact this is an internal 
process to say its done nothing wrong. I think the process has meant Miss Ps been 
inconvenienced, so I think Scottish Friendly has done something wrong.
Miss Ps explained it was embarrassing to borrow money for her holiday, and meant she had 
to disclose information to her partner about her finances. I think this would have been 
distressing for Miss P, so I think Scottish Friendly should compensate her for this.
Miss Ps already said she accepts the investigators outcome, a payment of £50 to 
compensate her for the distress and inconvenience she was caused. I think this is a fair 
amount to pay as well.
I also asked Scottish Friendly to confirm Miss P hadnt lost out on her investment, by cashing 
out from the ISA later than it should have. Scottish Friendly says the value of Miss Ps 
investment rose between her request and the actual withdrawal, so I dont think Scottish 
Friendly needs to do more around any investment losses.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint and Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited 
should pay Miss P £50 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience the delayed 
withdrawal caused her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman