DRN-2150425
The complaint
Mr A complains on behalf of Mrs A, that she is unhappy with the increases in premiums on 
her home buildings and contents insurance with AXA Insurance UK Plc.
What happened
Mrs As insurance policy with AXA started in 2012. It was initially two separate policies  one 
covering the buildings and one covering the contents. In 2012, the combined cost was £225 
for the year. The next year, 2013, the combined cost was £244. 
In 2017, the contents policy was cancelled, and contents cover was added to the original 
buildings insurance policy. In 2017 the policy cost £323, which was £65 less than the 
combined cost of the two policies in 2016. 
In 2019, the policy cost £389. Mr A called up to challenge the premium. A discount of £44 
was offered. But Mr A found cover through a price comparison website for £148, so Mrs A 
cancelled the AXA policy and took out cover elsewhere. Mr A then complained on Mrs As 
behalf about the premiums that AXA charged over the length of the policy. 
AXA said that the price of the policies had been calculated correctly. In 2014 it adjusted its 
view of the risks involved, which resulted in an increase in what it needed to charge for the 
policies. AXA says it increased the premiums gradually after this to match what it needed to 
charge, rather than simply applying a significant increase in one go. AXA says that in 2017, 
2018 and 2019, Mr A negotiated a discount on Mrs As behalf. So, it wasnt the case that 
Mrs A wasnt engaging with the cost of the policy.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr A disagreed, so Ive been 
asked to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont have the power to tell an insurer how to price risk and what an insurance policy 
should have cost. I would be, in effect, determining or telling a business how it should 
operate  and thats not my role. But I can look at whether AXA has treated Mrs A fairly 
throughout the period they held its insurance policy.
If I find that AXA hasnt treated Mrs A fairly, I will look to see what compensation would be 
fair. However, in this case Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
An insurer hasnt necessarily done anything wrong by changing the premium at renewal  
and there are often risk related reasons for an insurer doing so. But where an insurer knew, 
or ought reasonably to have known, the consumer wasnt engaging with the renewals 
process, they should have taken care to make sure they treated these consumers fairly  
and that they didnt take advantage of the consumers behaviour by increasing their 
premiums just because they didnt engage with the cost.
In this case, it appears Mrs A didnt engage with the cost of the policy between 2013 and 
2016. But Mr A, on Mrs As behalf, did engage with the cost of the policy in the years that 
followed, changing to a single combined policy in 2017, which reduced the cost, before 
negotiating a discount in 2018 and 2019. And ultimately cancelling the policy because he 
had found a cheaper policy elsewhere. 
When Mrs As policies started, they benefitted from an introductory discount. This isnt 
uncommon and policies may well initially be priced lower to attract new customers. I dont 
think its unfair for an insurer to seek to recoup that cost over the subsequent years. Mr A 
says that Mrs As new insurer hasnt done this. But I can see the percentage increase in the 
renewal premium with the new insurer is actually higher than the percentage increase in the 
cost of the AXA policies between 2012 and 2013. So, Im not persuaded by what hes said.
Insurers will typically, over the years, revisit and reassess the risk  using more up to date 
and refined models. If an insurer thinks theres a greater risk than before, the premium will 
increase accordingly  theres nothing wrong with this. That happened in 2014, and Im 
satisfied that the increases that followed reflected this change in AXAs view of the risk. 
Mr A was able to find Mrs A insurance for less in 2019. So, I can understand why he thinks 
this means that Mrs A was treated unfairly by AXA. But, as mentioned above, insurers often 
include discounts in order to obtain new customers. That means that a new customer will 
often be paying less than the true cost of providing the insurance policy. And that sort of 
discount is not usually available to existing customers. 
Also, insurance policies are not all the same  they have different levels of cover, excesses 
and differing terms and conditions that can affect the price charged. Each insurers costs 
may vary depending on many things, including the makeup of the customers it is insuring. 
So, just because the policy with AXA cost a lot more than Mrs As new policy  that doesnt 
mean the amount charged was unfair. And in this case, AXA has confirmed that its view of 
the risk means that it wouldnt have been able to match the price of the policy Mrs A took out 
in 2019.
Ive taken into account what Mr A has said, including his view that AXA took advantage of an 
elderly customer to increase the premiums unfairly. But Im not persuaded that was the case. 
Based on the evidence available, I think that the cost of the policy increased to remove the 
new customer discount and to reflect AXAs view of the risk it was insuring. I dont think that 
is unfair. So, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman