DRN-2473815
The complaint
Mr R complains Advancis Limited trading as Buddy Loans irresponsibly lent to him. He says 
Buddy Loans didnt complete reasonable and proportionate checks, and had it done so it 
wouldve seen the loan was unaffordable. Mr R says he lost out financially as a result.
What happened
Mr R was approved for the below loan by Buddy Loans:
Date Amount Term Monthly repayments
November 2018 £3,500 24 months £216.36
I wrote to Mr R and Buddy Loans with my provisional decision. I asked for both parties to 
respond to my provisional findings. I set my provisional decisions as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable 
lending as well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good 
industry practice on our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr 
Rs complaint. Bearing in mind the dispute before me, I think that there are two 
overarching questions that I need to consider in order to fairly and reasonably 
determine Mr Rs complaint. These are:
1. Did Buddy Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr R, to 
satisfy itself that he was in a position repay the loans in a sustainable way?
a. If so, did it make a fair decision to lend?
b. If not, would those checks have shown that Mr R would have been able to do
so?
2. Did Buddy Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ill deal with each question in turn.
Did Buddy Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr R, to satisfy 
itself that he was in a position repay the loans in a sustainable way?
Buddy Loans needed to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to be able to
understand if any lending was affordable to Mr R. The relevant rules dont set out 
which specific checks it has to complete for them to be reasonable and proportionate. 
But relevant checks could include things such as a customers income (over the full 
term of the loan), and their outgoing expenses. These checks should also be 
reasonable and proportionate to the amount of credit being provided including the 
total amount of credit, amount of repayments and total length of the term. The checks 
also need to be borrower focused.
Having carefully considered the information I currently have; Im minded to say the 
checks Buddy Loans completed were proportionate in this instance.
Mr R says the checks which Buddy Loans completed werent proportionate. He says 
further checks shouldve been completed, as he was experiencing financial 
difficulties at the time. He says Buddy Loans checks ought to have flagged this and 
demonstrated that it shouldnt have lent to him.
Ive carefully considered Mr Rs argument, but I disagree with him that the checks 
Buddy Loans werent proportionate.
Buddy Loans has provided the information it gathered from Mr R at the time of his
application. Buddy Loans completed an income and expenditure check on Mr R; 
which included verifying his income via bank statements. It also completed a credit 
file search on Mr R. It says these checks showed Mr R had enough disposable 
income to meet the monthly repayments in a sustainable way.
Turning to the income check firstly; Ive looked at Mr Rs application form. It shows 
that Mr R has declared he was working full time as a cleaner. His application form 
also declares that he earns approximately £1,200 per month.
In order to verify this information Buddy Loans asked Mr R to provide evidence of his
income. Mr R provided Buddy Loans with a copy of a summary bank statement. This 
shows that he had an incoming payment from a cleaning company for £1,237.48. 
Buddy Loans says this showed it verified Mr Rs income, as it matches the 
information he provided on his application form.
Mr R says this verification of his income wasnt sufficient to make the checks 
proportionate. Ive reviewed the information which was presented at the time of the 
application, including the statement summary, and Im satisfied that it was 
reasonable for Buddy Loans to rely on this information to verify its checks.
Mr R says these checks werent proportionate and had it conducted further checks, 
Buddy Loans wouldve seen the loan was unaffordable to him. In support of his 
complaint Mr R has provided full bank statements from the time period leading up to 
the loan. These statements dont show Mr Rs income from a cleaning company, and 
instead show his only income being in the form of benefits.
It is unclear why Mr R chose to provide copies of summary statements, which didnt 
include most of the information Mr R is now seeking to relying on, when Buddy Loans 
asked him to prove his income. But nonetheless, having considered the information 
there isnt anything in it suggesting that it is incomplete or that there are any material 
omissions. So, Im satisfied that Buddy Loans was entitled to rely on the summary 
statements Mr R appears to have provided at the time. And I havent seen any other 
information from Mr R from the time of the application which would cast doubt on the 
fact he was employed and earning his declared income. And as such Im satisfied the 
verification of his income via the bank statements, he provided was sufficient for 
Buddy Loans to reasonably rely on it.
Looking at Mr Rs outgoings; the expenditure form shows the list of Mr Rs unsecured
creditors. It shows that Mr R had had a number of defaults in the past and had two 
active accounts  including a mail order account and a further loan. The expenditure 
form also breaks down the monthly payments Mr R was making to each of these 
creditors, as well as his overall existing debt.In addition to Mr Rs existing creditors, Buddy Loans also attributed expenses for Mr 
Rs other regular outgoings such as rent and food. These checks should that Mr R 
had around £300 disposable income per month, in order to meet the monthly 
repayment of £216.36. Mr R again says these checks werent proportionate and that 
Buddy Loans ought to have conducted further checks. He says he was in financial 
difficulties at the time of the loan, and this shouldve prompted further checks.
I disagree with Mr R on this also. Ultimately Buddy Loans has shown it conducted 
checks to establish Mr Rs outgoings. These checks highlighted the financial issues 
he had encountered in the past  namely that he had had defaults on a number of 
accounts. Buddy Loans has shown that it has factored this into its decision making 
process. Equally Mr R provided bank statements which didnt contain anything to 
suggest the rest of the information provided may have been inaccurate or that the 
monthly repayments may have been unaffordable. Ive not seen any information 
which shows Mr R provided further information about his outgoings, or that he 
believed the outgoings declaration was insufficient to cover his costs.
With this in mind Im satisfied that Buddy Loans was aware of Mr Rs financial 
position as reasonably as it could be, bearing in mind the information it had been 
provided by him. And it has taken this into account before making its decision to lend 
to him.
So for the above reasons Im currently minded to say Buddy Loans completed 
reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr R.
These checks showed Mr R could more likely than not afford to repay the loan in 
sustainable way. It therefore follows that Im currently minded to say Buddy Loans 
decision to lend to Mr R was reasonable based on this information.
Did Buddy Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
From the information Ive been provided so far, Ive not seen anything that suggest 
Buddy Loans acted unfairly or unreasonably in any other way when approving Mr Rs 
loan.
Buddy Loans responded to the provisional decision accepting it and making no further 
comments. Mr R disagreed with the provisional decision. He maintained the checks were not 
proportionate and gave our service consent to contact his bank. This was to allow our 
service to ask Mr Rs bank if it could explain the apparent differences in the statements he 
had provided. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered all of the information provided, including from Mr Rs bank, Im satisfied 
this complaint should not be upheld. This is in essence for the same reasons that I outlined 
in my provisional decision.
Ultimately, Im satisfied that Buddy Loans were entitled to rely on the information which Mr R 
provided at the time of his application. The fact this information is different from information 
Mr R later provided to our service I dont think is enough to say Buddy Loans checks werent proportionate.
Mr Rs bank isnt able to explain the difference between his summary statements and bank 
statements. And as Mr R is unable to provide any further insight into his employment and 
income at the point of applying for the loan, I see no reason to change my decision.
So, it follows that Im satisfied the checks Buddy Loans completed were proportionate in this 
instance. And as these checks showed the loan was likely to be affordable to Mr R, Im 
satisfied its decision to lend was fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 February 2021.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman