DRN-4162328
The complaint
Mr H complains that Ageas Insurance Limited unfairly declined a claim on his home 
insurance.
What happened
In May 2022, Mr H took out an Ageas home contents insurance policy, bought through an 
intermediary. Three months later, Mr H says he was the victim of a violent crime. He says a 
large amount of cash was stolen from him, as well as two expensive electronic items, one of 
which he recovered but was significantly damaged. Two weeks after the incident he called 
Ageas to make a claim on his insurance.
Ageas asked Mr H for information to help it validate the claim. Mr H provided bank 
statements, receipts/order confirmation for the electronic items, photos, and screenshots. 
Ageas reviewed this information and declined the claim for the following reasons:
Lack of evidence to support the circumstances of the theft.
Lack of evidence to support the extent of the loss claimed, particularly the cash 
amount.
Delay reporting the theft to the police and to Ageas, as well as a lack of cooperation 
with the police investigation.
More specifically, it said:
Mr H waited over two weeks before he reported the theft to either the police or 
Ageas.
The police report concluded the probability of this incident not happening is greater 
than the probability of it actually happening.
Mr Hs bank statements dont show any large cash withdrawals in the week before 
the theft.
Mr Hs explanation of why he had such a large amount of cash at home is 
inconsistent and not supported by the evidence.
Mr H was unhappy with this and brought his complaint to this service. He wants Ageas to 
settle his claim.  
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Hs complaint should be upheld. She said the 
police had concluded the theft most likely didnt happen, and she found insufficient evidence 
that Mr H had the amount of cash he said he did. She also agreed with Ageas that Mr Hs 
explanations for having this large amount of money was inconsistent. She thought Ageass 
decision to decline the claim was fair.
Mr H disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, ombudsmen decisions are published so are written in a way that prevents the 
customer from being identified. The unique circumstances of this incident are well known to 
both parties so Im not going to set them out in detail here. If Im vague about them its to 
keep Mr H from being identified, not because Ive ignored them or think them irrelevant.
Like any insurance policy, an insurer will only pay a claim if the policyholder can show 
theyve suffered loss or damage by something covered by their policy. An insurer will, for 
understandable reasons, require a policyholder to report a loss as soon as possible and ask 
them for information to help validate the claim. 
In this case, I dont think Mr H has done enough to show he has a valid claim for the same 
reasons set out by Ageas and our investigator. In my opinion, he hasnt provided enough 
evidence to show he had the amount of cash he says he did on the day of the alleged theft. I 
agree with Ageas that his accounts of the theft have been inconsistent and arent supported 
by the evidence. And  importantly  the police didnt think the incident was likely to have 
happened and Ive seen no evidence that this conclusion was wrong.
Mr H told us he would provide more information to support his claim. However, despite 
several requests from our investigator, he hasnt done this.
Given the evidence, I think Ageas decision to decline Mr Hs claim was fair. It follows that I 
dont uphold the complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman