DRN-3807952
The complaint
The estate of Mrs B complains that Tavistock Partners Limited ignored its instructions to 
liquidate Mrs Bs portfolio held with a third party. When the portfolio was encashed, the 
estate received less than expected.
The complaint is brought by the executor of Mrs Bs estate, who Ill refer to as Miss M.
What happened
Tavistock provided independent financial advice to Mrs B. In 2019, following Tavistocks 
advice, Mrs B invested in a general investment account (GIA) with a third party who Ill 
refer to as A.
Mrs B passed away in October 2021. The probate value of the GIA was around £102,000.
Miss M provided Tavistock with Mrs Bs death certificate and told it that she wanted to 
surrender the investment. She says her instructions were ignored and the portfolio wasnt 
liquidated until March 2022 by which time the investment had fallen in value and the estate 
only received around £93,000.
Tavistock said it passed Miss Ms instructions onto A and that it was her responsibility to 
provide the necessary documentation to A before it could encash the portfolio. It said it didnt 
cause any delays in actioning the surrender of Mrs Bs investments and that Miss M was 
made aware, by A, that the investments remained exposed to market fluctuations until the 
surrender was completed.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Miss M had 
given instructions to encash the portfolio, but that Tavistock didnt pass these instructions to 
A. He said A had confirmed it would have acted on those instructions if it had received them. 
He thought that if Tavistock had passed on the encashment instructions, the estate of Mrs B 
would have received the value of the investment as at 8 November 2021 and that Tavistock 
should pay the estate the difference of £10,862 plus interest.
Tavistock didnt agree. It said, in summary, that:
It could have asked whether Miss M wanted to encash the investments, but it doesnt 
have a bereavement service and it shouldnt be liable for performing administration 
duties which it carried out free of charge.
No on-going service was in place, so the complaint isnt within this services jurisdiction.
The investigator explained why he thought the complaint was within our jurisdiction  
because the service Tavistock provided to Miss M was ancillary to that provided to the late 
Mrs B. And he said he thought Tavistock should have reasonably either passed Miss Ms 
instructions onto A or contacted her to clarify the instructions shed given.
Tavistock said it should only be held accountable for things it was liable to complete, rather 
than extra activities which this service thinks it would be reasonable for it to complete.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive firstly considered the jurisdiction of this complaint. In other words, whether it is one that 
we can consider.
The Financial Ombudsman Service isnt free to consider every complaint referred to it. We 
operate under a set of rules laid down by Parliament under the Financial Services and 
Markets Act 2000, published by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and known as the 
DISP rules. They set out the complaints that we can, and can't, investigate. This is what is 
meant by our jurisdiction. If a complaint falls outside of our jurisdiction, we dont have the 
legal power to consider it. 
One of the things these rules cover is the type of activity complained about. DISP 2.3.1 gives 
details of the activities which we are able to consider. This includes regulated activities and 
any ancillary activities, including advice, carried on by the firm.
Tavistock said no on-going service was in place as the fee had been cancelled and that 
Miss M wanted an advisor appointed to help her, but at no charge. And it said the service 
complained about cant be an ancillary activity because its not a service offered by 
Tavistock.
Tavistock provided investment advice to Mrs B, which is a regulated activity. As set out by 
our investigator, Miss M was acting on behalf of Mrs Bs estate and was therefore 
Tavistocks customer. Whilst Miss M didnt want to deal with Mrs Bs former advisor, theres 
nothing to suggest Miss M wasnt willing to continue to pay a fee for Tavistocks services. 
Tavistock offered to assist Miss M  and whilst that assistance may have been limited to 
passing information between Miss M and A, I find it was providing an ancillary service as 
defined by the FCA rules.
As such, this is a complaint that this service can consider.
Ive gone onto consider the merits of the complaint. Having done so, I find I have come to 
the same conclusion as the investigator for the following reasons:
Miss M wrote to tell Tavistock that Mrs B had passed away and she said that the investment 
with A will need cashing in and distributing to the beneficiaries. And in her letter a few days 
later enclosing the death certificate she said I would like to surrender this investment so that 
as executor .. I can proceed to execute the wishes of my late mother and distribute funds 
to the beneficiaries. 
In its response to Miss Ms complaint, Tavistock said, You are correct in saying that in your 
letter of 29th October 2021 you stated that you wanted to surrender the [A] investment, and 
this instruction was given to [A]. But, during our investigation, it became clear that Tavistock 
didnt pass on Miss Ms letter or instructions to A. Instead, it simply told A that Mrs B had 
died and forwarded on the death certificate.
In its response to Miss Ms complaint, Tavistock also told Miss M that her surrender request 
couldnt be actioned until she provided the documents requested by A, including the grant of 
probate. But A has told us that it would have accepted Miss Ms instructions to liquidate, or 
surrender, the portfolio once it was in receipt of the death certificate. And that it could do this before it received the grant of probate and the other documentation it needed to pay the 
money to the estate.
Miss Ms instruction wasnt as clear as it could have been. But I think there was enough 
information for Tavistock to reasonably realise that Miss M could be giving instructions for 
Mrs Bs investments to be sold. Bearing in mind Miss M was recently bereaved, was unlikely 
to be familiar with the procedures for estate administration, and that Tavistock was the 
expert in the relationship here, I think it was reasonable that Tavistock should have 
contacted Miss M to clarify its understanding of what she was instructing. Or it should have 
passed on her instructions to A, for it to decide what to do.
If Tavistock had treated Miss M fairly, and acted in her best interests, by clarifying her 
instructions, or passing them to A, I think its more likely than not that she wouldnt have 
wanted the investments exposed to market fluctuations. It was relatively clear from her 
second letter that she wanted the investment surrendered as soon as possible, and A has 
confirmed it would have been able to do this if it had received the instructions.
Putting things right
A should have received Miss Ms instructions on 5 November 2021. Had it done so, it would 
have placed the sales on the next working day, 8 November. The estate of Mrs B should 
have therefore received the value of the investments as at 8 November 2021 which A has 
confirmed to us was £104,475.
Tavistock Partners Limited should therefore pay the estate of Mrs B the difference between 
what it should have received and what it did receive - £10,862.
The estate has been deprived of that money and Tavistock Partners Limited should 
therefore also add interest at 8% simple per annum from 8 November 2021 to the date of 
settlement. *
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Tavistock Partners Limited to take off tax from this 
interest. Tavistock Partners Limited must give the estate of Mrs B a certificate showing how 
much tax its taken off if it asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Tavistock Partners Limited should pay 
compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs B 
to accept or reject my decision before 25 January 2024.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman