DRN-2685260
The complaint
Mrs B complains Towergate Financial (Scotland) Limited (Towergate) gave her unsuitable 
advice in relation to the transfer of her preserved occupational pension scheme benefits.
What happened
I have previously issued a provisional decision, for clarity I repeat it here.
Mrs B held preserved benefits in an occupational pension scheme from just over six years 
pensionable service. In April 2011, she was offered an opportunity to transfer her pension. 
The standard value offered was £23,230.16, but Mrs B was offered an enhanced value of 
£13,494.06, which could also be taken as a taxable cash sum. The offer was conditional and 
required Mrs B to obtain financial advice beforehand. The scheme trustees paid Towergate 
to provide that advice.
Towergate met with Mrs B and produced a transfer value analysis system (TVAS) report, 
which it sent to Mrs B with a suitability report detailing its recommendations. It said she 
would be highly likely to be worse off in retirement if she transferred, so it advised against 
the transfer. 
Mrs B signed a document to say she had read and understood the suitability report. But she 
decided to go ahead with the transfer against Towergates advice. She wrote a letter in June 
2011, suggesting she understood the recommendation, but she had made alternative 
pension arrangements as she had a property in Portugal and one in Scotland and intended 
to sell one as her pension provision.
 
On 1 July 2011, the £23,230.16 was transferred to an alternative providers personal pension 
plan and the enhanced lump sum was paid directly to Mrs B. 
The personal pension provider issued annual statements to Mrs B from the date of inception. 
In March 2019, Mrs B chose to take the pension fund as a lump sum.
Towergate wrote to Mrs B to offer a review of the advice it provided. It noted Mrs B had said 
she wanted to retire at age 62, but the TVAS report carried out at the time had been based 
on a retirement age of 65. It asked Mrs B to complete a questionnaire. Mrs B said there were 
several inconsistencies with the information used to provide her with advice. Her retirement 
age was wrong, she was on sickness benefit at the time of the transfer, she hadnt 
understood the risks and she wouldnt have transferred her pension if shed had the correct 
information.
In 29 October 2019, Towergate wrote a letter to Mrs B to say it didnt have enough 
information to complete the review and asked her to fill in a further questionnaire.
On 29 November 2019, Towergate issue an outcome review letter. In summary it said 
although it identified some inconsistencies in the paperwork, the nature of them didnt make 
a material difference to the advice it gave Mrs B.  But it wanted to ensure the receiving 
pension provider had invested the funds in a suitable fund and asked Mrs B to sign an 
authority form to allow further investigation. It requested further information to clarify the It 
said the recommendation not to transfer remained the correct advice and they wouldnt be 
taking any further information.
On 17 April 2020, Towergate issued a final response to Mrs Bs complaint and clarified the 
information in the outcome review. It didnt uphold Mrs Bs complaint. It said the advice it 
gave was correct and it wouldnt be taking any further action.
Dissatisfied, Mrs B referred her complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into things for Mrs B, but Towergate objected to this service looking 
into the complaint as it felt the complaint was time-barred.
The investigator found the complaint to be within the jurisdiction of this service. He said 
although the event complained about was in 2011, and so more than six years ago. He 
found the first point Mrs B expressed dissatisfaction was in November 2019, when she 
returned the questionnaire to Towergate. He didnt find any evidence Mrs B was aware she 
had cause to complain about Towergate any earlier. Towergate pointed to the projections in 
the TVAS report and said Mrs B could have made a comparison much earlier. It said she 
ought to have known there could be cause to complain. The investigator disagreed. He said 
although it was technically possible, there were several reasons such as discounted rates 
and negative annuity rates would make it highly unlikely a person with limited pension 
knowledge could make such a comparison. 
Towergate didnt raise any further objection and so the investigator went onto consider the 
merits of Mrs Bs complaint.
He looked carefully at the inconsistencies Mrs B referred to. Regarding her preferred 
retirement age, whilst incorrectly recorded as 65 instead of 62, he didnt find this would make 
a material difference to the recommendation not to transfer her occupational pension. He 
also found that although on one document Mrs B was recorded as working, he felt this was a 
typo error. He saw notes that were clear the adviser was aware Mrs B was on sickness 
benefits but again this didnt make a material difference to the advisers recommendation.
He found the suitability report and Towergates advice against transferring was very clear. 
Mrs B signed to say she understood the advice and the recommendation. He felt if Mrs B 
didnt understand the risks it wasnt due to any fault in the advice or the process followed. 
Mrs B made it very clear she of her reasons for going against the advice given and the 
investigator agreed with Towergate that she would more than likely have transferred
against its advice regardless. He also found Mrs B had taken the full value of her receiving 
personal pension plan as a lump sum at 55, which would never have been an option had she 
stayed in the scheme. And so, he didnt uphold her complaint.
Towergate came back to this service and said it didnt agree that the complaint was within 
the jurisdiction of this service and, if it was then it didnt agree the complaint should be 
upheld.
Mrs B didnt agree with the investigators view of her complaint.
So, in this case both parties have asked for an ombudsman review for different reasons.
I issued a provisional and then final jurisdiction decision. In it I found that this service was 
able to consider Mrs Bs complaint and so I went onto look at the merits of her complaint.
In my provisional decision I looked carefully at the advice given by Towergate.I said I agreed with the investigator that Towergates advice was clear  that Mrs B shouldnt 
transfer. And the reason was clear too  that the transfer value offered was unlikely to 
provide benefits that matched those Mrs B would be giving up in the employers scheme 
which meant shed likely be worse off at retirement if she transferred. 
Mrs B knew, if she went ahead with the transfer, that shed be doing so against Towergates 
advice. She submitted a handwritten note on 6 June 2011 stating that she fully understood 
the advice to remain in her occupational scheme, but she had alternative options. That 
meant Mrs B was an insistent client  one who wanted to proceed despite advice to the 
contrary. 
In acquiring her relevant information from Towergate Mrs B became aware it has used some 
incorrect information in reaching its recommendation and suggested if these errors had been 
identified at the time Towergates advice may have been different or that she may have 
made a different decision.
I looked carefully at the two errors Mrs B brought to my attention. They relate to Mrs Bs 
employment status and her preferred retirement age. I said with regard to her employment 
status. The details of the initial conversation say that Mrs B was working when in fact she 
was in receipt of sickness benefit. But having looked at all the information in the file, this 
error was clearly corrected as the adviser has made notes confirming Mrs B wasnt working 
the time and so I said I was satisfied this didnt affect the advice given nor would it have 
changed the outcome of the advice.
Mrs Bs preferred retirement age was 62 but the TVAS report had calculated its projection 
analysis using a retirement age of 65. I considered that Mrs B was 47 at the time the advice 
was given to her. Her retirement scheme would also most likely have applied an early 
retirement penalty if she took the benefits at age 62, so Im not persuaded the critical yield 
would have been significantly different. The difference here is three years and based on the 
calculations Ive seen I dont agree that either of these errors would have led to a different 
recommendation. 
Mrs B signed to say she understood the risks and wrote to confirm she also understood the 
advice that had been given but she intended to take a different course of action. I said if Mrs 
B didnt understand the risks, I cant fairly say that was as a result of anything Towergate did 
wrong here. Mrs B also raised the point about the enhancement incentive almost luring her 
to transfer her pension. I can understand that view. Mrs B wasnt working and stated she 
wanted to take the enhancement as a lump sum for a holiday, so I can certainly see the 
temptation. But that doesnt mean Towergate gave her unsuitable advice. It didnt offer the 
incentive; her occupational pension scheme did. Towergate advised her against transferring 
making it clear, based on the analysis it felt she would be worse off.
I said from what Id seen Mrs B made an informed choice and decided to go against the 
advice given and transfer her pension. Even considering the errors Mrs B pointed out, I said 
I wasnt persuaded they would have made a material difference to the recommendation 
which I asses to be correct based upon all the relevant information available at the time. I 
said I didnt agree Towergate has unsuitably advised Mrs B and I wouldnt be asking it to do 
anything further.
I gave both parties the opportunity to respond with any submissions they wish me to 
consider before I make my final decision.
Towergate didnt respond to the provisional decision.Mrs B disagreed with the provisional decision. She remains of the view she wasnt provided 
with the correct information to make an informed decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at all the information from both parties afresh. Having done so, Ive reached the 
same conclusion as my earlier provisional decision. Ill explain why.
In deciding this complaint Ive considered the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good 
industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that have 
been made by Mrs B and by Towergate.
Mrs B hasnt brought any new information for my consideration, rather she reiterates her 
position that she wasnt aware of the risks and doesnt feel Towergate provided her with the 
correct information to make an informed decision. But on that basis, it seems Mrs B is 
holding Towergate responsible for her decision to go against its advice to remain within her 
occupational pension scheme. The errors Mrs B refers to wouldnt, in my view, have altered 
the recommendation, if anything it reinforces the advice Towergate gave, for her to remain 
within her occupational scheme. Mrs B chose to transfer her pension against the advice she 
was given and so Im not going to ask Towergate to do anything further.
As no further new information has been provided for my consideration it follows, I have no 
reason to reach a different conclusion to that of my earlier decision.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman