DRN-3309478
The complaint
Mr M complained because Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, refused to refund him for 
a transaction he said he didnt make.
What happened
On 6 June 2021, Mr M rang Halifax. He said hed gone to a cash machine to withdraw £10 
cash. He told Halifax the machine had shown an error message, saying he couldnt take out 
any more money that day, because hed already withdrawn £505. He told Halifax he thought 
his card had been cloned and someone else had taken out the cash. He said he still had his 
card, and no-one else had access to the card or knew his PIN. 
Mr Ms account shows that £500 cash was withdrawn on the morning of 6 June.
Halifax didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint and refused to refund him for the disputed £500 
withdrawal. It explained that fraudsters couldnt clone debit cards, and it didnt accept that 
the £500 withdrawal had been done with a cloned card. But it offered Mr M £30. This was 
because it had advised going to the police and ringing back with a crime reference number  
when in fact Halifax wouldnt be taking his claim forward even if he did provide a crime 
reference number. Mr M had also said that as a result of the £500 withdrawal, hed been left 
in a difficult position about paying bills. So Halifax referred Mr M to its Customer Financial 
Assistance team. 
Mr M wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. When speaking to our investigator, he 
said that what had happened was that a man and a woman had obstructed his view of the 
cash machine. The investigator commented that Mr M hadnt previously reported this to 
Halifax, or to this service. Mr M said he had reported it to Halifax.
The investigator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. She explained that she couldnt ask Halifax 
to pay Mr M £500 if she didnt have enough evidence to show that a third party had carried 
out the withdrawal. Halifax had provided us with its investigation notes, which showed that 
Mr M had given the same explanation as he gave this service at first  in other words, that 
no-one else had access to his card or PIN, and he hadnt recorded the PIN where anyone 
else could find it. But in a February 2022 phone call with the investigator, Mr M had then 
spoken about a man and woman obstructing his view of the cash machine. But the 
investigator sad that, even if Mr M had reported this version to Halifax, it wasnt likely that the 
even Mr M described could have led to the people withdrawing £500 cash without Mr M 
seeing them.
So the investigator thought there was no plausible explanation as to how any third party 
could have made the disputed withdrawal.
Mr M didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Regulations
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions. The relevant regulations for 
disputed transactions taking place in June 2021 are the Payment Services Regulations 
2017. These say that the payment service provider (here, Halifax) must show the transaction 
was authenticated. Thats the technical part, and here, I can see from the computer records 
that Mr Ms genuine card with its chip, and the correct PIN, were used for the disputed £500 
withdrawal. It wasnt a cloned card as Mr M suggested. So the disputed payments were 
authenticated.
The regulations also say that its necessary to look at whether the card holder authorised the 
payments. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the payments, 
and the customer is liable if he did authorise them.
Who authorised the disputed transaction
Mr Ms genuine card was used for the withdrawal. Mr M told Halifax, and this service, that he 
still had his card in his possession. He said that no-one else had access to the card, and no-
one else knew his PIN, and he hadnt recorded the PIN anywhere. So there is no clear way 
that any third party could have carried out the transaction  which was carried out with the 
genuine card and correct PIN.
I recognise that, some time after bringing his complaint to this service, Mr M said that what 
had happened was that two people obstructed his view of the cash machine, as he was 
trying to withdraw £10. This account isnt anywhere in Halifaxs notes of Mr Ms contact with 
Halifax, though Mr M told our investigator that he had told Halifax about these people. But 
even if two people did obstruct Mr Ms view of the cash machine, I cant see that this would 
have made any difference. Mr M hasnt, for example, alleged that the card was snatched 
away from him, or that he was forced to withdraw £500 which the people then stole.
So the genuine card and correct PIN were used, and Mr M still had his card and hadnt let 
anyone find out his PIN or use his card. This means that I consider its very unlikely that any 
fraudster would have been able to carry out the transactions. So I think its more likely than 
not that Mr M carried out the transaction himself. I realise thatll be a difficult message for Mr 
M, but its what the evidence leads me to conclude here. This means that Halifax isnt 
required to refund him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman