DRN-3302800
The complaint
Ms S complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (trading as Tesco Bank) refuses to refund 
payments she made to an investment scammer.
 
What happened
Ms S came across Xtraderfx via a social media advert and left her contact details on their 
webform. Around August 2018, she was contacted by an account manager for Xtraderfx who 
persuaded her to give access to her computer via the software AnyDesk. She initially 
agreed to deposit £250 for Amazon shares but was advised to increase her initial deposit to 
£1,000. 
The account manager contacted Ms S again in October 2018 and sold her the opportunity to 
invest in the oil and petroleum industry. She was asked to invest £1,000 but when she said 
she didnt have funds available, she was asked to use a credit card. Ms S was asked to 
deposit £2,000 on 5 October 2018 and was told shed receive more than her investment 
back by the end of the month. The account manager told Ms S shed be able to withdraw 
funds as soon as there was a profit.
 
Between 5 October 2018 to 8 October 2018 Ms S deposited £6,000 across four payments 
with Xtraderfx. She incurred transactions fees totalling £239.40.
On 15 October 2018 Ms S tried to withdraw £2,500 (as she understood she could) but 
Xtraderfx debited four payments totalling £3,999 instead of processing her withdrawal. She 
incurred further transaction fees totalling £159.58.
Ms S complained to Tesco bank. It concluded she had no chargeback or section 75 rights. 
But it acknowledged it should have raised her complaint sooner and paid £50 compensation 
to recognise this. 
Ms S referred her complaint to this office. One of our Investigators concluded first of all that 
Xtraderfx had operated a scam. He felt a claim under section 75 for misrepresentation and 
breach of contract had been established and suggested that Tesco Bank refunds the 
payments, together with associated fees and interest. Tesco Bank did not respond and our 
Investigator let it know he would pass the case to an Ombudsman and provided a deadline 
for a response. Our Investigator further clarified that Tesco Bank ought to have suspected 
that Ms S was paying a scammer at the point of her second payment. Tesco Bank replied 
only to say it was reviewing the case and still has not provided any response and it is past 
the deadline Tesco were given to provide a response if it wished to.
 
The complaint has therefore been passed to me for determination. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint for largely the same reasons as that of our 
Investigator. 
Tesco Bank is aware of our general position on a PSPs safeguarding and due-diligence 
duties to protect customers from the risk of financial harm due to fraud. We have published 
many decisions on our website setting out these principles and quoting the relevant rules 
and regulations. It is unnecessary to rehearse them again here in detail.
Taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider Tesco Bank 
should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accountsand any payments made or receivedto counter 
various risks, including anti-money-laundering, countering the financing of  terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
I am satisfied there were enough triggers in this case at the point of the second payment to 
have alerted a responsible regulated bank such as Tesco Bank that Ms S account was 
being subjected to unusual and uncharacteristic activity. There were reasonable grounds to 
suspect a fraud or scam, and therefore justify an intervention (such as phoning her in order 
to ask discreet questions about the nature and purpose of the payment).
First, regulated firms ought reasonably to take notice of common types of scams. As long 
ago as June 2012, the FCAs predecessor indicatedin its consultation paper entitled 
Banks Defences Against Investment Fraud: detecting perpetrators and protecting victims 
(the 2012 paper)that it was good industry practice for firms to build up an updated watch-
list of types of scams and potential perpetrators; and regularly to share timely and detailed 
intelligence with other banks, UK and overseas regulators, the police, etc. Whilst the 
regulator gave no specific timings, it is not unreasonable in my view to expect an 
international bank to update its watch-list and communicate internally to staff within, say, one 
month of an alert being posted by the FCA or International Organization of Securities 
Commissions (IOSCO). In my judgment, such alerts should automatically trigger alarm-
bellsand lead to the payment being pausedpending further enquiries (and a possible 
scam warning) to the payer.
At the time of Ms S first payment to Xtraderfx, the FCA had published a scam warning a few 
months earlier on 6 July 2018. A warning about their parent company was published by the 
FCA on 14 May 2018.  The reason I dont think the first payment of 5 October 2018 ought to 
have triggered Tesco Bank to intervene is because it was paid via a payment processor. The 
payment was £2,000 so not particularly large and I dont think it would have been reasonable 
for Tesco Bank to have intervened at this point. 
However, the second payment on 8 October 2018 was sent directly to Xtraderfx and its not 
unreasonable to expect a large bank like Tesco Bank that regularly updates its internal alerts 
to include information about payees who had tried to carry out regulated activities without 
permission. I accept the warning would not have identified what type of investment was 
being sold; and it did not necessarily follow from the nature of the warning in isolation that these were fraudsters. But given the timing of the alert relative to the second payment, I do 
think Tesco Bank ought to have automatically blocked it; and it had several months to 
update and communicate its watch-list. The bank had constructive if not actual notice that 
the payee might not be a legitimate merchant  therefore, it would have been reasonable for 
it to have properly questioned Ms S before processing all the payments in order to satisfy 
itself that all was well.
If Tesco Bank had fulfilled its duties by asking suitably probing questions, there is no reason 
to doubt that she would have explained what she was doing. In such circumstances, whilst 
the bank had no duty to protect her from a bad bargain or give investment advice, it could 
have explained to her that there was a regulatory warning and invited her to look more 
closely into this trader. It could have also explained its own customer experiences with 
unregulated and unlicensed high-risk investment traders in that customers would often be 
prevented from withdrawing available balances. After all, at that time, there was information 
in the public domainwhich a bank ought to have known even if a lay consumer ought not
about the very high risks associated with binary options trading, including many warnings of 
potential fraud (e.g. Action Frauds June 2016 warning; the European Securities and Markets 
Authoritys July 2016 warning; the Financial Conduct Authoritys consultation paper of 
December 2016; and the Gambling Commissions December 2016 scam warning that an 
unlicensed operator is likely operating illegally; City of London Polices October 2017 report 
noting victims had lost over £59m to binary options fraud; and so forth). After all, Xtraderfx 
isnt new to regulated firms and weve seen several Tesco Bank customer complaints about 
this particular dealer. It seems likely that Tesco Bank wouldve seen a number of consumer 
complaints prior to Ms S disputed payments to have been familiar enough with binary 
options scammers like Xtraderfxs deceptive trading practices. 
There is no evidence that Tesco Bank blocked any of the payments to have a conversation 
with Ms S and it was a missed opportunity to intervene.
causation
If Tesco Bank had asked Ms S what the payments were for and the basic surrounding 
context, it is likely she would have fully explained what she was doing and that everything 
had been done over the phone and via AnyDesk with her broker. Tesco Bank did not need 
to know for certain whether Ms S was dealing with a fraudulent high risk investment trader or 
investing in a legitimate (albeit highly speculative) product; reasonable grounds for suspicion 
are enough to trigger a banks obligations under the various regulations and principles of 
good practice. I consider there were such grounds here and, therefore, that Tesco Bank 
ought reasonably to have provided a scam warning in light of all the information then known 
to financial professionals about the risks associated with unregulated binary options. 
If Tesco Bank had given a warning, I believe that Ms S would have paused and looked more 
closely into Xtraderfx before proceeding. There is no evidence that she was willing to take 
high risks or had a history of speculative investments or gambling. It seems more probable 
that she would have made further enquiries into whether or not Xtraderfx were regulated in 
the UK or abroad. She could have discovered they were not and the various regulatory 
warnings about the risk of unregulated investment scams (see above). In other words, I am 
satisfied that a warning from her trusted bank would probably have exposed Xtraderfxs 
smoke and mirrors, causing her not to invest and preventing further losses.
contributory negligence
Despite regulatory safeguards, there is a general principle that consumers must still take 
responsibility for their decisions (see s.1C(d) of our enabling statute, the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000). In this case, I do not think that Ms S was to blame for what happened; that she did not foresee the risk of this sort of harm or any harm. At the time of 
her trading, Xtraderfx was subject to an FCA warning. Having carried out a historic web 
search, relevant to the time of Ms S payments, to note what information would have been 
available had Ms S researched them, Ive noted there was no obvious adverse information 
published about them clearly available in a web search until 2019. Therefore, I dont think Ms 
S would have reasonably seen any adverse information about Xtraderfx at the time of her 
payments. 
It was only until Ms S requested a withdrawal that she suspected something wasnt right as 
they debited payments from her credit card rather than crediting her. She promptly contacted 
Tesco Bank to notify them what had happened on the same day. I do not think she could 
earlier have foreseen the risk that the company she was dealing with was a scam and the 
trading account she was viewing was likely to be a simulation.
In the circumstances, I do not think it would be fair to reduce compensation on the basis that 
Ms S should share blame for what happened.
Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974
Im satisfied the first payment to Xtraderfx via a payment processor is recoverable via a 
claim under section 75. 
To summarise there must be:
1. a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling under section 12(b) or 12(c); and
2. a transaction financed by the agreement; and
3. a claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract related to that transaction; 
4. but not a claim which relates to any single item which the supplier has attached a 
cash price below £100 or in excess of £30,000
Ill deal with each requirement or exclusion in turn. First, there doesnt seem to be any 
dispute that a credit card account is a relevant debtor-creditor-supplier agreement under the 
Act. 
Im also satisfied that there is nothing that breaks the debtor-creditor-supplier chain in 
relation to the first deposit transaction. Ms S paid Xtraderfx via a payment processor. Where 
a payment processor is used in a credit card transaction, it doesnt break the debtor-creditor-
supplier chain, it just creates a four-party agreement. Weve published final decisions on this 
issue.   
Im satisfied Ms S payment to Xtraderfx financed their agreement  which was that Xtraderfx 
would invest £2,000 into oil and petroleum and Ms S would earn back more by the end of the 
month. Xtraderfx told Ms S that she could withdraw funds as soon as she turned a profit. 
Im further satisfied that Ms S claim relates to the transaction in that she feels she was 
tricked into depositing the payment with Xtraderfx for the dual purpose of:
a) Stealing the deposit money; and
b) Encouraging Ms S to deposit larger amounts. 
Ms S does not believe that Xtraderfx was operating legitimately and believes she was misled 
into thinking they were.
This claim  that Ms S was misled into depositing funds is clearly a claim in relation to the 
deposit-transaction. The claim must also be one for misrepresentation or breach of contract.  In this case, if Ms E was told by Xtraderfx matters that were factually untrue in order to trick 
her into entering into the deposit-transaction, her claim would be for misrepresentation. Or, if 
Xtraderfx made binding promises to her as part of that transaction and went on to breach 
these that would make her claim one for breach of contract.  
Finally, the claim mustnt relate to a single item to which the seller has attached a cash price 
of less than £100 or more than £30,000. Here, the cash price of the deposit-transaction is 
the value of that deposit-transaction. It is both the consideration and subject matter of the 
contract. 
Im satisfied Xtraderfx told Ms S they operated a legitimate enterprise and that she could 
achieve returns of more than her deposit. Ms S was induced into entering into an agreement 
with Xtraderfx on the basis of these claims. There is supporting evidence in the form of 
regulator warnings which I commented on above. Xtraderfxs parent company was wound up 
in the public interest in June 2020 by the UK High Court. The Chief Investigator for the 
Insolvency Service noted: This was nothing but a scam as GPay tricked their clients to use 
their online platform under false pretences and no customer has benefited as their 
investments have been lost.
There are also negative reviews online that echo Ms S testimony. Xtraderfx was also not 
regulated by the FCA (as required) or any other jurisdiction as far as Im reasonably aware at 
the time of Ms S deposit. 
Taking all of this together, I dont think its likely Xtraderfx was operating a legitimate 
enterprise. This means that I think they have made misrepresentations to Ms S  specifically 
that they were running a genuine enterprise through which she could ever have got back 
more than her deposit from the platform. Im also satisfied that if Ms S had known this, she 
wouldnt have deposited any money, so she was induced into the contract on the basis of 
these misrepresentations.
What damage was caused by the misrepresentation 
The legal test for consequential loss in misrepresentation, where a person has been 
fraudulently induced to enter into a transaction, he is entitled to recover from the wrongdoer 
all the damage directly flowing from the transaction: Smith New Court Securities v 
Scrimgeour Vickers (Asset Management) [1997] AC 254. This implies two hurdles that must 
be surmounted before any item of loss becomes recoverable from the wrongdoer:
a) The loss would not have been suffered if the relevant transaction had not been 
entered into between the parties. This is the factual but for test for causation.
And
b) The loss must be the direct consequence of that transaction (whether or not it was 
foreseeable) or be the foreseeable consequence of the transaction. 
Transaction fee
The transaction fee linked to the deposit-transaction is somewhat straight forward to cover 
off. Had the deposit-transaction not have occurred the transaction fee couldnt have 
occurred. The transaction fee was a direct consequence of each deposit-transaction. 
As the payment was made outside of the UK, its foreseeable that a bank used by Ms S to 
make the deposit would attach a fee for converting the payment. So, Im satisfied Ms S 
payment of the transaction fee was consequential loss in misrepresentation. 
Breach of contract Here, Ms S has deposited funds with Xtraderfx in exchange for being able to use those 
funds on an investment platform and being able to withdraw them once she reached a profit. 
Given the exchange of money in return for certain contractual promises  Im satisfied there 
was a transaction (the deposit-transaction) as defined by s.75.
It follows, I think, that Xtraderfx had contractual obligations:
a) To enable Ms S to use the funds from her deposit-transaction on an investment 
platform;
and 
b) To enable Ms S to withdraw the funds deposited as and when she wished.
Ms S wasnt permitted to withdraw the funds from her trading account. She might have made 
losses or profits from her investment  so a breach of the former term has not  on the 
balance of probabilities  caused her to lose trading profits and she would (on balance) have 
been left no better or worse off than when she made the deposit-transaction.   
It follows that as a breach of contract can be identified, Ms S loss amounts to the full amount 
of the deposit-transaction.
Transaction fee
I need to consider how much better off Ms S would have been if Xtraderfx had fulfilled their 
contractual obligations to her. Applying that test to the deposit-transaction, its clear that the 
transaction fee was not a recoverable consequence of the deposit-transaction. I say this 
because allowing Ms S to trade on the account and withdraw the deposit as and when she 
wished would not have prevented her from having to pay the transaction fee. 
So, the transaction fee should not be held as a recoverable loss in connection with the 
breach of contract claim relating to the deposit-transaction. 
Putting things right
Ive established two grounds Ms S could have recovered her initial deposit-transaction:
Misrepresentation: Im satisfied Ms S has a claim for misrepresentation on the 
grounds that Xtraderfx made a series of misrepresentations, namely that they were 
operating a legitimate enterprise and that Ms S could earn a profit from her deposit-
transaction. Im also satisfied that the deposit-transaction fee meets the test for 
consequential loss in misrepresentation as it wouldnt have been incurred but for 
the deposit-transaction. It was also a direct and foreseeable loss as a result of the 
deposit-transaction. 
Breach of contract: Im satisfied Ms S also has a claim for breach of contract as 
Xtraderfx breached the verbal promises to her. Namely that she would be able to use 
the funds from her deposit-transaction on an investment platform and access them 
freely  once she reached a profit. This provides another basis for recovery of the 
deposit-transaction but not the deposit-transaction fee. 
As a claim for misrepresentation gives the highest sum, Tesco Bank should put Ms S back 
into the position she would have been had the deposit-transaction of £2,000 not been 
entered into and the transaction fee of £79.80 had not been charged by Tesco Bank. So, she 
should receive refunds of these amounts, less any amounts credited to her by Xtraderfx.Tesco Bank should refund the remaining payments totalling £7,999 along with the 
transaction fees totalling £319.16 on the basis that I think it could have likely prevented the 
losses had it intervened (as I think it should have). It should also refund any interest and 
charges applied to these amounts. I havent needed to conclude on Ms S claims that some 
of these payments were taken without her permission as Ive already decided that Tesco 
Bank could have likely prevented them.
Im satisfied the £50 paid by Tesco Banks to recognise its delay in logging Ms S complaint 
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances and I make no further award on this point. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (trading as Tesco Bank) should refund 
Ms S all the payments in dispute and transaction fees, plus interest. It should:
Refund the payments to Xtraderfx totalling £9,999, less any amounts credited to her 
Tesco Bank credit card account by Xtraderfx; 
Refund the transaction fees; 
Refund any interest and charges applied to the account as a result of payments two 
to seven.  
Pay 8% interest on the total loss (payments one to eight) from the date they were 
paid to the date of settlement.
If Tesco Bank deducts tax in relation to the interest element of this award it should 
provide Ms S with the appropriate tax deduction certificate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman