DRN-2924611
The complaint
Mrs K and Mr R complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE has declined their home insurance 
claim for theft and damaged items.
What happened
In May 2019, after returning from a brief trip out with their family Mrs K and Mr R found their 
property had been burgled, and a lot of items had been thrown about and/or damaged. 
Mrs K and Mr R believed the burglars had forced a window open. Great Lakes sent out loss 
adjusters who reviewed the claim and reported that Mrs K and Mr R believed (later denied 
by them) the entry point had been the downstairs bathroom window. The loss adjusters
believed however that an exclusion to the theft cover applied and that there was no evidence 
that force and violence had been used to get into or out of the home. They appointed a 
forensic investigator who examined the windows and doors. His opinion was that no force 
was used to open the downstairs bathroom window or the rear door. He said that it would 
have been impossible to gain entry to the house without the use of force, or a key, if all the 
windows and doors had been left secure.
Great Lakes advised Mrs K and Mr R that, because of the exclusion in the policy, it would 
not pay for any items stolen. It agreed to pay, under the malicious damage cover, for 
replacement of damaged contents items and repairs to the building.
After referral to this service our investigator asked Great Lakes to review the claim. This was 
because Mrs K and Mr R insisted that they had never said the entry was by the bathroom 
window, pointing out that items hadnt been moved from the window sill. They said they had 
pointed out that the latch was broken on the first floor side window. Great Lakes referred 
back to the forensic investigator who said that the window had remained latched and that 
there was no evidence of violence being used around the window, which would have been 
accessible only by a long ladder.
Our investigator said that he thought Great Lakes had acted reasonably and had fairly 
applied the exclusion. Mrs K and Mr R disagreed, pointing out that Great Lakes hadnt even 
paid the full claim for damage. They believed that the forensic investigator was part of the 
Great Lakes team, and that his findings should not be accepted. 
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs K and Mr Rs claim is under the cover for theft or attempted theft in their policy. There is 
an exclusion, to that cover, fairly common in household policies, for:
Loss or damage unless force and violence is used to get into or out of your home.
Great Lakes appointed a forensic examiner who is wholly independent and not part of Great 
Lakes nor indeed the loss adjusters. I think it fair to rely on his expertise. Any action by the 
thieves to get in, e.g. by turning a door or window handle, can be described as force. 
However to show violence the lock or handle would have to be forced open in some way 
other than how it was designed to be opened/used. Here the loss adjusters said that it was 
initially reported to them that entry was by way of the bathroom window. And the forensic 
investigator said that Mrs K told me that, whilst she believed that she had checked that all 
the windows were closed and latched before leaving, she might inadvertently have left the 
bathroom window closed but unlatched (i.e. with the handle left in the vertical position).
Forensic examination showed no evidence of the bathroom window having been forced 
open. And though Mrs K and Mr R asserted that entry could have been through the first floor 
window, the forensic investigator said there was no evidence of it being forced and the 
damage to the latch didnt stop it being secure. And, looking at the photos and bearing in 
mind Mrs K and Mr Rs evidence that this all took place while they were away for thirty 
minutes, I think it unlikely that, without a long ladder, burglars could have got in using that 
window.
So I think that Great Lakes has shown that force and violence were not used to get into or 
out of Mrs K and Mr Rs home. That means that it is able to apply the exclusion and not pay 
for the items stolen.
With regard to the items Great Lakes has agreed to cover as malicious damage, it has 
agreed to make a payment, net of the policy excess, of £4,280.00. This is for replacement 
items or repairs. If Mrs K and Mr R dispute this figure, they should go back to Great Lakes 
with any further evidence.  
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 August 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman