DRN-3142445
The complaint
Mr M complains that Standard Life Assurance Limited (Standard Life) failed to carry out 
sufficient due diligence activities when he asked to transfer some pension savings to an 
occupational pension scheme (OPS) in late 2012.
What happened
Mr M has been assisted in making his complaint by a claims management company (CMC). 
But for ease, in this decision, I will generally refer to all communication as having been with, 
and from, Mr M himself.
Mr M held pension savings with Standard Life. He says that he was sent an unsolicited text 
by a firm offering him the opportunity to access some of his pension savings immediately. 
Mr M says that his finances were under pressure and the offer seemed very attractive. He 
says he was told that he would need to transfer his pension savings to a new scheme, and 
that he would receive better investment returns as a result.
On 9 November 2012 the new scheme made a transfer request to Standard Life. The 
transfer was completed, and the pension savings sent to the new scheme, on 12 November.
It appears that the trustees of the new scheme were acting fraudulently. Mr M says that his 
investments in the scheme are illiquid and potentially worthless so will result in him suffering 
a significant loss. He says that he has received a demand for tax in relation to the initial 
payment he received at the time of the transfer. He says that Standard Life should have 
taken steps to contact him and make him aware of the possible dangers he was facing.
One of our investigators has assessed Mr Ms complaint. She didnt think that the regulations 
at the time, since the transfer was before the introduction of new guidance by The Pensions 
Regulator (TPR), and the absence of any other warning signs, meant that Standard Life 
needed to have taken steps to make Mr M aware that there might be problems with the 
transfer that he was requesting. So she didnt think Mr Ms complaint should be upheld.
Mr M didnt agree with that assessment. Although I am only summarising what he, and his 
CMC have said, I have read all their comments in detail. Mr M thought that some information 
issued by TPR in 2012 should have put Standard Life on notice that he might be at risk from 
a pension liberation scam and should have suggested he take further advice. He says that 
the documentation the OPS provided to Standard Life shouldnt have given the firm much 
confidence about the transfer. And he says that Standard Life failed in its duty to act in his 
best interests.
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr M and by Standard Life. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
The relevant rules and guidance
I think it is important to set out the environment Standard Life was operating in at the time 
with regards to transfer requests and pension liberation as well as the rules and guidance 
that were in place. Specifically, its worth noting the following:
The Pension Schemes Act 1993 gives a member of a personal pension scheme the 
right to transfer the cash equivalent value of their accrued benefits to another 
personal or occupational pension scheme.
Personal pension providers, like Standard Life are now regulated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (the FCA). Prior to April 2013, they were regulated by the FCAs 
predecessor, the Financial Services Authority (FSA). There have never been any 
FSA/FCA rules that specify the checks providers need to do before someone can 
transfer from a personal pension.
Prior to February 2013, and the launch of TPRs scorpion campaign, personal 
pension providers often just checked that the receiving scheme was registered with 
HMRC and would only investigate further if it was apparent that the transfer was, in 
some way, suspicious. However, ahead of the scorpion campaign, its evident the 
FSA, and other regulatory bodies such as TPR, were becoming increasingly 
concerned about the dangers of pension liberation schemes:
On 10 June 2011 and 6 July 2011, the FSA warned consumers about the dangers of 
pension unlocking. It referred to cold-calling and websites promoting transfers to 
schemes that invest money overseas (such as in property) to avoid paying UK tax 
and/or result in cash being drawn from the pension ahead of retirement, including as 
a loan. Particular concerns related to the tax implications of these transactions, the 
fees charged and potential investment losses from scam activity. The FSA said it was 
working closely with HMRC and TPR to find out more information and encouraged 
affected consumers to contact FSA, HMRC or TPR helplines.
TPR announced in December 2011 that it was working with HMRC and the FSA and 
had closed some schemes.
In February 2012, TPR published a warning, and factsheet, about pension liberation. 
The FSA supported this campaign. But importantly it was designed to raise public 
awareness about pension liberation rather than introduce new steps for transferring 
schemes to follow. The warnings highlighted in the campaign related to websites and cold callers that encouraged people to transfer in order to receive cash or access a 
loan.
It wasnt until 14 February 2013  more than three months after Mr Ms transfer 
completed - that TPR launched its scorpion campaign. The aim of that campaign was 
to raise awareness of pension liberation activity and to provide guidance for 
transferring schemes dealing with transfer requests on steps they could take to 
prevent liberation from happening. In particular the campaign provided information to 
scheme administrators about six specific warning signs and a checklist that could be 
used to establish the liberation dangers of the receiving scheme. And it provided a 
short insert, and a longer leaflet, at least one of which should be sent to all members 
who were requesting a transfer.
Financial Services Authority (FSA) Principles for Businesses
As Mr Ms policy was a personal pension, Standard Life was regulated by the FSA in its 
operation. The FSA Handbook set out Principles and Rules that firms must adhere to when 
carrying out their business; and firms must always apply the principles, even when specific 
rules and guidance from the FSA/FCA in a particular area are absent or evolving  as was 
the case with pension liberation/scams/fraud.
The PRIN section of the Handbook contains 11 principles that firms must adhere to and 
I consider the most relevant principles in relation to transfer requests and pension liberation 
to be the following:
Principle 2  A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
 
Principle 6  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
Principle 7  A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair, and not misleading.
Did Standard Life follow the relevant guidance and rules?
I think I should first touch on the outputs of the scorpion campaign. As I said earlier, that 
campaign was launched on 14 February 2013  so some time after Mr Ms transfer 
completed. But I think it is important to note that the scorpion guidance was very much a 
step change in how these sorts of transfers should be viewed. I dont think it would be 
reasonable to conclude that it represented a formalisation of what might have been 
considered best practice in the years or months before. 
But there was some knowledge of pension liberation and scams throughout the industry 
when Mr M requested the transfer of his pension. So its reasonable that Standard Life 
should have been aware of the threat and been familiar with TPR announcements. So Id 
expect Standard Life to have acted using its own judgement and discretion when handling 
pension transfer requests at that time as well as acting in line with the FSAs Principles for 
Businesses in all it did.
So these are the points I have considered in my decision, as well as taking account of what 
good industry practice was at the time.When Mr M transferred his pension, providers would typically check that the receiving 
scheme was registered with HMRC and would only investigate further if it was apparent that 
the transfer was, in some way, suspicious. Standard Life has shown us that the transfer 
request it received included a copy of the relevant HMRC registration details for the scheme. 
So it seems likely that Mr M had a statutory right to the transfer under the relevant 
legislation. 
I have noted that the scheme address was geographically far away from where Mr M lived 
and the CMC feels this was something that Standard Life should have questioned. If this had 
been after the scorpion guidance had been issued and incorporated into Standard Lifes 
processes, I would have agreed with the CMC. But again, this doesnt seem to have been 
something TPR had raised as an issue previously so theres no reason why it would be a 
concern to Standard Life. In many companies with a regional presence as well as a head 
office, the employers main address may be far from where some employees live.
It doesnt seem there was any direct contact from Mr M to Standard Life before the transfer 
took place. Again that wasnt unusual and so is unlikely to have caused any concerns. But 
that does mean that Standard Life wouldnt have been reasonably aware of many of the 
aspects of this transfer that might have caused any concerns such as the payment that was 
made to Mr M, the nature of his contact with the advising firm, and that he hadnt received 
any advice from a regulated party. In its role as a pension provider Standard Life did not 
need to know these things in order to carry out a pension transfer and was not required to be 
aware of them in order to facilitate a pension transfer of this nature. And there was no need 
for Mr C to have received regulated advice to request a transfer of a money purchase
pension at this time.
The FSA Principles for Businesses
While Mr M has said Standard Life didnt adhere to the FSA principles when it processed his 
transfer Im satisfied the principles shouldnt be interpreted as meaning Standard Life should 
have investigated every transfer to the level of detail that he suggests as a matter of course. 
Even when the first guidance in this area  the scorpion guidance  was introduced three 
months after the transfer, it didnt require providers to conduct the same level of exhaustive 
enquiries on every transfer whether warning signs were present or not. So I dont think it 
would be fair and reasonable to have expected Standard Life to be automatically suspicious 
of all transfers when the regulators, after considering the issue carefully, evidently didnt 
think that was necessary later on.
Furthermore, whether I can fairly say these rules should have led Standard Life to carry out 
a specific investigation on the transfer, to protect Mr M from possible liberation, largely 
depends on how likely it was viewed at the time that any particular transfer was at risk of this 
activity. I say this because there was always the risk of legitimate transfers being caught up 
in indiscriminate enquiries. And as already mentioned above at this stage, the regulators 
and HMRCs own position was that they were still taking steps to find out more about the 
problem.
So, on balance, I dont agree its reasonable to give the FSA principles and rules the context 
of industry intelligence that was subsequently compiled and circulated after Mr M 
transferred. TPR seems to have eventually decided that regulators and other agencies 
couldnt tackle the issue alone  and further intervention by pension providers was 
necessary. But that wasnt the position at the time of Mr Ms transfer. Therefore, I am of the 
view that Standard Life adhered to and met the FSA s Principles for Business in dealing with 
Mr M Overall therefore, while I can understand the difficult position Mr M has now found himself in, 
at the time of his pension transfer the issues he has raised werent considered enough of a 
cause for concern for providers across the board. This was, after all, a rapidly emerging 
issue. So individual providers, who would only have seen a small proportion of all activity in 
this area, wouldnt necessarily have had a comprehensive enough view of pension liberation 
schemes to have appreciated what the potential risk factors were before the scorpion 
guidance  which did begin to catalogue these risk factors  was issued. Of course, some 
providers may have had an awareness of specific liberation risks ahead of the scorpion 
guidance because they may, for example, have received a sudden increase in transfer 
requests to a previously unknown scheme. But I havent seen anything that makes me think 
Standard Life had, or should reasonably have had, this sort of awareness in Mr Ms case.
It therefore follows from the above that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. I recognise how 
disappointing this will be for him but for the reasons given above, Im satisfied Standard Life 
acted in line with what was required of it at the time.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Standard Life Assurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman