DRN-2684913
The complaint
Ms M complains AIB Group (UK) plc (AIB) credited her joint bank account with proceeds of 
an insurance policy when it should have been paid into her sole bank account.
What happened
Ms M says she redeemed an endowment insurance policy and requested the proceeds to be 
paid into her sole account specifically, as she didnt want the monies to be paid into the joint 
bank account held with her ex- partner, as they had separated. Ms M noticed that despite 
her wishes the sizeable payment was paid into the joint account, and while she made 
immediate arrangements to transfer the monies into her sole account, her ex- partner had 
seen the payment go into her account which has created issues between them. Ms M says 
AIB have credited the funds to the wrong bank account and is looking for them to 
compensate her for the trouble they have caused her. 
AIB says they have credited the correct bank account as the payment they received from the 
insurance company was designated to be paid to the joint bank account. AIB says they have 
no control over the way the insurance company paid the funds and cannot alter the 
electronic file containing the payment. AIB says they have done nothing wrong and directed 
Ms M to contact the insurance company if she believed and error had been made. 
Ms M wasnt happy with AIBs response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold Ms Ms complaint. 
She felt AIB had acted correctly when they credited Ms Ms joint bank account, as evidence 
had been provided by them to show the payment had been directed to the joint bank account 
from the insurer. 
Ms M didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
I can understand it would have been frustrating for Ms M to discover a payment she was 
expecting from an insurance company to be paid into her sole bank account, was credited to 
her joint bank account she held with her ex-partner. When looking at this complaint I will 
consider if AIB credited the proceeds of the insurance policy Ms M had redeemed, into the 
wrong bank account. 
The first thing to say, is while I am aware Ms M has also lodged a complaint to this service 
about the insurance company who sent the payment, I will only be looking at the complaint 
Ms M has made about AIB - the other complaint will be looked at separately on its own 
merits. 
Ms M says AIB credited the proceeds of an endowment policy to her joint account in error, 
when she had given instructions for the payment to be made into her sole bank account. Ms 
M says she didnt want the proceeds of the policy to be credited to the joint bank account as 
she had separated from her ex-partner who was party to that account. Ms M says while she 
has since arranged for the monies to be paid into her sole bank account, this shouldnt have 
happened in the first place and her ex-partner has become aware of the payment and is now 
refusing to contribute towards a holiday which was cancelled, ultimately at her cost. 
I understand what Ms M says, but from the information provided to this service by AIB, I can 
see the payment sent by electronic bank transfer from the insurance company, was 
designated to be credited to the joint bank account sort code and account number, from 
where it seems the premiums for that policy had been previously paid. 
Additionally, no evidence has been provided by Ms M to suggest that she had ever informed 
AIB that she was expecting these funds and where they should be placed on its receipt. Its 
also fair to say that when payments are made to a bank account in this way, its not possible 
in any event, for banks like AIB to change its destination. All AIB could have done here, is to 
transfer the funds after its receipt to another bank account, but only on receipt of prior written 
authorisation from the account holder, but I cant say this happened here. The point here is 
AIB were only able to credit the bank account, the payment was designated to from the 
sender  in this case the insurance company. 
With that in mind, I am satisfied AIB havent made any errors here and like the investigator if 
Ms M feels the monies sent by the insurance company have been misdirected in some way, 
that is something she needs to take up with them  which I understand is the case here.  
While Ms M will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of AIB here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman