DRN-3322459
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as H, complains about the way Barclays Bank UK PLC 
blocked and closed its account. 
Hs director, Mr W, brings the complaint on its behalf.
What happened
H held a business current account with Barclays. 
On 18 July 2019, Barclays reviewed the account and restricted Hs access while it did so. 
This included the removal of the account funds, which were in excess of £11,000,000.
Barclays completed its review on 27 August. It also wrote to H that day to advise that it was 
closing its account with immediate effect. It advised Mr W that the funds had been returned 
to the account, but when he visited a branch to arrange their release he was told that this 
wasnt possible.
Barclays later advised Mr W that Hs funds could only be released by way of a bankers 
draft, and one was issued on 16 September. But this was returned unpaid the following day, 
on the basis that it hadnt been signed in accordance with the banks mandate (which 
required two signatures). A further bankers draft was issued on 28 October, which was 
successfully credited.
H complained. It was unhappy that it had been deprived access to its funds without 
explanation while the review was ongoing  and that even after the review was completed, 
errors and miscommunication on the banks part had delayed the return of its money. H 
wanted Barclays to compensate it by way of 13% simple interest per annum on the funds for 
the period it had been unfairly deprived of them, which it calculated could be as much as 
£399,000. It said this was on the basis that the account funds came from the issuance of 5% 
preference shares in H, and that a return on the capital wouldve been at least the 8% 
benchmark rate commonly used in compensation claims.
Barclays said that its decision to review and restrict Hs account had been taken in line with 
its legal and regulatory obligations, and that its internal procedures had been correctly 
followed. It accepted that it had made an error with the first bankers draft, which hadnt been 
dual authorised in the necessary way. So it apologised and offered H compensation of 
£300. But it also said that H wouldnt have been able to cash the draft anyway, as it wasnt 
drawn to the correct payee due to a mistake in Hs instruction.
With no resolution, H referred the complaint to us and it was reviewed by one of our 
investigators. He thought Barclays had acted in accordance with the terms and conditions in 
restricting and closing Hs account  for which it wasnt required to disclose its reason. And 
looking at the circumstances that had prompted the banks actions, he didnt think it had 
done anything wrong. But during his investigation, Barclays accepted that its error on the 
first bankers draft was likely the sole cause of its failure  and that the funds ought to have 
been available to H from 27 August. So he thought that aspect of the complaint should be 
upheld.
In setting out its claim for compensation, H said that the banks actions had left it unable to 
implement its business plans  and that its investors had withdrawn capital. So it wanted the 
bank to cover the costs it had incurred in raising the capital in the first place, which it said 
amounted to £715,000. 
Our investigator didnt think it would be fair to hold Barclays responsible for these costs, as 
theyd not been incurred as a result of the banks actions and there wasnt sufficient 
evidence to show that the delay caused by the bank was the reason for any of the investors 
withdrawal. But he did think that the delay had put H to some significant inconvenience, 
noting it had spent a lot of time and effort in visiting branches and chasing things up that 
ought not to have been necessary. So for this, he recommended that Barclays pay H 
compensation of £1,000.
Barclays accepted our investigators view but H didnt. Mr Ws representative, Mr P, said that 
H had suffered significant financial losses as a result of being denied access to its funds, 
which was the result of an accepted error on the banks part. The primary purpose of the 
funds was to invest in the business, but he said H may also have made use of the funds on 
the financial markets before committing to the project. So he thought H should, at the very 
least, be compensated for the funding cost of the money  for which he thought the 
precedent was 8% simple interest.
With no resolution, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
As my initial conclusions differed from those of our investigator, I sent both parties a 
provisional decision earlier this month in which I set out my thoughts and invited them to 
respond with any final submissions. I said:
The review, restriction and closure of Hs account
Barclays has a number of legal and regulatory obligations to meet in providing 
banking services to its customers. Banks are required to keep accounts and their use 
under review, and may need to suspend access or services in order to do so. 
The terms and conditions of Hs account allowed Barclays to suspend its services. 
Barclays has explained that it did so in order to comply with its regulatory obligations. 
From the information Ive seen, Im satisfied that this was the case. And while I note 
Mr W was unhappy at the lack of information or explanation he received about the 
matter, Barclays wasnt required to give H notice of its actions, or explain the reason 
for its decisions. It also wouldnt be appropriate for me to require the bank to do so 
now.
I recognise that being unable to access its funds while the review was ongoing 
wouldve caused H some inconvenience. But as Ive not found that Barclays did 
anything wrong in undertaking the review or applying the restriction, it follows that I 
dont think its responsible for any loss or inconvenience this caused H. 
The terms and conditions also allowed Barclays to close Hs account immediately in 
certain circumstances. Im satisfied that it was reasonable for the bank to do so here.
The release of the account balanceBarclays completed its review on 27 August 2019 and accepts that this is the point at 
which Hs access to the funds ought to have been restored. But it was only on 28 
October 2019 that the funds were successfully released. 
Barclays now accepts that this delay was due to errors on its part. While it told Mr W 
he could access the funds on 27 August, his attempt to do so in branch was rejected 
because the bank required a bankers draft to be issued. I think its process was 
reasonable but it erred in failing to make this clear to Mr W.
The most significant delay was due to the issue with the first bankers draft. Barclays 
accepts that it failed to properly sign it, resulting in it being returned unpaid when 
presented. A further few weeks was then spent investigating what had happened, 
cancelling the first draft and arranging for a replacement to be issued. 
All of this means that H was deprived access to its funds for longer than necessary. 
While it might always have taken Barclays a few days to arrange the bankers draft, I 
think its reasonable to say that this ought to have been requested at the time it 
confirmed Hs access to the funds had been restored (27 August 2019) and arranged 
shortly thereafter.
H says that the inability to access its funds meant it couldnt proceed with its 
business plan and this, in turn, prompted investors to withdraw their funds and the 
business to wind down its operations. But H has provided very little explanation of 
how it intended to utilise the funds or how the delay in obtaining them meant that it 
was no longer able to proceed at all. 
Theres no evidence to show it was the delay caused by problems in obtaining the 
bankers draft  as opposed to the inability to utilise the funds due to the legitimate 
restriction on them beforehand, or indeed another reason altogether  that meant H 
couldnt proceed in the way it originally intended. So I dont think its down to the 
delay in arranging the bankers draft that Hs business was wound down, and 
therefore dont think that Barclays should compensate the company for any costs it 
incurred in raising the investment capital in the first place.
H has also said that the delay led to an increase in its liability to the investors  as it 
was unable to repay them as quickly as it otherwise would have done. I accepted this 
argument in principle and asked H for evidence to support this aspect of its claim. In 
particular, I wanted to see when funds were returned to investors  as if, for example, 
the funds werent promptly returned once received from Barclays, it would be harder 
to say that delays caused by the bank had an impact. 
H provided evidence of the transaction with one investor, with a demonstrable audit 
trail of the receipt of investment funds initially followed by their return shortly after 
receipt of the bankers draft and showing the 5% return paid. I am satisfied from this 
evidence that Hs liability to the investor was increased as a result of delays on the 
banks part  as I think it would most likely have returned the funds sooner if it could 
have. So I think it would be fair for Barclays to pay interest at 5% on this portion of 
the funds (£2,000,000) for the period 1 September 2019 (in recognition of the fact 
that it would always have taken a few days for the bank to arrange the bankers draft) 
to 28 October 2019.
H has, however, declined to provide similar evidence to show the return of any of the 
other funds. Without that, Ive not been able to establish whether delays on Barclays part had a material impact  so Im not currently intending to require the bank to pay 
any further compensation for losses in this respect.
Mr P has highlighted the rate of 8% thats often used by way of compensatory 
interest for being deprived the use of funds. But I dont think it would be fair to award 
that in the circumstances here. Our approach to compensation is to put the 
complainant in the position they would be in had the error not occurred. I cant see 
that H wouldve been able to utilise the funds in any way, other than to return them to 
its investors. So I dont think it would be fair to require Barclays to pay H a return on 
its funds that I cant see it would have realised.
I can see that the delay in releasing the funds from 27 August 2019 onwards did put 
H to some inconvenience. Mr W visited a branch with a view to accessing the funds 
because Barclays hadnt, initially, explained that a bankers draft would be 
necessary. And the invalid bankers draft meant that Mr W had to follow up with the 
bank on a number of occasions to find out what had gone wrong and to remedy the 
situation. Looking at the inconvenience that H was caused by Barclays errors, I think 
the £1,000 its already agreed to pay is fair compensation.
Barclays accepted my provisional decision, but H didnt. Mr P and Mr W didnt accept the 
level or rationale for the compensation Id proposed, saying in summary that:
They didnt agree with my view that H wouldnt have utilised the funds in any way 
other than to return them to the investors. H wouldve had the benefit of the funds for 
a further two months and so they still thought the company should be awarded the 
funding cost and/or compensatory interest. On the latter, Mr P highlighted the 8% 
statutory interest that can be claimed on late commercial payments.
It was accepted that the banks actions had caused a two-month delay in the release 
of the balance and there was no basis for differentiating between the £2,000,000, on 
which Id awarded compensation, and the remaining balance, on which I hadnt.
The two-month delay was the result of poor operations on Barclays part, for which 
the bank should be fined.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no dispute over the errors on the banks part, rather the issue is how H should be 
compensated for them. Ive reviewed this in light of Mr P and Mr Ws further comments, but I 
still think the redress proposed in my provisional decision represents a fair way to put things 
right. So Ill explain why Mr P and Mr Ws points havent led me to a different conclusion.
Mr P has queried why I dont think Barclays should compensate H for the funding cost in 
light of its errors. I explained the reasons for this in my provisional decision and there is little 
more detail I can helpfully add. H had already incurred these costs but says Barclays should 
reimburse them on the basis that its errors meant that the company couldnt proceed with its 
business plan. I said that I couldnt see that it was the two-month delay for which Barclays 
was at fault that had left H unable to proceed rather than any other cause, and Ive not been 
provided with any new comments or information that would lead me to think any differently 
about this. I understand that Mr P thinks that H is entitled to compensatory interest in line with the Late 
Payment of Commercial Debts (Interest) Act 1998. I dont think this legislation applies to the 
circumstances in question here. It entitles one business to claim statutory interest if its paid 
late by another for goods or services. Thats not what happened here. H wasnt providing 
Barclays with any goods or services and didnt have a contract with it of the nature covered 
by the legislation. 
Our approach to compensation is to put the complainant in the position they would be in had 
the error not occurred. As noted above and in my provisional decision, Ive not seen that H 
wouldve done anything other than return the funds to its investors and wind down its 
operations, had Barclays not delayed things. So I still dont think it would be fair for Barclays 
to compensate H with 8% interest on the balance when that is not something it wouldve 
obtained if things had gone as they should have.
Rather, I still think it is fair in the circumstances here for Barclays to compensate H for the 
losses that it actually sustained as a result of the banks error. In that respect, it is only the 
delay in returning £2,000,000 to its investors that H has provided any evidence to 
demonstrate  despite a number of requests and opportunities. I still dont think I can fairly 
require Barclays to compensate H for losses incurred in returning the remainder, as I still 
dont have any evidence that shows these funds were actually returned (or if they were, 
when) or that any additional interest was paid when doing so.
Lastly, I note Mr Ws comment that he believes Barclays should be fined for the 
shortcomings in its procedures and service that caused the problems H experienced. That 
isnt something that falls within our remit  we dont have the power to fine or punish a 
financial business. It would be more of a matter for the industry regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority  to whom Mr W may wish to refer any concerns as to the banks 
processes or procedures.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Barclays Bank UK PLC to:
Calculate and pay to H interest at a rate of 5% per year on £2,000,000 for the period 
1 September 2019 to 28 October 2019; and
Pay H compensation of £1,000.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman