DRN-3161089
The complaint
Mr Ms complained about QIC Europe Ltds (QIC) valuation of his car following an accident 
which left it beyond economic repair.
What happened
Mr M was involved in an accident which damaged his car.  So he made a claim on his motor 
insurance policy.  QIC had his car assessed and determined it was beyond economical 
repair  so they dealt with the claim under the total loss section of their policy.
The policy provides that, in the event of a total loss, QIC would assess and pay Mr M the 
market value of the car.  QIC assessed the market value at £3,500.  After Mr M had refused 
that amount, QIC increased the value to £3,840.
Mr M didnt accept the higher offer either and complained.  QIC reconsidered the valuation 
but maintained £3,840 was a fair valuation.  Mr M accepted this on an interim basis and 
brought his complaint to us.  He told our investigator his concern was that he couldnt 
replace his car with a comparable vehicle for the amount hed received from QIC.
Our investigator considered the complaint and concluded QIC didnt need to do anything 
more to resolve it.  He noted Mr Ms policy says:
To assess the market value at the time of the loss, we may take advice from a
suitably qualified, independent motor engineer or refer to publications such as
Glasss Guide, and make an allowance for the mileage, condition and circumstances
at the time you originally bought your car.
And that QIC had obtained three valuations for the car from these sources, of which the 
highest was £3,840.  The investigator said this was reasonable.
In response to our investigator Mr M sent us his own research about what it would cost him 
to replace his car.  The investigator shared this with QIC, but it didnt change their position.  
Nor did it change our investigators view, as he didnt think the vehicles Mr M had found were 
comparable.  He also did some research on the sales figures for similar vehicles, which 
showed theyd been sold for less than the £3,840 QIC had paid Mr M.
Mr M didnt agree with our investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.  Ill explain why.
My role here isnt to decide how much Mr Ms car was worth.  Its to decide whether QIC 
have dealt with Mr Ms claim fairly and in line with the terms of his policy.
The policy says that, in the event of a total loss, QIC will: 
assess [the cars] current market value, and then pay [the policyholder] this amount to 
settle the claim (less any excess that applies).
And Ive set out above the section of the policy which explains how the market value is 
calculated.  Im satisfied thats what QIC did here.  They looked at three guides, and paid 
Mr M the highest of the three valuations.  I think thats fair.
Ive looked at the information Mr M sent our investigator.  That consists of several 
advertisements of cars for sale.  The prices given are asking prices, rather than what was 
actually paid.  And Ive noted that the cars included are either several years newer or have 
done considerably fewer miles.  Im not persuaded these are comparable.
Im more persuaded by the comparison made by our investigator between the amount Mr M 
received from QIC and the sold prices of similar models.  That shows Mr M has received 
more than similar vehicles are selling for.  So this also hasnt persuaded me QIC have been 
unfair.
I understand Mr Ms frustrated because he says what hes received isnt enough to buy what 
he considers to be a replacement car.  But the policy doesnt link the settlement to the cost 
of replacement.  It says it will provide pay the market value of Mr Ms car, calculated 
according to the trade guides.  Im satisfied QIC have done that.  And thats why Im not 
asking them to do any more to resolve Mr Ms complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint about QIC Europe Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 January 2022.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman