DRN-3624934
Complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) closed his current account and didnt 
explain why.
Background
In December 2021, Lloyds notified Mr A that it no longer wished to offer him an account and 
told it that it would be closing his current account in 65 days. Mr A was unhappy with this and 
complained. Lloyds didnt uphold Mr As complaint. As Mr A remained dissatisfied, Mr A 
referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr As concerns. She didnt think that Lloyds had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr A unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr A disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I dont think that Lloyds acted unfairly towards Mr A 
and so Im not upholding his complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
As our adjudicator explained to Mr A, a bank is under no obligation to continue offering an 
account to a consumer if it doesnt wish to do so. And Lloyds decided it no longer wished to 
have Mr A as a customer. Mr A is unhappy that Lloyds hasnt disclosed the exact reason for 
closing his account. However, closing a customers account is a commercial decision that a 
bank is entitled to take. And it has no obligation to share its reasons for that decision  
especially when it provides notice of the decision to close in advance of the closure.
I realise that Lloyds decision will have been very disappointing to Mr A and I can appreciate 
why the closure of his account will have caused him inconvenience. I know Mr A says he 
was outside the United Kingdom (UK) when the closure letter was sent. And he had 
significantly less time to make alternative arrangements as a result. 
This may be the case. But I cant see how Lloyds can be expected to have known this. And, 
in any event, from what Mr A has said it seems as though he returned to the UK in mid-
January 2022. Im satisfied that this meant Mr A still had sufficient time to make alternative 
account arrangements.
Most importantly, Im simply not in a position to be able to tell Lloyds it has to offer Mr A an 
account in circumstances where it has legitimately decided it doesnt wish to do so, or 
compel it to provide information it isnt required to. 
So overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Lloyds acted unfairly towards 
Mr A and Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for    
Mr A. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell appreciate why I 
think Lloyds hasnt acted unfairly or unreasonably towards him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman