DRN-2642647
The complaint
Mr W has complained about Automobile Association Insurance Services Limiteds actions in 
connection with his roadside assistance policy.
What happened
Mr W rang AA before his policy was due to renew. He was unhappy with his renewal price 
and AAs service. AA broke Mr Ws complaint down into eight separate points. It accepted 
that Mr W had experienced a long wait time before it answered one of his calls; it offered him 
£25 compensation for the impact of that. But it didn't uphold the rest of Mr Ws complaint 
points.
Mr W brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. She explained to 
Mr W that some of his points of complaint, particularly around the price AA was charging for 
its cover, are outside of our jurisdiction, so we can't look at those. She also told him that she 
couldn't address any additional complaints Mr W had raised since AA had replied to his 
initial complaint. Her assessment of the complaint points we could look at was that she didn't 
think AA had done anything wrong. Mr W didn't agree so his complaint's been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
As our investigator has previously explained a number of the complaint points Mr W put to 
AA are outside of our remit. So I don't intend to comment on those. And, in this decision, I 
will focus on what I see as being Mr Ws key outstanding issues following our investigator's 
assessment of his complaint. 
I understand Mr W remains concerned that AA is in breach of disability rights law. Thats 
because he said it told him he would need to raise a complaint in writing and couldn't make it 
over the phone. 
I need to be clear that it's not my role to decide if AAs breached any laws. But I will look to 
see if its dealt with Mr W fairly and reasonably. I've listened to the phone call during which 
Mr W made his complaint. And AA quite clearly made a note of it during that call and 
referred it on to be dealt with. At no point during that call did AA tell Mr W that he couldn't 
make a complaint over the phone and would have to submit it in writing. And I note that 
Mr Ws policy documents say that if he wanted to complain he could contact AA by phone. 
So I don't think AA has dealt with Mr W unfairly.
Further Mr W was unhappy that AA didn't make calls back he said it had promised. I note 
that AA can't find any record of the first call in which Mr W said it promised to call him back. 
Its searched its system for that call, and shown us evidence of that, but can't find any record 
of it. And there are no system notes which indicate that it had the conversation Mr W refers 
to. So I don't think it would be fair to say that AA failed to make a promised call back when it 
has no record of the call. 
During the later call where AA did register Mr Ws complaint, it told him it would call him back 
within 48 hours. Mr W made his opinion clear that this was too long and he wanted a phone 
call the next morning. But AA told him it couldn't guarantee a call back any sooner. While I 
can understand why Mr W would have preferred an earlier return call, that doesn't mean AA 
did anything wrong in not agreeing to his wishes. Businesses like AA have numerous 
customers to deal with and limited resources, which means they can't always meet each 
individual customer's expectations. And in those circumstances Id expect AA to arrange a 
call back within a reasonable timeframe. And, at the time Mr W raised his concerns his policy 
wasnt due to renew for almost three weeks. So the matter wasn't urgent. And I think 
48 hours is a reasonable time frame for AA to call him back in those particular 
circumstances. I note AA did call Mr W back within 48 hours. So I think it responded 
reasonably.
Mr W also said he didn't want any further correspondence by post. So AA took action to stop 
letters being sent to him. Although it explained that, if it needed to send something to him 
that couldn't go by email, for example a membership card, it would need to post that to him. 
That seems a fair reply.  
AA has acknowledged that, on at least one occasion, it was slow to answer calls. It paid 
Mr W £25 compensation to address the impact of that delay. I think thats fair compensation 
in the circumstances. It follows that I'm not going to instruct AA to take any further action.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman