DRN-4305327
The complaint
Miss K complains My Finance Club Limited (MFC) provided her with a loan during a time 
when she was having financial difficulties.
What happened
Miss K was advanced one loan of £400 on 11 May 2022. The loan was due to run for 
38 days with one payment due of £521.60. Miss K has had some problems repaying the loan
and entered a debt management plan in October 2022. To date she has paid £81.19
towards the loan with an outstanding balance remaining of £718.81.
In response to Miss Ks complaint, MFC said it hadnt done anything wrong when it
advanced the loan because its checks were proportionate. However, as a gesture of
goodwill it offered to reduce her outstanding balance by £200. Unhappy with this response, 
Miss K referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.
As part of MFCs submission to the Financial Ombudsman it made an offer to settle the 
complaint which in effect meant that the balance would be recalculated as if interest had 
been frozen from 17 July 2022. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator, and it wasnt upheld. She concluded MFC
made a reasonable decision to provide the loan because it had carried out a proportionate
check which showed the repayment to be affordable. She also didnt think MFC needed to
have verified the information Miss K had provided.
Miss K didnt agree, and she said that had MFC checked her bank statements it wouldve
seen she had a lower income, a poor credit score and had council tax arrears.
The complaint was then passed to me, and I issued my provisional decision explaining the 
reasons why I was not intending to uphold Miss Ks complaint about the lending decision. 
But I also explained why the offer by MFC which it outlined in its submissions to resolve the 
complaint, was fair and reasonable. Both parties were asked for any further submissions to 
be received by 14 August 2023.
Neither Miss K nor MFC responded to or provided any further comments in response to the 
provisional decision. 
A copy of the provisional findings follows this in italics as well as in a smaller font and forms 
part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MFC had to assess the lending to check if Miss K could afford to pay back the amount shed
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to
the circumstances. MFCs checks could have taken into account a number of different
things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Miss Ks income
and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest MFC should have done
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss K. These factors include:
Miss K having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Miss K having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss K coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss K. The adjudicator didnt think this
applied in Miss Ks complaint and I agree.
MFC was required to establish whether Miss K could sustainably repay the loan  not just
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayment. Having enough money
to make the repayment could of course be an indicator that Miss K was able to repay her
loan sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Miss Ks complaint.
Before the loan was approved, Miss K declared she worked for a lettings agent, and she
declared her income to be £2,630 per month. MFC says this information was verified using a
third-party report  which suggested the information Miss K had provided about her income
was accurate. This was her first loan, so I think it was reasonable for MFC to have relied on
the information Miss K provided, without the need to have verified it with her such as with a
wage slip or some other method.
In total Miss K declared monthly outgoings of £475 to cover items such as housing, food,
transport, creditors and other. This left monthly disposable income of £2,1551 to afford the
repayment of £521.60.
I appreciate Miss K says her expenditure was greater than what she declared  for example
for food because she had her children to look after. But, as part of her application she told
MFC that she was single and had no dependants. Given, this, I cant fairly say MFC was
wrong to have accepted what Miss K says when there was nothing to suggest that her living
costs were too low. And I also dont think, for a first loan, that MFC needed to have verified
this information through a bank statement or other documentation.
Before the loan was approved MFC also carried out a credit search and it has provided the
results it received from the credit reference agency. It is worth saying here that although
MFC carried out a credit search there isnt a regulatory requirement to do one, let alone one
to a specific standard.Ive reviewed the credit file results MFC received and there isnt anything contained within it
that wouldve given MFC cause for concern. According to the results Miss K had two active
current accounts, with one having an overdraft of £500. Although Miss K was utilising around
£480 of this overdraft, there wasnt any evidence of missed or late payments. The credit
check results wouldnt have prompted MFC to have carried out further checks into Miss Ks
financial position.
Miss K has also said she had significant council tax arrears, but these arrears werent
reflected in the information that she provided MFC nor was it reflected in the information
MFC received from the credit reference agency. So, I cant fairly say, given this was for a
first loan, that MFC ought to have known about the council tax arrears.
Finally, there also wasnt anything else to suggest that Miss K was having financial
difficulties or that the loan repayment would be unsustainable for her for any other reasons.
Im sorry to hear about the problems Miss K has had and I do hope things are better for her
now. But, for a first loan, it was reasonable for MFC to rely on the information it was provided
with, and this wasnt contradicted by the information in the credit search. I also dont think
the checks needed to of further to the extent that it wouldve been prompted to have asked
for evidence in the form of bank statements to verify Miss Ks income and expenditure.
Im therefore intending to not uphold Miss Ks complaint about the approval of the loan.
Other considerations
After the loan was granted, should the payment not have been made to settle the account in
line with the credit agreement, MFC could, under the key information section of the credit
agreement charge daily interest up to the maximum of 100% of the borrowed funds. This is
also in line with the industry cost cap imposed on these types of loans. So, in this complaint
the maximum that MFC could collect towards the loan would be £800.
Miss K didnt make her payment as expected, and there was contact between her and MFC
during July 2022 when a payment plan was worked out. However, MFC has now said that
the daily interest ought to have been stopped being added to the balance from 17 July 2022.
MFC has said this was the date that Miss K provided it further evidence and information
about her circumstances. And I consider this proposal to be fair and reasonable, because by
now, MFC was on notice of Miss Ks hardship and so it wasnt treating her fairly or with
forbearance by allowing her debt to continue to grow up the maximum that it could.
MFCs offer is to recalculate the balance as if no further interest had been added to the
balance after 17 July 2022. This wouldve capped her debt at £614.40. And then MFC has
said it will apply the payments Miss K has already made towards the balance which results
in a new outstanding debt of £533.21.
MFC has also offered to work with the debt management provider to pay down the rest of
the balance, and I consider that to be fair and reasonable resolution to the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further comments or submissions, I see no reason to 
depart from the findings that I made in the provisional decision. 
Im still satisfied a proportionate check was carried out before the loan was advanced, which 
demonstrated to MFC that Miss K could afford her repayment. And I also felt, the offer made by MFC to recalculate the outstanding balance as if interest 
was stopped on 17 July 2022 was fair and reasonable. So, I am going to be directing MFC to 
do this to bring this matter to a close. 
Putting things right
To put things right for Miss K, MFC should do what it has already agreed to do and what I 
outlined in the other considerations section of the provisional decision. Which is to re-work 
the outstanding balance of Miss Ks loan as if the interest had stopped being added to the 
balance from 17 July 2022. 
I would also remind MFC of its obligation to treat Miss K fairly and with forbearance. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im not upholding 
Miss Ks complaint about MFCs decision to lend. 
But My Finance Club Limited should put things right for Miss K as it has agreed to do and 
what I outlined in the provisional decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman