DRN-4311135
The complaint
Mr M and Ms Y complain about Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limiteds (LV) lack of 
communication and failure to progress a claim, under Mr Ms motor insurance policy. 
All references to LV include its agents. 
What happened
In May 2022 Mr M and Ms Y say their car was damaged when someone opened a car door 
into it. The third party who did this had left a note explaining what had happened. Mr M and 
Ms Y contacted LV to make a claim and gave the details of the other vehicle involved. The 
repairs to their car were completed in July. 
Mr M and Ms Y say they heard nothing further until February 2023. At this time LV emailed 
them to say the third-party insurer hadnt paid the claim costs. The email explained its 
solicitors had been instructed and they would only contact Mr M and Ms Y if attempts to 
recover the costs failed. A few days later they received forms to fill in from the solicitor. The 
information indicated they would potentially be responsible for costs, which they say was 
way more than the repairs shouldve been. 
Mr M and Ms Y made contact to explain the circumstances of the damage were stated 
incorrectly on the solicitors form. They say none of their concerns were responded to by LV 
or its agents. They found this distressing as they didnt want to be responsible for further 
costs and felt pressured into completing forms that included inaccurate information. In 
addition, they were concerned the information Mr M provided to his new insurer about his no 
claims bonus could be inaccurate. 
In its final complaint response LV says its policy terms entitle it to conduct, defend and settle 
all claims. It says it dealt with the damage claim, and as Mr M and Ms Y werent at fault 
contacted the other partys insurer to recover the claim costs. It says it did this in July 2022 
and confirmed it would refer to solicitors in 21 days. LV says it didnt receive payment and 
didnt refer to its solicitor when it said it would. 
LV apologised for the delay in pursuing the claim costs. But says it had already waived Mr 
Ms policy excess and allowed his no claims discount, from the start of the claim. LV says it 
was sorry for the lack of communication during February 2023 when its solicitor contacted 
Mr M and Ms Y. For the delay in pursuing the claim costs, and for its vague and unclear 
communication it offered £150 compensation. 
Mr M and Ms Y didnt think theyd been treated fairly and referred the matter to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold their complaint. She says £150 compensation was fair for the 
worry caused by the solicitors inaccurate documents and for the poor standard of 
communication. 
Mr M and Ms Y disagreed with this outcome and asked for an ombudsman to consider their 
complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding Mr M and Ms Ys complaint. I understand that this will 
come as a disappointment to them, but Ill explain why I think my decision is fair. 
I can see that LV wrote to the third-party insurer on 27 July 2022. In this emailed letter it 
confirmed that it held the third party responsible for the cost of repairs to Mr Ms car. It 
explained the third party had opened their door into Mr Ms car door when it was parked. I 
cant see reference in the letter to a solicitors involvement after 21 days. However, there is 
no dispute from LV that it failed to follow up on the recovery of its claim costs until February 
2023.  
Mr M obtained a new insurance policy in January 2023. After he was contacted by LVs 
solicitor he was worried that hed given false information about his no claims bonus to his 
new insurer. I can understand why this was a concern. But Ive seen a copy of LVs letter to 
Mr M dated 21 December 2022, which states he has five years no claims discount. In its 
submission to our service the business says he previously had four years. This showed it 
had allowed his no claims due to the other party being at fault for this claim. 
Im sorry Mr M and Ms Y were caused distress as they thought theyd given inaccurate 
information to their insurer. But LV had allowed for Mr Ms no claims discount for the 2022 
policy year, and it provided proof of this in December. This means it didnt have an impact on 
the cost of his premium. And Mr M hadnt given inaccurate information to his new insurer.
Ive read the information LVs solicitor sent to Mr M at the beginning of February 2023. The 
claim form it intended sending to the court says:
The accident occurred when the Defendant collided with the Claimant's vehicle which was 
parked on the side of the road.
This isnt what happened. I can understand why Mr M and Ms Y were concerned about 
signing these documents. They also point to a section of the solicitors letter that reads:
There may be circumstances in which Liverpool Victoria may refuse to indemnify you in 
relation to our legal costs for example if you fail to co-operate with us, if you are un-truthful, if 
you are in breach of your insurance policy with them We will inform you immediately if 
Liverpool Victoria withdraw funding. 
The contract for the provision of legal services in pursuing your claim is however between 
[solicitor] and yourself and you therefore have the primary responsibility for payment of our 
legal fees. You would therefore be responsible for payment of our legal fees in the event that 
funding was withdrawn. 
If the value of your claim is contested in circumstances where the total value of the claims 
being pursued by both you and your insurer exceed £5,000, your insurer may not be liable 
for the costs incurred by a third party in defending the claim you are making. If the third party 
successfully defends your claim they may be entitled to an award of costs. In such 
circumstances it is prudent to have in place an insurance policy to cover such costs. Should 
we consider such an insurance policy to be necessary we will advise you accordingly.I can understand why Mr M and Ms Y were concerned about the costs they could face by 
signing this agreement. I can see Mr M responded to the solicitor using its online portal 
highlighting the inaccuracy in its description of the accident. He also queried the claim cost 
for £2,016.64 as hed been informed the cost of the repairs would be more like £500. Mr M 
asked the solicitor why it had made contact now, as he was told by LV it would only do so if it 
couldnt recover the funds. 
The records show this message was read but Mr M didnt receive a response. He says he 
made further attempts to make contact but still received no response. I can see that Mr M 
also contacted LV directly. It referred him back to its solicitor, but I note it did confirm the 
cost of repairs was correct. 
LVs solicitor emailed Mr M on 16 February 2023 to say it had been unable to contact him by 
phone to discuss the outstanding claim. Mr M emailed back to say hed received no further 
contact after the forms it initially sent. The solicitor then wrote him a letter the following day 
to say if it didnt hear back from Mr M it would proceed with legal proceedings with LV 
signing the statement of truth forms on his behalf. 
LV then wrote to Mr M on 19 February 2023 to say it had successfully recovered the costs 
involved in his vehicle damage claim. It says the claim has now been closed in his favour 
and his no claims discount hasnt been affected. 
Having considered all of this I think the standard of communication from LV and its agents 
regarding Mr Ms concerns about its intended legal proceedings, was poor. I can understand 
why he and Ms Y had concerns about signing the solicitors forms. They contained an 
inaccurate description of the accident and indicated that in certain circumstances Mr M could 
be liable for significant costs. 
Mr M queried several issues with LV and its agents. Based on what Ive read the responses 
that were provided couldve been more helpful. I agree with what LV says in its complaint 
response that its communication was vague and unclear. 
In these circumstances I think LV should provide compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused Mr M and Ms Y. They describe how they were very worried by the 
contact from the solicitor. As there had been no contact for well over six months this came 
as a shock. Ive thought carefully about the amount of compensation, and Im satisfied that 
£150 is fair here. The time from Ms M being contacted by the solicitor to being told the claim 
had been closed was relatively short. I dont doubt that this caused distress, but I think LV 
acted reasonably in offering this amount to redress the matter. So, I cant fairly ask it to pay 
more.   
Finally, I note Mr M and Ms Ys comments that they are concerned that other policyholders 
could be affected by the issues they experienced. I can see our investigator explained that 
we arent the regulator, and that they may wish to direct their concerns to the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA), which they indicated they would do. But this isnt something Im 
able to consider in my decision. I understand Mr M and Ms Y have also approached the 
Legal Ombudsman regarding the conduct of LVs solicitor. I hope that its able to assist. But 
again, this isnt something Im able to comment on here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Ms Y to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 December 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman