DRN-2422736
The complaint
Mr H complains CIS General Insurance Limited trading as Co-Op Insurance (Co-Op) 
unfairly declined a storm damage claim he made under his buildings insurance policy.
What happened
In June 2020 Mr H says he noticed damage to his roof and internal walls which he thought 
had been caused by a recent storm, so he made a claim under his Co-Op buildings 
insurance policy. Co-Op sent a surveyor to visit. The surveyor said Mr Hs property was 100 
years old with its original slate roof, and the cause of damage was natural breakdown of 
materials with no recent storms. He noted the roof window wasnt well fitted, that the roof 
had previously been repaired, and that the slates and tiles had moved over the years. The 
surveyor noted the internal damage was caused by rainwater ingress from the main roof 
over time, and that Mr Hs son said this happened a few months ago and got worse.  
Co-Op declined Mr Hs claim, saying the roof damage and internal water damage wasnt 
caused by something covered under his policy. Co-Op said recent weather conditions had 
just highlighted that the roof had been deteriorating over the years, and that wear and tear 
wasnt covered under the policy. And while recent rain came through the roof, it wasnt 
because of a single identifiable storm incident. So the internal damage wasnt covered under 
the policy either.
Mr H complained to Co-Op, saying he thought the damage had happened during storms in 
February 2020 but wasnt evident until recently. Co-Op didnt uphold his complaint. It said 
there were no storm conditions in Mr Hs area around the time he made his claim and the 
surveyor didnt find any damage consistent with a single storm incident  hed instead 
thought the damage was caused by wear and tear, which wasnt covered. It said the 
surveyor reported water coming in around the roof window, which he thought might not have 
been fitted properly. Co-Op said the internal damage wasnt covered under Mr Hs policy, 
either under his buildings insurance or the accidental damage part of his policy. And this was 
because the internal damage couldnt be attributed to a single storm incident but had instead 
happened over time, and Mr H had noticed it but not taken steps to address it.
Mr H asked our service to investigate, as he felt Co-Op was trying to avoid paying his claim. 
Mr H provided two local builders quotes for a new roof, in which each builder said his roof 
was likely damaged by storms. And Mr H said it wasnt the original roof and provided a 
receipt to show hed had roof work done in 1996. 
Our investigator thought Co-Op fairly declined the claim, as there were no storm conditions 
around the time Mr H claimed and the surveyors report showed the damage was caused by 
wear and tear and had happened over time. Our investigator said this type of damage wasnt 
covered by Mr Hs policy. And while Mr H had roof work done in 1996, the receipt didnt 
show what was done or make any difference to the outcome of this claim many years later. 
Mr H disagreed. He said Co-Op had changed its reasons and used excuses such as the roof 
was old, the damage wasnt caused by one storm and that the window in the roof hadnt 
been fitted properly. Mr H reiterated his roof was redone in 1996 and said the roof window 
was properly fitted in 2014, providing a building control certificate to support this. Mr H said 
he didnt check the roof after each storm, and that the leaks werent visible until they came 
through and werent near the roof window. 
As Mr H disagreed with our investigator, his complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr H feels Co-Op is trying to avoid paying his claim and has given him various 
reasons for declining. But the terms and conditions of Mr Hs policy say it will only cover 
damage to Mr Hs home caused by specific events listed in the policy  one of these is 
storm or flood. And the policy terms also say loss or damage caused by wear or tear or 
anything that happens gradually wont be covered, even under the accidental damage cover 
Mr H had as part of his buildings insurance policy. 
When Mr H made his claim, he thought a recent storm had caused the damage. The 
weather reports Ive seen show there wasnt a storm in the area where Mr H lives around the 
time Mr H made his claim. Co-Ops contact notes show Mr H later said the damage was 
caused by storms in February 2020, about four months before his claim. And Mr H told us he 
didnt notice the damage until June 2020. 
Ive considered the surveyors report and the two builders quotes Mr H has provided. But I 
place greater weight on the surveyors report, because the surveyor has included reasons 
for their opinion, unlike Mr Hs builders. And while Mr H and his builders may think the 
damage was caused by storms, Im not persuaded this was the main cause of the damage. 
I say that because the surveyor notes Mr Hs home still has its original roof, which had been 
repaired in the past, and provided photographs to support this. Mr H disputes this and 
provided a receipt which he thought showed the roof had been replaced in 1996. However, 
Ive seen the receipt and while it shows that some work was done, it doesnt specify exactly 
what work was done on the roof. This means the receipt isnt enough for me to fairly say the 
surveyor was wrong about the age of the roof. 
Regardless of whether it was the original roof or not, the surveyor noted the natural 
breakdown of materials, in other words wear and tear. And he noted roof slates and tiles had 
moved over time. And that the damaged roof had led to internal water damage. Based on 
the surveyors report, Im satisfied wear and tear was the main cause of the damage Mr H 
claimed for. Even if poor weather made it worse, its still the case that wear and tear is the 
primary cause of the damage. So it was reasonable for Co-Op to conclude this damage was 
due to wear and tear. And wear and tear isnt covered under Mr Hs policy, so it was fair for 
Co-Op to decline Mr Hs claim under the buildings part of his policy. 
Co-Op also considered whether the internal water damage was covered under the 
accidental damage part of Mr Hs policy. Ive seen that the policy defines accidental damage 
as physical damage that is caused suddenly by an external event and that is unexpected 
and not deliberate. and that it specifically excludes accidental damage caused by wear and 
tear, atmospheric, climatic or weather conditions, the action of light, or anything that 
happens gradually. As the surveyors report said the internal damage was caused by 
rainwater ingress from the main roof over time, Im satisfied Co-Op also fairly declined the 
internal water damage under the accidental damage part of the policy too. 
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 January 2021.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman