DRN-2885918
The complaint
Mr S complains about how Revolut Ltd dealt with him when he was having problems 
logging-in to his account.
What happened
Mr S wrote a letter to Revolut in October 2020. He wasnt able to access his account with 
them through their phone app. Hes said that also meant he couldnt access their app-based 
support service. Mr S also didnt have an email address or phone number to contact Revolut 
on. So he wrote the letter. 
Revolut didnt respond to that letter, so Mr S came to us. We told them about the issues 
Mr S was having. Revolut have shown us emails they sent to Mr S from January 2021 
onwards, explaining how he could try to fix the problems he was having logging-in to the 
app. 
That didnt fix things, so our investigator tried to help with the problem. That seems to have 
led to a phone call between Mr S and Revolut, in May 2021. On that call, it seems the 
problem was identified. Revoluts process uses the customers phone number to log them in. 
Revoluts records show a different phone number to the one Mr S uses. Hes explained that 
the number on Revoluts record belongs to his wife. 
The phone call in May 2021 allowed Mr S to close his account with Revolut, and transfer his 
money elsewhere. Our investigator found that resolved the problem, but suggested Revolut 
should also pay Mr S £75 compensation to acknowledge the lack of support given to him.
Revolut agreed with that view, but Mr S didnt. He felt more compensation was needed, in 
order to get Revolut to change the way they handle customers problems. 
Unresolved, the case has come to me for a formal decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached a similar view to our investigator. Revoluts service should 
have done more to resolve the issue Mr S was having. But the phone call in May has now 
fixed it. Whats left is a question of what needs to be done to recognise the impact the poor 
service had on Mr S. 
I note Mr Ss comments on this point. He wants something done that will encourage Revolut 
to change the service they provide. 
That goes beyond the scope of my role. Where I direct a remedy, its to put right the impact a 
companys poor service has had on the specific customer affected. Im not here to set rules 
for Revolut to follow  thats what a regulator does. And its for Revolut to decide how to run 
their business within the rules that apply. 
Thats not to say Revolut shouldnt think about what can be learned from Mr Ss complaint. 
The phone call with him seems to have identified the problem more efficiently than their 
processes up to that point had managed to do. While theres a cost implication to having a 
customer service phone line, Mr Ss case shows there can be benefits too. 
Putting things right
The ineffective support offered prior to the May 2021 call clearly frustrated Mr S. Hes shown 
how much not just by complaining, but also by closing his account and taking his business 
elsewhere. 
When considering how severe that frustration was, Ive thought about the length of time the 
problems here went on, and the impact they had on Mr Ss finances. 
The first I can see Mr S raised his issue was in October 2020. A reasonable level of service 
should have been able to sort that out in a few weeks. But Revoluts failings turned that into 
more than six months. 
With that said, the money held in the account was not large. Mr S has said hed used a small 
amount to test the service, having not used it for a while. He was planning to use the money 
in the account for a holiday. That tells me this wasnt money Mr S was relying on for his day 
to day expenses. So I dont see he was majorly inconvenienced by not having access to it, 
even though I appreciate the frustration hes described to us.
With those factors in mind, I find the £75 our investigator recommended was suitable to 
acknowledge the impact this matter had on Mr S. Its large enough to acknowledge the delay 
the poor service added. But modest, to reflect that Mr S now has his money, and is free to 
find other companies thatll provide a service hes happier with.
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ss complaint about Revolut Ltd. To put this matter right, they 
should pay him £75 compensation to acknowledge the trouble and upset caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2021.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman