DRN-3325757
The complaint
Mr D complains about the advice he was given by Succession Wealth Management 
Ltd (SWM) regarding his personal pension plan.
What happened
In 2017 Mr D approached SWM for advice about whether he should access the funds 
held within his personal pension.
A fact find was completed which recorded Mr Ds circumstances and objectives as follows:
advice was required on accessing his pension
he was aged 57 with no financially dependent children
he was semi-retired but wanted to now retire fully
he lived in a mortgage-free property worth around £350,000
he owned three rental properties with repayment mortgages of about £170,000
£95,000 and £80,000; they provided a monthly income of £3,500 per house, less
£600 for each for utilities
his disposable monthly income was around £1,300
his current account was overdrawn
On 23 March 2017 SWM sent Mr D its suitability report. Its executive summary advised Mr 
D to retain his personal pension. It stated, under the heading Benefits: You will receive a 
guaranteed annuity at age 60 of £10,900.80 p.a. This is the equivalent of having a 
pension pot of £323,000 now.
SWM asked Mr D to review the report, to raise any questions, and to confirm his 
agreement to proceed with the recommendations.
Within the background of the report it states that SWM has, on Mr Ds instructions, 
only assessed the suitability of accessing his pension fund.
It then summarises his financial position at the time of advice. It highlights, that in addition 
to his mortgages, he was seriously overdrawn (circa £40,000) and wished to resolve this 
situation as soon as possible.
It then discusses a Contingency Fund. For ease Ive copied the paragraph below in 
its entirety:
Holding adequate liquid and secure cash reserves allows you to deal with any 
unforeseen circumstances that may arise. Having these reserves in place allows 
you to invest surplus capital over a longer time scale and to accept a degree of 
risk for funds invested for a longer period. From our discussions, you confirmed 
that your current level of funds held on deposit is completely depleted and 
therefore you have agreed the temporary overdraft with the bank manager to allow 
you to redecorate and improve the rental properties into a condition where you 
can once again derive an income from them.
We discussed how important it was to once again rebuild the reserves and create 
a contingency fund that will allow you to not only once again regularly maintain 
the properties but also create a contingency fund that will cover monthly 
expenditure for at least 3 months.
You confirmed your understanding of this, but felt the resolution of the overdraft 
and finding new tenants was your main concern at the moment.
His Wealth Planning Objectives were recorded as follows:
During our discussions, we explained how we could now help to oversee your 
entire financial portfolio in order to help you achieve your stated and agreed 
objectives. We have agreed that your specific and stated objectives are as follows:
Under the new pension rules you wish to access the total value from 
your pension funds prior to retirement to repay the majority of the 
overdraft.
You wish to retire at 60 with a target retirement income of 
£21,600 per annum.
You felt this was achievable if you settled the overdraft and returned to the 
income levels previously achieved on the multi lets.
Under the heading Our Recommendations  Your Pensions SWM clearly set out that 
the advice was to retain the pension in its current form until Mr D reached at least 60 
years old.
It said the current total transfer value was £32,639 and then provided the following 
age related income table:
Retirement Age Guaranteed Retirement Fund
60 £10,900.80 annuity per annum
65 £12,782.50 annuity per annum
70 £14,665.90 annuity per annum
75 £17,390.20 annuity per annum
SWM then repeated and emphasised its advice to retain his plan and not to access it at 
this time, in any form. In support of this recommendation, SWM explained
The benefit he would be sacrificing would be available to repay the 
overdraft in 3 years and would continue to provide an increasing income 
until death.
He was not yet retired.
Hed managed to live within his current level of income when the rental 
incomes were being received.
He already had insufficient retirement provision and would not be able to 
meet his retirement objectives in terms of income levels in the future. So 
accessing this level of funds at that time would potentially impact Mr Ds ability to meet his desired income in retirement.
There are other, more appropriate ways to raise the funds Mr D required, 
including a re-mortgage or a personal loan, which would allow his pension 
funds to remain in intact and grow in a tax efficient environment to provide 
him with a retirement income.
Accessing his pension benefits at 57 would mean that Mr D would incur 
income tax and this could potentially be avoided by taking benefits at or 
after his normal retirement age. The £32,639 would be paid after the 25% 
tax free cash at emergency tax rates. This means that only around 
£8,159.75 would be paid tax free, and the remainder would be taxed at 
40% (about £9,791 in tax)
Therefore, of the original amount, Mr D would only receive £22,847.30 
(though some of the tax paid might be reclaimed from HMRC).
These funds could also end up being subject to Inheritance Tax.
Mr D followed SWMs advice and didnt access his pension funds. In November 2017 he 
refinanced his debts by re-mortgaging his three rental properties. He says that in order to 
get his new mortgage he had to include the old mortgages, his overdraft and a loan he had 
outstanding to pay for repairs to the rental properties. This re-mortgage was for over a 
longer term and at a higher interest rate than the original mortgages.
In 2020, when Mr D was 60, he contacted his pension provider about his pension 
benefits. But instead of the guaranteed annuity income of nearly £11,000 SWM had told 
him hed get, his pension provider told him hed get an annual income of about £4,000 
(using plans guaranteed annuity rate).
Mr D complained to SWM about the incorrect information it had given him. SWM said it 
had made an error in assessing the information it had been given by the pension 
provider. SWM apologised to Mr D but maintained its recommendation in 2017 not to 
access his pension remained valid.
Mr D wasnt happy with this so complained to our service. As a result of this referral 
SWM offered him:
A refund of the cost of the advice and suitability report, totaling £402.50
£500 for the trouble and upset hed been caused.
Mr D didnt accept this. He said that if hed been given the correct figures about his 
projected income on retirement, he wouldve accessed his pension funds to raise the 
money he needed to pay for the repairs to his rental properties. So he wouldnt have had 
to take out the new mortgage which was at a higher interest rate and over a longer period 
than his existing mortgage. So he didnt feel SWMs offer was enough because it didnt 
take this into account.
Our investigator agreed with Mr D and upheld his complaint. The investigator thought it 
likely that had SWM given him the correct projected income figures, he wouldve accessed 
his pension funds even if SWM had advised him not to. So he wouldnt have had to pay 
the additional interest on a new mortgage.
Our investigator also thought that given Mr Ds drop in income due to the disrepair of his 
rental properties, non-payment of rent by the tenants, and the potential for increasing his 
income by making the required repairs, there wasnt enough evidence to say that waiting to access his pension until 2020 was suitable advice. He thought that had Mr D used his 
pension benefits in 2017 to repair the properties, he wouldve been better placed to reach 
his retirement objective of an annual income of £22,000.
So our investigator thought SWM should be liable for the additional costs Mr D incurred 
when he re-mortgaged in November 2017, and he told SWM how he thought these 
losses should be calculated.
SWM didnt agree with the investigators view. It replied, in summary:
Mr D had sought advice on whether he should access his pension in order to 
pay off part of his overdraft and replenish his cash funds.
SWM advised him this approach wouldnt be suitable for him. It would mean 
giving up a long-term guaranteed pension income; may mean he couldnt meet 
his retirement objectives; and would lead to otherwise avoidable tax 
implications. It advised him he should consider other means of raising the funds 
he required, leaving his pension funds intact and growing in a tax efficient 
environment.
It accepted the suitability report included an error, overstating the effective size 
of the pension pot Mr D would be sacrificing should he access it in 2017. 
However, even without this error, its advice to leave his pension plan untouched 
wouldve remained unchanged.
SWM requested that the investigators view be re-assessed by an ombudsman. Its 
reasons for this are summarised below:
It is unfair to hold SWM at fault on the basis of a hypothetical scenario in 
which it is speculated that Mr D wouldve acted against the advice received.
The investigators view that Mr D was mis-advised by SWM, and it shouldve 
advised him to access his pension in 2017, is irrational and based on hindsight. 
It maintained the advice to raise any funds required from other sources was 
entirely suitable and correct in the circumstances.
The advice given in 2017 was within the limited scope required by Mr D. 
SWM did not provide, and wasnt asked to provide, a full financial review.
Mr Ds reasons for requiring the funds in 2017 had been inconsistent. The 
investigator had based his view on information which wasnt available to SWM 
at the time of the advice, and as such were entirely inconsistent with the original 
circumstances that had been presented.
Had Mr D accessed the net amount available from his pension plan in 2017 
(£27,743.15) this wouldve only paid off a fraction of his personal loan, 
leaving him with significant levels of debt and his overall position materially 
unaltered.
There is nothing to show if Mr D looked at other options of raising the funds to 
clear his debts and/or make repairs. It is simply asserted that a re-mortgage 
was effectively the only option open to him.
It wasnt fair or reasonable for the investigator to accept at face value the 
assertions made by Mr D as to his circumstances and the reasons for having to 
raise the funds.
There is no causal link between the advice Mr D sought from SWM 
and his subsequent decision to re-mortgage.There were numerous discrepancies and ambiguities in the figures provided by 
Mr D regarding his personal circumstances and the re-mortgage.
These points were put to Mr D who didnt agree. He said SWM had fundamentally 
misunderstood the problem, and his intention for using the pension funds was clear at 
the time of the advice. He quoted the following line from the suitability report under the 
heading Contingency Fund:
to allow you to redecorate and improve the rental properties into a condition 
where you can once again derive an income from them.
And
You confirmed your understanding of this, but felt the resolution of the overdraft 
and finding new tenants was your main concern at the moment.
He thought this clearly showed his intention for the funds, and the only reason he 
found himself in a worse off financial position was due to SWMs flawed advice.
The investigator responded to SWMs points but maintained his view that the advice given 
by SWM was unsuitable. He said that had Mr D used the transfer value of the pension 
plan to repair the properties, he couldve rented them out to provide an income for him 
before and after retirement of between £23,000 and £27,000. And if the correct projection 
had been used, at the time of the advice the pension wouldve only given him an annual 
income of around £3,000. And he said Mr D had since told him that he needed the funds 
from his pension plan to make the necessary repairs as hed used up his overdraft. And 
the re- mortgage he had to take had a higher interest rate and was over a longer period.
He also said that he thought the wrong information SWM had given Mr D was the only 
reason he re-mortgaged. And although he accepted that Mr D would still have been left 
with debts even if hed been given the right information, SWM should be responsible for 
redressing the extra interest hed have to pay over the entire term of his re-mortgage.
In response, SWM disagreed. In summary it said:
The investigators view didnt take into account the limited scope of the 
advice required by, and given to, Mr D.
It was speculation on a hypothetical scenario that Mr D wouldve acted 
against the advice given by SWM, and therefore it is unfair to hold it 
responsible for losses incurred from a hypothetical scenario. And even if 
SWM had used the correct projection figures, the advice to look to other 
sources to raise any required funds was entirely suitable and correct in the 
circumstances.
Mr D was told by his pension company on 20 March 2017 that his pension 
had a transfer value of £20,641.58. The report from SWM to Mr D was dated 
only three days later and contained the vastly different incorrect value. This 
wouldve raised questions and doubt in the figures in SWMs report. And to 
base significant future investments on the report, when this was not its 
purpose is negligent and not connected to SWM.
The purpose of the required funds was entirely inconsistent, and the investigator 
has based his views on the suitability of the advice on what Mr D has 
subsequently told him were his objectives at the time. However, this is 
inconsistent with what Mr D told SWM at the time of the advice.Mr D told SWM that he needed the funds to repay part of the overdraft and to 
replenish his cash reserves. There was no suggestion he urgently needed the 
funds to repair the properties.
There were eight months between the date of the suitability report and when Mr 
D applied to the bank for the re-mortgage. This highlights the distinction 
between the advice SWM gave regarding not accessing his pension to repay 
part of his overdraft, and his later decision to re-mortgage.
There was no evidence that any fund-raising alternatives to the re-mortgage 
were considered.
There was no causal link between the advice sought by Mr D from SWM, 
and his subsequent decision to re-mortgage.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint was passed to me for a decision. 
On 2 February 2022 I issued a provisional decision because I disagreed with the 
investigators view that SWM should be held responsible for the additional mortgage costs 
Mr D had incurred. In my provisional decision I said:
Both Mr D and SWM have submitted a significant amount of evidence and arguments in 
support of their respective positions, and Ive considered them all. But Im only going to 
comment on those which are directly linked to what I consider to be the crux of this 
complaint. That is, what I think is more likely to have happened had SWM provided Mr D 
with advice based on the correct annual pension income.
It is accepted that at the time of the advice in 2017, Mr D had three rental properties upon 
which he was relying for his income. But these properties had fallen into disrepair and 
needed updating in order to maximise the potential rental income.
It is also accepted that each rental property was mortgaged, and Mr D was at the limit of his 
agreed current account overdraft.
Mr D says he approached his pension provider to ask about releasing its capital, but he was 
rightly told that before he was able to do that, he would need to show hed received 
independent financial advice. So he approached SWM.
There is evidence and testimony fundamental to this complaint that is contradictory. And 
where this is the case, Ive reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is more likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence 
and the wider circumstances.
At the time of advice, SWM completed a handwritten fact find document, a copy of which 
Ive seen and summarised in the background section above. And there is no suggestion that 
the veracity of this document or its contents is in question. So it is a fair and reasonable 
position to take that SWM shouldve relied on this information about Mr Ds personal and 
financial circumstances, in order to make a personal recommendation. And this document 
indicated that Mr D, although in significant debt, had a good income from the three rental 
properties, and a reasonable level of disposable monthly income.
SWM also obtained details of Mr Ds personal pension. It used these, along with the fact 
find to make a personal recommendation, which it sent to Mr D.
It is the accuracy of the content of this report, and the subsequent recommendation given by 
SWM which is the crux of this complaint. SWM have acknowledged that the projected size of Mr Ds pension pot, and the projected income it says he was guaranteed to receive from 
aged 60 was overstated. And Mr D says he only followed SWMs advice not to access the 
pension funds in 2017 because of the size and guaranteed nature of this projected pension it 
incorrectly said he would receive. He maintains that had he known the correct projected 
income, he wouldve accessed the funds, irrespective of SWMs recommendation.
But Mr D also says that some information included in the suitability report is inaccurate. He 
has told us that the condition of his rental properties, personal debt and income levels were 
significantly different to what was written. He says, contrary to what is in the suitability report, 
he had maximised his overdraft so was unable to pay for and complete the required repairs. 
Therefore, he wasnt receiving the stated rental income as not all the properties were 
properly habitable. This meant his only option at this point was raising additional cash.
But this isnt what is said in the suitability report, which includes the following paragraph:
Holding adequate liquid and secure cash reserves allows you to deal with any 
unforeseen circumstances that may arise. Having these reserves in place allows you 
to invest surplus capital over a longer time scale and to accept a degree of risk for 
funds invested for a longer period. From our discussions, you confirmed that your 
current level of funds held on deposit is completely depleted and therefore you have 
agreed the temporary overdraft with the bank manager to allow you to redecorate 
and improve the rental properties into a condition where you can once again derive 
an income from them.
Having read this paragraph it is my understanding that Mr D had already secured a 
temporary overdraft for the redecoration and repairs, and so the pension funds werent 
necessary for the repairs nor achieving improved rental income once the repairs were 
complete. And this is confirmed by the wealth planning objectives, one of which was:
Under the new pension rules you wish to access the total value from your 
pension funds prior to retirement to repay the majority of the overdraft.
SWM could only make its recommendation on the information it was provided at the time. 
And Ive not seen anything which suggests Mr D questioned at the time what SWM said his 
thoughts were about having a contingency fund, and his wealth planning objectives.
So, what I need to initially decide, is whether SWMs recommendation would likely have 
been different had the correct pension size and projected income been used. And I dont 
think it wouldve. I think this because the incorrect guaranteed pension income, although a 
significant factor, wasnt the only consideration. It was also noted that this pension was
Mr Ds only source of guaranteed income in retirement, and giving it up may have meant he 
would be unable to meet his retirement objectives. It would also have had tax implications 
whereby tax would need to be paid on the funds accessed, which wouldnt necessarily be 
the case if he left them until he was 60, only three years later. And given the level of monthly 
disposable income Mr D states he had in the fact find, I dont see anything which suggests 
he was unable to furnish his level of debt. So although it wouldve meant he had access to 
the funds immediately, when taking into account the short and long-term impacts, I dont
think it wouldve been suitable advice to do this. So I think it is unlikely that SWMs advice 
wouldve been any different to that which it gave, albeit containing incorrect figures.
So, having come to the conclusion that had SWM used the correct figures in their 
recommendation it is likely that it would still have recommended Mr D not access his pension 
to raise the funds required, I have to decide what I think Mr D wouldve most likely done in 
this situation. And I dont think hed have done anything differently. I think it is most likely that he wouldve followed SWMs recommendation and left his pension fund untouched, and do 
as he has now done, and raise the additional funds in an alternative way. Ill explain why.
Mr D is, by his own admission, an inexperienced investor. He is a professional landlord, but I 
cant see he has much experience or knowledge about pensions or retirement planning. So I 
think it is reasonable to assume that it is likely he wouldve followed the advice of a 
professional adviser. Now whilst I acknowledge Mr Ds personal and financial circumstances 
documented in the fact find, and his financial position and wealth planning objectives 
documented in the suitability report both indicate someone who is quite heavily in debt, it 
doesnt indicate someone whose debts are unserviceable and who needs to immediately 
access the funds in his pension plan. Pensions are designed to provide an income in 
retirement, not to be an emergency fund or savings account. And Mr Ds pension also 
contained safeguarded benefits, which are seen by the regulator as important enough that 
independent financial advice is required before they can be accessed flexibly.
And I think it is significant that Mr D didnt take out this new lending until about eight months 
after he received the advice from SWM. This also adds weight to the argument that his debts 
dont appear to have been unserviceable at the time of the advice, and so the advice not to 
access his pension at that time wasnt unsuitable.
Going against the advice of a professional independent financial adviser is a significant step, 
especially for someone who has little experience of pensions or retirement planning. So, 
taking into account that Ive seen the fact find and suitability report which both paint the 
picture of someone who is managing the level of debt they have, I think that had SWM, using 
the correct figures in its suitability report, advised Mr D not to access his pension fund, Im 
satisfied he wouldve most likely followed that advice.
So, having come to that conclusion, it follows that I think SWM cant fairly be held 
responsible for the decision Mr D took to refinance his debts by taking out a new mortgage, 
over a longer term and at a higher interest rate. And so SWM arent responsible for the 
additional costs incurred through this new lending.
But, as Ive said above, its not disputed that there were inaccuracies in the figures used in 
the suitability report. And I think those errors were significant. It is incumbent on a financial 
adviser to ensure the information they include in any document, especially one that is 
advising a client, is accurate, so that the client can make properly informed choices. But our 
service isnt here to punish businesses when they get things wrong. We can ensure 
however, that people are properly compensated for the impact these errors have on them. 
So I think it is right that SWM have offered to refund the advice fee, and it has also offered to 
pay Mr D £500 for the trouble and upset its mistake caused him. I think this is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
I invited Mr D and SWM to respond and submit any additional information that they wanted 
me to consider. 
SWM had nothing further to add. Mr D submitted a lot of information about his background, 
his properties, and the sequence of events which led to him seeking advice from SWM and 
subsequently obtaining the new mortgage. I thank Mr D for this, and I can assure him Ive 
read and considered it all. But having done so, and also having reviewed all the evidence 
previously submitted, Ive not changed my mind and my provisional decision stands. Ill 
explain why.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered again my provisional findings in light of Mr Ds response to it.
Firstly, Ive reconsidered whether it is likely that, had the error not been made with the 
figures in the suitability report, SWM wouldve recommended Mr D leave his pension in 
place. And Im satisfied it wouldve. His pension was his only source of guaranteed income in 
retirement, and it was only three years from when he couldve accessed it without the likely 
tax implications. And although the annual income it wouldve generated was much less than 
SWM had incorrectly stated, this income was guaranteed for life, with no investment risk. 
And his level of debt, although sizeable, appeared from the information recorded in the fact 
find, to be serviceable. So because of all of the above Im satisfied it is more likely that not 
SWM wouldve advised Mr D not to access his pension funds at that time. 
So, having decided that SWM, if using the correct figures, wouldve probably recommended 
to Mr D that he didnt access his pension funds, I need to decide what I think Mr D would 
most likely have done in these circumstances. But having considered everything he has 
submitted, I remain satisfied that it is more likely than not that he wouldve followed the 
advice and not accessed his pension.
As I said in my provisional decision, Mr D was an inexperienced investor, with little 
experience or understanding of pensions and retirement planning. And he has reiterated this 
point to me in his latest submissions. Going against the advice of a professional would be a 
big step, especially given Mr Ds lack of experience in these matters, and doing so is 
relatively unusual. So I think it more likely than not Mr D wouldve followed its advice and 
explored, as he has done, alternatives for raising the funds he required.
Mr D has said SWM should pay him substantial recompense to put him in the place he 
wouldve been had he not used their professional services. But Im afraid I dont agree. Mr D 
said he was told by his pension provider that he had to take independent financial advice 
because of the nature of his pension benefits. Under the regulators rules, to access pension 
funds such as his, consumers have to obtain professional advice if they want to give up the 
valuable benefits attached to these plans to take the pension as a lump sum instead. So 
Mr D wouldve had to obtain advice in any case, and as Ive said above, even if the correct 
figures has been used Im satisfied that he probably wouldve been advised against 
accessing his funds. 
So SWM cant fairly be held responsible for the decision Mr D took to refinance his debts by 
taking out a new mortgage over a longer term and at a higher interest rate, as Im satisfied 
he wouldve most likely done this anyway. And my reasons for this are the same as I gave in 
my provisional decision. So it follows that SWM cant be held responsible for the additional 
costs Mr D incurred through this new lending.
But, as I said in my provisional decision, I do think that Mr D was caused distress and 
inconvenience when he discovered the errors SWM made in their suitability report. And 
given the nature of these errors it is right that Mr D shouldnt have to pay for the advice SWM 
gave him. 
For all of these reasons, and the reasons outlined in my provisional decision, Im satisfied 
the outcome I set out in my provisional decision is fair and reasonable.
Putting things right
SWM should, if it hasnt done already, refund Mr D its advice fee, and pay him £500 for the 
distress and inconvenience it has caused him.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I require Succession Wealth 
Management Ltd to, if it hasnt already done so:
Refund to Mr D the £402.50 advice fee;
and pay Mr D £500 for the distress and inconvenience hes been caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman