DRN-2834520
The complaint
Mr R has complained that ReAssure Limited terminated his Income Security Protection plan 
when he reached 60 rather than at age 65.
What happened
Mr R took out the plan in 1993. It paid a benefit if he was unable to work due to illness and 
Mr R had been in receipt of benefit for some time. In 2019 he wrote to enquire when the plan 
would end. ReAssure wrote back on 20 May 2019 saying that the policy would mature in 
November 2020. But following this a further two letters were sent saying that the plan would 
end in November 2025.
ReAssure said that these letters were sent by administrative error and the maturity date of 
the policy was November 2020. In recognition of the confusion and upset caused it sent Mr 
R £1000 in compensation. Mr R didnt accept this is resolution of his complaint  he recalls 
at the sale that the maturity date was set as November 2025.
Our investigator didnt find that there was any agreement that the policy would end in 2025. 
Mr R didnt accept her view. In summary he said that:
he was a party to the original agreement and his testimony was evidence of what 
was agreed
a number of insurance companies had care and conduct of the policy over the years
there was an implicit duty to retain the original policy document
his complaint was about ReAssure wrongly terminating his benefit on his 60th 
birthday not about correspondence sent over 2019/20
ReAssures investigation of the matter breached its duty of care, skill and diligence
the matter had caused him distress and he sent in a medical report in support of his 
condition.
Our investigator then received further documentation from ReAssure showing the maturity 
date of November 2020. However Mr R argued that these three documents  all dated about 
seven years after the sale of the policy  only confirm that the error regarding the date of 
termination was made in the early course. He commented that it wasnt known what 
documents had been withheld or lost or what efforts had been made by ReAssure to locate 
all the documents. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that Mr R is still suffering with his mental health and I recognise that my decision will 
be disappointing for him. However I am not upholding his complaint and Ill explain why.
Ive not disregarded Mr Rs testimony that he was present when the original agreement was 
made and recalls that the maturity date being set at 2025. This is indeed evidence and I 
have taken it into consideration. However there is no documentary evidence to support this.
ReAssure is now the underwriter of the policy, I accept that when the policy was taken out 
the underwriters were different. Nevertheless ReAssure is not obliged to obtain and keep 
records going back to 1993. ReAssures system shows that the policy matured in November 
2020. It has now submitted three administrative documents all showing the cessation date to 
be 4 November 2020. I accept that there may be further documents in existence, but there is 
nothing further before me. On this basis Im satisfied it is more likely than not that the 
maturity date of the policy was always 4 November 2020.
It is unfortunate that Mr R was sent two letters saying that the maturity date was November 
2025. I understand why Mr R feels that ReAssure didnt conduct its business with due skill, 
care and diligence. But ReAssure has explained the letters were incorrect, that this was its 
mistake and shouldnt have happened. It has apologised and paid Mr R compensation for 
the distress, disappointment and inconvenience caused. I think that is fair. ReAssure has 
also said it would be happy to consider any documentary evidence that Mr R has to the 
contrary. This was also true of this service, but nothing has been forthcoming. In all the 
circumstances I am not persuaded that the maturity date recorded on ReAssures database 
is incorrect.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2021.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman