DRN-2841701
The complaint
Mr B complains that British Gas Services Limited increased the premium for his homecare 
policy when it renewed. The premium had gone down when Mr B bought a new boiler and 
he expected the cost to stay the same.
What happened
Mr B had a homecare agreement with British Gas. When he bought a new boiler it came with 
a five-year warranty. And his monthly charge was reduced from £18 to £6. But Mr B received 
a letter saying he had to renew the policy even though itd increased considerably in price. 
Thats not what he agreed to. 
Mr B says he now has to pay for cover for something that has a five-year warranty. So he 
wants British Gas to return his monthly charge to £6.11 as originally agreed for the duration 
of his warranty period. And he wants compensation for being misled.
British Gas said the warranty provided cover for repairs to Mr Bs central heating system, 
including his new boiler, for the first year. But after the first year the warranty only covered 
repairs to the boiler. So Mr B had added additional cover to his warranty for his central 
heating. And that was why the premium had increased.
Mr B wasnt satisfied with British Gas response. So he contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. She could see Mr Bs premiums had decreased when 
hed bought the new boiler. But to continue the warranty Mr B would need to renew with 
British Gas and have the boiler serviced each year.
Our investigator could see Mr B had added additional cover for his central heating when he 
renewed the policy. And that was why the premium had increased. So she couldnt ask 
British Gas to refund the difference. Mr B had benefitted from the additional cover. His 
previous years renewal was only lower because hed had additional cover under the 
warranty for the first year. So she couldnt say British Gas had made an error on the 
premiums itd charged Mr B. And she wouldnt ask it to do anything further.
Mr B didnt agree. So hes asked for an ombudsmans final decision. Hed only agreed to the 
new policy on the understanding that the underlying cover was the same. He had a new 
boiler still under warranty. And hed asked British Gas to put things back to how theyd been. 
But thered clearly been some miscommunication. He didnt want the additional central 
heating cover.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr B has been through. There seems to have been 
some confusion or miscommunication about the cover provided by Mr Bs homecare policy. 
So Ive looked very carefully at everything thats happened to see if British Gas has done 
anything wrong  and if so what it needs to do to put things right.
When Mr B bought a new boiler it came with a five-year warranty. And Mr Bs homecare 
premiums were reduced because repairs to the boiler were now free of charge for five years. 
The warranty also included free cover for repairs to the rest of the central heating system for 
the first year of the warranty. But after the first year only the boiler would continue to be 
covered by the warranty.
This meant Mr Bs premiums added up to just under £80 for the first year. He was paying 
nothing for the boiler and central heating cover, and around £80 for plumbing and drains 
cover and home electrical cover.
Mr B was surprised when his premium increased to over £200 the following year. He had to 
renew the policy and carry out an annual service to maintain the warranty. But hed expected 
the premium to stay the same.
The renewal letter British Gas sent to Mr B explained that, as the first year had now ended, 
only the boiler was still covered by the five-year warranty. The central heating was no longer 
covered. And the low renewal premium was only for the cost of the plumbing and electrical 
cover.
Although the central heating care had been included free of charge for the first year after the 
new boiler installation, it wasnt available free of charge for the second year onwards. So 
British Gas offered to carry out the annual boiler service for a cost of £6.50 per month, or to 
cover any repairs to his central heating system, and to include a boiler service, for £14 per 
month.
I understand Mr B contacted British Gas to discuss the cover and a top-up was added to 
include the central heating care. This was important as it maintained the cover for all of 
Mr Bs central heating system  not just the new boiler. And it also included an annual 
service which needed to take place to maintain the warranty on the new boiler. 
British Gas sent Mr B an updated renewal letter with the additional central heating care at a 
cost of £130 including the annual service. This increased the annual premium to just over 
£208.
I do appreciate how frustrating this has been for Mr B. But I think the renewal letter did make 
it clear the free central heating cover was coming to an end. And to maintain the warranty on 
his new boiler, Mr B would have to either pay for an annual service or add central heating 
care to protect his entire heating system. After Mr B spoke to British Gas the updated 
confirmation letter showed the level of cover now provided and the updated premium to 
reflect this.
I know Mr B wanted to maintain the same level of cover at the same cost. But the premium 
reduced when he bought the new boiler because the warranty provided free cover for both 
the new boiler (for five years) and for his central heating system (for one year only).
In the second year Mr B still wasnt paying for any cover for his new boiler  and thats right 
as it was still under warranty. But to cover the rest of his central heating system Mr B would 
have to take out additional cover through his homecare policy. And British Gas was entitled 
to determine an appropriate level of premium for that cover once it was no longer included 
free of charge in the warranty. Ive not seen anything to suggest British Gas has made a mistake in the level of premiums 
its charged. Its provided cover for Mr Bs central heating system in case of any breakdown 
under the terms of the homecare policy. And the additional premium included the cost of the 
annual service Mr B needed to maintain the boiler warranty.
Mr B says he spoke to British Gas and asked them to remove the central heating cover. But 
Ive looked at its system notes and I cant see any record of Mr B doing so. Unfortunately I 
cant confirm exactly what was said between the two parties. But British Gas are happy to 
alter Mr Bs cover if he wishes.
I know Mr B will be disappointed with this outcome. But I cant say British Gas has acted 
unfairly. Mr B still enjoys a free warranty for his new boiler. But the free cover for the rest of 
his central heating system has now ended. Ive not seen anything to suggest British Gas has 
made any errors when calculating the premiums for the level of cover its continued to 
provide to Mr B. So I cant uphold this complaint and I wont be asking British Gas to refund 
any premiums.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2021.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman