DRN-3341720
The complaint
Mrs S complains that the death benefit amount she received from her late husbands Self-
Employed Personal Pension, which hed held with Phoenix Life Limited (Phoenix), was less 
than she was originally told she would get. She feels she should get the amount as at the 
date she notified Phoenix of her husbands death.
What happened
Mrs Ss husband had a Self-Employed Personal Pension with Phoenix. This had started on 
17 June 1997.
Mrs Ss husbands retirement age on his pension was his 65th birthday, which he sadly 
hadnt reached at the time of his death on 1 April 2020. 
I understand that Phoenix, who were at this point unaware of his death, wrote to Mr S in a 
letter dated 18 June 2021. This letter showed that the death benefit  assuming that Mr S 
was still alive - was £60,588.32. 
Mrs S notified Phoenix of her husbands death on 23 June 2021. She felt she would receive 
the £60,588.32 death benefit the recent letter had stated. 
Mrs S provided the information Phoenix required for her death benefits claim. And on 29 July 
2021 Phoenix sent her a Claimants Statement. This stated that the death benefit she would 
receive was £57,644.04. This figure wasnt correct, as it was based on a date of death of 1
April 2021, not 1 April 2020.
After Mrs S had completed and returned all of the necessary claim paperwork, Phoenix sent 
her a cheque for £43,928.45 on 13 August 2021. 
Mrs S was shocked by this amount. Shed been expecting a much higher figure based on 
the numbers Phoenix had quoted to her previously. So she called Phoenix on 18 August 
2021 to ask it for an explanation. 
Phoenix told Mrs S that itd quoted an incorrect figure in its letter of 29 July 2021. It said itd 
based the figure on the wrong year of death. 
Mrs S complained to Phoenix. She made the following complaint points:
She was unhappy that Phoenix had paid out a much lower sum than itd quoted in its 
29 July 2021 letter and in the annual statement that was issued on 18 June 2021. 
She wanted to see how the death benefit value had been calculated. 
She also felt that the fund performance in the pension had been poor.
Phoenix issued a final response letter to Mrs S on 8 October 2021. It upheld the complaint 
as it acknowledged it had quoted an incorrect value in its letter dated 29 July 2021. And 
offered Mrs S £300 for the trouble and upset this had caused.
Phoenix told Mrs S how itd calculated the death benefit value it had paid her, as follows:
The death claim value was calculated with an effective date of 1 April 2020 (date of death) 
as follows:
FUND UNITS BID PRICE VALUE
Managed 405.185 £49.602 £20,097.98
International 1961.378 £12.112 £23,756.21
   Total £43,854.19
It said it had then added interest of £74.26 before it had arrived at the total paid of 
£43,928.45.
Phoenix also explained that the £57,644.04 it had quoted in its 29 July 2021 letter had been 
calculated incorrectly using unit prices on 1 April 2021, which had been higher than those on 
the actual date of death of 1 April 2020. It provided full details of the calculations it had used 
to arrive at that figure. It also told Mrs S that the value of £60,558.32 thatd been quoted in 
the annual statement had been calculated on 16 June 2021, when unit prices had been even 
higher than on 1 April 2021.
In respect of Mrs Ss performance complaint, Phoenix said that the investment values 
werent guaranteed and depended on investment performance. It said this was directly 
linked to the underlying investments held. 
I understand that Mrs S chose not to accept the £300 compensation Phoenix had offered for 
the trouble and upset its error had caused. And decided to bring her complaint to this 
service. Mrs S said she wasnt happy with Phoenixs offer and felt that it had benefitted from 
her late husbands pension.
Our investigator didnt consider that the complaint should be upheld. She acknowledged that 
it wouldve been a shock for Mrs S to receive £43,928.45 instead of £57,644.04. But said 
that Phoenix had acted and paid the death benefit in line with the terms and conditions. So 
didnt consider it was unreasonable for them to have paid the correct lower amount. She said 
that while we couldnt fairly ask Phoenix to honour the incorrect figure itd provided, we 
would expect it to compensate Mrs S for the inconvenience its error caused her. And felt that 
the £300 Phoenix had offered was reasonable.
Mrs S didnt agree with our investigator. She said that whenever Phoenix sent a statement, it 
would provide a range of organisations that could help consumers answer any questions. 
She said shed gone through these last year and it had stated that if a pension plan holder 
died before they reached retirement the money in the pension will continue to grow tax-free 
as long as it stays invested.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a final review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I consider that although Phoenix made a mistake when it quoted an incorrect death benefit value based on the incorrect year of death, it took 
reasonable steps to put things right. I know this will be disappointing to Mrs S. Ill explain the 
reasons for my decision.
Before I start, Id like to say to Mrs S that Im very sorry for her loss. 
Mrs S was only able to notify Phoenix of her husbands death in July 2021, but hed passed 
away on 1 April 2020. She feels that as his pension had continued to be invested over this 
period, she should benefit from the growth. Otherwise, she feels that Phoenix has benefitted 
from her husbands pension.
Phoenix said it paid the death benefit based on the value of the pension at the date of Mrs 
Ss husbands death. It said this was in line with clause 12 of the policy conditions, which 
state that the date of death should be used, with interest - calculated in line with the growth 
in its Security Fund between the two dates - added up to the date it is issued.
Phoenix acknowledged it had made an error when it incorrectly based the death benefit 
quoted in its 29 July 2021 on a year of death of 2021, when Mrs S reported the death, rather 
than 2020. It also said it shouldve told Mrs S about the lower amount it was going to pay her 
before it sent her the cheque.
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions of Mrs Ss husbands pension. Clause 12, which 
Phoenix referred to earlier, explains how death benefits are paid as follows:
In the event of the death of the Policyholder before a personal pension becomes payable 
under clause 10the value of any Benefit Fund at the date of death will be determined and 
made available to provide death benefits...
As Mr S hadnt reached his policy retirement age of 65 before his death, the terms require 
the death benefit value to be calculated at the date of death. This is what Phoenix has done. 
I acknowledge that Mrs S considers that Phoenix shouldnt benefit from her husbands 
policy. While I understand why she feels this way, I dont agree. I say this because the policy 
terms required Phoenix to pay out the death benefit calculated at the date of death. Had Mr 
Ss pension fallen in value between the date of his death and the date Mrs S notified 
Phoenix of his passing, Phoenix wouldve still been required to pay the death benefit value at 
the date of death, plus the interest it outlined. Phoenix effectively took all the investment risk 
in the period between the date of death and the date of notification. From what Ive seen, the 
correct benefit was paid out in line with the policy terms. Therefore I dont consider that 
Phoenix did anything wrong here.
I also acknowledge that Mrs S wouldve had both a shock and a disappointment when she 
received a much lower death benefit value than she couldve reasonably expected based on 
the 29 July 2021 letter. 
Phoenix has accepted that it made an error, apologised and offered £300 compensation for 
the trouble and upset it caused. I consider that the error did cause a significant loss in 
expectation for Mrs S for a period of two weeks. And it wouldve been extremely 
disappointing to find out that the actual death benefit was much lower than Mrs S had been 
expecting. But Phoenix has, in the end, paid out the correct amount of death benefit. And it 
has apologised, explained how the values had been calculated, and offered £300 for the 
trouble and upset the error caused. In my view, Phoenix has taken reasonable steps to put 
things right after making its error.
I understand why Mrs S felt that the annual statement she received in June 2021 had also offered her a much higher death benefit of £60,558.32. But I dont consider that Phoenix 
made an error here. I say this because this statement had been produced for Mr S. Phoenix 
hadnt yet been notified that hed passed away. So it had sent him his usual annual 
statement, which showed what his death benefit might be, assuming hed remained invested 
since 1 April 2020. Unfortunately, under the terms of the policy, he effectively hadnt been 
invested since that date.
I also acknowledge what Mrs S told this service about the information Phoenix had sent with 
its statements. And that shed seen it stated that if a pension plan holder died before they 
reached retirement the money in the pension will continue to grow tax-free as long as it 
stays invested. 
Mrs S hasnt provided this service with a copy of the document that included this statement. 
But it is certainly true that under the current tax regime, pensions do grow tax-free. And that 
they will grow (or reduce) in value if they remain invested. But Phoenixs policy terms require 
that the pension is effectively disinvested at the point the policyholder dies. Instead, the 
remaining pension fund has its value linked to the growth on Phoenixs Security Fund. 
Therefore this doesnt change my decision.
Based on what Ive seen, Phoenix has paid out the correct death benefit value, in line with its 
terms and conditions. It has acknowledged that it made an error in its July 2021 letter to Mrs 
S. And offered £300 compensation for the trouble and upset this caused her. I consider that 
this is reasonable under the circumstances. So I wont be asking Phoenix to do anything 
more. And I dont uphold the complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman