DRN-3491922
The complaint
Mr K complains about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) for delay and poor 
communication in its handling of his claim, and its decision to decline the claim and avoid his 
policy. He wants RSA to reinstate his policy and consider his claim, and to increase its offer 
of compensation. 
What happened
Mr K lives in a large, listed building. 
In September 2019, Mr K carried out a search for home insurance, using an aggregator 
website. 
The site asked Mr K to confirm the number of bedrooms at his home. Mr K answered that 
there were 6 bedrooms. He also detailed that the property had 3 bathrooms, and 3 rooms 
described as living, dining and other rooms (excluding utility/laundry rooms, conservatories 
and hallways). 
The site presented a range of policies which appeared to meet Mr Ks needs and he 
selected a policy underwritten by RSA. 
His policy commenced that month. 
In February 2020, extreme winds hit Mr Ks property and brought down a long external wall. 
This caused substantial damage to Mr Ks neighbouring properties and their gardens.
Mr K submitted a claim to RSA. 
RSA sent out numerous surveyors to consider the damage. Mr K was in regular contact with 
RSA continually seeking to advance his claim and this initially appeared to be being 
addressed. 
In November 2020, RSA wrote to Mr K declining his claim and also advising that it intended 
to avoid his policy back to inception. This was because his property was substantially larger 
than the application had described, and RSA considered that Mr K had carelessly 
misrepresented the property details when obtaining cover. RSA indicated that it was willing 
to refund his premiums back to him, and that he would need to declare in future that he had 
had a policy avoided. 
Mr K complained to RSA. He felt that RSA had taken too long to consider his claim and that 
it had acted unfairly in declining and avoiding the policy. Mr K stressed that only 5/6 of the 
rooms in his home were used as bedrooms and he did not think that it was relevant as the 
wall impacted by the storm was an external wall. 
RSA responded and upheld Mr Ks complaint about delays and poor communication in the 
processing of the claim. RSA offered him £500 compensation to reflect this. 
Mr K was not happy with this and contacted us. 
Our investigator has looked into this matter and set out her view to the parties. This was that 
RSA had acted fairly in declining the claim and avoiding the policy as the house details had 
been misrepresented to it. She considered that RSA had acted reasonably in its 
consideration of the complaint about delays and poor communication and that the offer RSA 
had made was in line with awards we would make in similar circumstances. She therefore 
did not ask RSA to do anything further. 
Mr K did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Ks upset in this matter. It is clear that the collapse of his wall, and the 
subsequent delay in its repair, has placed strain on Mr K and his relationships with his 
neighbours. I appreciate why he has wanted this matter to be dealt with more quickly. 
I do, however, agree with my colleagues conclusions that RSA has acted fairly and 
reasonably in this matter. 
To deal firstly with the decision to decline the claim and avoid the policy, my colleague has 
previously explained the legislation which governs misrepresentation and how that has been 
applied here. I do not intend to repeat this in total, but in essence it explains that where a 
consumer has made a qualifying misrepresentation and the business would not have offered 
cover if it had known the correct information, then the insurer is allowed to avoid the policy. 
Mr K has said he does not believe he made a misrepresentation to RSA because the 
question asked of him did not make clear that it required all rooms which had been originally 
designed as bedrooms. RSA provided a screenshot of the question asked by the aggregator 
which included a text box explaining that the consumer must include rooms which were 
designed for sleeping in, even if they are now used for other purposes. 
Mr K has provided his own copy of the information he input, which answers the bedrooms 
question as 6, but there is no additional explanation shown. 
I have therefore considered whether this makes a material difference to whether the 
question asked by RSA was clear (and consequently whether it can treat the information as 
a qualifying misrepresentation allowing it to avoid the policy). I have no reason to doubt Mr K 
that what he saw when completing the application did not immediately present the 
explanation. It may be that he had to click on a link to see the information expanded, or it 
may not have been present at all. 
I do not think that this is material to RSAs decision. Relying on Mr Ks version of the 
completed information it is clear that the questions being asked are to allow the business to 
form a view about the size and risk of the property. 
Mr Ks house is very substantial and, when previously sold, was described as having 
between 5 and 12 bedrooms. Mr K detailed 6 bedrooms in the application. 
The aggregators next question asked Mr K how many other rooms (excluding utility, 
laundry, conservatories and hallways) and he answered that there were 3 other rooms. 
He also answered that there were 3 bathrooms, but in a subsequent document has 
described 3 bathrooms, a shower room and a small cloakroom with a WC. The sale particulars detail 5 bathrooms. 
It is clear that the questions are seeking to ascertain the size of the property, and number of 
bedrooms is a common way of describing a house size. Looking holistically at the answers 
Mr K gave, these give an impression of a far less substantial property than his property is.  
Mr K has said that a number of these additional rooms were used as storage rooms, but I 
cannot see that they were disclosed, even as other rooms, despite making up around half 
of the building. 
RSA has demonstrated to us that the policy it offered Mr K was limited to houses with 6 
bedrooms or fewer, and I am satisfied that it would not have offered the policy to Mr K had it 
known the extent of the property. 
On that basis, I agree with the investigator and think that RSAs ultimate decision to decline 
the claim and avoid the policy was fair and was in line with the legislation. I note that RSA 
has offered to refund Mr Ks premiums, again in line with the legislation provisions. 
Looking then at the delay and poor communications aspect of Mr Ks complaint. RSA has 
acknowledged that there were delays, and that there were more visits than there ought to 
have been. RSA has explained that some of these visits were due to the fact that the 
contractors instructed had limited authority. This appears to have been because the policy, 
and consequently the contractors agreements, were designed or anticipated for much 
smaller properties. I therefore have taken into account that Mr K contributed to some of 
these repeat visits being required by his representations about the size of the house. 
That said, RSA has acknowledged that some visits ought to have been avoided, and I agree 
that RSA ought to have reached its decision to decline the claim in a shorter time than 9 
months. 
I therefore agree that RSA failed to deal with the claim in a timely manner and that this had 
an impact on Mr K. 
I have considered our guidance and I agree that Mr K was given the impression that his 
claim was going somewhere by the delay. I think this has caused him to delay in otherwise 
resolving the wall damage privately, and it has added to tensions with his neighbours. 
I agree with the investigators view that in similar situations we would make an award of up 
to £500. RSA offered this in response to the complaint and I think that this offer is 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
I therefore would not ask RSA to do anything further and I do not uphold Mr Ks complaint. I 
realise that this will be disappointing to Mr K, but I hope it explains clearly my reasons for 
reaching it.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold Mr Ks complaint and I do not ask Royal & Sun 
Alliance Insurance Plc to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Laura Garvin-SmithOmbudsman