DRN-3223816
The complaint
Miss A has complained about the cash settlement U K Insurance Limited made to her when 
she made a claim under her home and buildings insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss A made a claim under her home and buildings insurance policy in July 2020 following 
an escape of water. 
In October 2020 UKI paid a cash settlement to Miss A. When asking us to look at other 
complaints against UKI, Miss A said she was unhappy with the cash settlement and said UKI 
hadnt properly explained it. She said it wasnt enough to put things right in her home. 
In August 2021 UKI responded to Miss As complaint and didnt uphold it. UKI said is 
decision not to install drying equipment in Miss As home was correct. It said the cash 
settlement it paid was in line with the scope of works provided by the LA and was what it 
would cost UKI to settle the claim if it used its own suppliers. So UKI said it had acted 
correctly and in line with the policy. 
Unhappy with its response, Miss A asked us to look at her complaint. Our investigator 
thought UKI has reasonably settled the claim by way of a cash settlement  based on what it 
would have cost its supplier  and that the amount included the costs of drying out Miss As 
home. 
The investigator thought the drying out costs could have been made sooner. But as a 
number of contents in Miss As home hadnt been moved to allow for the drying to take 
place, he didnt think UKI should pay any more. He found UKI had met the quote provided 
for storage. But he thought UKI should reconsider whether the drying out time and 
appointing a contractor would affect the lead in time for the works over and above the six 
week estimate given. 
As the LA didnt find the carpet next to the kitchen had been damaged by the escape of 
water, the investigator thought UKI had reasonably declined this part of Miss As claim. 
Miss A complained that power tools had been damaged under the claim  but the 
investigator found Miss A didnt raise this until June 2021  over a year after the damage 
occurred. And so he thought too much time had elapsed to enable UKI to fairly consider this 
part of Miss As claim. And the LA said due to where the escape of water occurred,  
electrical items being claimed for wouldnt have been impacted as they were well above 
ground level. 
The investigator thought the alternative accommodation timeframe of six weeks didnt 
include any lead in time for drying out and builders to start work once appointed by Miss A. 
He thought UKI should look at whether it would take its approved contractors time beyond 
the drying period to arrange repairs. And if so, he thought UKI should consider increasing 
the rent and council tax payments it had already paid accordingly.
The investigator thought UKI should consider where Miss As pets would need to be kept 
during repairs  as they were being housed in indoor hutches in her living room. 
UKI accepted the investigators view .
Miss A didnt agree. She says UKI agreed to cover the costs of boarding her pets. And she 
says it agreed to cover the costs to replace her kitchen. She says the settlement UKI paid 
isnt enough. Miss A says she told UKI that tools and white goods in her property had been 
damaged as a result of the claim but she hasnt been reimbursed. So she wants an 
ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss As policy with UKI says the following:
Alternative accommodation kennel fees and lost rent
We will pay up to £50,000, in total, for alternative accommodation for you and kennel 
fees for your pets, and lost rent, if:
 your home is uninhabitable while it is being repaired, due to a valid claim you have 
made under Section 1
 your home is occupied by squatters.
Alternative accommodation where appropriate will be reflective of the individuals 
needs. Each claim will be reviewed taking into account the duration, location and 
occupancy and will continue for the shortest amount of time necessary to restore 
your home to a habitable condition.
Please note we may not pay for costs you incur without our prior agreement.
Ive looked at the LAs report following their visit to Miss As property in September 2020. 
Miss A had moved out to her late fathers accommodation. The LA found the property to be 
habitable in relation to the water damage, but there was a large amount of contents in the 
home which meant it was difficult to access the facilities in the kitchen. The LA provided 
photos of the property to support their view.
The LA provided a scope of works for repairs to the kitchen. They didnt agree that damage 
to the carpet next to the kitchen was caused by the escape of water, but from mud being 
walked over it and wear and tear. So UKI didnt include replacement carpet costs in the 
settlement. Having viewed the photos, I think this was reasonable. 
The LA provided a quote which included drying out costs  and to provide matching upper 
kitchen units  even though Miss As policy doesnt provide cover for matching sets. The LA 
also provided a quote for storage costs while repairs are carried out along with the cost of 
alternative accommodation based on hotel rates with a meal allowance. So these sums were 
included in the cash settlement UKI paid to Miss A in November 2020.
Miss A continued to live in her late fathers home as she said her property was 
uninhabitable. I understand Miss A says the settlement amount isnt enough. She says the 
quotes she provided for a replacement kitchen were similar to the one she currently has and arent excessive. And she says she hasnt been reimbursed for her white goods and tools 
which she says were damaged. 
But I havent seen anything to show that UKI has acted unreasonably. The policy says that 
UKI can decide to settle a claim by way of a cash payment. Where it does this, UKI is 
entitled to pay what it would have cost it to use its suppliers. This means the amount Miss A 
receives might be lower than the costs charged when using her preferred suppliers.
Miss A didnt raise the issue of damaged tools caused by the escape of water until over a 
year after she reported it to UKI. So I dont think it unreasonable for UKI not to consider this 
part of her claim. And the LA found that the white goods couldnt have been impacted by the 
escape of water as they were all well above the ground level of water. I havent seen 
anything to contradict the LAs findings. 
In relation to covering the costs of alternative accommodation for the duration of repairs, Ive 
reached the same outcome as the investigator. I think UKI should consider if any lead time 
for drying out and arranging a contractor would make a difference to the settlement its 
already paid. I cant see that this was taken into consideration within the LAs scope of 
works. And I think UKI should consider whether a further cash settlement or reimbursement 
for accommodating Miss As pets for the duration of repairs is due, which UKI accepts. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require U K Insurance Limited to consider if any lead time for drying out and arranging a 
contractor would make a difference to the cash settlement its already paid for the claim. UKI 
should consider whether any further payment or reimbursement is due  taking into 
consideration Miss As pets  for the duration of repairs. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 January 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman