DRN-1814656
Complaint
Mr H has complained about high-cost short-term credit instalment loans he took out with 
Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream). He says Lending Stream shouldnt have lent 
to him as the loans were unaffordable.
Background
Lending Stream provided Mr H with a total of five loans. The first of them was taken in 
January 2016 and the last of them was taken in May 2016.
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr H and Lending Stream had told us. And she 
thought that Lending Stream hadnt treated Mr H unfairly and so didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr H disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about short term lending on our website. And Ive used this approach to help me 
decide Mr Hs complaint. 
Mr H was provided with high-interest loans, intended for short-term use. So Lending Stream 
needed to make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
that Lending Stream needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether any lending was sustainable for Mr H before providing it.
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the 
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with, Im not upholding Mr Hs 
complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
Lending Stream says it agreed to Mr Hs applications after hed provided details of his 
monthly income and expenditure. It says the information Mr H provided on his income and 
expenditure showed that hed be able to comfortably make the repayments he was 
committing to. And in these circumstances it was reasonable to lend. 
Ive carefully thought about what Mr H and Lending Stream have said. The first thing for me 
to say is that these loans were Mr Hs first loans with Lending Stream and they were taken 
over a period which was less than the term for Mr Hs first loan. So Mr H was only indebted to Lending Stream for a short periods. And I dont think that there was any established 
pattern in Mr Hs borrowing needs at this stage.
The information provided does suggest that Mr H was asked to provide details of his income 
and expenditure. Bearing in mind the amount of the monthly repayment, the questions 
Lending Stream asked Mr H and these were Mr Hs first loans, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Lending Stream to rely on the information Mr H was providing.
I accept that Mr Hs actual circumstances may not have been reflected either in the 
information he provided, or the other information Lending Stream obtained. And Im sorry to 
hear that Mr H was struggling financially and that he found it difficult to repay loan two. But 
Lending Stream could only make its decision based on the information it had available at the 
time. And, at this stage of the lending relationship, I dont think proportionate checks 
wouldve extended into Lending Stream asking Mr H to evidence what he was declaring.  
Equally it's only really fair for me to uphold a complaint where I can safely say a lender did 
something wrong. And, in this case, I dont think that Lending Stream did anything wrong in 
deciding to lend to Mr H - it carried out reasonable checks even though its looks like the 
information it mightve been provided with was inaccurate. 
Lending Stream reasonably relied on the information provided with and given the amount of 
the repayments involved and the overall circumstances of Mr Hs loan history, I dont think it 
was unreasonable for Lending Stream to lend  especially as there wasnt anything obvious, 
in the information it had, to suggest Mr H wouldnt be able to sustainably repay these loans.
So overall I think the checks Lending Stream carried out were unreasonable. As this is the 
case, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint. I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for 
Mr H. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel his 
concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman