DRN-4055668
The complaint
Mr H complains through a representative that Western Circle Ltd trading as Cashfloat 
(Western Circle) gave him a loan without carrying out the appropriate affordability checks. 
 
What happened
Mr H was advanced one loan of £500 on 2 November 2021. Mr H was due to make two 
monthly payments of £248.25 with a final payment due in January 2022 of £248.30. Mr H 
repaid his loan early on 30 November 2021. 
In response to Mr Hs representatives complaint, Western Circle sent a final response letter. 
Western Circle didnt uphold the complaint because it said it was entitled to rely on the 
income and expenditure Mr H provided which showed the loans were affordable. However, 
as a gesture of goodwill it did offer Mr H a one-off payment of £50. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr Hs representative referred the complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman. 
The complaint was then considered by an adjudicator. She concluded Western Circle had 
made a reasonable decision to lend the loan because it carried out a proportionate check 
which showed Western Circle Mr H would be able to afford the repayments. She also 
explained that Western Circle had revoked its goodwill offer in the final response letter. 
Mr Hs representative didnt agree and provided copies of Mr Hs bank statements. The 
adjudicator responded to say, these hadnt changed her mind about the complaint because 
she didnt think Western Circle needed to have considered his bank statements. Unhappy, 
the representative asked for an ombudsmans decision 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Western Circle had to assess the lending to check if Mr H could afford to pay back the 
amount hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Western Circles checks could have taken into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, 
and Mr Hs income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Western Circle should 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr H. These factors 
include:
Mr H having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr H having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr H coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr H. The adjudicator considered this 
didnt apply to Mr Hs complaint.  
Western Circle was required to establish whether Mr H could sustainably repay the loan  
not just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr H was able to repay 
his loan sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Hs complaint and Ive decided to not uphold his 
complaint and Ive explained why.   
Before the loan was approved, Western Circle took details of Mr Hs income and 
expenditure. Western Circle recorded that Mr H worked full time and received a monthly 
salary of £2,050. Western Circle also asked and received a copy of Mr Hs wage slip which 
showed the income he had declared was accurate.  
Western Circle also made enquiries about his living costs, which Mr H declared to be £475 
per month. These costs related to food, other credit commitments and utilities. 
Western Circle says these costs were tested and were subject to comparison to figures 
used by a well-known debt advice charity and it also considered Mr Hs job, location and 
homeowner status for example. Where Western Circle considered the expenses figures 
declared to be too low it increased them in line with the data that it uses. In Mr Hs case, it 
considered monthly outgoings of £1,620 to be more appropriate and it was this figure that 
was used to carry out the affordability assessment. 
Whether Western Circle used the expenditure figure declared by Mr H or the one calculated 
by Western Circle the result is the same  Mr H had sufficient disposable income to afford 
the loan repayments. 
Western Circle also says Mr Hs application scored very highly on our proprietary credit 
scorecard algorithm. Western Circle used the data it was given to create an internal credit 
score for Mr H  this was sufficient for it to have granted the loan. Given, what Ive seen and been told, I dont think the information Western Circle was given indicated Mr H was in 
financial difficulties. 
There was also nothing else in the information that Ive seen that wouldve led 
Western Circle to believe that it needed to go further with its checks  such as verifying the 
information Mr H had provided. So, I dont think it wouldve been reasonable for 
Western Circle to have reviewed his bank statements before granting this loan.  
It was early on in this lending relationship, I think it was reasonable for Western Circle to 
have relied on the information Mr H provided along with the checks that it carried out which 
showed he had sufficient disposable income to afford the repayments he was committed to 
making. So, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint about the loan.
My final decision
So, for the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman