DRN-1848306
The complaint
Miss R says Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
This complaint is about three instalment loans Lending Stream provided to Miss R between 
April and June 2019. All the loans were repayable in six monthly instalments. Loan 3 has not 
been repaid. This is a summary of Miss Rs lending history from Lending Stream. 
Loan Taken out RepaidAmount, 
£
1 08/04/2019 24/05/2019 300
2 28/04/2019 24/05/2019 1000
3 01/06/2019 - 1250
The adjudicator didnt think Lending Stream was wrong to give Miss R any of the loans. 
Miss R disagreed saying she had been treated unfairly. She sent in a copy of her credit file 
and said this showed her mixed history of borrowing. She also said that Lending Stream 
didnt help her when she contacted it about problems repaying the third loan, and the 
amount of interest is excessive and abusive in her circumstances. So the complaint was 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Miss R could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether Miss R could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Rs complaint. 
Lending Stream has explained the checks it carried out before agreeing to lend. It asked 
about Miss Rs income and expenditure, including any other credit commitments. It checked 
the income she declared against third party data sources, and for loan 3 it increased her 
stated expenses after checking them against third party data sources. It also carried out a 
credit check for each loan but has been unable to share the results. In summary, it says its 
checks showed each loan to be affordable for Miss R. 
I think Lending Stream completed proportionate checks for the first loan. And I dont think 
there was anything in the information it gathered, that it has shared, that should have led it to 
make a different lending decision. So I dont think Lending Stream was wrong to give loan 1 
to Miss R.
But when Miss R applied for her second loan - given the significant increase in loan value, 
the term of the loan and as loan one was still outstanding - I think Lending Stream should 
have completed a fuller financial review. We asked Miss R for copies of her bank statements 
from this time and her credit file, to understand what better checks would have shown 
Lending Stream. She provided a copy of her full credit file, but no bank statements. So Ive 
looked carefully at the additional information we have been provided with to see what better 
checks would have shown. 
And having done so, I cant say from the available evidence that better checks would have 
led Lending Stream to decide not to lend to Miss R at that time.  Miss R says she didnt have 
a strong borrowing history. I can see that she had defaulted on a number of accounts, but 
the majority of her defaults (except two in mid-2018) were in mid-2016 so I think its 
reasonable for the lender to have thought her finances had stabilised, and not declined her 
application for that reason. She had borrowed and repaid other credit on time during 2017. Miss R also points to her low credit score but given the nature of the product its not 
unreasonable for a lender to accept applicants with this kind of profile. She had no other 
active short-term loans, that I can see on her file, when she applied for loan 2. 
For loan 3 I again think Lending Stream should have carried out a fuller financial review 
given the loan value and term, but from what Ive seen I dont think this would have led to a 
different lending decision. In addition to the points made above about Miss Rs credit score 
and borrowing history, I can see that at the time she applied for loan 3 she had one other 
active short-term loan, but I dont think this in itself was reason enough for Lending Stream 
not to proceed. So overall, based on the available evidence, I cant fairly conclude Lending 
Stream was wrong to give Miss R loans 2 and 3.
Miss R is also unhappy about how Lending Stream has treated her following her problems 
repaying loan 3. She references earlier phone calls, but I can see Miss R emailed Lending 
Stream in October 2019 saying she was in financial difficulties and could only repay the 
capital owing. Lending Stream replied offering a 10% discount on the total outstanding 
balance or the option to set up a payment arrangement following a review of her income and 
expenditure. At this stage Miss R brought her complaint to this service. 
In such circumstances Lending Stream needed to meet its obligations under the relevant 
regulations which are in CONC 7.3 and say:
A firm must treat customers in default or in arrears difficulties with forbearance and due 
consideration (CONC 7.3.4)
Examples of treating a customer with forbearance would include the firm doing one or more of 
the following, as may be relevant in the circumstances:
(1) considering suspending, reducing, waiving or cancelling any further interest or 
charges (for example, when a customer provides evidence of financial difficulties and 
is unable to meet repayments as they fall due or is only able to make token 
repayments, where in either case the level of debt would continue to rise if interest 
and charges continue to be applied); 
(2) allowing deferment of payment of arrears:
(a) where immediate payment of arrears may increase the customer's 
repayments to an unsustainable level; or 
(b) provided that doing so does not make the term for the repayments 
unreasonably excessive;
(3) accepting token payments for a reasonable period of time in order to allow a 
customer to recover from an unexpected income shock, from a customer who 
demonstrates that meeting the customer's existing debts would mean not being able 
to meet the customer's priority debts or other essential living expenses (such as in 
relation to a mortgage, rent, council tax, food bills and utility bills). (CONC 7.3.5)
And Miss R needed to provide evidence of her financial difficulties  something that I cannot 
see she has done. I note Lending Stream requested updated income and expenditure details 
in its email of 24 October 2019. 
As Miss R will see from the regulations above, she doesnt have an automatic right to 
request that all interest be waived. She has said the interest is excessive, but it is line with 
the terms of her agreement. It may be Lending Stream will amend the interest owing once it 
has her up-to-date income and expenditure information. But I cant at this stage say the 
lender has treated her unfairly, nor do I think it is appropriate for me to order it waive or 
reduce the interest owing. It has offered the option of a reduced repayment plan. If the 
parties fail to agree a settlement plan Miss R can of course raise a new complaint and bring 
that to this service, if she is unhappy with the lenders response. If Lending Stream has sold the debt it should it should buy it back if it is able to do so. If it is not able to buy the debt 
back, then it should liaise with the new debt owner to ensure a fair and affordable settlement 
plan is agreed for Miss R.
 
My final decision
My decision is I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman