DRN-4301438
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as M, is unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest) didnt honour the terms of its Bounce Back Loan (BBL).
Ms complaint is brought to this service by its director, whom Ill refer to as Mr K.
What happened
On 2 June 2020, Mr K successfully applied to NatWest for a £40,000 BBL on Ms behalf, and 
M received the loan funds shortly thereafter. The BBL scheme included that Mr K was 
responsible for self-attesting that M met the scheme criteria to be eligible to receive the BBL 
it was applying for. And the terms of the loan included that M would be required to begin 
making monthly payments towards the BBL from July 2021 onwards.
In June 2021, shortly before the monthly payments were due to commence, Mr K applied for 
a repayment holiday under the Pay As You Grow (PAYG) payment deferment options 
which had recently been made available for BBL account holders. This meant that Ms 
responsibility to begin making payments towards the loan was deferred until January 2022.
Sometime later, Mr K applied to NatWest for a further PAYG payment deferral plan for M, 
but he was told by NatWest that this option wasnt available for M. Mr K wasnt happy about 
this and felt that the terms of the BBL included that account holders could benefit from up to 
five PAYG plans, and that therefore NatWest werent abiding by the terms of the loan. And 
Mr K also wasnt happy that NatWest moved Ms BBL to their collections and recoveries 
department and later defaulted the loan. So, he raised a complaint.
NatWest responded to Mr K and explained that M hadnt made any payments towards the 
BBL when its responsibility to do so had begun in January 2022. NatWest also confirmed 
that theyd attempted to contact Mr K about this on several occasions over the following 
months. And because Mr K hadnt responded to those communications, and because M had 
continued to miss payments contractually obliged of it by the BBL terms, Ms BBL had 
eventually been defaulted. Mr K wasnt satisfied with NatWests response, so he referred Ms 
complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel NatWest had done 
anything wrong in how theyd managed the situation. And they noted that Mr K appeared not 
to have contacted NatWest to request a further PAYG plan until after Ms BBL had been 
defaulted by NatWest  at which time, such PAYG options werent available to it. Mr K 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. Instead, this service is an informal, impartial 
dispute resolution service. And while we do take relevant law and regulation into account 
when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed on determining whether we feel a fair or 
unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial perspective, after taking all the factors and 
circumstances of a complaint into consideration.
Mr K has said that NatWest havent honoured the terms and conditions of his BBL as they 
relate to Ms rights to benefit from several PAYG plans. But Ms BBL terms and conditions 
include no such reference to PAYG plan rights. Indeed, given that Ms BBL was applied for 
and received in early June 2020, and given that the supporting PAYG scheme wasnt 
announced by the UK Government until late September 2020, the BBL terms couldnt 
include any reference to PAYG options  because PAYG options didnt exist at the time that 
M agreed to the terms of its BBL.
Additionally, after successfully applying for a PAYG option in June 2021, the contractual 
obligation for M to begin making monthly payments towards its BBL was deferred until 
January 2022. And this means that if Mr K had wanted to further defer the commencement 
of Ms payments at that time, he would have needed to apply for a further PAYG option 
before M became responsible to begin making payments in January 2022.
NatWest have no record of Mr K applying for a second PAYG plan for M before January 
2022. And Mr K hasnt provided any evidence that he did so either. And he also hasnt 
provided any evidence that a further PAYG plan was confirmed to him, such that he could 
reasonably have concluded that M didnt have a contractual obligation to make monthly 
payments to the BBL from January 2022 onwards.
Notably, the next contact from Mr K that NatWest have record of after the payment 
commencement date in January 2022 was nearly a year later, in November 2022. But by 
that time, M had breached the terms of the loan by failing to meet its contractual repayment 
obligations, and so NatWest had defaulted the BBL. This seems fair to me, and it meant that 
further PAYG options werent available to M in November 2022 when Mr K called, because 
the BBL agreement had already been fairly terminated by NatWest before that time.
Ultimately, it was Mr Ks responsibility as the director of M to have monitored the ongoing 
status of the BBL and to have understood Ms responsibility to have made monthly payments 
from January 2022 onwards. But M didnt make any payments from that date. And Mr K 
neither requested a further PAYG plan until it was too late for M to benefit from one, nor 
responded to any of the several communication attempts NatWest made to M about the 
deteriorating position of the loan.
Accordingly, I dont agree with Mr Ks assertion that NatWest didnt honour the terms of the 
BBL. Instead, I feel that NatWest have acted within the terms of the loan, and that it was M 
that didnt honour those terms by failing to meet the contractual payment obligations required 
of it by the BBL agreement. 
All of which means that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing NatWest to take 
any further or alternative action here. I trust that Mr K will understand, given all that Ive 
explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman