DRN-3978879
The complaint
Mr A complains that Nelson Insurance Company Ltd have unfairly declined his motor 
insurance claim following the theft of his car.
What happened
Mr A has a motor insurance policy which is insured through Nelson Insurance Company Ltd. 
This policy covers use for both personal and business purposes. In December 2021, after 
leaving his car parked outside overnight, Mr A returned to find his car missing. He reported 
this to the police and made a claim to Nelson.
Nelson rejected his claim. It said when Mr A first was in contact about the loss, he had 
reported that he had left one of the keys in the car. The policy excludes claims where keys 
have been left in the vehicle.
Unhappy with this outcome, Mr A complained to Nelson. He said he didnt leave the car key 
in the vehicle  it was spare house keys that were in the car. Nelson didnt change its stance 
and so he brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into the matter but 
didnt uphold the complaint. She found that the policy does have an exclusion relating to the 
theft of vehicles when there is a key left in the car. And she said that as Mr A had initially told 
Nelson it was the car key in the vehicle, she thought it was reasonable for Nelson to rely on 
what it was told at that point. 
Mr A disagreed with our investigators opinion. As no agreement could be reached, the 
matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that insurers must handle claims fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when deciding 
what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr As complaint.
Policy terms and conditions
Mr A wishes to claim under the policy for the theft of his vehicle when it was left parked 
overnight. Nelson has said that the claim is excluded as there isnt cover under the policy 
when the key is left in the vehicle. It has relied on Exception 13 in Section 2 of the policy 
Loss of or damage to your vehicle which says it will not pay for the following:
Any loss or damage arising from theft or attempted theft whilst the ignition keys of 
your vehicle have been left in or on your vehicle.
I think the policy wording is clear that cover wont be provided for a theft of the car if the key 
has been left in the vehicle.
Has the claim been declined fairly?
When Mr A first notified Nelson of the loss, he told them that the spare car key had been left 
in the vehicle. Nelson subsequently declined the claim using the exclusion detailed above. 
Mr A has said that this is incorrect and that it was his spare house keys which were stored 
within the vehicle. So, he thinks his claim should be paid.
Ive been provided with the notes from the first call Mr A made to Nelson. These notes detail 
the questions asked and the answers provided by Mr A. I can see that Mr A was asked how 
many keys he had in his possession, and he said he had just one. When asked why he only 
had one key, the response received was that the other key had been in the car. 
Ive also seen the statement Mr A provided to Nelson a few days after the loss occurred. 
Within this statement there does appear to be inconsistencies in Mr As account  such as 
where the spare key was kept within his home. 
Ive noted what Mr A has said and considered this point carefully. Mr A has not provided 
consistent responses when questioned regarding the location of the keys to the car. He 
initially said they were in the vehicle but then changed this to say they were kept at home. 
And the place they were stored within his home also altered  he first said they were kept in 
a cupboard in the lounge but changed this to say they were in the bedroom. Im also aware 
that a concern has been raised regarding the spare key that was sent to Nelson and whether 
it matches the vehicle. 
Taking everything into account, as there are inconsistencies in the details provided by Mr A 
in the statements made after his initial notification of the loss, along with concerns in relation 
to the keys provided, Im not persuaded that Nelson has acted unreasonably by using the 
information given in the first contact when considering the claim. And as Mr A initially 
advised that he had left the spare car key in the vehicle, Im satisfied that Nelson has been 
fair in rejecting the claim under the policy exclusion mentioned. I dont require it to do 
anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman