DRN-4036333
The complaint
Mr T complains that Oplo PL Limited wont refund to him the money that he paid for a 
holiday product using a loan from a finance provider. His wife is also involved in his 
complaint and hes being represented in his complaint by a legal adviser.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in February 2023 in which I described what 
had happened as follows:
Mr T and his wife had bought four holiday products from a holiday company between 
January 2012 and September 2017. They agreed to buy 30,000 credits for a different 
holiday product in September 2018. The purchase price of the credits was £35,000 
and Mr T entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with a finance provider in 
September 2018 for a loan of £35,000 to pay for the credits. He agreed to make 179 
monthly repayments of £357.28 to the finance provider.
Mr Ts representative made claims to the finance provider in October 2019 and April 
2020 under sections 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. It said that the 
credits had been misrepresented to Mr T and his wife, there was an unfair 
relationship between Mr T and the finance provider and that the finance provider had 
lent to Mr T irresponsibly. The finance provider didnt uphold those claims so a 
complaint was made to this service in July 2020.
Our investigator recommended that Mr Ts complaint should be upheld. He said that 
the price paid for the credits was above the price limit for a claim under section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 but he was able to consider Mr Ts allegations about 
misrepresentation under section 140A of that Act and whether they gave rise to an 
unfair relationship between Mr T and the finance provider. He thought that the 
holiday company had misrepresented the credits as an investment and that a court 
would likely find that the debtor-creditor relationship was unfair at the point of sale. 
He recommended that the finance provider should cancel the loan, refund all loan 
payments made (with interest) and either procure Mr Ts release from his obligations 
to the holiday company or agree to take over his credits and/or indemnify him for any 
future maintenance costs.
The finance provider has asked for this complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman. It has provided an explanation of how the credits work and it says, in 
summary, that a marketplace for unused credits is being launched this year as Mr T 
was told at the time of sale, the credits werent sold as an investment and werent 
mis-sold. Mr Ts loan has now been transferred to Oplo and it has assumed the 
finance providers obligations under the loan agreement.
I set out my provisional findings in my provisional decision which were as follows:
Im only considering Oplos liability arising from the sale of the credits by the holiday 
company to Mr T in September 2018 as that was the only sale that was financed 
using the loan provided by the finance provider.
Mr Ts representative complained to the finance provider under sections 75 and 140A 
and about its irresponsible lending. It said that Mr T and his wife were told that:
they would be investing in their holidays by securing future holidays that 
would be significantly cheaper than would be available on the open market;
there was a ready re-sale market for the credits so Mr T and his wife would be 
able to sell them and that there were good prospects of them increasing in 
value;
the offer was only available for a very limited time and that if they didnt 
purchase the offer would no longer be available; and
they were upgrading to a better product which had increased prospects of 
being sold for a financial return.
Section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the supplier of goods or 
services or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier (provided that certain criteria set out in that section 
are met). One of those criteria is that the cash price of any single item must exceed 
£100 and not be more than £30,000. Section 140A gives a court the power, amongst 
other things, to require a creditor to repay any sum paid by the debtor under a credit 
agreement if it determines that theres an unfair relationship between the debtor and 
the creditor. Im not determining the outcome of Mr Ts claims under sections 75 and 
140A as only a court would be able to do that but Im considering whether or not the 
finance providers response to his claims was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Mr T has provided a detailed witness statement in which he describes the way that 
the credits were sold to him and his wife and the misrepresentations that he says 
were made to them. His representative has also provided evidence from other 
purchasers of similar holiday products about the way that the sales were made to 
them. But theres no other evidence to show that the holiday company 
misrepresented the credits to Mr T and his wife.
Ive seen no reference in the membership application agreement, the membership 
club rules or any other document from the time of the sale which refers to the credits 
being an investment or as likely to increase in value. The finance provider said that a 
marketplace for unused credits is being launched this year as Mr T was told at the 
time of sale and Ive seen no documentary evidence from that time to show that Mr T 
was told that there was a ready re-sale market for the credits.
I consider that the documents provided from the time of the sale show that the credits 
were a way to obtain holiday accommodation and similar activities. Im not persuaded 
that theres enough evidence to show that Mr T and his wife were told that the 
accommodation would be significantly cheaper than would be available on the open 
market or that the credits were misrepresented to them in any other significant way. 
So I dont consider that theres enough evidence to show that Mr T and his wife were 
induced into buying the credits by misrepresentations made by the holiday company.
I understand that a management company related to the holiday company has 
stopped trading but the holiday company says that a new management company has 
been appointed to provide the membership services and Mr T and his wife have kept 
all of their contractual rights (provided that theyve continued to pay their 
maintenance fees) and the new holiday company continues to offer a full service for members. I dont consider that to be a breach of contract by the holiday company 
and Im not aware of any other breach of contract by the holiday company so Im not 
persuaded that theres been a breach of contract by the holiday company for which 
Oplo would have any liability under section 75.
As I consider that theres not enough evidence to show that theres been a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the holiday company, theres no need for me to 
make a finding as to whether the £35,000 that was paid for the 30,000 credits 
exceeds the cash price for a single item of £30,000.
The finance provider says that Mr Ts loan application was underwritten subject to its 
lending criteria at the time which wouldve included validation of information on the 
application form and a check against a number of databases, including credit 
reference agencies, before the lending was approved. Ive not been provided with a 
copy of the application form but in his witness statement that was made in April 2020 
Mr T said that his annual income from work was approximately £35,000, he has a 
pension of £8,400 each year and his wife has a pension of £12,000 each year. He 
also said that they have no children and own their home with no mortgage. He said 
that he was paying £200 each month to a credit card company and £375 each month 
to finance two cars. Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that a 
monthly loan repayment of £357.28 wouldnt have been affordable for Mr T at the 
time that the loan was made to him. Nor am I persuaded that theres enough 
evidence to show that the finance provider lent to him irresponsibly.
The finance provider said in its response to Mr T's complaint that his monthly 
repayments have always been paid on time and the account has never been in 
arrears. Mr T says in his witness statement that his and his wifes financial status has 
declined somewhat since purchasing the credits in September 2018  but that 
doesnt show that the loan wasnt affordable for him at the time that it was made to 
him.
If Mr T is experiencing financial difficulties and is struggling to make the monthly loan 
repayments he should contact Oplo and explain those financial difficulties. Its 
required to respond to any financial difficulties that hes experiencing positively and 
sympathetically.
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that Mr T and his wife were 
unduly pressured into buying the credits or that Mr T was unduly pressured into 
entering into the loan agreement in September 2018 or that the holiday company 
used unacceptable sales practices against them. Mr T and his wife both signed a 
separate standard withdrawal form which set out their right to withdraw from the 
membership application agreement. The loan agreement also clearly set out Mr Ts 
right to withdraw from the loan agreement without giving any reason within 14 days. I 
consider that it would be reasonable to expect Mr T and his wife to have read the 
agreements before they signed them and, if theyd done so, they would have been 
aware of their rights to withdraw from them. But Ive seen no evidence to show that 
they tried to withdraw from either the membership application agreement or the loan 
agreement during the withdrawal periods.
Im not persuaded that Mr T and his representative have provided enough evidence 
to show that Mr Ts relationship with the finance provider was unfair and I dont 
consider it to be likely that a court would conclude that there was an unfair 
relationship between Mr T and the finance provider.
I consider that the finance providers response to Mr Ts claims was fair and reasonable in these circumstances. Although I sympathise with Mr T for the issues 
that hes described in his witness statement, I find that it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable for me to require Oplo to refund to him any of the money that he paid for 
the credits, to cancel his loan, to pay him any compensation or to take any other 
action in response to their complaint.
Subject to any further comments or evidence that I received from any of Mr T, his 
representative and Oplo, my provisional decision was that I didnt intend to uphold this 
complaint. Oplo says that it has no final points to make but Mr Ts representative has 
provided detailed responses to my provisional decision and it has provided a further 
submission from Mr T and his wife. 
Mr Ts representative says, in summary and amongst other things, that:
the key points that have been overlooked are the sales practices in similar cases and 
the fact that this was an upgrade from earlier investments  Mr T and his wife already 
had a right to holidays so the agreement relating to the credits only makes any sense 
if it is looked at from the point of view as being an investment;
I havent analysed the contractual documents or considered statutory protections 
afforded to purchasers and it has described the obligation that this service is under 
when investigating complaints;
the purchase was sold as an upgrade and was more than a holiday product and was 
sold as an investment;
the investigators on two similar complaints have recommended that those complaints 
should be upheld and I havent explained why the investigator was wrong in reaching 
the conclusion that he did;
the holiday company is in liquidation and it has provided a letter from the liquidator 
which states that the resale programme was discontinued and there was no club 
manager and conceded that it was an uncertain time for members so Mr T was 
entitled to give notice to accept the breach of contract and terminate the agreement;
I should consider other similar complaints about how the holiday company operated 
and an unregulated broker introducing a customer to the finance company;
I havent considered Mr Ts detailed witness statement  and no evidence has been 
produced to rebut it so Mr Ts evidence should be accepted; 
there was no viable resale market for the product;
the reference to resales means that the product was not sold purely for holiday 
purposes;
a breach of the timeshare regulations gives rise to an unfair relationship;
the terms of the purchase agreement and the club rules also give rise to an unfair 
relationship; and
Ive relied on a clause in the contract which Ive suggested bars out any 
misrepresentation claim but it doesnt bar out reliance placed on oral representations 
to induce the purchase and any clause purporting to bar out a claim based on 
misrepresentation in these circumstances would be unenforceable and anything said 
by the holiday company to induce Mr T to enter into the agreement is incorporated as 
a term of the contract. 
The further submission from Mr T and his wife says, in summary and amongst other things, 
that:the holiday company sold the credits for their use and enjoyment and as being an 
investment;
they dont recall any claim that they would be securing future holidays that would be 
significantly cheaper than would be available on the open market;
the credits were sold as an upgrade and an extension of their investment;
the holiday companys representative told them that 1,000 credits equated to £5,500 
in September 2018 and that 4,000 credits would be valued at £22,000 in 2023  and 
theyve provided a note that the holiday companys representative wrote on a napkin 
about that  which would make their investment worth a total of £165,000;
they were unduly pressured into buying the credits and they requested a second 
meeting during which they wanted to consider cancelling the new contract but the 
holiday companys representative told them that that would be a negative strategy 
and that increasing their investment was the better action; and
they didnt require a holiday product such as the credits over a period of 30 years and 
expected to be able to resell their investment when they wouldnt be able to holiday 
beyond the UK and recover not only what they had invested in the credits but also 
what they had invested in their other holiday products.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not persuaded that I should change the findings that I set out in my 
provisional decision. I issued a provisional decision because I didnt agree with the 
recommendations made by our investigator. I said in my provisional decision that Id 
considered all of the available evidence and arguments to decide what was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ts complaint and I described the reasons that I didnt 
consider that his complaint should be upheld. I havent been provided with many of the 
documents that would have been signed by Mr T and his wife in September 2018 but I have 
considered all of the documents that have been provided by Mr T, his representative and the 
finance provider, including Mr Ts witness statement.
The finance provider has provided evidence in support of its decision not to uphold Mr Ts 
complaint and I dont consider that its fair or reasonable to say that no evidence has been 
provided to rebut the evidence that Mr T provided in his witness statement. Mr T and his wife 
say in their submission in response to my provisional decision that they dont recall any claim 
that they would be securing future holidays that would be significantly cheaper than would be 
available on the open market  but the particulars of complaint that Mr T submitted and 
which were signed by his representative set out the misrepresentations that had been made 
by the holiday company to Mr T and his wife, including at paragraph 17a, that:  they 
would be investing in their holidays by securing future holidays that would be significantly 
cheaper than would be available on the open market. Im not persuaded that Mr Ts witness 
statement should be accepted as a full and accurate account of what happened.
This service considers each complaint on its individual merits. I have taken account of the 
evidence that Mr Ts representative has provided from other purchasers of memberships 
about the way that the sales were made to them but Im not persuaded that theres enough 
evidence to show that the holiday company misrepresented the credits to Mr T and his wife. 
Mr Ts representative has referred to two other complaints that our investigators had 
recommended should be upheld but Ive issued provisional decisions on both of those 
complaints as I dont consider that they should be upheld. The credits were a way to obtain holiday accommodation and similar activities and, although 
Mr T and his wife say that they were bought to upgrade their existing membership points, I 
consider it to be clear that the credits were bought in addition to the membership points that 
theyd bought previously and that the credits operated in a different way to those 
membership points. 
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision, Im not persuaded that theres enough 
evidence to show that the credits were sold as an investment and I dont consider that the 
offer of a future resale programme shows that they were an investment. Ive carefully 
considered the note written by the holiday companys representative that Mr T and his wife 
have provided  but Im not persuaded that its enough to show that they were told that the 
credits were an investment or that they would have any specified future value. Nor am I 
persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that the resale facility was misrepresented 
to them or that Mr T and his wife were induced into entering into the membership application 
agreement by misrepresentations made by the holiday. Mr Ts representative says that Ive 
relied on a clause in the contract which Ive suggested bars out any misrepresentation claim 
but theres no reference in my provisional decision to such a clause 
The holiday company says that a management company is liquidation but Mr Ts 
representative has provided evidence to show that the holiday company went into 
liquidation. I consider that the liquidation of the holiday company would be a breach of 
contract for which Oplo would be liable under section 75  but another holiday company has 
been appointed to provide the services in connection with the credits that Mr T had bought 
from the holiday company. I understand Mr Ts concerns arising from the liquidation of the 
holiday company but Ive seen no evidence to show that he and his wife havent been able to 
use their credits or that theyve been adversely impacted by the liquidation of the holiday 
company. I consider the appointment of the other holiday company to have been a suitable 
remedy for any breach of contract and Im not persuaded that Mr T and his wife were entitled 
to terminate their agreement in these circumstances.
Mr T and his wife say that they were unduly pressured into buying the credits and they 
requested a second meeting during which they wanted to consider cancelling the new 
contract but Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that they were unduly 
pressured into buying the credits or that Mr T was unduly pressured into entering into the 
loan agreement in September 2018 or that the holiday company used unacceptable sales 
practices against them. Mr T and his wife both signed a separate standard withdrawal form 
which set out their right to withdraw from the membership application agreement. The loan 
agreement also clearly set out Mr Ts right to withdraw from the loan agreement without 
giving any reason within 14 days. Mr T says they were considering cancelling the new 
contract but were persuaded not to so they were aware of their right to withdraw from the 
agreements but chose not to.
Mr Ts representative also says that an unregulated broker introduced customers to the 
finance provider. The loan agreement that was electronically signed by Mr T identified three 
credit intermediaries. Ive seen evidence to show that at least two of those companies were 
authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority in September 2018 to arrange loans. Im not 
persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that the credit intermediary wasnt 
authorised to arrange the loan for Mr T and I consider it to be more likely than not that the 
loan was arranged by an authorised credit intermediary.
Mr Ts representative says that a breach of the timeshare regulations gives rise to an unfair 
relationship and that the terms of the membership acquisition agreement and the club rules 
also give rise to an unfair relationship. Ive carefully considered those but it would be for a 
court to determine whether or not any of the terms are unfair. I dont consider that the presence of an unfair (or potentially unfair) term alone is likely to mean that a court would 
conclude that it created an unfair relationship between a debtor and a creditor as the court 
would consider how the term operated in practice and whether the operation of that term 
caused the relationship to be unfair. Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show 
that the terms of the documents have been applied or operated unfairly against Mr T and his 
wife and I consider it be unlikely that a court would conclude in these circumstances that the 
terms of the documents created an unfair relationship between Mr T and the finance 
provider.
I consider that the finance providers response to Mr Ts claims under section 75 and 140A 
was fair and reasonable and Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that it 
has acted incorrectly in its dealings with Mr T. I sympathise with Mr T for the issues that hes 
described in his witness statement and his submission in response to my provisional 
decision but I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to 
require Oplo to refund to him any of the money that he paid for the holiday club membership 
credits, to cancel his loan, to pay him any compensation or to take any other action in 
response to his complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2023.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman