DRN-3381687
The complaint
Mr H complains that Oakbrook Finance Limited trading as Likely Loans provided him with a 
high cost loan that was unaffordable for him. 
What happened
Likely Loans provided Mr H with a loan on 4 January 2018. It was for £3,000, repayable over 
36 months at the rate of around £158 a month.
He paid the loan back by January 2021. He complained to Likely Loans about the interest 
rate and struggled to repay the loan. He was also charged some late payment fees. When 
Likely Loans replied he said the list setting out his expenditure was totally incorrect. He has 
provided an up to date credit report and bank statements from before and after his loan 
application.
Likely Loans said that it assessed whether Mr H had sufficient disposable income after 
taking into account his credit commitments, to pay for the new loan and his normal monthly 
outgoings. If the loan had been applied for today, it would have assessed his expenditure 
based on ONS (Office for National Statistics) data. It used a credit reference agency to verify 
Mr Hs income and his credit record. It doesnt have the credit report from the date of the 
application but has supplied all the data it extracted from Mr Hs credit record. It assessed 
that the loan was affordable and that he had sufficient disposable income at the end of each 
month after taking the loan instalments into account.
Our adjudicator said that Likely Loans had shown that it had carried out a detailed credit 
search as well as reviewing the information from Mr Hs application before lending to him. He 
said he thought the checks went far enough, and didnt think there was anything in the 
information it gathered which meant it shouldnt have lent to him.
Mr H wasnt happy with this and in particular didnt agree with Likely Loans assessment of 
his income and expenditure.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Likely Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr H 
would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr H would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required Likely Loans to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Hs ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Likely Loans had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr H undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Likely Loans to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr H. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
a higher repayment from a particular level of income). 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which a 
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal 
that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
From the data Likely Loans has supplied from Mr Hs credit record from the time of his 
application, it appears that he had an HP loan for which he was paying £148 a month and a 
credit card for which he was paying £41 a month. Those were his only credit commitments 
revealed by his credit report and his application. His income was verified as being around 
£1,800 net a month. The new loan was for home improvements. With the instalments for the 
new loan his new credit commitments would be nearly 20% of his income. And I think that 
would still have left him with a reasonable income, assuming his monthly expenditure wasnt 
higher than expected.
In order to assess what his monthly income was, Likely Loans has set out its present method 
of doing that which is, unless the consumer says otherwise in their application, to use ONS 
data for the average proportion of income used for household expenditure, normally about 
35%. When applied to Mr H Likely Loans has produced a figure of about £655 (about 36%) 
which would have left him with a monthly disposable income of about £800. Whilst this 
method wasnt used at the time of Mr Hs application, nevertheless it appears that he had 
sufficient income to comfortably afford the repayments for the loan.I understand that Mr H struggled to repay the loan. Whilst the rules and guidance dont 
require loan companies to obtain bank statements, Ive nevertheless looked at Mr Hs 
statements from around the time of applying for the loan. He had an overdraft of up to £250 
which didnt appear to be increasing. And he didnt have any unusual payments going out 
like payday loan instalments. So I cant see anything of concern in those statements. 
On Mr Hs point about the rate of interest, the type of loan Likely Loans provides is for 
people who might not have the best credit record. I see Mr H had a defaulted loan in the past 
as well as an old CCJ (County Court Judgement), which was over four years old and had a 
nominal balance on it of £5. So this sort of loan does have a high interest rate compared to 
say High Street banks. But Mr H was supplied with all the information about the interest rate 
and the cost of that when added to the loan, before signing the documents. So I cant say 
that Likely Loans did anything wrong there.
I think that Likely Loans carried out a proportionate check on the affordability of this loan for 
Mr H. And that the check wouldnt have alerted Likely Loans to carry out any further 
assessment of Mr Hs circumstances. So I think it made a fair lending decision.
 
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman