DRN-3258263
The complaint
Ms H complained that AXA Versicherung Aktiengesellschaft (AXA) unfairly declined her 
claim under her contents / international movers policy.
What happened
Ms H bought a policy via her removal company to insure her contents whilst she moved 
home. Ms H made a claim on her policy when she realised one of her containers was 
missing and there was damage to her sofa. Ms H said it was a difficult experience making 
her claim.
AXA considered the claim and made a settlement offer for the sofa and covered the loss of a 
mirror as it said it was a single item picked up by the removal firm. However, AXA declined 
the claim for the missing container. AXA said as Ms H didnt use a professional packing 
service, but packed her contents herself, the claim was not covered by the policy.
Ms H felt this was unfair, as she said at no point was she offered the option of professional 
packing or was she made aware the insurance didnt cover her for items that werent 
professionally packed.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. She thought AXA had fairly declined 
the claim in line with its terms and conditions and set out that the policy didnt cover Ms H for 
owner packed property. Ms H disagreed, so the complaint has been referred to an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two strands to Ms Hs complaint. First, she was unhappy that her claim was 
declined, but also she didnt feel she was made aware of the removal services that were on 
offer or the limitations of the insurance policy she was buying. This complaint has been 
made against AXA who are the providers of the insurance cover (the underwriters). 
However, AXA werent involved in providing the removal service or selling the insurance 
policy, so I cant consider these activities or actions against AXA as it wouldnt be fair. I will 
only be considering whether I think AXA has been fair in the way it has considered Ms Hs 
claim.
I have considered what AXA said when it declined the claim. AXAs response appears 
sympathetic in tone and it hasnt questioned Ms Hs honesty or the fact the items claimed for 
have gone missing. However, AXA did decline the claim as Ms H hadnt met the terms of the 
policy.
AXA said I am afraid there is only limited coverage afforded for goods which were packed 
by the owner, rather than benefitting from a professional packing service from the removal 
firm. This was detailed on the summary of insurance you were provided. AXA set out the 
relevant part of its policy on which it based its decision to decline the cover. I have checked 
these terms.
"OWNER PACKED PROPERTY", it reads as follows:
"Loss or damage arising from the following is excluded: Missing items of cartons or 
packages unless an itemised valued list of contents of each carton or package is supplied by 
you to the Company prior to commencement of transit"
AXA then have gone on to explain its decision. It said the policy does not afford coverage 
for missing items which had been packed by the customer (or their friends, family etc) as 
opposed to benefitting from a professional packing service from the remover unless the
customer has provided an itemised list, including values, of the contents of each package. I 
am afraid that as the remover has informed us that no such listing was provided we are 
unable to agree coverage for the missing items you have claimed for.
As Ms H has said she packed the missing items herself, the items would be categorised as 
owner packed property. I havent seen any evidence that Ms H provided an itemised list of 
these items with estimated values to the removers. So, as I havent seen this, I think AXA 
has been fair in declining the claim for the reasons it has set out. Therefore, I dont uphold 
this complaint.
I appreciate this will be frustrating for Ms H, but I dont think AXA has done anything wrong 
here. Ms H has mentioned that she wasnt happy with how her policy was sold to her. If she 
has evidence to support what she has said, she may want to take advice to see if she has a 
different route of escalating her complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint, I dont require AXA Versicherung 
Aktiengesellschaft to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman