DRN-3425803
The complaint
Mr C complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VFS) refused to provide 
finance to cover the cost of the balloon payment due at the end of his car loan agreement.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
Mr Cs hire purchase agreement began in August 2017 for the purchase of a car. Having 
reviewed the internal records provided by VFS and the copies of arrears letters sent to Mr C 
I can see that he began missing payments within a few months. There have been a variety 
of reasons which caused him to miss those payments, but they were missed.
Mr C has said recently that VFS having allowed him to defer payments due to Covid has 
used this as the basis for its decision to refuse to provide him with further finance. I have 
seen no evidence of this. Quite simply Mr Cs payment record outside the Covid period has 
contributed to VFSs decision that it would be irresponsible to lend to him.
VFS is not obliged to lend him money and it is entitled to make a commercial decision as to 
whether his credit status is suitable for another loan. I am satisfied that it has carried out its 
standard checks and reached a conclusion that it is not prepared to provide a loan. I see that 
the loan Mr C was seeking requires larger monthly repayments and I can understand that 
this too would be cause for some concern given his repayment history.
I appreciate that Mr C has been the victim of a scam more recently and this has made it 
difficult for him to find alternative finance. I am also aware of his health issues and his need 
for a car. But that does not mean I can direct VFS to lend him money. I recognise this 
decision will come as a disappointment to Mr C, but I cannot safely conclude that VFS has 
done anything wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman