DRN-3282318
The complaint
Mr L complains about how Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) handled a 
claim on his motor insurance.
Mr L took out the policy through an insurance broker and all his correspondence has been 
with this broker, who administer the policy and manage any claims on Advantages behalf. 
For the avoidance of doubt, any reference to Advantage in my decision includes the broker.
What happened
Mr L had a motor insurance policy with Advantage. In May 2021, while Mr L was away from 
home for work, he found his car wouldnt start. A mechanic inspected the car and diagnosed 
a problem with the cars ignition system. The mechanic removed the ignition system for 
repair. As a result, the car wasnt driveable and couldnt be moved.
A few days later, on the first May bank holiday, Mr Ls car was broken into. While Mr L didnt 
think anything had been stolen, the back windscreen and rear passenger window were 
smashed. Mr L said the glass repairer named on his policy wasnt contactable on the bank 
holiday. Given the state of the car, Mr L had it recovered and put in storage.
The next day Mr L called Advantage to make a claim. He explained the situation and told 
Advantages agent he was being charged £50 per day storage. The agent told Mr L 
Advantage would collect the car, pay storage costs, arrange for repairs, and refund the 
recovery fee. The agent told Mr L that hed be covered for repairs to the ignition system as 
well as the broken windows.
Mr L called Advantage several times over the following days to find out what was happening. 
Four days after Mr L made the claim, Advantage told Mr L that the ignition problem wasnt 
covered by his policy. Two weeks later, it offered him £50 to apologise for giving him the 
wrong information about this but said it needed an invoice for the storage costs before it 
would consider refunding these, and that Mr L had to arrange for the car to be collected from 
storage himself before it would fix the car windows. Mr L was unhappy with this so brought 
his complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that Mr Ls complaint should be upheld. She found that 
Advantage wrongly advised Mr L about what was covered by his policy and gave him 
conflicting information about how it was going to settle his claim. She didnt think Advantage 
had treated Mr L fairly, so thought it should pay Mr Ls storage costs, move the car to its own 
storage facility, and arrange for the windows to be fixed. Given repairs to the ignition system 
werent covered by his policy, our investigator thought Mr L should pay for this.
Advantage disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to consider.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 12 January 2022. I said:
This is a difficult situation because of the two (unrelated) faults with Mr Ls car: the failure of 
the ignition system, and the broken windows. In coming to my decision, Ive thought first 
about what Mr Ls policy covers, what Advantage told Mr L, and finally the arguments by 
both parties. Ive set out my findings below.
Mr Ls policy
Page 14 of Mr Ls policy booklet says: Youre not covered for failures, breakdowns or 
breakage of mechanical, electrical, electronic or computer equipment. Advantage relied on 
this policy exclusion when it told Mr L it wouldnt cover the cost of repairing his ignition 
system.
Mr Ls policy includes breakdown cover. This includes mechanical breakdown, electrical 
breakdown, and vandalism. Page 15 of the policy booklet says:
If your Car is damaged, your Insurer will pay the reasonable cost of protecting your 
Car and taking it to the nearest suitable Nominated Repairer or a place of storage. 
Where appropriate theyll also pay the reasonable cost of returning it after repair to 
the address shown on your schedule.
Finally, Section 8 of Mr Ls policy covers windscreen and windows claims: If you have 
comprehensive cover your Insurer will pay to replace or repair broken glass in the 
windscreen or windows of your Car.
Mr L explained that he couldnt contact the glass repairer when he found his vandalised car. 
I note that Mr Ls policy says the glassline number to call is open 24 hours a day, 365 
days a year, however Advantage hasnt challenged this.
Given the vandalism to his car, and that it wasnt driveable due to the ignition failure, I 
understand why Mr L put his car in storage until it could be repaired.
The phone calls
Advantage sent us recordings of the calls from Mr L on 4 May 2021, and a further seven 
calls with Mr L over the next few days1. These werent dated but, given their content and 
timeline of the claim, Im satisfied that they were all between 4 and 7 May 2021. 
Ive listened to all the calls. I think three are particularly important:
1. 4 May 2021. Mr Ls initial call to Advantage explaining that his car had been broken 
into, and hed had the car towed and stored. He also explained the ignition fault.
During this call, Advantages agent told Mr L that it would collect the car as soon as possible, 
pay the storage charges, and refund the recovery fee. Importantly, he said Mr L could claim 
for the repairs to the ignition system, although he noted that its engineers would have to 
inspect the car to see if the car was repairable or a total loss. Mr L told the agent a 
company was already investigating the ignition fault. Advantages agent told Mr L tell them 
not to repair it, and Advantages supplier would collect the car and assess the damage.
Mr L called Advantage later that day and several times over the next few days to find out 
what was happening. Its clear he was becoming increasingly frustrated at not being kept 
updated, having to deal with different people on each call, the lack of action, and the 
contradictory information Advantage was telling him. Ive a lot of sympathy for Mr L here. As 
he repeatedly said, this was a very simple issue.
1 Advantage sent us 18 recordings in total, but some were different parts of the same call, one was 
blank, and one was a duplicate.2. 7 May 2021. An Advantage agent called Mr L and explained what would happen 
next.
The Advantage agent told Mr L that his policy didnt cover the ignition fault. However, she 
told him that Advantage would arrange for its supplier to collect the car and have the 
windows fixed. Mr L asked: Who is going to pay the people who are storing the car? The 
agent replied: We are going to be covering that. So Advantage told Mr L that, even though 
he wasnt covered for the ignition fault, Advantage would recover the car, pay for storage, 
and fix the windows. 
The agent also told Mr L that shed arrange a courtesy car while his car was being repaired. 
This is confirmed by Advantages internal note of the call. Mr Ls car wasnt collected, and he 
wasnt given a courtesy car.
3. 7 May 2021. A second Advantage agent called Mr L later the same day. She again 
confirmed Advantage would repair the windows and cover the storage costs but 
wouldnt cover the ignition fault. Mr L grew frustrated when the agent told him his 
complaint might not be resolved for five weeks. He explained that the car couldnt be 
moved because the ignition had been removed. He said hed involve his solicitors 
and asked Advantage not to call him until youve got a resolution to this problem.
Arguments by the parties
Mr L understands that his policy doesnt cover the fault with his ignition but believes 
Advantage should honour its original offer to repair the ignition as well as the windows. 
Advantage has made several arguments. In summary:
Advantage told Mr L he wasnt covered for the ignition system within days of him 
reporting the fault, so Mr L should have arranged for the ignition to be fixed himself.
It confirmed recovery of the vehicle was not covered under the policy in May 2021.
It told Mr L what he needed to do in order to get the windscreen fixed. 
Mr L told us not to contact him, so we didnt.
I think only the first of these has any merit. Ill consider that later. On the other points:
The May 2021 final response didnt mention recovery. In any case  and as set out 
above  Mr Ls policy included recovery for mechanical/electrical breakdown.
Advantage told Mr L several times that it would arrange to have the car collected 
from storage and the windows replaced. 
Mr L didnt tell Advantage not to contact him. During the second call on 7 May he 
said Advantage shouldnt call him until it had found a resolution to the problem. I 
think thats an important difference. I also note that Mr L had asked Advantage to 
communicate with him by email as early as 4 May 2021. I found no evidence that it 
tried to contact him by email. So I dont think theres any excuse for Advantage not 
contacting Mr L to update him between 7 and 21 May.
Advantage accepts that its agent wrongly told Mr L that hed be covered for the ignition 
problem, but says it quickly corrected this. I agree that it corrected this by 7 May (four days 
after he made the claim). So, while I appreciate this would have been incredibly frustrating 
for Mr L given hed already started to have this fixed when Advantage told him to stop, I dont 
think its unfair for Advantage to exclude this part of the claim.Advantages argument about storage costs now appears to be that the car couldnt be driven 
because of a fault that wasnt covered by Mr Ls insurance. This meant Mr L was liable for 
making the car driveable and, by extension, removing the car from storage so the windows 
could be replaced. Page 70 of the policy booklet says Mr L isnt covered for any costs 
relating to storage once you have been notified that your Vehicle is ready to collect. On the 
face of it, thats not unreasonable.  
However, I dont think Advantage explained this to Mr L clearly enough. It continued to tell 
him it would arrange for the car to be collected and would pay for storage costs even after it 
told him the ignition wasnt covered. In its final response to Mr L, it said:
The recovery agent you have selected are very different to the recovery services we 
would see; whether instructed by us or an individual. A person operating out of their 
own garage is not seen as a recovery company. If the individual works as part of a 
company, we would need an invoice or an itemised bill showing how much the costs 
are before we would look to be able to assist. We have been unable to arrange for 
the glass damage to be repaired or replaced as your vehicle is still in storage. Once 
you have collected the vehicle from the storage location, please let us know and we 
can arrange for the glass to be replaced from then.
It didnt tell him hed be liable for any future storage costs. If it wanted to cap its storage 
costs, I think it should have made this clear to Mr L at this point.
Mr L provided an invoice for the storage costs in July 2021. Advantage still didnt pay these. 
It told us that it couldnt pay the storage company directly because we dont hold a contract 
with the garage the vehicle is stored at. I dont think this is reasonable. Im sure Advantage 
pays a lot of companies it doesnt have contracts with.
The car has been with the storage company since May 2021. The storage company  
understandably  wont release Mr Ls car under it gets paid. Mr L and Advantage both 
expect the other to pay for this. Despite our involvement, this point hasnt been resolved.
I think that if Advantage had recovered Mr Ls car on or around 8 May 2021, as it said it 
would, this matter would have been quickly and easily resolved. Advantage didnt do this and 
told Mr L hed have to arrange for it to be collected himself. It didnt tell Mr L about this until 
21 May 2021, two weeks after it told him it would collect it from storage.
I understand Mr Ls frustration. As he says, this was a relatively simple issue and shouldnt 
have taken eight months to resolve. For these reasons, I think Advantage has acted unfairly. 
Putting things right
The question now is how to put things right. Im extremely concerned that the car has been 
in storage for over eight months with costs continuing to mount. Im also conscious that the 
storage company has threatened to scrap the car and start legal proceedings against Mr L 
for the outstanding costs.
As Ive said above, I dont accept Advantages reasons for not collecting the car in May 
2021. However, Ive also thought about whether Mr L could have arranged for the car to be 
recovered at his own cost and sought to recover these costs from Advantage later, thereby 
mitigating Advantages costs.
On balance, I dont think that would be fair to Mr L, for four main reasons:
Advantage repeatedly told Mr L it would cover storage costs. The first indication it 
might not was on 21 May 2021.It didnt contact Mr L after this. As Ive explained above, I dont think this was 
reasonable.
It asked Mr L to provide an invoice for storage costs. Mr L provided this in July 2021.
Our investigator asked Advantage to pay the storage costs in both July and 
September 2021. This was broadly what Advantage had offered in May 2021. 
Advantage could have capped its costs at that point.
I think Advantage had numerous chances to cap its liability for storage. It didnt do so. On 
the other hand, Mr L explained that he couldnt afford to pay the accrued costs to that point. 
As such, I wont be asking Mr L to pay anything towards the cost of storing his car.
Advantage should arrange for Mr Ls car to be recovered from where its being stored as 
soon as possible and pay the storage costs in full. For the avoidance of doubt, it should pay 
the storage company directly rather than ask Mr L to pay this and reimburse him. 
Advantage should then arrange for the windows to be replaced and the car returned to Mr L. 
Section 8 of Mr Ls policy booklet says: You have to pay an Excess for windscreen, 
windows and glass repairs or replacement. Mr Ls policy schedule shows this excess is £85. 
In the circumstances, I dont think it would be fair to ask Mr L to pay this. Advantage should 
waive this.
Mr L hasnt asked for compensation for the loss of use of his car, however Im conscious the 
car has been in storage for over eight months and wont be in the best condition. I think 
Advantage should arrange for it to be given a full valet (deep interior, exterior, and engine 
bay clean, plus steam clean).
For the avoidance of doubt, I dont expect Advantage to cover the repairs to Mr Ls ignition 
system as this isnt covered by his policy. I understand Mr L will disagree with me on this 
point, but I dont think it would be fair to ask Advantage to cover this. Mr L will need to 
arrange these repairs himself.
Finally, Advantage told us it had paid Mr L £50 to apologise for its poor service. Mr L says he 
hasnt received this. In any case, I dont think £50 adequately compensates Mr L for the 
distress and inconvenience this matter has caused him. In the circumstances, I think 
Advantage should increase this to £250. If Advantage can show it has already paid Mr L 
£50, it can deduct this from my award.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr L accepted my provisional decision. However, he asked that I slightly amend my 
proposed redress. I said Advantage should arrange for the car windows to be replaced close 
to where Mr L lives. Mr L explained that hes currently working away from home and it would 
be more convenient for him if the car was repaired close to where its currently stored and 
hell collect it from there.
Advantage didnt respond to my provisional decision before our deadline. It told us it had 
some concerns about the charges being claimed and was undertaking final checks before 
sharing its findings with us.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.For reasons that are known to both parties, there is an urgent need to resolve this matter. I 
think Advantage has had enough time to consider my provisional decision, investigate the 
charges, and provide us with a response setting out its concerns. I also note that it hasnt 
asked for an extension to our deadline. Finally, Ive reviewed the most recent invoices 
provided by Mr L and dont see anything obviously wrong with them.
Given neither party has provided any new information for me to consider, I see no reason to 
change my provisional decision. 
I think Mr Ls request about where the repairs should be carried out is fair. So I agree that 
Advantage should arrange for the windows to be replaced as close as possible to where the 
car is currently stored and allow Mr L to collect his car from there. This also means 
Advantage doesnt incur additional transport costs.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. I require Advantage Insurance Company 
Limited to:
Refund Mr L the £200 recovery fee, plus interest at 8% per year simple from 3 May 
2021 to the date of settlement.
Arrange for Mr Ls car to be recovered from where its being stored and pay the 
storage costs in full.
Arrange for an approved repairer to replace the cars broken windows.
Arrange for Mr Ls car to be given a full valet (deep interior, exterior, and engine bay 
clean, plus steam clean).
Pay Mr L £250 to reflect the distress and inconvenience it caused him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman