DRN-2714952
The complaint
This complaints about an equity release lifetime mortgage that Mrs H holds with Just 
Retirement Limited. The mortgage was originally held jointly with her husband, Mr H, who 
has since died. The complaint is that Just allowed the late Mr H to make additional 
drawdowns despite having concerns that Mrs H lacked capacity to be aware of and consent 
to the transactions taking place. The complaint has been brought by her son (whom Ill call 
Mr H1) under a power of attorney executed in 2019.
  
What happened
 This is one of a pair of linked complaints, as Mr H1 has, at the same time, complained about 
the broker firm that arranged the drawdowns with Just. The two complaints are discrete from 
each other, and my decision here deals solely with the actions of Just. My decision on the 
complaint against the broker firm (which Ill refer to here as L will be a separate document. 
That said, the two complaints do arise from a common set of circumstances. So its 
inevitable that there will be a degree of commonality in the two narratives.  If there are any 
occasions in this decision against Just where I have referred to L, its because context 
required me to. I cannot make any comment here on the outcome of the complaint against L
In what follows, I have summarised events in rather less detail than has been presented, and 
used my own words to do so. No discourtesys intended by that; its a reflection of the 
informal service we provide, and if I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive 
ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which in my view will have little or no impact on the broader outcome. 
A series of six drawdowns (in effect, further advances) totalling £64,000 was made on the 
mortgage between 2016 and 2018; Just had concerns that on several occasions, Mrs H was 
unable to answer basic security questions on the telephone, but it allowed the transactions 
to go ahead after L sent in request forms, signed by both borrowers, recommending the 
drawdowns take place. 
Our investigator thought that Just should not have allowed this to happen. He recommended 
Just write off half of the interest that had accrued on the drawdowns to date and charge no 
further interest on the entire debt in future. After further representations from Just, the 
investigator amended his recommendation, saying the future zero-rating of interest should 
apply only to the drawdown balances and not the original advance.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ill make some general observations before dealing with the specifics of the complaint.
As I said earlier, if I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to 
consider it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is 
the right outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair 
in the round. 
Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).  We 
deal with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we 
dont replicate the work of the courts. Were impartial, and we dont take either sides 
instructions on how we investigate a complaint, or when we have enough information on file 
to decide it.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 If the available evidence is incomplete and/or contradictory, we reach our findings on what 
we consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. Thats broadly 
the same test that the courts use in civil cases.
In its closing submission, Just has said that the initial loan should not be called into question, 
given that independent legal advice was given. But in this decision about Just, I havent 
called the initial loan into question. The complaint against Just relates to the later 
drawdowns.
Just has argued with some force that Mrs H must still have had some capacity at the time 
the drawdowns were made, not least because she needed to have capacity to execute the 
power of attorney in 2019. Mr H1 has told us that the process of obtaining the power of 
attorney had started long before 2019, but was delayed by Mr Hs illness and eventual 
death. 
But in any event, whether or not Mrs H had officially lost capacity isnt really the issue. In 
normal circumstances, thered have been no requirement for any involvement on the part of 
a broker in a drawdown on an existing equity mortgage. Mr and Mrs H could simply ask Just 
directly, and it would approve the request and release the money. 
In its final submission, Just says it had no reason to believe Mrs H didnt have capacity to 
make the decision to conduct the drawdowns. But thats not consistent with its actions at the 
time. Just clearly did have concerns about allowing Mrs H to transact, based on its own 
conversations with her. 
Instead of conducting its own checks to satisfy its own concerns about the validity of Mrs Hs 
apparent consent, Just effectively off-loaded that responsibility to K. A lender might 
reasonably argue that it can rely on information provided by an intermediary in normal 
circumstances, but these were not normal circumstances. 
Just had a duty, under the regulators high-level principles, to act in Mrs Hs best interests 
and treat her fairly, and on all six occasions, I find that Just failed to meet that duty. Thats 
why its my view that Just should carry its fair share responsibility for the drawdowns having 
taken place. I dont find that the core debt arising from the drawdowns should be waived; but 
I agree that it should not attract interest. I have no way of knowing how long the mortgage 
will continue running and accruing interest, but the award I make has to be final, and bring 
closure to the dispute once and for all.
 
My final decision I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement, I order Just Retirement Limited to 
remove 50% of the accrued compound interest from all six draw-downs completed between 
March 2016 and March 2018 totalling £64,000, to date up to the settlement date, and 
charge no further interest on those balances for the remaining life of the mortgage.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2021.
 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman