DRN-2783689
The complaint
This complaint is about a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy on a Dorothy 
Perkins store card that was taken out in April 1999.
The credit facility for the account was provided by a high street bank, but there has been a 
recent change in the company which is responsible for answering these types of complaint. 
The company now responsible is called AXA France IARD. Ill therefore refer mainly to AXA 
France IARD throughout this final decision, for consistency.
What happened
Mrs G says shes unhappy with her PPI as its never been properly explained to her how this 
particular policy works. In particular she says she took the policy on the understanding that it 
would pay off her account balance in full. 
Our adjudicator has assessed this complaint and already provided a view that it shouldnt be 
upheld. Mrs G has disagreed and so her complaint has been passed to me for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Gs complaint. I appreciate she will be 
disappointed, so Ill explain carefully why this is.
Mrs Gs card account was taken out by filling out an application leaflet in the store. 
Weve seen a number of very similar PPI sales with the same retailer from around this 
time. Weve also spoken at length to the companies involved to gain an understanding of 
the sales processes that were generally being then. We know, for example, that 
consumers were asked to fill out a card account application which was part of a wider 
leaflet-based form. The terms and conditions of the PPI were included in what the 
applicant was given to complete.
Im further helped by having to hand the actual form and credit agreement Mrs G filled out 
when she took out her card. Theres a section on the application leaflet about the PPI 
where she was invited to either sign her name - or leave blank - an option box to have PPI 
cover. There was an indication that there would be a cost involved as the form says that 
the monthly premium will be added to her new card account. Mrs G signed at this point 
and therefore agreed to the PPI. 
This is what we call a non-advised sale. This means AXA France IARD needed only to 
provide enough clear information for Mrs G to decide for herself whether she wanted the PPI 
cover. I acknowledge it could have set out the information about the PPI in a better way, but 
overall, I do think Mrs G probably had access to enough information to allow her to make an 
informed decision.
Mrs G hasnt told us about having any sickness protection from her employer, or about 
having any other benefits available, such as some savings. Ive also seen that Mrs G was 
eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in 
some of these policies. The cost of the PPI offered  being £1 per £100 of what was owing 
on the card - was relatively expensive, but the benefits the policy offered gave more 
protection than most credit cards. For example, if Mrs G had become unable to work or lost 
her job, the PPI would have paid off 15% of her outstanding store card balance each month 
until she returned to work or until all the balance was returned to zero. These benefits 
would have been in addition to any other employer benefits or financial means that Mrs G 
had in place at the time.
Ive seen that Mrs G says she expected that, in the event of a successful claim, her card 
balance would be paid off in full immediately. But that isnt the way this policy works  or 
many other PPI policies that are intended to protect payments on store card accounts. I 
havent seen anything to show or suggest that Mrs G may have been given information 
when she took out the policy that might lead her to this conclusion. I realise Mrs G disputes 
this, but I can only make my finding based on the available evidence and information. As 
our adjudicator has pointed out, the balance of the card would have been paid off in a 
relatively short time if Mrs G needed to continue with her claim. 
It follows that, whilst I recognise its a difficult time for consumers and Im sorry to have to 
disappoint Mrs G, I cant safely say this policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Gs complaint and I dont require AXA 
France IARD to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2021. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman