DRN-3899558
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy his application to port his mortgage product was declined by Nationwide 
Building Society although he had previously got a decision in principle (DIP). As a result, Mr 
W had to pay an Early Repayment Charge (ERC).
What happened
Mr W had a repayment mortgage which he took out with Nationwide in December 2018. This 
was for a loan amount of approximately £270,000, for a term of 35 years. The mortgage was 
taken out on a fixed mortgage interest rate product of 1.64% which ended on 31 December 
2020. On 1 December 2020, Mr W took out a product transfer for 1.54% on a three-year 
fixed rate to end on 31 December 2023. 
In the late summer of 2021 Mr W contacted Nationwide about downsizing his house and 
buying a new build. Mr W wanted to port his mortgage product to that property. Although Mr 
W got a DIP that encouraged him to believe that he would get the mortgage he wanted, the 
application for a mortgage was declined in November 2021. Nationwide says that the 
application was reviewed by an underwriter. The application was declined as the applicant 
credit card utilisation or debt to income was too high. This decline was appealed as it was a 
like for like application with a reducing loan amount. As Mr W was downsizing the mortgage 
would be decreasing by £42,467. On the other hand, Nationwide says its loan to value 
(LTV) risk increased by 23.05%. The underwriter noted that a substantial part of the sale 
proceeds was being retained to pay off Mr Ws unsecured debt. The underwriter also noted 
that Mr W was relying on his overdraft and that Nationwide wouldnt want to lend over the 
current LTV of 61.95%
As Nationwide refused the new mortgage and he couldnt port his mortgage product, Mr W 
redeemed his mortgage in April 2022 with an ERC of £5,176.84. Mr W rented for a period.
Our investigators view
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld in part. She felt that in deciding 
on whether Mr W could port his mortgage, NatWest hadnt considered properly MCOB 
11.6.3 and could have disregarded affordability in deciding whether Mr W was entitled to a 
mortgage. So, she recommended that NatWest pay £500. But she believed that the ERC 
was applied correctly. Both NatWest and Mr W disagreed with our investigators view 
although Nationwide agreed that to settle the matter it would pay the compensation of £500 
recommended by our investigator. Mr W didnt want to accept this offer as it didnt represent 
fair compensation and asked for an Ombudsman review..
My Provisional Decision
I reviewed this complaint and as my decision differed from that of our investigator I issued a 
Provisional Decision on 15 December 2022 as follows:
In the late summer and autumn of 2021, Mr W wanted to port his mortgage and take out a 
reduced amount of borrowing. The property he wanted to purchase was a new build at 
£258,000 and the amount he wanted to port over was £218,000, and he was aware he 
would be charged a partial ERC on the difference. A Decision in Principle (DIP) was issued. 
Mr W said his house was sold and the mortgage was redeemed in February 2022. Mr W was 
renting but now has bought another property.. Because the porting application was declined 
and he incurred and ERC, Mr W raised a complaint.
Nationwide says that it declined Mr Ws application due to the level of unsecured debt Mr W 
had compared to his income and that was outside its lending policy. From Nationwides point 
of view, Mr W was reducing his equity to pay off his unsecured debt but now Nationwide was 
taking on a greater risk  with the LTV rising substantially.
Mr W had an amount of unsecured debt. The reason that the case was declined by 
Nationwide was because Mr W had a high debt to income ratio. That is Mr Ws credit card 
borrowing was in the region of £15,000 and his stated income at one time was £50,000 and 
at another time £40,000. I understand that Mr W was using the sale of the property to pay off 
unsecured debts he had accumulated. The difficulty with that is that the way that Mr W 
managed the credit card account indicates that he had difficulty living within his means.  It 
also meant that as Mr W was using the equity from the sale of the old property to pay off 
debts, the equity in the new property diminished. So, even though the mortgage was less, 
Nationwides exposure was greater. So, instead of the LTV being 61.95% as it was on the 
old property, it would then be - if the application succeeded - 85%.  Thats a significant 
increase in Nationwides risk. It should be said that Nationwide indicated that it would 
consider the application if the LTV was reduced similar to what it had been on the old 
property.
Mr W was applying for a mortgage that would allow him to port his mortgage product. I need 
to consider the effect of MCOB 11.6.3. In deciding whether to lend money, Nationwide has to 
consider the MCOB regulations. MCOB 11.6 - the responsible lending section of MCOB sets 
out that the lender has to consider the affordability of the mortgage contract. But under 
11.6.3 it doesnt have to consider the affordability of the mortgage if the new mortgage 
doesnt involve additional borrowing and there is no change to the terms of the regulated 
mortgage contract which is likely to be material to affordability. I can see that Nationwide 
appears to have reconsidered the matter because of this as it was like for like borrowing. But 
it wasnt entirely like for like as Nationwides exposure was increasing. 
The issue here appears to be one of risk rather than affordability. Because of Mr Ws high 
level of borrowing on credit cards compared to his income and the decreased security it 
would have in terms of LTV, Nationwide wasnt prepared to accept hat risk. That isnt a 
question of affordability. Mr W got a DIP which showed on Mr Ws income figures that the 
loan was affordable but Nationwide took the view that as Mr W wasnt living within his 
income, it needs a higher risk buffer in order to protect itself in the case of a default. The 
proposed purchase had a much higher LTV than the existing property and Nationwide didnt 
want to lend money at that level of risk. Thats not an unreasonable decision for Nationwide 
to make. Its requirement for a higher LTV may have prevented Mr W from buying this 
property but wouldnt have prevented him buying another one that met the LTV requirement. 
As Nationwides refusal was based on risk and not on affordability I cant see that MCOB 
11.6.3 benefits Mr W. It also seems to me that if Mr W had difficulty living within his means 
that giving him a mortgage with a high LTV would not have been in his interests as if there 
was a default, there was little margin for him to recover from it.  
  
My decision differs from that of our investigator whose view was that this was a situation 
where there was no requirement to consider affordability and Nationwide unfairly did so. But 
as I say above affordability wasnt the issue  it was one of risk.  So, I dont agree with her partial uphold of the complaint. I also believe that the ERC was applied fairly as Mr W went 
ahead with the sale of his property and redeemed his mortgage without porting it and under 
the terms of the mortgage product offer an ERC was payable. Subject to any further 
evidence or submissions I receive from Mr W or from Nationwide, my intention is not to 
uphold this complaint. 
I invited further comments or evidence from Mr W or from Nationwide by 12 January 2023. 
On 29 December 2022 Nationwide emailed to say that it had nothing further to add. I 
received no further submission from Mr W. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I reviewed my Provisional Decision and believe that it represents a fair outcome to this 
complaint. I appreciate that this will disappoint Mr W. Nationwide, because of Mr Ws history 
of unsecured debts and the level of his credit card debt to his income, didnt want to take on 
the risk of a default where the LTV on the property was so high and wasnt prepared to lend 
with this level of LTV. I dont consider that to be an unreasonable or unfair conclusion for 
Nationwide to come to and for the reasons set out above I cant fairly uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman