DRN-3382252
The complaint
Mrs E complained that Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk 
acted irresponsibly when it gave her unaffordable loans.
What happened
Mrs E took out two MoneyBoat loans as follows:
Loan Date taken Date repaid Instalments Amount Typical 
monthly  
repayment
1 21/12/17 16/3/2018 4 £250 £91.89
2 25/05/18 10/08/18 4 £250 £93.20
Mrs E mainly said that she had multiple credit accounts and she was borrowing to pay for 
other credit. She told us she was in severe debt on her mortgage, council tax and car and 
other credit agreements werent being paid. She is now financially stable but still feels the 
impact of the stress and worry this caused her.   
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mrs E and MoneyBoat told us about these loans. 
Overall, our adjudicator thought that given the loan amounts, what was apparent about 
Mrs Es circumstances and her history with the lender, it wouldnt have been proportionate 
for MoneyBoat to ask Mrs E for the amount of information needed to show the lending was 
unsustainable. Our adjudicator didnt think there was any reason why MoneyBoat shouldve 
been prompted to start checking what Mrs E had said about her financial situation. And our 
adjudicator didn't think that the number of loans Mrs E had taken out, the amounts shed 
borrowed or the length of time shed been borrowing from MoneyBoat shouldve alerted 
MoneyBoat to think she was having money problems. 
So he didnt uphold Mrs Es complaint. 
Mrs E disagreed with our adjudicators view and she has asked an ombudsman to make a 
final decision. So the complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Ive used this 
approach to help me decide this complaint. And having thought carefully about everything, 
I've independently come to the same conclusions as our adjudicator. Heres why I say this.
MoneyBoat provided Mrs E with high-interest loans intended for short-term use so it needed 
to make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. MoneyBoat was required to carry out 
proportionate checks to be able to understand whether any lending was sustainable for 
Mrs E before providing it. Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding 
whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a 
lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it 
does to verify that information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. But we might 
think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the amount lent 
was high. 
And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of it becoming 
unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect a lender to 
be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
MoneyBoat says it agreed to Mrs Es applications after carrying out creditworthiness and 
affordability checks. It relied on information Mrs E provided about her monthly income and 
expenditure as well thinking about national average expenditure for people in similar 
circumstances and looking at information obtained from a credit reference agency. It says 
the information it had about Mrs E showed that both loans were affordable for her. 
I've thought about each loan in turn.
loan 1
I dont think MoneyBoat was wrong to lend Mrs E loan 1. As this was her first MoneyBoat 
loan Mrs E didn't have any track record with the lender that shouldve alerted MoneyBoat to 
any underlying money problems. 
The information MoneyBoat had gathered about Mrs Es finances suggested that she was 
well able to afford this borrowing. It looks like she told MoneyBoat her take home pay was 
around £2,300 and she gave a breakdown of her expenses (which MoneyBoat boosted to 
allow a safety margin). This left her with almost £400  which shouldve been ample 
disposable income to cover the cost of the repayments on this loan.
Ive kept in mind what Mrs E said about her finances at the time. Its worth remembering that 
a lender might only see a small portion of a borrowers credit file, or some data might be 
missing or anonymised or not up to date. I also understand that not all payday and short 
term lenders report to the same credit reference agencies. So a lenders credit check might 
not show all the information someone could see (or expect to see) on their own credit file.
I've taken into account the information that appeared on credit checks that MoneyBoat 
carried out. 
It looks like MoneyBoats credit checks didnt show anything sufficiently adverse that 
shouldve prompted it to ask Mrs E more searching questions about her financial situation or 
check the information shed provided. MoneyBoat could see that in recent months some 
accounts had been flagged as delinquent so it was evident that she was showing early 
signs of some payment problems. But it was also apparent that she was maintaining other 
accounts within the account limits and there werent any serious black marks showing on her 
credit file in the checks MoneyBoat obtained such as defaults, bankruptcy or county court 
judgements.It isnt unusual for applicants for this type of high cost loan to have a credit history showing 
other borrowing or an impaired credit record  and these things wouldnt necessarily be 
reasons to prompt a responsible lender to decline a loan application if a loan otherwise 
looked affordable  as it did here. 
Looked at overall, I think the information MoneyBoat had gathered wasnt enough to suggest 
that Mrs E was likely to have any difficulty making the small repayments on loan 1. So I dont 
uphold Mrs Es complaint about loan 1.
loan 2
Mrs E repaid loan 1 early and took out loan 2 just over a week or so later  borrowing the 
same amount again as loan 1. But I dont think the size of the loan or the short gap between 
these loans was enough to make MoneyBoat think that it shouldnt have continued to lend to 
Mrs E. 
I dont think MoneyBoat wouldve had any reason to think that this loan wasnt likely to be 
sustainably affordable for Mrs E.
I cant fairly say that Mrs E had shown any signs that shed found it hard to pay for loan 1. 
MoneyBoat asked Mrs E to update the information she provided about her finances and 
updated its credit checks. The figures shed declared, and the information MoneyBoat had 
collected, seem to support MoneyBoats lending decision. 
Mrs E appears to have declared that her income was £2,600 when she applied for this loan. 
Some of her declared expenses had increased since she took out loan 1  other costs had 
gone down. But MoneyBoat boosted her expenses anyway to given her more of a safety 
margin when thinking about affordability. It looked like this should still have left her with 
around £700 disposable income.
And there wasnt anything in the credit check information that MoneyBoat could see that 
wouldve made MoneyBoat think that Mrs E would be likely to find it difficult to afford the 
repayments for loan 2 in a sustainable way. In some respects her financial situation looked 
like it had improved since she had taken out loan 1  her balance to limit ratio was now less 
than 100% - in other words, she hadnt fully used all her available credit. And the total 
balance owing on loans and instalment credit had improved by more than £2,000. Although 
her credit history now showed a default within the previous 12 months, I think its fair to say 
that whilst this was concerning, in my view it wasnt enough overall to have prompted a 
responsible lender to have declined this loan application. And I dont think that proportionate 
checks for this loan required MoneyBoat to take further steps to verify the information Mrs E 
had provided in support of her loan application.  
Overall, I cant say that I've seen enough to be able to uphold Mrs Es complaint about 
loan 2.
Im sorry that Mrs E found repaying these loans difficult. And I can appreciate Mrs Es 
concern that her financial situation wasnt fully reflected either in the information she 
provided or the other information MoneyBoat obtained. 
But, to sum up, MoneyBoats lending decisions dont seem unreasonable to me based on 
the information it had available at the time. And, at this stage of the lending relationship, and 
given these loan amounts, I dont think proportionate checks wouldve required MoneyBoat 
to ask Mrs E to prove what she was declaring or check other information sources to verify 
what she had told them (or omitted to say) about her financial circumstances. So I dont think 
MoneyBoat was wrong when it made the lending decisions it did based on the information it 
had at the time.I appreciate that this outcome will be disappointing for Mrs E but I hope that setting things 
out as I've done helps explain how Ive reached this conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mrs Es complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman