DRN-3797451
The complaint
Mrs K is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt reimburse her funds she lost as a result 
of fraud.
What happened
In early 2021, Mrs K was in a difficult financial position and was looking to make some 
money. 
She says that a friend of hers informed her of an investment opportunity theyd heard about 
which led to quick and substantial profits and pointed her in the direction of the investor that 
could help.
Mrs K contacted the investor and was told that, for a £1,000 deposit, could make a profit in 
the region of £5,000 in seven days. They also informed Mrs K that shed have to pay a 
release fee on the profit of £2,500. Due to the recommendation from her friend, the number 
of followers the social media account had and some positive testimonies on the page, Mrs K 
decided to proceed with the deposit.
On 22 February 2021 Mrs K transferred £1,000 to account details provided by the investor. 
Within approximately a day, the investor was messaging Mrs K claiming that shed made 
substantial gains. As each gain went over the threshold of the original £5,000 profit agreed, 
the release fee continued to increase.
Eventually, Mrs K was informed that her investment had achieved a £13,000 profit, and this 
in turn had increased the release fee to £5,650. Mrs K asked the investor to lock in the 
amount as she didnt want to pay any further fees, and this was agreed. 
On 24 February 2021, Mrs K transferred a further £5,650 to the investor, but it was after this 
point that shed realised shed been a victim of fraud.
Mrs K reported the matter to Barclays who looked into her claim. Barclays took the decision 
to take partial responsibility for the loss. It said that it could have intervened in the second 
payment as this was out of character and unusual for the account. But it also felt that Mrs K 
could have done more to ensure she was dealing with a legitimate investor and investment. 
It decided to refund Mrs K 50% of the funds lost: equating to £3,325. In addition to this, it 
managed to recover £341 from the beneficiary bank and also provided this back to Mrs K.
Mrs K remained unhappy as she felt Barclays should have done more to protect her: so, she 
referred her complaint to our service. An Investigator considered the evidence provided by 
both parties but felt Barclays had acted fairly in the circumstances. They concluded that 
Mrs K could have done more to ensure they were dealing with a legitimate person and 
investment. They also felt that the profit margins were too good to be true. As such, they felt 
that split liability was fair in the circumstances.
Mrs K, through a representative, disagreed. She pointed out that she was an inexperienced 
investor and therefore any due diligence checks would have been limited. She reiterated that 
the investment was recommended by a friend and that the social media page appeared to 
show the investor in a positive light.
As Mrs K disagreed with the Investigators assessment, the matter has now been passed to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required 
to take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
Ive also thought about the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(the CRM Code) which Barclays has signed up to. The CRM Code provides additional 
protection for the victims of APP scams, and Im satisfied from looking at the circumstances 
of this complaint that it falls within the scope of this code.
Despite offering additional protection, the CRM Code includes provisions allowing a firm not 
to reimburse losses fully where it can establish that a customer failed to take sufficient care 
when making the payment  referred to as the exceptions to reimbursement. This includes 
were a customer made a payment without a reasonable basis for believing that the person 
the customer was dealing with was legitimate, selling genuine goods, or that the payee was 
the person the customer was expecting to pay.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs K, but having considered the evidence carefully, Ive concluded 
that I wont be asking Barclays to do any more. Ive summarised my reasons why below:
Mrs K was a first-time investor, yet failed to take adequate steps to ensure she was 
dealing with a legitimate trader or business. No independent research was carried 
out outside the recommendation provided by Mrs Ks friend.
The investor in question was found via a social media channel that is not intended for 
the purposes of investments. It is also well known that unverified social media 
profiles cannot be confirmed as legitimate purely based on their following or posts.
Mrs K didnt heed some of the red flags presented to her throughout the course of the 
fraud. She was promised significant profits that would have been confirmed as 
unrealistic had she carried out sufficient research. She also ignored her own internal 
fears that she was being scammed prior to paying the release fee to the fraudster.
Some of the features of the fraud should have caused alarm. Mrs K wasnt asked for, 
or provided with, any form of paperwork relating to the investment. The fraudster 
displayed unprofessional behaviour in convincing her to send the funds. And, by 
Mrs Ks own admission, she couldnt understand why the release fee couldnt have 
been deducted from the overall profit.
Mrs K says that she was convinced by the scam after a trusted friend had 
recommended it to her. But Mrs K hasnt been able to provide evidence to support 
the fact that her friend had either participated in the investment or achieved a profit 
from it. Im therefore not persuaded that this would have been a convincing element 
in her decision to trust its legitimacy.
While I appreciate this may come as a disappointment to Mrs K, having considered all the 
available evidence, Im satisfied Barclays has been able to demonstrate an exception to 
reimbursement here.Mrs K has already been reimbursed 50% of her losses and has received an additional £341 
that was recovered from the beneficiary account. As such, I wont be asking Barclays to do 
any more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman