DRN-2851929
The complaint
Mr D complains that he made two international payments due to poor communication from
Santander UK Plc (Santander). 
What happened
On Saturday 12 September 2020, Mr D wanted to make an international payment of 
USD548. He made two online payments of USD548. He was debited with two amounts of
£466.59. He obtained a refund of £378.98 in respect of one payment  by calling the 
beneficiary in the US.
Mr D complained that when he used Santanders online banking payments to make the 
first payment (at 7.40 am), it didnt confirm it had been made. So  as the payment was 
urgent, he made the payment again  at 12.20pm. So  he made one extra payment 
which wasnt needed. He called Santander on the same day asked what had happened. 
He was told that the international payments team didnt work at weekends. But  the 
payments wouldnt be sent until Monday 14 September 2020. So, that team would call him 
when they saw two identical payments had been made and sort things out. They didnt 
call him. Later that day, he saw that two identical payments of £466.21 (£441.59 plus a 
fee of £25) had been made.
Santander said the call back to Mr D shouldve been made on the Monday but wasnt. 
They tried to recall one of the payments, unsuccessfully. They would consider introducing 
a pop- up to notify customers when payments might be duplicated. They refunded the fee 
of £25 for the second payment. Later, they told us that Mr D used a one-time password 
both times. And once the payment was successfully made, there would have been an on-
screen confirmation that it was successful. The Saturday was a non-working day, so 
payments in question were sent on the next working day  the Monday. Theyd tried to 
recall one payment, unsuccessfully, but Mr D had obtained a refund himself. They agreed 
that incorrect information was given to him on the call on Saturday 12 September 2020  
and offered to pay Mr D £62.61  the loss hed made on the second payment.
Mr D brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked at what had happened. 
He said Santander didnt need to do anymore. Hed looked at Santanders online payments 
process and saw that there was a summary screen which said the payment was successful. 
So  this wouldve happened in the case of Mr Ds first payment. He noted that Mr D had 
made online international payments before  so was aware of the process. He agreed that 
Santander said theyd call Mr D on Monday 14 September 2020  and they shouldve 
advised Mr D that the payments were to be processed on the Monday  but didnt. He saw 
that Santander had taken on board Mr Ds suggestions of a pop  up on possible duplicated 
payments. Santander had paid compensation of £25 and offered to pay the loss Mr D had 
incurred - £62.61. So, he felt that theyd acted reasonably.
Mr D asked that his complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
I reached a provisional decision where I said:
 
I take a slightly different view to our investigator.
 I can see how strongly Mr D feels about what happened. He doesnt want to accept 
Santanders offer of £62.61. He insists he didnt get an on-screen message about the first 
payment being successful. The website appeared to be malfunctioning. He was therefore 
unsure what had happened. And because the payment was urgent, he made it again. He 
felt that Santander didnt deal with his problems effectively when it became clear what had 
happened.
Santander have told us that a screen message would have been shown when a payment 
was made successfully. Ive looked at the sequence of screens that would have been 
shown for a payment  and after the details of the payment have been entered - a one-
time password (OTP - sent to Mr D) had to be entered to confirm the payment. Mr D has 
told us and Santander he received and input the OTP. And Ive seen the data that also 
says this happened. And then  a screen appears which says:
Confirmation: Transaction completed successfully.Thank you for your request. Please 
print or make a note of these transaction details as you may need them for future 
reference.
Mr D says he didnt get this. He says the screen went blank. Santander says he must 
have got the message. So, we have conflicting evidence here. Its just not possible to say 
with certainty whether the message did, or didnt, appear.
But  I dont think thats the key point in thinking about Mr Ds complaint here. He called 
Santander after hed made the second payment attempt. Ive listened to this call.
Santanders call handler told him that it looked like two payments had been accepted by 
Santanders system, but they wouldnt be sent or processed until the Monday (14 
September 2020). And the payments team would contact him on Monday morning 
because theyd see there were two identical payments  and theyd confirm with Mr D 
what to do  that is, there was a strong indication that one payment could be cancelled. 
And I can see that one payment was made at 6.38 am and the second at 11.55am. So, if 
Santander had called Mr D - as theyd promised - it wouldve been possible for the second 
payment to be stopped  and everything wouldve been put right. But, Santander didnt 
call Mr D. He wasnt to know about Santanders processes and  Mr D called them on 
Monday afternoon  which, by then, was too late  and a payment couldnt be cancelled.
So  as I see it, this amounted to a service failing by Santander, and this caused Mr D 
some distress and inconvenience. He had to call the US himself  several times - only
get a part refund from the beneficiary  and this took time and cost of calls.
 So, my provisional decision is that Santander should reimburse Mr D for distress and 
inconvenience. They should pay compensation of £200  this to include the amount of 
£62.61 theyve offered to pay already. Its in addition to the £25 theyve already paid to Mr S.
 Responses to the provisional decision:
Both Mr D and Santander accepted my findings.
So  I now need to reach a final decision.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both Mr D and Santander have accepted my findings, I wont be departing from what I 
said in my provisional decision and for the reasons I gave in it. So, Santander should do 
what I said in it.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
Santander UK Plc must pay compensation to Mr D of £200. This is in addition to the £25
already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman