DRN-3943618
The complaint
Mr L has complained that Highway Insurance Company Limited (Highway) unfairly declined 
a claim under his home insurance policy.
Mr L is represented by Mrs M on this complaint. So, I will normally only refer to Mrs M.
What happened
Mr L contacted Highway to make a claim for storm damage when he found damage to his 
propertys roof, some internal damage and damage to the shed roof. Highway sent a 
surveyor to assess the damage. The surveyor said the damage wasnt the result of storm 
damage and was the result of wear and tear. Mrs M disagreed with this, so Highway agreed 
to send another surveyor. The second surveyor said the damage was the result of pre-
existing issues and the internal damage had happened over time. 
When Mrs M complained, Highway maintained its decision to decline the claim. So, Mrs M 
complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said it was 
reasonable for Highway to rely on its surveyors findings and to decline the claim on the 
basis of wear and tear.
As Mrs M didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why. Im aware of all the points 
raised by Mr L and Mrs M, even if I dont comment on all of them here. Ive focussed on what 
in my view are the key issues in order to make a fair and reasonable decision.
When we look at a storm claim complaint, there are three main issues we consider:
1.    do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were only likely to uphold a complaint where the answer to all three questions is yes.
Ive looked at the weather conditions around the time of the claim. As part of that, Im aware 
there were three storms in the country in the period shortly before the claim. So, Ive 
considered the weather conditions over a few weeks. These showed wind gusts of up to 
60mph. The policy said storm winds were at least 47mph. I also think a storm could cause 
damage to a roof. So, I think the answer to both questions is yes.
So, Ive thought about the third question, which is whether the storm conditions were the 
main cause of the damage. Highway sent two surveyors. The first surveyor found that the 
missing slates were due to poor fixings and poor condition sarking boards, the shed roof had 
been fitted to rotted timbers and the internal damage wasnt consistent with a recent event. 
Mr L and Mrs M contacted Highway and said they had a lengthy report from the roofer about 
work that had previously been carried out on the roof. The roofer had also revisited to check 
all the work was intact. They disputed there had been poor workmanship. They said 
Highways surveyor also hadnt gone on the roof. Highway asked Mr L and Mrs M to provide 
the roofers report. 
Im aware Mrs M raised concerns about the first surveyor, including saying he was dishonest 
and had provided a different cause of damage during the visit. Given Highway considered 
additional evidence provided by Mrs M and also sent a second surveyor, I dont think it made 
its decision based specifically on the findings of the first surveyor. I also dont think its 
unusual for an insurer to send a second surveyor when a policyholder provides additional 
information, such as Mrs M did about the previous work on the roof, to see if this changed its 
view about the cause of the damage. I should also note that Ive based my decision on all of 
the evidence, including taking into account the concerns raised by Mrs M.
When the second surveyor visited, he didnt find evidence of storm damage. The surveyor 
noted slipped slates and deteriorated chimney mortar. He said this had allowed rainwater to 
enter the bathroom and bedroom over a period of time, leading to the internal damage. Ive 
also looked at the photos, which show the damage identified in the surveyors reports.
Ive also considered all the evidence provided by Mrs M. Ive looked at the documents 
showing the work carried out by the builder. Ive also looked at the article about storm 
damage to a nearby church. It isnt in dispute there was a storm, but these dont show that 
the main cause of damage to Mr L and Mrs Ms property was the storm. 
Mrs M also provided a report from someone who had inspected the property. Im aware of 
the qualifications and expertise Mrs M has said the person has. The report described why 
the person assessed that the source of the damage was external to the property. The report 
noted there was some minor missing pointing but said this wasnt enough to have caused 
the water damage seen. The report also said there had been windspeeds of almost 100mph 
and it was clear these winds could have easily caught the flashing and felt on the gable ridge 
and upturned the skew stones causing water to penetrate and trickle down internally leading 
to the water damage. I note that even if there were windspeeds up to 100mph elsewhere 
during the storms, I havent seen evidence this was the case close to the property. I think 
this makes it difficult to put as much weight on these findings as accurately describing the 
likely cause of damage, as they are written in the context of different, much more severe, 
weather conditions than happened locally.
Ive also thought about the internal damage. Im aware Mrs M has said if there had been 
visible damage, she would have dealt with it. She provided evidence of previous work 
carried out, including when water damaged the bathroom ceiling a couple of years earlier. 
Neither of Highways surveyors assessed the internal damage to be the result of a one-off 
event. 
Ive also looked at the photos. These show the damage, including mould and other issues. 
Im aware that mould can start to grow fairly quickly. Im also aware there were a few places 
where the water penetrated and that Mrs Ms own expert described the water as trickling into 
the property. Having thought about all the evidence, Im not persuaded that this shows the 
internal damage was more likely the result of a one-off storm event.Im also aware Mrs M has said she had complained about the impact of the claim on being 
able to sell the property. Highway has said this wasnt raised as part of the complaint. I also 
havent seen evidence that this was part of the complaint. Im aware Mrs M has said this was 
raised during phone calls with Highway, but I havent seen evidence that this was specifically 
raised as part of the complaint. Highway has said that if Mrs M now wishes to raise this, it 
will consider it as a new complaint. I think that is fair in the circumstances. I also dont 
consider this affects my ability to make a fair decision about the claim.
Based on what Ive seen, I think it was reasonable for Highway to rely on its own experts 
evidence. I think overall this was more persuasive than the evidence provided by Mrs M. So, 
I think it was fair for Highway to decline the claim on the basis of wear and tear, as the storm 
seemed to highlight pre-existing issues rather than causing them.
So, having consider all of the above, including all of the evidence provided by both parties, I 
dont uphold this complaint or require Highway to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman