DRN-3794188
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that Metro Bank PLC wont refund money he lost as a result of a scam.
 
What happened
In March 2020, Mr Rs partner was looking online for investment opportunities. She came 
across an advert and left her contact details. Soon afterwards she was contacted by 
someone who claimed to represent a genuine investment company. Unfortunately, they 
were actually a fraudster. 
Mr Rs partner made an initial investment of £252.11 using another bank account. She could 
see this amount added to a trading account provided by the fraudsters. Mr Rs partner was 
given an account manager and kept in regular contact with her and Mr R via instant 
messages and phone calls. 
Mr Rs partner was told that if she kept investing, she could make £1,000,000 in a year. To 
add credibility to their claims, Mr Rs partner was allowed to make a small withdrawal from 
her trading account. 
Between August and September 2020, a series of payments were made from Mr Rs 
account at another bank (that Ill call H) to the fraudsters (mostly via several legitimate third 
parties). I understand that Mr Rs partner also sent money to the fraudsters from her own 
accounts.
From late September 2020, Mr R began to make payments to the fraudsters (via a different 
legitimate third party) from his Metro account. The first payment was for £20,000 and in total 
he sent over £115,000.
In late October 2020, H blocked a payment Mr R was trying to make. It had detected that 
remote access software was being used when the payment was attempted and it was 
concerned that Mr R was falling victim to a scam. I understand that Mr R was asked to 
attend a branch of H and spoke to its fraud team from there. He ultimately decided not to go 
ahead with the payment but is quoted as saying that he was sure that the fraudulent trading 
platform was not a scam. The notes made by H of that conversation also quote Mr R as 
saying:
"when you buy bitcoin it goes into your wallet and from there you send it onto another 
recipient and thats the person who is actually in control of the trading account- Ive had the 
account for about a year and never had a problem with it 
And, when asked about the remote access, he is quoted as saying:
"thats a guy I know on a trading platform who was showing me something-yeah I have an 
awesome relationship with this person and he is very trustworthy"
Mr R also says that he hadnt been contacted by a third party and had opened the account 
himself. 
After Mr R and his partner were told that theyd need to pay a very substantial sum of money 
into their trading account in order to withdraw their investment, they realised theyd been the 
victim of a scam and reported the matter to Metro. Mr R argued that the payments they 
made were very unusual and out of character and that Metro should have been alert to the 
possibility he was falling victim to a scam.
Metro said that the payments were not covered under the Lending Standards Board 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code), which might have otherwise required it to 
refund him, and that he should take the matter up with the legitimate intermediary.
The matter was referred to our service but one of our investigators didnt uphold the 
complaint. They thought that Metro should have questioned the first payment before it left Mr 
Rs account but, had it done so, Mr R would still have gone ahead with the payments.
Mr R, through his representatives, disagreed. He argued that he would have listened to the 
bank had it intervened and given him a clear warning. 
In advance of my final decision, the notes provided by H were put to Mr R. His 
representatives said that he had generally been honest in his response  acknowledging the 
use of remote access software and that a third party was operating the trading account. 
They questioned how well the staff at H had explained the scam risk and thought that Metro 
should have also been able to identify that remote access software was being used by the 
fraudster. 
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point for my considerations, under the terms of his account and the relevant 
regulations, is that Mr R is responsible for payments hes authorised himself. But Metro is a 
signatory of the CRM Code and also has longstanding obligations to be on the lookout for 
unusual and out of character transactions to help protect against (among other things) the 
risk of financial harm from fraud. 
The CRM Code does not apply to these payments as it requires a payment to be made to 
another person. It is undisputed that these payments went to Mr Rs own account at the 
legitimate third party in the first instance. 
Like the investigator, I think that the first payment was unusual for Mr R. It was for a 
significant sum, to a new payee and was much larger than any of the (albeit limited) activity 
that had come before it. So, given the risk associated with the payment, I think Metro ought 
to have made enquiries with Mr R before it debited his account. 
Metro didnt intervene then (or at any other point), so its not possible for me to know 
whether such an intervention would have made a difference to Mr Rs decision to continue 
with the payments. So, Ive had to reach a decision on the balance of probabilities. Clearly 
the best evidence of what might have happened are the notes provided by H. Its unfortunate 
that H was not able to provide a call recording and its apparent that some of the 
observations H made, were made in hindsight, after the scam had been reported to it. For 
example, although the name of the investment company is mentioned in the notes, it doesnt 
appear that Mr R disclosed (or was necessarily asked for) the name of the fraudulent investment company at the time he made the payments (a warning about the fraudsters not 
being authorised existed on the Financial Conduct Authority website prior to Mr R making 
the payments in dispute).
We do know that H detected the use of remote access and, taking the quotes at face value, 
although Mr R denied having been contacted by a third party and was adamant that he was 
not falling victim to a scam, he does seem to describe a hallmark of this kind of scam: 
moving money first to a legitimate provider and then on to a trading account. He also 
acknowledges that someone on, or related to, a trading platform is the person who has had 
remote access to his computer. 
So, Ive thought carefully about both the position that Metro was in and the comments Mr R 
made to H to decide what I think might have happened had it intervened.
Metros position was slightly different to that of H. Metro says if it had detected remote 
access being used, it would have blocked Mr Rs account. The fact it didnt suggests that it 
didnt detect such activity (neither is it clear that Mr R has actually suggested that remote 
access was active when he made the payments from Metro). The notes provided by H 
suggest that its comments around remote access are, at least in part, what prompted Mr R 
to reveal the involvement of a third party. Given Mr Rs confidence that he was not falling 
victim to a scam, I think, on balance, that he wouldnt have volunteered this information if he 
didnt have to explain why remote access was being used. 
The payments from H also went straight to a cryptocurrency provider. The payments from 
Metro went to a foreign exchange firm. While the latter still carries risk, the former, in 
conjunction with the fact that the cryptocurrency was being moved to a broker bear all the 
hallmarks of a cryptocurrency scam. So, had Metro intervened, I dont think it would 
reasonably have been as concerned about the activity as H was, and ought to have been. 
Ive also thought about Mr Rs reported comments about the broker  how highly he thought 
of this person. I know that Mr R has mentioned that he and his partner had contact over a 
messaging service with this person, but he hasnt produced any evidence of those 
conversations. That leaves me concerned that those conversations would only reinforce the 
impression I have of a strong bond between Mr R and the fraudster, one that Metro might 
have found it difficult to break down.
Its notable that Mr R voluntarily decided not to proceed with the payment that H blocked. Hs 
notes show that he was asked to attend a branch, but when he arrived hed already decided 
not to proceed. But it doesnt appear that the scrutiny of, and concern about, the payment 
was what deterred him  as he went on to make a payment of the same amount the 
following day from his account at Metro. And, while its difficult to know exactly what was 
said during those interactions or how well the risk was explained, it seems likely that the 
possibility that Mr R was being scammed was raised (as it was necessary for Mr R to deny 
that was happening). The fact Mr R went on to make a payment of the same size from 
another bank, may suggest that he was trying to avoid any further scrutiny by H. 
Like the investigator Im also conscious that Mr R had already invested a significant sum of 
money and had been promised life changing returns. I have to take into account that he 
would be reluctant to give up such an opportunity. I further note that he had some 
experience of trading and much of what the fraudsters said resonated with him  he believed 
he understood the terminology and methods they employed. I think he would have appeared 
to bank staff as someone who was confident about what he was doing. Again, these factors 
make it difficult to see how an intervention by Metro would have made a difference.Overall, the evidence from H suggests that Mr R was very confident about the investment he 
was making, he placed a significant amount of trust in the fraudulent broker and was 
confident that he was not falling victim to a scam. And, though Mr R did reveal concerning 
aspects of his investment to H, it was in a better position to identify the potential scam risk, 
given it had identified remote access and that the payments were being made to a 
cryptocurrency provider (both hallmarks of a cryptocurrency investment scam). Metro was 
not in such a position and Im not persuaded that it would have been able to elicit the same 
level of detail from Mr R had it intervened and provided a warning to him. And, I dont think it 
would have been able to dissuade him from making the first payment (or any payment after 
that) and prevented his loss.
Finally, as the payments were sent to an account in Mr Rs name, before being sent to the 
fraudsters overseas, it wouldnt have been possible for Metro to recover them. 
Im sorry that Mr R has lost money to such a cruel and cynical scam. I understand that this 
decision will be extremely disappointing for him, but I dont find that Metro are responsible for 
his loss.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman