DRN-2756747
The complaint
Mr W and Miss B complain that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) has turned down a 
cancellation claim they made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
In early February 2020, Mr W and Miss B booked a trip to a city in northern Italy. On 26 
February 2020, they took out a single trip travel insurance policy to cover their trip. They 
were due to travel between 1 and 5 April 2020.
However, as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, on 8 March 2020, the Foreign & 
Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all but essential travel to the region of Italy Mr 
W and Miss B were planning to travel to. The airline cancelled their flights and Mr W and 
Miss B cancelled their trip. They were able to recover their air fares from the airline, but they 
werent able to recover their costs from their hotel. So they made a cancellation claim on 
their travel insurance policy for their accommodation costs.
URV turned down Mr W and Miss Bs claim. It said the cancellation section of the policy 
didnt cover claims which arose due to the FCO advising against all but essential travel.
Mr W and Miss B were unhappy with URVs decision and they asked us to look into their 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think URV had treated Mr W and Miss B fairly. She considered the 
policy terms and the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID). She accepted that the 
policy terms didnt include cancellation claims which were down to changes in FCO 
guidance. So she agreed that strictly, Mr W and Miss Bs claim wasnt covered by the policy 
terms. However, she didnt think it was fair or reasonable for Mr W and Miss B to have been 
left without any cover. 
She noted that the general exclusions of the policy included a restriction on cover if a 
policyholder travelled against FCO advice, which was also set out on the IPID. But she felt 
the impact of this exclusion meant that a policyholder wasnt covered if they did travel and 
wasnt covered if they cancelled. This effectively left them without any cover. The 
investigator didnt think the impact of this restriction on cover had been highlighted clearly 
enough in the policy booklet and the IPID. And she felt Mr W and Miss B wouldve had to 
read the full policy documentation to understand the full effect. She felt the fact there was no 
cover at all under the policy once the FCO advice guidance changed meant there was a 
significant imbalance between the rights of Mr W and Miss B and URV. She didnt think this 
was fair and she wasnt persuaded that Mr W and Miss B wouldve taken the policy if theyd 
understood the limitation on cover.
She also noted that while the hotel had offered Mr W and Miss B a credit voucher for the 
value of their stay, itd only offered to extend the voucher until 30 April 2021 and had refused 
to extend it any further. So she felt Mr W and Miss B had taken reasonable steps to try and 
recover their losses. On this basis, she felt the fair outcome would be for URV to pay the 
claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.  
URV disagreed. It said there were policies available which wouldve covered Mr W and Miss 
Bs situation, but theyd chosen to take a cheaper policy. It stated that the cancellation 
section of the policy set out a very short list of what was covered, which wasnt confusing or 
ambiguous in any way. And it said the exclusion wasnt meant for the current unprecedented 
scenario and it isnt routinely applied. It added that in this case, it was immaterial, because it 
didnt think there was any evidence Mr W and Miss B were intending to travel.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think URV has treated Mr W and Miss B fairly. Ill explain why.
Relevant regulatory rules
Relevant regulatory rules (the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) Principles for 
Business) say that a firm should pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat 
them fairly. 
The FCAs Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) requires insurers to act 
honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its customer. It 
also requires insurers to handle claims promptly and fairly. 
ICOBS 6 also requires insurers to give customers appropriate information about a policy in 
good time and in a way that is easy to understand. This is so the customer can make an 
informed decision about the cover and whether or not to enter into an insurance contract. 
Appropriate information includes the information that must be set out in an Insurance 
Product Information Document (IPID) which gives customers an at a glance summary of 
their cover. This includes a summary of the insurance cover, including the main things the 
policy covers; the sum insured and if applicable, the geographical area the policy covers. 
Insurers must also include a list of the main things the policy doesnt cover.
The FCAs The Responsibilities of Providers and Distributors for the Fair Treatment of 
Customers, which also forms relevant regulatory guidance, states that financial businesses 
should consider the impact of their actions or inactions on customers throughout the lifecycle 
of the service being provided.
Ive also borne in mind the relevant law, which includes the unfair terms provisions in the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015.
The policy terms and conditions
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Mr W and Miss Bs policy, as this forms the 
basis of their contract with URV. Ive also carefully considered the information set out in the 
IPID.
The cancellation section of the policy sets out the specified risks URV covers. These are 
death, illness or injury; summons for jury service or as a witness in a court of law; 
compulsory redundancy; requirements of the armed forces or a force majeure event delaying 
outward departure by more than 24 hours. Its clear that cancellation due to changes in FCO 
guidance arent included in this list.The terms and conditions of Mr W and Miss Bs policy, at page 4 under the heading Criteria 
for Purchase say:
This insurance will only be valid if, at the time you bought the policy, everyone
Are not travelling to an area that is classified as Advise against all travel or Advise 
against all but essential travel by the Foreign and Commonwealth Office at the time 
of your departure. 
At page 11, URV has also included a list of General Exclusions which apply to the whole 
policy. One of these states:
We cannot cover you if:
You are travelling against the advice or recommendations published by the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office applicable at the time of your departure.
The IPID states, on page 2, under the Where am I covered section:
You will not be covered if you travel to a country or region where the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office has advised against all travel or all but essential travel.
Mr W and Miss Bs trip was cancelled as a result of the FCO advising against all but 
essential travel to their intended destination. So URV concluded, on a strict interpretation of 
the contract, that their claim isnt covered by the policy terms. And, I agree this is correct. 
What is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances
But I can depart from a strict interpretation of the policy terms if I feel it produces an unfair 
result. In this case, if Mr W and Miss B had travelled as planned, they wouldve been 
travelling against FCO advice. This means their policy wouldve been invalidated and they 
wouldnt have been entitled to any cover at all under the policy, under any section. So if Mr 
W and Miss B had travelled, despite the FCO advice, their policy wouldve been of no value 
to them whatsoever. In effect then, Mr W and Miss B were left in a position where they 
werent covered if they travelled and they werent covered if they cancelled their trip. And in 
my view, I dont think its fair and reasonable - in the circumstances of this case  for Mr W 
and Miss B to have no cover when they were left with no option but to cancel their trip 
following the change in FCO advice.
Ive thought carefully about URVs comments that the cancellation section only includes a 
short, clearly set-out list of the events which it covers. But I dont think the fact that the policy 
excludes cover for cancellation claims which happen due to the FCO advising against travel 
was clearly sign-posted to Mr W and Miss B. And I also dont think the implications of this 
were made clear to them. I think this has left Mr W and Miss B in an unfair position.
An IPID is designed to make sure that customers have essential information about the
policy in a way thats easy to understand. However, I dont think the FCO exclusion is
prominent in the IPID. And the What is not insured section of the IPID doesnt include 
cancellation claims which arise because of FCO advising against all but essential travel. The 
IPID only sets out the general exclusion that policyholders wont be covered if they travel 
against FCO advice in the Where am I covered? section I referred to above.
Neither the Criteria for Purchase section of the policy nor the FCO exclusion in Mr W and 
Miss Bs policy specifically state that no cover is provided for cancellation of a holiday in the event of FCO advice changing between the date the policy was purchased and the 
policyholders date of departure.
Page 3 of Mr W and Miss Bs policy includes a Summary of Cover Limits. This sets out that 
URV will cover up to £7500 for cancellation claims. The same limit is set out on the IPID. 
The IPID refers a policyholder to check their full policy terms for full details about what the 
policy covers and the Summary of Cover mentions that the cover is subject to the policy 
terms and conditions. This means then that a consumer would need to go further into the 
detail of the policy wording to work out whether they could claim if they had to cancel their 
trip because of changes to FCO guidance after theyd bought their policy.
Page 17 of the policy document sets out the cancellation cover URV provides and the 
specified risks it insures. But I note that the specific exclusions applying to this section of the 
policy dont include a change in FCO guidance. Instead, claims for this reason are 
something that arent listed as included and policyholders are told that they wont be covered 
for one of the reasons set out on page 11. So a consumer would also need to cross refer this 
information with the IPID and page 11 of the policy to understand that they werent covered 
for cancellation due to a change in FCO advice.
I dont think the exclusion from cover of cancellation claims is clear or transparent enough. 
The cancellation cover set out on page 17, is in plain English. But the FCO exclusion isnt 
presented in the same place. So I dont think it would be obvious to a policyholder that they 
would have no cover whatsoever under the policy if FCO advice changed in respect of their 
destination after they purchased their policy. Even with a cooling-off period, I think a 
consumer might not be able to easily understand the full implications of the FCO exclusion 
upon their cover. I think the way the cancellation section of cover and the FCO exclusion 
under the general exclusions section are presented separately means their combined effect 
isnt clear.
In the circumstances, I think this is unfair and results in a significant imbalance between
the rights of Mr W and Miss B and URV. Mr W and Miss B were left without any cover at all 
when the FCO advice changed, and this shifted the rights and obligations under the contract 
significantly in URVs favour. I think that the terms and conditions didnt properly take Mr W 
and Miss Bs interests into account. And Im not persuaded Mr W and Miss B wouldve freely 
agreed to a policy that left them without any cover in these circumstances if theyd realised 
that was how the policy would operate.
So, overall, I think the way the information about the cover available under this policy is
presented is not fair, and URV wasnt acting in the best interests of its customer when
presenting the information in this way.  
Ive gone on to think about how URV should put things right. I appreciate that the policy only 
covers cancellation costs which cant be recovered from elsewhere. Im mindful that when 
the trip was first cancelled, Mr W and Miss Bs accommodation provider offered them a 
credit voucher which would be valid for 12 months. In some circumstances, I might decide 
that such a voucher did represent fair recovery of their costs. 
However, Mr W and Miss B have provided evidence that in February 2021, they asked the 
hotel for the voucher to be extended. The hotel only offered an extension until 30 April 2021 
 which has now passed. And Mr W and Miss B werent in a position to use the voucher 
during that time, given that the FCO advice against travel remained in place during this 
period. So I too think that Mr W and Miss B have taken reasonable steps to recover their 
accommodation costs and have shown that theyre effectively irrecoverable. This means I 
think the fair outcome in the circumstances of this case is for URV to now pay the balance of 
their claim.   My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr W and Miss Bs 
complaint.  
I direct Union Reiseversicherung AG to pay Mr W and Miss Bs claim in line with the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy and any applicable excesses. URV must also 
add interest to the settlement at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date of claim until the 
date of settlement.
*If URV considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr W and Miss B how much its taken off. It should also give them 
a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Miss B 
to accept or reject my decision before 3 August 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman