DRN-3809858
The complaint
Mr M and Ms N are unhappy with what Aspen Insurance UK Limited did after they made a 
claim on their wedding insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr M and Ms N were originally due to get married in September 2020 on a Saturday. 
However, their wedding couldnt go ahead because of the Covid-19 pandemic. It 
subsequently took place in July 2021 but on a Thursday. Mr M and Ms N said the cost of a 
Thursday wedding was £2000 less than a Saturday. As the venue wouldnt refund this 
amount they made a claim on their insurance for that and a deposit paid to a photographer. 
Aspen agreed the claim for the lost deposit. But it didnt think the claim for the difference in 
cost between a Saturday and a Thursday was covered by their policy. It accepted there had 
been some customer service failings when dealing with the claim and offered £200 for these. 
Our investigator said for rearrangement claims the policy only covered additional costs. In 
this case Mr M and Ms N hadnt paid any more for their wedding so he agreed the difference 
between a Thursday and a Saturday wasnt something their policy covered. And he thought 
the £200 Aspen had agreed to pay for customer service failings was fair. 
Mr M and Ms N didnt agree. They said the venue told them the amount paid for their original 
date had been forfeited and it had then offered a free date as a gift. So they thought this 
should be considered as a cancellation claim meaning Aspen should refund the full amount 
theyd paid for the venue (£6000). And they had lost money because theyd paid £2000 more 
for the Thursday wedding date than it should have cost. So I need to reach a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked first at the terms and conditions of Mr M and Ms Ns policy. The policy defines 
cancellation as Not going ahead with the wedding or wedding reception before its 
commencement but with an intention to rearrange it at a later date (except in the case of 
death or severe illness of either of the prospective marriage or civil partners)
Under Section 1 Cancellation, curtailment or rearrangement it says: 
We will pay up to the amount shown in the Schedule in total for any irrecoverable expenses 
you have paid for or which you have to pay for, under contract or subsequent agreement for 
the services of any wedding services supplier not used as a direct result of the unavoidable 
cancellation by you of the wedding or wedding reception  
In the event of rearrangement it says In the event of a covered event in Part I or II above we 
will pay up to the amount in the Schedule in total to reimburse you for reasonable and 
necessary additional costs incurred in rearranging the wedding and/or wedding reception to 
the same standard as allowed for by the amount originally spent or committed to.
Additional costs are defined as the difference between the original cost of the
wedding/wedding reception services and the rearranged wedding/wedding reception 
services less any amount paid by us to you as indemnity under Section 1 Parts I or II of this 
policy.
For a claim to be covered under this section at all the cancellation, curtailment or 
rearrangement must result from one of the reasons set out in the policy. I think Aspen has 
accepted the claim Mr M and Ms N made did result from one of those reasons because it 
agreed the claim they made for the cost of a deposit to their photographer. 
The issue is whether the amount Mr M and Ms N paid their venue for a Saturday wedding is 
covered by their policy. Theyve argued this aspect should be considered as a cancellation 
claim but I dont think that is the case. While their original wedding didnt go ahead that was 
because Mr M and Ms N had already agreed alternative dates with their venue some months 
before the wedding was due to take place. And the cancellation section only provides cover 
where a wedding service hasnt been used. 
I appreciate the venue has said the original amount Mr M and Ms N paid for their wedding 
was forfeit and it then offered a free replacement date. But Mr M and Ms N describe the 
July 2021 wedding as taking place on a rearranged date and I think that does reflect the 
reality of what happened; Mr M and Ms N agreed with the venue to reschedule their original 
date to May 2021 and in February 2021 agreed a further rearrangement to July of that year. 
Given that I dont think Aspen did anything wrong in considering this as a claim under the 
rearrangement section of their policy. 
The claim Mr M and Ms N made is essentially that they overpaid for their wedding because a 
Thursday costs less than the Saturday theyd originally planned. I appreciate their argument 
is the wedding wasnt therefore to the same standard and would meet that section of the 
policy wording. But the policy also makes clear its additional costs (as defined in the policy) 
that are covered. 
In this case Mr M and Ms N havent incurred any additional costs; theyve paid the same 
amount for their venue. I recognise why they nevertheless think theyve suffered a loss but in 
common with other insurance policies theirs doesnt cover them for every eventuality. Given 
their claim isnt for additional costs I think Aspen acted fairly in saying this wasnt covered by 
their policy. I also think the £200 its paid for customer service failings is reasonable. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Ms N to accept or reject my decision before 
12 January 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman