DRN-1548787
 
The complaint
Mr W complains that Lloyds Bank PLC provided him with a loan which he says wasn't 
affordable. 
What happened
In May 2016 Mr W arranged a meeting with Lloyds to discuss and review his financial 
position. At the time he had a loan with Lloyds with just under £6,000 outstanding and a 
credit card debt of nearly £11,000. He also had two further credit cards with other providers 
to which he owed around £3,000 in total. Based on minimum payments on the credit card 
debt, his total payments on the loan and other borrowing were just over £500 a month. 
Lloyds recommended that Mr W consolidate the loan and four credit card balances into a 
single loan. It offered him a loan of just under £20,000 at a fixed interest rate of 16.6% a year 
over 60 months. The monthly payments would be £478.33. The loan was agreed and Mr W's 
existing loan and Lloyds credit card cleared; it appears though that he continued to make 
payments to the other credit card providers, suggesting he didn't use the balance of the loan 
to repay them. 
In August 2019 Mr W complained to Lloyds, saying that he didn't think he should have been 
given the loan. His income at the time was, he said, temporary and, combined with his 
expenditure, meant that couldn't afford the monthly loan repayments. The bank said that it 
hadn't been told that Mr W's income was temporary and that his bank statements and the 
information he'd provided indicated that he could afford the repayments. It said that the 
monthly repayments for the loan were some £30 less than he had been paying, so it had 
actually saved him money each month. It noted too that Mr W had been made redundant a 
year earlier, and this would have affected his ability to make the loan repayments. It didn't 
feel that it was wrong to make the loan available to Mr W, but provided him with information 
about debt advice organisations which could help him.
Mr W referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered what Mr 
W had said. She thought that Lloyds had treated Mr W fairly when it agreed the loan. It had 
made appropriate checks before doing so. Mr W didn't accept the investigator's conclusions 
and asked that an ombudsman review them. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, however, I've reached 
broadly the same conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar reasons.
I'll discuss first of all the consequences of the loan having been agreed, rather than declined 
as Mr W says he thought it would be. Had the loan funds been applied against existing debt 
- as had been the intention -  Mr W's overall monthly outgoings would have reduced by 
around £30. That is, it made his ongoing financial situation better than it had been. I note however that, while the interest rate was lower than that on his previous loan, it was 
higher than the rate he had been paying on his Lloyds credit card. Against that, the loan 
included a repayment schedule; had Mr W paid no more than the minimum each month on 
his credit card debt, he would have still been paying it long after the loan had been repaid. 
But, since the monthly payments were lower, it follows that, on a monthly basis at least, the 
new arrangements were more affordable than the old ones. 
Lenders should make appropriate checks to ensure a lender can afford a loan before 
agreeing to one. What that might involve depends on a number of factors, but there's 
generally no obligation in a case such as this for the lender to check, for example, that what 
it's been told about income is correct. Lloyds included what Mr W told it about his income 
and expenditure as part of its affordability assessment; that didn't suggest that his 
employment was temporary. 
The information provided to Lloyds did indicate that Mr W could afford the monthly 
payments; the fact that they were less than they had been previously supports that view. I 
note as well that Mr W contacted the bank when he was made redundant - indicating that it 
may have been a change in circumstances that led to difficulties in making payments. That 
is, of course, unfortunate, and I note the bank provided information about organisations that 
could help, as I'd expect it to. It doesn't follow however that Lloyds should not have provided 
the loan in the first place. 
Overall, therefore, I'm satisfied that Lloyds made appropriate checks before agreeing to the 
loan. Even if I were to reach a different view on that, however, I'm not persuaded that Mr W's 
position was any worse, since the new loan repayments were less than he had been paying 
each month.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't require Lloyds Bank PLC to take any further steps to resolve 
Mr W's complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2020.
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman