DRN-2587387
The complaint
Ms J complains that Next Retail Limited took two payments from her card and were slow to 
refund the duplicate payment. Ms J also complains that Next were slow to refund her for 
items she had returned and gave her conflicting information.
What happened
Ms J said that on the 2 April 2020 two payments of £59.50 were taken from her card and 
applied to her credit account with Next. Ms J said that she was initially told that this was her 
error and then told that it was an error by Next. Ms J said that she had to send numerous 
emails trying to sort matters out and initially only the credit portion of the duplicated payment 
was refunded.
Ms J said that she then had problems getting a refund credited to her account for items she 
had returned. Ms J then made a subject access request (SAR) for information which she 
says Next was slow to respond to.
Next say that it refunded Ms J for all of the incorrect transactions. It said that as far as it 
could tell the payment was duplicated by Ms J, but it nevertheless refunded the payment. It 
paid Ms J £15 in total for the inconvenience caused by the discrepancies. Ms J wasnt happy 
and brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and didnt think that Next had done anything wrong. 
They thought that Next had refunded Ms J promptly and the situation was resolved within a 
reasonable timeframe. They thought that the compensation paid was fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances. They explained we couldnt look into the handling of the SAR request. Ms 
J didnt agree and said that Next had been slow and this had caused trouble and upset and 
many emails to resolve. Ms J asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at matters afresh and considered all of the information provided. The facts are 
well known and so I wont repeat them in this decision. Instead I will focus on giving reasons 
for my conclusions.
Ms J says that she was told that it was an error by Next that the payment was taken twice. 
Next agree that Ms J was given that information but that it was incorrect. I dont think I need 
to decide who was at fault  the payment was made twice, and it was a mistake.
The payments were made on 2 April 2020. Ms J emailed Next to query her account balance 
just minutes after the two payments of £59.50 were made. At that stage she was presumably 
not aware that the payment had been duplicated. Ms J raised a number of queries on her 
account relating to items she said she had returned that had not been credited.
On 4 April 2020 Next replied to Ms Js email and highlighted that £119 had been paid and 
the credit portion had been refunded. Ms J responded to that email and stated that the 
payments were incorrect, and she had not made a payment of £119 and the issues in her 
email had not been dealt with. I can see there were a few emails exchanged over the course 
of the next few days. It appears that Next were not taking calls because of the pandemic and 
so Ms Js query was dealt with via email. On 11 April 2020 Next confirmed that the rest of 
the duplicate payment had been refunded.
Ms J confirmed in her reply on 11 April 2020 that she was happy with the refund but 
requested compensation for the stress caused. Next agreed to credit her account with £5. 
Ms J replied via email on 12 April stating that she was unhappy with the offer and requesting 
confirmation of her balance. Next replied the same day agreeing to pay a further £10 
compensation, confirming the interest charge had been removed and advising that Ms Js 
balance was £21.36.   
On 13 April 2020 Ms J identified that some wallpaper had been incorrectly charged when it 
had been returned. On 14 April 2020 Next asked Ms J to confirm whether the wallpaper had 
been returned or not received. On 17 April 2020 Next confirmed that the wallpaper had been 
refunded in full.  
On 17 April 2020 Ms J emailed Next again as she had received a further statement and she 
was unhappy with the interest charged on her account. Ms J requested a refund of £2.36 as 
she considered this reflected the running total. On the 30 April 2020 Next replied and agreed 
to refund the amount requested.
I can see why Ms J was frustrated with Next as she was emailing two different departments 
and trying to sort out the issues was time consuming over email. However, I think that Next 
did resolve those issues within a reasonable timeframe and refunded Ms J promptly. 
This service doesnt punish businesses for mistakes and the awards we make are generally 
modest. I accept that Ms J did send several emails and it may have been easier to deal with 
matters over the phone, but this wasnt possible because of the pandemic. However, in the 
circumstances I cant say that Nexts payment of £15 was unreasonable to compensate Ms J 
for the trouble and upset caused.
As our investigator had explained, this service cant look into the issues relating to the SAR 
and Ms J may need to pursue this aspect of her complaint with the ICO if she feels it has not 
been properly dealt with. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2021.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman