DRN-3234164
The complaint
Miss L complains that a car acquired with finance from Moneybarn No 1 Limited wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
What happened
In January 2020 Miss L was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional sale 
agreement with Moneybarn. At the point of supply the car was around 5 years old and had 
covered around 62,000 miles.
Soon after getting the car, Miss L experienced issues with the engine overheating and she 
kept having to top up the coolant. The car would stop at traffic lights and fail to start again. 
Miss L reported the issues to the supplying dealer and says she was told that there were 
problems with the gearbox and the cylinder head. Miss L says the dealer gave her the option 
to return the car or have the issues fixed. Miss L chose to have the car repaired under 
warranty. The cylinder head was repaired, and Miss L says she was told to take the car back 
later for the repairs to the gearbox.
Miss L says that after the cylinder head was repaired, the car was fine on short journeys but 
on longer journeys the temperature gauge started to rise and she kept having to add coolant. 
The car went back to the dealer who replaced the thermostat and said it had replaced a 
cracked water bottle. Miss L says she noticed afterwards that the water bottle hadnt been 
replaced.
Following this the car began to judder and misfire. Miss L took the car to a  different garage. 
It replaced the water bottle but said there were issues with the head gasket and 
recommended that Miss L take the car to another garage to have the head gasket replaced.
Miss L took the car to another garage in July 2020. It inspected the car and said the 
problems werent just with the head gasket but that the cylinder head was warped and the 
cylinder block needed replacing.
Miss L authorised the necessary repairs and the car has been fine ever since.
Miss L complained to Moneybarn about the problems shed experienced with the car. 
Moneybarn said that because of the length of time  which had passed since the start of the 
agreement, it was Miss Ls responsibility to prove that the faults were present at the point of 
supply.
Miss L wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service. She wants the cost of 
repairs refunded.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said the dealers attempts at repairing the car 
hadnt been successful and that Miss L should be allowed to reject the car, but as shed now 
paid for repairs and the car was fine, the cost of repairs should be refunded.
Moneybarn didnt reply to the view so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Moneybarn supplied the car under a conditional sale agreement, theres an implied 
term that it is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as 
the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. I would expect a  second hand car to have 
some wear and tear and to require repairs more often than a  brand new car. So, in order to 
uphold the complaint, I would need to be satisfied that there was an inherent fault with the 
car, as opposed to a fault caused by general wear and tear.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months, its 
presumed to have been present at the point of supply and its generally up to the business to 
put things right. The business is allowed one attempt  at repairing the fault. If the repair isnt 
successful, the consumer can reject the car. After 6 months the burden of proof is reversed 
and its up to the consumer to show that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied.
Ive thought about whether there was a fault with the car. Based on what Ive seen, and 
taking into account the invoice from the third party garage who carried out the most recent 
repairs, Im persuaded that there was a fault which caused the engine to overheat and 
ultimately caused the head gasket to fail. This derives from the same fault that Miss L 
reported early on in the agreement. I think its likely that the fault was present or developing 
at the point of supply. The invoice from the third party garage also identifies missing bolts on 
the timing cover and that sealer had been used in places where there should be gaskets. 
This suggests that these issues were either present at the point of supply or caused by the 
dealers attempt at repair.
Moneybarn has said that its up to Miss L to show that the fault wasnt due to wear and tear. 
Ive taken Miss Ls testimony into account and Im persuaded that she experienced issues 
with overheating in the first few weeks of getting the car. So, Im satisfied that the 
presumption applies here. Ive also thought about the nature of the fault. Ultimately, the car 
had to have major engine repairs in August 2020. At this time, Miss L had only travelled 
around 1600 miles I the car over a period of 8 months. This calls into question the durability 
of the engine. I dont think a reasonable person would expect to carry out major engine 
repairs so soon into the agreement, having covered relatively little mileage since the point of 
supply. On balance, I dont think the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Theres very little evidence, other than Miss Ls testimony, about the repairs caried out by 
the dealer. Miss L has said the car was first returned for repair in January 2020 and that the 
cylinder was replaced. Shes also said that the gearbox was repaired in April. Given that I 
am satisfied that there was a fault causing the car to overheat which occurred very early on 
in the agreement, and given that the overheating issue continued after the repairs had been 
attempted, I dont think the repairs carried out by the dealer were successful. This gives Miss 
L grounds to reject the car under the relevant legislation.
Putting things right
Based on everything Ive seen, I dont think the car was of satisfactory quality when supplied. 
I dont think the dealers attempt to repair the fault was successful. Moneybarn should put 
things right.
Ive already said that Miss L has grounds for rejection. However, I can see that the repairs 
she paid for have fixed the faults. In the circumstances, I think the cost of the repairs should be refunded.
Miss L was unable to use the car when it was returned to the dealer for repairs. She wasnt 
provided with a hire car during this time. I dont think its fair to expect Miss L to pay for a car 
when she couldnt use it, so Im asking Moneybarn to refund one months payment to cover 
the total period Miss L was without her car.
Its clear that Miss L has suffered inconvenience due to the issues with the car. Shes had to 
take it to several garages and has been caused distress because she needed a reliable car 
to take her children to school and get to work. Miss L was also left in a position where she 
had no option but to pay for repairs herself. Shes explained that she had to borrow money to 
do this. Considering the impact all this has had on Miss L, I think Moneybarn should pay 
compensation of £150 for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Moneybarn No 1 Limited must:
Refund Miss L the cost of repairs of £1860 pursuant to the invoice dated 3 August 2020, plus 
interest of *% from the date of payment to the date of settlement
Refund one monthly payment to cover the period Miss L was without the car plus 8% interest 
from 28 January 2020 to the date of settlement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman