DRN-3471459
The complaint
Miss I is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC loaded a fraud marker against her name.
What happened
Miss I held an account with Lloyds. In April 2017, Lloyds reviewed Miss Is account following 
a dispute she raised regarding transactions on her account. As a result of this review, Lloyds 
took the decision to close her account and load a fraud marker against her name using the 
Cifas database.
Miss I discovered the marker when she applied for an account with a third-party bank. The 
bank closed Miss Is facility once it discovered the marker and informed Miss I of the adverse 
information recorded against her. Miss I contacted Lloyds and made a complaint; she asked 
for the marker to be removed.
Lloyds looked into Miss Is complaint but didnt agree that it had made an error. It decided 
not to remove the marker.
Miss I referred her complaint to our service and an Investigator reviewed the evidence 
provided by both parties. They concluded that Lloyds no longer held the relevant evidence 
required to support the marker in line with Cifas guidance. So, she recommended that Lloyds 
remove it from the database.
Lloyds agreed to remove the marker, but Miss I asked that compensation be paid to reflect 
the distress and inconvenience caused by it. The Investigator didnt agree. They pointed out 
that while Lloyds no longer held the evidence, it was likely that it had sufficient information to 
record the marker at the time it was loaded. They were also not satisfied that Miss I could 
sufficiently prove any detrimental impact caused by the marker.
Miss I disagreed. She pointed out that Cifas markers are shown to prevent customers from 
obtaining financial accounts and argued that she was also deprived of the opportunity to 
seek employment in financial services as a result of the marker.
As Miss I disagreed with the Investigators assessment, the matter has been passed to me 
to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds has now removed the marker from Miss Is name on the Cifas database. So, I dont 
find it necessary to make findings on if the marker should be retained or not. But Miss I has 
argued that while the marker was present against her name, it impacted her considerably. Ill 
therefore go on to consider if any payment for the impact caused is appropriate in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge that Lloyds has agreed to remove the marker as it no longer has the evidence 
required to support it. But this doesnt mean that it didnt at the time of loading the marker.
Lloyds has argued that the marker was loaded as a result of a number of disputed 
transaction claims raised by Miss I while she held an account with it. The catalyst for the 
marker being considered was a disputed transaction raised against a travel agent thatd 
taken money from Miss Is account for a flight. Lloyds argued that when raising the dispute 
with the merchant, it was able to sufficiently evidence that Miss I boarded the aircraft and 
therefore utilised the services shed paid for.
I agree with the Investigators assessment that Lloyds seem to have missed the point of the 
dispute here. There is no evidence to suggest that Miss I disputed receiving the services 
paid for, she was in fact unhappy that the merchant had taken the payment twice. Once from 
her partners account and then again from her own.
Having said this, the above disputed transaction was not the sole reason Lloyds had decided 
to record the marker. It highlighted a number of other issues with Miss Is account that 
collectively caused it concern:
Miss I had made a disproportionately high amount of dispute claims against 
payments on her account over a relatively short period of time.
Miss I had made a dispute claim against a hotel provider. This hotel was located in 
the same place shed travelled to as indicated in her flight dispute: and at the same 
date.
Miss I had disputed a train ticket payment. This merchant provided evidence that a 
ticket was purchased in the name of Miss I.
Cifas requires that certain standards be met by its members prior to loading markers against 
their customers. The relevant standards for this complaint are:
That there are reasonable grounds to believe a fraud or financial crime has been 
committed or attempted.
That the evidence is clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the customer to the police.
Here, I find that this test was met at the time of loading the marker. Miss I did have a large 
number of disputed transactions raised on her account over a relatively short period. This 
pattern has also been identified among other accounts held under the Lloyds group.
I also find the evidence supplied by the merchants subject to the disputes compelling. Miss I 
had disputed payments from three separate merchants, and Lloyds asked all three 
merchants to evidence that theyd provided Miss I the goods and services paid for. And all 
three were able to supply evidence that Miss I likely did.
I realise that the specific evidence supplied from the merchants no longer exists, but Lloyds 
has recorded basic information summarising these submissions on its own systems. And I 
have no reason to disbelieve these were recorded accurately at the time.
Collectively looking at the pattern of claims, and some of the notes regarding the evidence 
associated with the claims themselves, I find Lloyds likely had sufficient information to meet 
the burden of proof set out by Cifas and likely recorded the information correctly at the time. 
It had reasonable grounds to support that Miss I was submitting false claims and the 
evidence it relied upon was supplied by three independent merchants.
I would just like to caveat that this doesnt mean Miss I has participated in, or is guilty of, 
fraudulent acts. Merely that Lloyds has met the standards required by Cifas to record information against her. It therefore follows that it would be inappropriate for Lloyds to pay 
any compensation for distress and inconvenience caused where itd not made an error.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2022.
 
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman