DRN-2607527
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W have complained through their representative that they were mis-sold an
income, life and serious illness protection plan with an insurance company, which Ill refer to
as Insurer A by Openwork Limited as well as a stand-alone life insurance policy with an
insurance company Ill refer to as Insurer B. Theyve also complained about the service
Openworks adviser provided with regards to their mortgage renewal.
What happened
In September 2016, after receiving advice from an adviser working as a representative of
Openwork, Mr and Mrs W took out an income, life and serious illness protection plan with
Insurer A, costing them £39.40 per month overall. This included a joint decreasing term life
and serious illness cover with a starting sum assured of £85,000. The serious illness cover
also included total permanent disability (TPD) cover. The plan also included income
protection cover for Mr W with a benefit of £1,000 per month for a limited period. They also
took out a life insurance policy with Insurer B with a sum assured of £200,000, which cost
£15.96 per month.
In 2019 Mr and Mrs W made a claim on their life and serious illness cover as Mr W was
diagnosed with Clinically Isolated Syndrome, which he has been told could lead to Multiple
Sclerosis. They received a payment of 25% of the sum assured under the serious illness
cover (which Insurer A has said was paid in error due a misunderstanding on Mr Ws
diagnosis, but it isnt seeking the amount back).
At this point it seems Mr and Mrs W or their representative realised they didnt have what is
probably best described as standard critical illness cover and Mr and Mrs W complained to
Openwork through their representative. In summary, their representative said Mr and Mrs W
thought theyd taken out standard critical illness cover, rather than a serious illness cover.
And she pointed out that the Protection Report by the adviser also says the policy type is life
and critical illness as opposed to life and serious illness. The representative said it wasnt
explained to Mr and Mrs W that theyd have to meet specific criteria to successfully claim
under the serious illness cover or that the mortgage may not be paid off in full if one of them
got a serious illness. And she also said they are unhappy the TPD cover isnt on an own
occupation basis.
Mr and Mrs Ws representative also said Mr W already had enough life insurance and
income protection cover through his employer at no cost to him, so didnt need the new life
insurance policy or the income protection cover. And shes pointed out having a second
income protection policy delayed payment via Mr Ws employers insurance provider, during
a time when he didnt have an income. She added that there were lots of gaps in the fact find
completed by the adviser. And she thinks this shows he didnt fulfil his obligations.
The representative also added that while the adviser said he would help secure Mr and Mrs
W a new mortgage product as theirs was due for renewal at the end of February 2019, they
didnt hear back from him until the day this was due. So they had to renew this themselves 
also getting the lender to agree to waive the early repayment charge. Theyre also unhappy
with the service theyve received in this regard.
Openwork responded to Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. It said the advisers recommendation to
Mr and Mrs W to buy the stand-alone life cover was suitable. In relation to the serious illness
cover, Openwork said that while the adviser could have recommended more comprehensive
and a greater amount of cover, budgetary constraints applied. It said Mr Ws plan may pay
out more in future if his condition worsens. And the fact it hasnt paid out in full yet doesnt
mean the advisers recommendation wasnt suitable. And it pointed out some providers may
not have paid out anything yet for Mr Ws current condition, as each has different criteria.
With regards to the income protection cover, Openwork said it depends on its customers to
tell it what cover they already have in place. And Mr W didnt disclose he already had
income protection cover with his employer when the adviser asked him. And this is why the
adviser recommended income protection cover. But, it went on to say that if Insurer As
income protection pay-out is restricted due to Mr W receiving a similar benefit from his
employers provider, it will refund the portion of premiums paid based on what he cant claim
from Insurer A, plus interest.
It also said its adviser couldnt find a better mortgage deal for Mr and Mrs W, despite trying
for free. But it was pleased to see Mr and Mrs W managed to renew with their existing
mortgage provider themselves.
Unhappy with Openworks response to the complaint, Mr and Mrs W brought their complaint
to our service through their representative, who made the same points as shed made to
Openwork and added that:
In the fact find the adviser said he knew of the firm Mr W worked for, yet failed to ask
him to check what associated benefits he had. And, since making the complaint,
colleagues of Mr Ws have been contacted by the adviser offering a refund of income
protection premiums.
Mr and Mrs W were told their serious illness cover was the Rolls Royce of policies,
yet a significant proportion of their mortgage remains outstanding following the
diagnosis of a very serious illness. And they werent told about the difference
between this and a critical illness policy.
As they didnt have any financial constraints, as shown by the budget calculator, they
could have afforded more comprehensive cover.
Their mortgage provider has said it didnt receive a renewal enquiry from Openwork.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He said evidence showed that after the
adviser informally tried to help Mr and Mrs W with their mortgage renewal, he couldnt find a
better deal than that offered by their existing provider. And they havent lost out as a result,
so he didnt think Openwork needed to do anything further on this issue.
The investigator didnt think the information missing from the fact find showed that the
advisers recommendations were unsuitable. He felt the recommendation of the stand-alone
life cover was suitable, as it was reasonable for the adviser to accept Mr Ws answer that he
didnt have any existing life insurance cover. And  in any event  Mr and Mrs W would not
necessarily have had any life cover in place if they stopped working or changed jobs, so it
would have been reasonable for the adviser to recommend this, even if he had known about
their life cover with their employers.
He said the adviser was entitled to recommend income protection cover on the basis Mr W
told him he didnt have any protection beyond the sick pay he said was provided by his 
employer. And he didnt think the adviser needed to check what Mr W had said or suggest 
Mr W check with his employer.In relation to the life and serious illness cover, our investigator said this wasnt a suitable
recommendation and that the adviser should have recommended a life and critical illness
policy instead for Mr and Mrs W, given their aims.
To put things right the investigator suggested Openwork undertake that if Mr and Mrs W
qualify for a claim that would meet one the Association of British Insurers (ABI) sample
wordings for a condition Insurer As policy covers, it would pay them the full sum assured at
the time, less anything already paid out. He said that if Mr and Mrs W wish to claim
Openwork should ask Insurer A to assess if the claim is valid based on the ABI criteria. And
he went on to say Openwork can require Mr and Mrs W to assign it any further rights they
have to claim under the life and serious illness cover with Insurer A in the event that
Openwork pay them an amount equivalent to the balance of the sum assured under the
policy.
Our investigator also said Openwork should pay Mr and Mrs W £500 to compensate
them for the distress caused to them as a result of being mis-sold the serious illness cover.
He didnt think it was fair to recommend more, given Mr W would always have fallen ill and
gone through a very difficult time.
Openwork disagreed with our investigator and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It
said:
Insurer A bases pay-outs on the severity of the illness. And if Mr W had a critical
illness policy it seems he wouldnt have received a pay out at all at the point he did
with Insurer A.
It considers critical illness and serious illness cover both have their benefits and,
because of this, the adviser did make a suitable recommendation.
Joint life and critical illness cover would have cost Mr and Mrs W significantly more
than Insurer As serious illness cover. So it doesnt think asking it to pay what Mr W
would get on a critical illness policy is fair and reasonable, when theyve only paid for
cheaper serious illness cover.
The documentation provided to Mr and Mrs W clearly disclosed when and how
benefits would be paid.
Its provided further comments from the adviser and referred to comments he made
in his original statement. It thinks these show that he explained how the partial
payments under the serious illness cover worked very clearly to Mr and Mrs W and
they understood this.
It also thinks Mr and Mrs W would have understood the extent of the TPD cover and
the adviser would have explained this to Mr and Mrs W at the time. The adviser has
pointed out that from his research it seems pretty clear they couldnt have got own
occupation cover. And the adviser had already pointed out in his original statement
that the illustrations from Insurer A and the documentation provided to Mr and Mrs W
made the extent of this cover clear.
The adviser has also explained that the Protection Report document he had to use
was provided by Openwork and only referred to life and critical illness cover and he
was unable to change this. And it also states TPD cover is own occupation even
though its not.
The adviser feels his advice couldnt have been any clearer and that he made a
suitable recommendation without the benefit of hindsight based on Mr and Mrs Ws
circumstances at the time.
In summary, Openwork thinks the plan with Insurer A was a suitable
recommendation, as it provided Mr and Mrs W with a reasonable package at an
affordable amount.Mr and Mrs Ws representative also responded, adding in summary that:
£500 doesnt adequately compensate Mr and Mrs W for the distress theyve
experienced. They believed they had adequate cover should the worst happen,
which it has, but the cover hasnt been effective. And theyre concerned the adviser
may have mis-sold policies to other customers.
Insurer As website refers to own occupation cover in the event of experiencing TPD.
And while Openworks Protection Report says Mr Ws cover is on that basis, his
policy schedule says its based on a functional activity test.
They think the advisers been involved with other employees of the firm Mr W worked
for, so was aware of the benefits it provided, but ignored this knowing Insurer As
income protection cover wouldnt pay the full entitlement upon a successful claim.
The complaint was passed to me for a decision. Having reviewed all the information, we
asked a critical illness provider whether Mr W would have been eligible for own occupation
TPD cover as part of a critical illness policy. In response, it said Openwork would have been
responsible for deciding this. When we asked Openwork for its comments it said such a
decision would usually be the providers responsibility, but it provided evidence showing it
was unlikely Mr W would have been offered such cover given his occupation.
Ive also spoken to Mr W and discussed in detail what happened when he met the adviser.
When I asked him about income protection cover he said hed now realised he didnt need
the income protection cover, but based on what the adviser told him he thought he needed it
at the time he agreed to take out the cover. We also discussed his health condition and,
through this and further information from him and his claim against Insurer A, it became clear
he wouldnt yet have qualified for a pay out if he had a standard life and critical illness policy.
Ive also spoken to the adviser. He said he did explain the full extent of the serious illness
cover with Insurer A to Mr and Mrs W and they were particularly attracted by the lifestyle
benefits associated with the plan with Insurer A. He further explained that Mr and Mrs W
were happy with the amount he suggested they spend on protection. And when he referred
to their budget, this is what he was referring to, as opposed to what they could afford to
spend. He said because of this he did not discuss the possibility of more comprehensive
serious illness cover, as he knew the cost of this would take them over what they were
happy to spend each month.
The adviser said he wasnt aware Mr Ws employer provided income protection cover for its
employees and recommended the income protection cover with a deferred period of three
months so it could act as a top-up for the three months Mr W was on half pay before
providing the monthly benefit in isolation. He admitted hed since contacted other employees
hed sold income protection cover to saying they didnt need this, but this was only after he
realised they had cover with the employer from his involvement with Mr and Mrs Ws
complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on 21 January 2021 and my provisional findings were as 
follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs W and their representative have made a number of points and, while Ive
considered them all, I wont address each one individually. Instead, Ive focused on the
issues I think are material in reaching a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint.The mortgage renewal
Ive seen that Openworks adviser didnt try to get in touch with Mr and Mrs W by phone until
a few days before the mortgage renewal that theyd asked for help with. And he didnt email
them to say he couldnt help until the renewal date. While the adviser apologised to Mr and
Mrs W, and I understand they hadnt paid a fee, this would have understandably caused
them worry. And it meant they had to sort out the renewal themselves without help.
That being said, Mr and Mrs W were able to get their mortgage provider to waive any early
repayment charge, after the adviser explained he hadnt been able to find a mortgage
without this. In which case, I dont think Mr and Mrs W lost out financially as a result of them
having to contact the mortgage provider themselves. And they ended up with the deal they
wanted. So I dont think Openwork needs to do anything further to resolve this issue or that it
needs to compensate Mr and Mrs W in any way. Although, I accept the evidence suggests
the adviser could have done more.
The protection products
When Openworks adviser sold the protection products to Mr and Mrs W he was obliged to
make suitable recommendations and explain the key features, benefits and limitations of the
products he was recommending in a clear, fair and not misleading way. The adviser has
explained the fact find he completed originally was in relation to Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage
requirement and he agreed a separate appointment to discuss their protection needs. And I
can see why he didnt need to complete certain parts of the fact find because of this and
because of what he already knew about Mr and Mrs Ws financial situation and their ages.
Although, I can of course also understand why this makes it look as though he didnt follow
the correct process to ensure he made suitable recommendations.
The adviser has now further explained to me that he never actually completed a hand-written
fact find when he met Mr and Mrs W to discuss their protection needs and instead used what
he already knew about their financial situation and just made a few additional notes. There is
a printed fact find detailing the protection meeting and it seems from what the adviser told
me this was produced by the Openwork system based on information they already held
about Mr and Mrs W from the advisers previous dealings. And its on this printed fact find
that its noted Mr and Mrs W dont have any existing insurance protection. There is then a
Protection Report which was provided to Mr and Mrs W recommending certain protection
products.
I should say at this point that I think as a matter of good practice the adviser should have
properly completed a separate fact find at his meeting with Mr and Mrs W to discuss their
protection needs, so he could show properly what demands, needs and information hed
based his recommendations on, irrespective of what he already knew about them. But the
fact he didnt do this does not in itself mean he didnt make suitable recommendations or
explain things properly.
Ive considered whether the adviser made suitable recommendations and explained the key
features, benefits and limitations of the products he was recommending in a clear, fair and
not misleading way based on the hand-written fact find he completed at the meeting about
the mortgage, the printed fact find detailing the separate meeting about their protection
needs and the Protection Report, alongside the advisers testimony and what Mr and Mrs W
and their representative have said about the meetings with the adviser. And Ive looked at
each of the advisers recommendations separately.
Stand-alone life cover
I think the advisers recommendation that Mr and Mrs W took out a stand-alone lifeinsurance policy with a sum assured of £200,000 was suitable. Its not unusual for an adviser
to recommend such cover where a customer wants to provide for their family if they were to
pass away. And, while Mr W had life insurance through his employer, this was dependent on
him staying with the same employer. And many people like the security of having an
additional lump sum for their dependents if they pass away. And it seems from the
information provided that Mr and Mrs W did want this type of cover in addition to their
mortgage protection.
Income protection
I dont think the advisers recommendation of income protection cover with a three month
deferred period for Mr W was suitable. I dont think he knew or should have known Mr W had
income protection cover through his employer. I say this because the evidence suggests all
Mr W told him was that he had three months full pay and three months half pay if he was off
sick. And the adviser has explained the only reason he ticked to say hed checked Mr Ws
employer was to show he knew it was a genuine employer, not to confirm he knew the
details of the benefits package it provided. I dont think the adviser would have simply
ignored the fact that Mr W seemed unsure about his benefits package. And I think what he
recorded and recalls demonstrates he couldnt have known Mr W had income protection
cover.
However, it was clear when I spoke to the adviser that he didnt understand exactly how the
income protection cover with Insurer A worked. This is because he told me he thought it
would top up Mr Ws salary when he went down to half pay, whereas it wouldnt do this. In
fact, the salary Mr W got in this period meant he wasnt entitled to any benefit under the
income protection cover with Insurer A. So while I dont think the advisers recommendation
of income protection cover of itself was unsuitable based on what he knew or should have
known, I do think he recommended cover with the wrong deferred period. And this clearly
caused problems for Mr and Mrs W when they tried to claim on the cover with Insurer A and
then when they tried to claim on the policy with Mr Ws employer. This was at a very difficult
time for Mr and Mrs W and I think it caused them significant distress and inconvenience. In
the circumstances, I think Openwork should pay them £300 in compensation to reflect this.
I have also established that income protection cover with a six month deferred period would
have been cheaper and I think this would have made a difference to the level of cover the
adviser would have recommended for serious illness. And Ive dealt with this later.
Decreasing term life cover
There doesnt seem to be any suggestion that the decreasing term life cover with Insurer A
to cover Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage was unsuitable. And because it does exactly what they
wanted and pays off their mortgage if either of them passes away, I think it was a suitable
recommendation by the adviser.
Serious illness cover
The main issue in dispute from what Mr and Mrs Ws representative has said is the advisers
recommendation of decreasing term serious illness cover with TPD cover based on an
occupational functional capacity activity evaluation, rather than what is probably best
described as standard critical illness cover with TPD own occupation cover.
As Ive already said, the adviser needed to ensure his recommendation of this cover was
suitable for Mr and Mrs W, based on what he knew or should have known of their
circumstances, demands and needs at the time. And he needed to provide clear, fair and not
misleading information about its key features, benefits and limitations to allow them to make
an informed decision on whether or not it was right for them, i.e. he needed to explain whathe was recommending very clearly indeed. I think this was particularly important because
the serious illness cover he recommended with Insurer A is set out in a very large document,
which I think it is quite hard to follow. Although, I think the Key Facts document provided in
the documentation to Mr and Mrs W after theyd agreed to go with the advisers
recommendation would have helped to some extent. Although, even this is a fairly long and
wordy document.
However, while we know now Mr W is unwell, I must consider what happened at the time of
sale. And the information gathered shows me Mr and Mrs W were married; working, but with
Mrs W on maternity leave; they owned their home outright; had savings of £85-90,000 and
no existing protection policies. They were seeking a mortgage of £85,000 to build a property
on land theyd purchased. And according to the Protection Report their main aims in seeking
protection was to allow them to pay off their mortgage in the event of death or serious ill
health.
Given one of Mr and Mrs Ws main aims was to be able to pay off their mortgage in the
event of death or serious illness, and they had financial commitments and dependents, I
think cover providing a lump sum in the event Mr and Mrs W get various serious illness at
set severity levels was a reasonable suggestion. I appreciate the cover with Insurer A only
pays out the full sum assured if some of the illnesses covered reach a higher severity level
than under a standard critical illness policy. But neither policy simply pays out if one of the
people covered suffers from any sort of serious ill health or a serious illness irrespective of
severity. For example, with multiple sclerosis, which Mr W has been told he may develop, a
standard critical illness policy would only pay out when it meets a definition set out in the
Association of British Insurers (ABI) 2014 critical illness best practice guidelines, which
critical illness cover providers use as a matter of good practice. But this sort of policy
wouldnt cover the condition Mr W currently has. So at this stage Mr W wouldnt have
received anything under a standard critical illness policy. And he may receive the full sum
assured under his policy with Insurer A at the same stage as under the ABI definition, but
this will depend on whether he can perform certain functional activity tests. So it will depend
on whether he develops multiple sclerosis and how much this affects his ability to carry out
certain activities.
Mr A has received part of the sum assured already from Insurer A, albeit this was paid too
early in error, as his current illness isnt actually covered by the cover he has with Insurer A
either. But he received this amount because the serious illness cover with Insurer A pays out
part of the sum insured at an earlier stage of multiple sclerosis and Insurer A thought hed
reached this stage due to what Mr Ws consultant told it originally. But at this stage under a
standard critical illness policy he wouldnt be entitled to anything at all.
So, I think both types of cover have their advantages and both could result in Mr and Mrs W
being able to pay off their mortgage. So I think on this basis serious illness cover was in
principle a suitable recommendation based on Mr and Mrs Ws demands and needs.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs W have said the adviser didnt explain how the cover with Insurer A
worked differently to a standard critical illness policy, but the adviser has been very clear
from the outset on the fact that he explained this. And I found his testimony about how he did
this persuasive. So I think its most likely he explained the concept of the cover to Mr and
Mrs W, but I appreciate Mr and Mrs W dont recall him doing this.
But the serious illness cover with Insurer A was available at two levels  Primary and
Comprehensive. And Comprehensive cover provides cover for more illnesses, as it has
more severity levels than the Primary cover (severity levels A-G as opposed to severity
levels A-D). And I dont think the adviser explained the difference between the Primary cover
and the Comprehensive Cover to Mr and Mrs W. I say this because he told me he didntcheck the additional cost of the Comprehensive cover, as Mr and Mrs W were happy with
what hed suggested they spend for protection. As Ive said, the adviser has explained that
their budget was not what they could afford, but what they were happy spending. And with all
the covers hed recommended the Primary cover took them up to an amount they were
happy with. Bearing this in mind the adviser probably wouldnt have felt the need to explain
there was more comprehensive cover available for serious illness.
However, if the adviser had got the deferred period right on the income protection cover it
would only have cost Mr and Mrs W 29p per month more to have the Comprehensive
serious illness cover. And I think if this was the case the adviser would have recommended it
to Mr and Mrs W and theyd have decided to go with it. I say this because the extra cost
would have been negligible and so they still would have been happy with what they were
spending and thought they may as well have the wider comprehensive serious illness cover
available. There were other additional options as well that could have been added, but the
Comprehensive cover brought the cost up to about what it seems Mr and Mrs W were happy
spending, so I dont think the adviser would or should have recommended any of these
additional options, as they all would have put the monthly cost of the cover up.
This means I think the advisers unsuitable recommendation on the income protection cover,
ie the fact he recommended cover with the wrong deferred period has had detrimental effect
on Mr and Mrs Ws position. This is because they now dont have the Comprehensive level
of serious illness cover and cant change to this now that the cover has been running for
several years and they have received a pay out under it. This will have no effect on Mr Ws
right to claim for his current illness or if he develops multiple sclerosis. It just means if Mr or
Mrs W were to be diagnosed with one or more of a number of other less severe conditions
they would be entitled to a pay-out of 5-10% of the sum insured if theyd had the
Comprehensive cover. Hopefully, this will never happen, but it does mean the advisers
mistake may mean they lose out.
However, compensating Mr and Mrs W for this or putting them in the position they would
have been in is difficult now that it is too late to upgrade the serious illness cover to
Comprehensive. But I think a fair and reasonable way to do this would be for Openwork to
pay 10% of the remaining sum insured under the serious illness cover now. Openwork can
then ask Insurer A to deduct this amount from the sum insured under the policy, so that they
dont get overcompensated if they do make a further claim under the Primary serious illness
cover they have. The advantage of this approach is that the percentage payable is based on
the sum insured now, which is higher because it is earlier in the decreasing term and it is a
payment Mr and Mrs W may never be entitled to.
If Mr W does develop multiple sclerosis and meets the criteria for a further payment under
the policy under the neurological conditions section of cover or under the TPD cover, Mr and
Mrs W would be entitled to a further payment or further payments, but this isnt certain and
the payment of 10% of the sum insured at least gives them something extra at this stage of
Mr Ws illness. So I think its a fair and reasonable solution and I am pleased to say
Openwork have already agreed to it.
In relation to Mr Ws TPD cover, having considered the advisers comments about own
occupation and made enquiries with other critical illness providers and Openwork about this,
I dont think Mr W would have been able to get such cover alongside a standard critical
illness policy because of the type of work he did. It looks like hed have only got similar cover
to the cover he has under the policy with Insurer A, i.e. based on occupational functional
activity tests. So I havent considered the issue of the type of TPD cover Mr W has any
further, as I dont think the adviser was able to recommend this on an own occupation basis,
and Im not asking Openwork to do anything in relation to it.I agree the way Openworks Protection Report, which was provided to Mr and Mrs W,
referred to life and critical illness cover and TPD own occupation cover was unnecessarily
misleading and unacceptable. But I dont think it actually led to Mr and Mrs W ending up with
cover they didnt want or that was unsuitable, because I think the serious illness cover of
itself was suitable for them, albeit I think they should have ended up with Comprehensive, as
opposed to Primary cover. And, as Ive said, even if the documentation had said TPD cover
was on an occupational functional activity basis, there is nothing Mr and Mrs W or Openwork
could have done about this.
Nonetheless, I think this along with Mr and Mrs W ending up with the wrong level of serious
illness cover did cause them some confusion when Mr and Mrs W wanted to claim following
Mr Ws illness and that this meant they experienced unnecessary distress and
inconvenience. And I think this warrants a further compensation payment of £200.
In summary, having given the matter a great deal of consideration, I think the advisers
recommendations, apart from the deferred period on the income protection cover, were
suitable for Mr and Mrs W. However, I think he would have recommended Comprehensive
serious illness cover if hed got the deferred period right on the income protection cover. And
I think if hed done so Mr and Mrs W would have taken this level of cover and should be
compensated for the fact they dont have this cover in the way Ive described above.
I also think the advisers errors led to distress and inconvenience for Mr and Mrs W. And
while I appreciate Mr W feels the level of distress was extreme for him, I think the distress
actually caused by the advisers errors has to be distinguished from the distress he was
experiencing and has experienced because of his illness and the financial pressures he
would have been under even if the adviser had got everything right. And this is why I think a
payment of £500 overall for distress and inconvenience is fair and reasonable.
I provisionally decided to make Openwork pay 10% of the current sum insured under the 
serious illness cover of Mr and Mrs Ws plan, plus £500 in compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. I gave both parties one month to provide further comments and evidence. 
Openwork ha come back to say it agrees with my provisional decision. It has also confirmed 
it will pay £6,043 based on the current sum insured for Mr and Mrs Ws serious illness cover.
Mr and Mrs W have come back to say they also agree with the provisional decision. Theyve 
also queried what Openwork is going to do about its previous offer to refund a proportion of 
the premium for income protection cover. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have agreed with my provisional decision, I see no reason to alter my 
findings and award.
I have noted what Mr and Mrs W have said about a refund an appropriate proportion of the 
income protection premium. However, this isnt something I can require Openwork to do as 
part of this final decision, as I think the basic recommendation of income protection cover by 
the adviser was suitable based on what he was told. I do think he suggested the wrong 
deferred period. And if hed got this right it would have led to lower premium. But  as I 
explained in my provisional decision, I think Mr and Mrs W would have used what theyd 
saved on income protection cover to buy Comprehensive, rather than Primary, Serious 
Illness cover. However, Ive asked Openwork to let us know what it intends to do about a refund of premium and we will let Mr and Mrs W know what it says.
Putting things right
Ive decided to award what I set out in my provisional decision and this will include a 
payment of £6,043 based on the current sum insured under Mr and Mrs Ws serious illness 
cover. Openwork can ask Insurer A to deduct this amount from the sum insured under the 
policy, so that Mr and Mrs W dont get overcompensated if they do make a further claim 
under the Primary serious illness cover they have. Ive also decided to award £500 in 
compensation for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons set in my provisional decision, Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Ws 
complaint and Openwork Limited must do the following:
Pay Mr and Mrs W £6,043, plus £500 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman