DRN-3113793
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy that Loans 2 Go Limited (LTG) provided him with a loan that he couldnt 
afford to repay. He is also unhappy with the amount of interest that LTG has charged.  
What happened
LTG granted Mr K a loan of £500 in November 2019. The loan term was 18 months, the 
APR 1,013.2%, total amount repayable £2,057.04 and the monthly repayment amount 
£114.28. 
Mr K immediately fell into arrears after not making any of the monthly repayments. 
In August 2020, Mr K complained to LTG that the loan had been mis-sold to him. He said 
that he was out of a job and otherwise struggling with his finances and that LTG didnt carry 
out sufficient checks to make sure he could afford the loan. 
He said he thought the amount LTG said he owed was unfair and that he understood the 
interest charged couldnt be higher than the actual loan amount. 
Mr K asked for a refund of interest and charges and for any negative information to be 
deleted from his credit file.
LTG didnt uphold the complaint. It said that a thorough affordability assessment was 
conducted and that this included verification of Mr Ks declared income, a review of his credit 
file and an assessment of his expenditure. It said that after including an additional buffer for 
expenditure, it calculated that Mr K could afford to meet the monthly loan repayments. 
It pointed out that Mr K had stated on the application form that he was employed and that, if 
this hadnt been true, then Mr K had given false information on the application.
LTG also said that the interest it had charged was correct and had been made clear to Mr K 
before he took the loan. It said that if Mr K needed help in the form of a repayment plan, he 
should let LTG know. 
Mr K remained unhappy. He provided LTG with information about his personal 
circumstances, including some ill health he had experienced. Following on from this, LTG 
offered to reduce the amount owing from £2,057.04 down to £1,278.25. 
Mr K remained unhappy. He still thought LTG had charged more interest than it was allowed 
to and that given everything that had happened, it should remove the default from his credit 
file. LTG wasnt prepared to do anything further, so Mr K asked us to look into things. 
An investigator here didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said, in summary, that:
- He thought the checks LTG carried out before agreeing to lend were reasonable and 
proportionate, given the information it established regarding Mr Ks income and 
expenditure, the size and length of the loan and what it knew about his 
circumstances.
- LTG couldnt have known that Mr K was going to lose his job after it had agreed to 
provide the loan. 
- Mr Ks comments about the maximum interest that LTG was allowed to charge, only 
applied to loans with a term of less than 12 months. Mr Ks loan was over 18 months. 
- The loan agreement contained information about the loan, including the interest 
being charged. 
- The offer LTG had made to reduce the interest payable was fair and reasonable. 
Mr K didnt accept the investigators conclusions. He said he had lied on the loan application 
when hed said he was employed as in fact hed lost his job in October 2019. He said that if 
LTG had carried out proper background checks, it wouldve seen no income was coming in 
and that he couldnt therefore afford the loan.
A different investigator considered the complaint and asked Mr K to clarify what his 
employment position had been when hed applied for the loan. She also asked about a credit 
card account where Mr K had been over his limit when applying for the LTG loan and also 
why hed applied for the loan. 
Mr K said that hed lost his job and needed money and this is why he had lied on the 
application form to be approved. He said he was over the limit on his credit card because he 
couldnt afford to pay it due to having lost his job. He also said that hed applied for the loan 
to cover living expenses and that most other lenders had turned him down, but LTG had 
been willing to lend him the money. 
The investigator then asked Mr K to provide copies of his bank statements in the lead up to 
the loan being granted, which he did. The investigator then issued her assessment of the 
complaint. She said, in summary, that:
- She didnt think the checks carried out by LTG had been reasonable and 
proportionate. This was because she thought there were unanswered questions 
about Mr Ks circumstances that it needed to answer to ensure that Mr K could 
sustainably meet the loan repayments.
- However, having reviewed Mr Ks bank statements for September and October 2019 
(replicating what a more thorough check wouldve involved), she found that Mr K 
would have appeared to have been able to afford the loan repayments. 
- Given the timing of when Mr K lost his job, this would not have been apparent from 
the prior months bank statements. A more thorough check would therefore not have 
revealed to LTG that this had happened. 
- She agreed with what the first investigator had said about the interest on the account. 
Mr K remained unhappy and so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I appreciate this will likely come as a 
disappointment to Mr K, but I hope that my explanation helps him to understand why Ive reached this conclusion. 
Did LTG make a fair lending decision?
Under the relevant regulations, LTG needed to carry out checks to ensure that Mr K could 
afford to make the loan repayments. The rules arent prescriptive, but the checks needed to 
be reasonable and proportionate, taking into account relevant factors, including the type and 
amount of credit being sought and what LTG knew of Mr Ks circumstances at the time he 
applied for the loan.
LTG says it verified Mr Ks income using an on-line income verification tool. It says that it 
established Mr Ks income to be less than he had declared but that when it then overlaid 
what it calculated his expenditure to be (which was more than Mr K had declared) and added 
a buffer amount to this, it found that Mr K could still afford the monthly loan repayment. It's 
not clear to me exactly how LTG calculated Mr Ks expenditure but from what it has said, I 
think it probably used some kind of statistical average to come up with the figure it used.
LTG also says it reviewed Mr Ks credit file. This showed that he had recently gone into 
arrears and over the limit on a credit card. Thinking about what this might have suggested 
about how Mr K was managing his money and bearing in mind the type of credit Mr K was 
applying for and the total amount repayable (given the high APR), I think this means the 
checks LTG carried out probably werent reasonable and proportionate. I think reasonable 
and proportionate checks wouldve involved taking a closer look at Mr Ks actual 
expenditure, to see whether he would be able to sustainably make the loan repayments. 
But I dont think matters. I say this because Mr K has supplied copies of his bank statements 
in the lead up to the loan being granted (for September and October 2019). There are some 
signs that Mr K was having some difficulty managing his finances  there are some returned 
direct debits from him not having enough money in his account at particular points in time. 
And there are what look like a couple of payday loan repayments for reasonably modest 
amounts. 
However, they also show that Mr Ks essential expenditure was minimal. This ties in with him 
living at home at the time and he confirmed to us that he wasnt paying any rent. And when 
the essential expenditure is deducted from Mr Ks income, he was left with a reasonable 
amount of disposable income  enough to sustainably meet the loan repayments. 
LTG couldve verified Mr Ks expenditure in a number of ways and I cannot be certain they 
wouldve asked to look at his bank statements. However, Im satisfied the statements likely 
represent an accurate picture of his income and expenditure and so this is what LTG likely 
wouldve uncovered had they carried out reasonable and proportionate checks. 
It follows that I think had LTG carried out reasonable and proportionate checks, it wouldve 
appeared to it that Mr K could afford to take the loan. It follows that I dont think it made an 
unfair lending decision. 
I know that Mr K has said that LTG shouldve done more to verify his income. However, he 
declared on the application that he was working and receiving an income. And crucially, his 
bank statements show that he was earning income in September and October 2019. There 
wouldve been no need (and it wouldnt have been proportionate) for LTG to check anything 
further beyond this. So the fact that Mr K wasnt working at the point he applied for the loan, 
doesnt make a difference to the outcome. 
Has LTG treated Mr K fairly in terms of the interest it applied to the loan?Mr K has said that the interest LTG has charged is too high. He says he is aware that for 
loans of 12 months or less, a lender cannot charge more interest than the loan amount itself. 
LTG says that the interest has been applied correctly and that it made the cost of the 
borrowing clear to Mr K before he went ahead with the loan.
As has already been explained to Mr K, there were particular rules in place at the time he 
applied for the loan, that capped how much interest a lender could charge for certain types 
of loans. However, in simple terms these rules applied to loans of 12 months or less. The 
loan in question was taken out over 18 months and so the interest cap doesnt apply. 
I know Mr K says that the cap ought to apply, because he sought to repay the loan within the 
first 12 months. However, that doesnt make a difference  it is the original loan term that 
matters. 
I havent seen anything to suggest that the interest LTG applied is incorrect. So, I dont 
uphold Mr Ks complaint in respect of this point either. 
Finally, as mentioned earlier in this decision, upon finding out about the difficulties Mr K had 
faced, including some health issues, LTG offered to reduce the amount Mr K needed to 
repay from £2,057.04 down to £1,278.25. I will leave it to Mr K to decide whether or not to 
accept this offer. 
If Mr K is still experiencing financial difficulties, LTG should treat him positively and 
sympathetically and work with him to arrange an affordable repayment plan. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint about Loans 2 Go Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2022.
 
Ben Brewer
Ombudsman