DRN-2716385
The complaint
Mr B complains that Progressive Money Limited (Progressive) lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision regarding this complaint earlier this month. In that decision 
I explained why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Both parties have received a 
copy of my provisional decision, but for clarity I provide an extract of my findings below. 
I said;
Mr B was given a single loan by Progressive. He borrowed £1,100 in 
September 2015 and agreed to repay the loan in 36 monthly instalments. Part of the 
loan was used to repay some other borrowing. Towards the end of the loan term 
Mr B faced problems making his repayments and a balance remained outstanding 
when he made his complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time Progressive gave this loan to Mr B required it to 
carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to 
repay what he owed in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes 
referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Progressive had to think about 
whether repaying the credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse 
consequences for Mr B. In practice this meant that Progressive had to ensure that 
making the repayments wouldnt cause Mr B undue difficulty or adverse 
consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for Progressive to simply think about 
the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of any 
repayments on Mr B.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan 
application. In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be 
dependent upon a number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular 
circumstances of the consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and 
outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / 
type / cost of credit they are seeking.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is 
required to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate 
check shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any 
indications of borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future 
circumstances. Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether Progressive 
did what it needed to before agreeing to lend to Mr B.
Progressive gathered some information from Mr B before it agreed the loan. It asked 
him for details of his income, and his normal expenditure. It checked his credit file to 
assess how much he was repaying to other creditors and how hed managed his 
credit in the past. And it analysed copies of his bank statements to verify the 
information hed provided about his expenditure and income.
Mr B was entering into a significant commitment with Progressive. He would need to 
make monthly repayments for a period of three years. So I think it was reasonable 
that Progressive wanted to gather, and independently check, some detailed 
information about Mr Bs financial circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. 
I think that the checks Progressive did achieved that aim  I think the checks were 
proportionate.
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs 
to react appropriately to what those checks show. So Ive looked at the information 
that Progressive gathered from its checks to determine whether it made a reasonable 
decision to lend to Mr B.
Mr B hadnt always managed his credit well. He had a number of defaults on his 
credit file from just over a year before. But it does seem those arrears had been 
cleared when he applied for the loan. Progressive says it was satisfied by the 
explanations that Mr B gave around the circumstances of the defaulted accounts. 
And it doesnt seem to me that Mr Bs explanations should have left the lender with 
any significant concerns.
 Ive also listened to the call between Mr B and Progressive following his submission 
of his bank statements. Progressive had carefully analysed the transactions that 
were shown to ensure they fairly reflected the information Mr B had provided earlier 
about his income and expenditure. I am satisfied that following that call it was 
reasonable for Progressive to consider that Mr B had accurately described his normal 
financial circumstances.
As a condition of being approved for the loan, Progressive required Mr B to have 
cleared any outstanding short-term loans. His bank statements showed that one loan 
had been cleared. And Progressive used part of its loan to repay the other remaining 
short-term lender showing on Mr Bs credit file. Progressive sought an assurance 
from Mr B that he didnt expect to borrow further after its loan had been provided.
Mr Bs bank statements dont show evidence of serious financial problems such as 
regular unpaid transactions or escalating levels of overdraft or other debt. And I think 
that it was reasonable for Progressive to consider that Mr B had moved on from any 
problems hed had managing his finances in the past. So I dont currently think that 
the proportionate checks done by Progressive should have led it to decline Mr Bs 
loan application.
Ive looked carefully at how Progressive responded to Mr B when he explained he was facing problems managing his repayments. At that time the regulator would 
expect Progressive to take steps to ensure that Mr B was treated fairly, with 
forbearance and with due consideration. It provided firms with a number of examples 
of this sort of behaviour including the consideration of reducing or waiving future 
interest charges, allowing the payment of arrears to be deferred, or accepting token 
payments for a reasonable period of time.
It is my understanding that the regulators guidance isnt intended to leave debts 
outstanding for an indefinite period of time. Instead the requirement for lenders to 
show forbearance and due consideration to consumers who are facing financial 
difficulties is to allow a reasonable period of breathing space for consumers, facing 
an unexpected fall in their disposable income, to review their options. I havent seen 
anything that makes me think that Progressive treated Mr B unfairly at that time. 
I dont think it was required to remove any interest added to Mr Bs account when the 
loan was first taken.
I have noted that Mr B faced some problems passing the security checks on one call 
with Progressive. It does seem that the agent misunderstood the information Mr B 
was providing. I have seen that Progressive offered a token gesture to Mr B in 
respect of those problems. Progressive says that offer remains open to Mr B if he 
wishes to accept it.
I appreciate how disappointing my decision will be for Mr B. But, in summary, I think 
the checks Progressive did before agreeing this loan were proportionate. And I dont 
think the information shown by the checks should have led to the loan request being 
declined. So I dont currently think this complaint should be upheld.
I invited both parties to let me have any further comments and evidence. Progressive hasnt 
provided us with anything further. Mr B provided us with some comments. Although I am 
only summarising here what Mr B has said, I have considered his entire response carefully 
before writing this decision.
Mr B expressed concerns about my impartiality as an ombudsman given my prior 
employment history. He was unhappy that the conclusion I reached was different to that of 
our adjudicator. He considers that my decision was based on mostly unsubstantiated 
evidence that should have been made available to the adjudicator rather than after his 
assessment had been issued.
Mr B says that he faced serious financial problems very shortly after the loan had been 
taken. He says that was a clear indicator that the checks Progressive did were ineffective 
and that the loan wasnt affordable for him from the outset. In particular he has highlighted 
that a check of his credit file would have showed a lot of activity with other loan companies 
and a number of defaults. He though those should have been a red flag to the lender.
Mr B is concerned that I have based some of my findings on recordings of phone calls he 
had with the lender. He says that it is possible that Progressive only sent, or that I only used, 
phone calls that would support the lenders case. He thinks the phone calls should be treated 
as inadmissible.
Mr B points out that the loan from Progressive didnt clear most of his other debt. He says 
that he had credit cards, a store card, short term loans and long-term loans that were left for 
him to repay. And he thinks the existence of these other credit accounts should have led 
Progressive to decline his loan application.Mr B says that he suffered from a serious episode of ill health in 2016. That resulted in a 
significant decrease in his normal income. He says that at that time Progressive harassed 
him for payment and unreasonably refused his request for a repayment holiday. He says the 
minimum he would now accept to resolve his complaint would be for his outstanding balance 
to be written off.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked again at the evidence provided by both parties, and the additional comments 
provided by Mr B, I am not persuaded that I should change my provisional conclusions. But 
I think it right that I provide some further commentary on the points that have been raised by 
Mr B.
All ombudsmen are approved by our board of non-executive directors, who are required by 
law to appoint ombudsmen who have appropriate qualifications and experience  and they 
appoint ombudsman on terms that ensure their independence. But it is also important that 
ombudsmen themselves consider whether any particular complaint might cause them to face 
a conflict of interest, whether in relation to the consumer, the business, or the subject matter 
of the complaint. That is something that I would do routinely on every complaint. And having 
done so here I am entirely satisfied that this complaint doesnt present me with any 
difficulties in that regard.
To ensure fairness we have a two stage complaints investigation process. The first stage is 
where an adjudicator investigates the matter and issues their opinion on what they think is a 
fair and reasonable way of resolving the matter. This is the informal part of our process and 
most cases are resolved at this stage. But if one or both parties are unhappy with the 
opinion, they can ask for an ombudsmans decision. The ombudsmans final decision is the 
second, formal and final stage of our complaint investigation process. And here, since I did 
not agree with the conclusions our adjudicator reached, I issued a provisional decision, to 
allow both parties a further opportunity to comment.
In deciding a complaint I am required to reach my decision on the basis of what I think is fair 
and reasonable. But that also means that I am not constricted by the same rules of evidence 
that might be applicable in a Court setting. Instead I will decide what weight it is appropriate 
to place on any evidence that is provided by either party, or discovered through my own 
investigations. It is for an ombudsman to decide what evidence he should consider.
It is clear that Mr B considers his financial circumstances to have been far worse than he 
described to Progressive when he asked for the loan. It is not unusual for a consumer to 
sugar-coat their financial situation when applying to a lender. And so it is right that a lender 
should be expected to undertake proportionate checks to, in some cases, independently 
verify the information a consumer provided. But it is also reasonable to conclude that at 
times even the most thorough of checks might not identify the underlying issues that a 
consumer is facing.
When Mr B applied for the loan, Progressive did check his credit file. Here it is worth noting 
that generally, the information a consumer might see, when they request a copy of their 
credit file, might be very different to that seen by a lender. A lender might only see a small 
portion of the credit file, or some data might be missing or anonymised, or the data might not 
be up to date. So Progressive supplemented its check by discussing its results with Mr B. 
And so I think it was reasonable that it placed some weight on the answers he gave when it 
considered what was showing on his credit file.Progressive identified that Mr B had two active credit card accounts. Mr B explained that 
these had been opened as an emergency buffer, and that they were cheaper than a payday 
loan. He said he was repaying far more than the minimum payment each month. It identified 
that he had two larger loans outstanding. Mr B said the initial loan had been opened to start 
some home improvements around a year before. And he said the second loan was to help 
set his son up in preparation for him going to university. That was also the reason he gave 
for the payday loans that had been opened in the previous months.
The credit check also identified that some accounts had been defaulted just over a year 
before. Mr B is absolutely correct that defaults should normally act as a red flag to a lender. 
They often show that a consumer is facing, or has previously faced, fairly significant 
problems managing their money. But Progressive says it asked Mr B about those defaults 
and he explained they arose as a result of disputes with the firms, rather than as a result of 
any financial difficulties. I dont think that explanation was implausible and so it was 
reasonable for Progressive to rely on what Mr B said.
The amount of the loan that was actually paid to Mr B was reduced, as part of the principal 
was used by Progressive to repay the only open payday loan it had identified. And it asked 
Mr B a very specific question about whether he had any other short-term loans open that its 
checks hadnt identified. That was responsible lending  since Progressive would have been 
aware that it might take some time for a new loan to be added to a credit file. Mr B told 
Progressive that he had no other open short-term loans. Again I think it was reasonable for 
the lender to rely on what Mr B said.
So I dont think that the results of the credit checks Progressive did, or the analysis it 
performed of Mr Bs bank statements, gave any concerns that he was facing financial 
problems and would be unable to meet what were relatively small repayments each month. 
I appreciate that Mr B says that he did in fact face financial problems relatively soon 
afterwards. But I dont think it would be reasonable to conclude those should have been 
apparent from what I still conclude were proportionate checks.
In March 2016 Mr B missed a repayment on his loan. Progressive contacted him about that 
missed payment. Mr B explained that around five weeks earlier he had suffered a very 
severe episode of ill-health. And as a result he had faced a shortfall in his income for around 
five weeks. But Mr B reassured Progressive that he was now back working full time and so 
he didnt expect any problems with his future repayments. 
It doesnt seem to me that Progressive failed to offer him support at that time  and from the 
call I have listened to it doesnt seem that Mr B asked Progressive for, or was therefore 
refused, a repayment holiday. So I remain of the opinion that Progressive did all that it 
needed to when Mr B faced a short-term problem in repaying his loan.
I understand that my decision is disappointing for Mr B. But I think the checks Progressive 
did before agreeing the loan were proportionate. And those checks, together with the 
additional information Mr B supplied by phone, didnt suggest that his finances were under 
pressure. So I dont think it was unreasonable for Progressive to conclude the loan was likely 
to be affordable for Mr B. And I havent seen anything that would lead me to conclude that 
Progressive failed to treat Mr B fairly when he faced problems repaying his loan in 2016.
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold the complaint or 
make any award against Progressive Money Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman