DRN-3312666
The complaint
Miss A is a sole trader. She complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc recalled a Bounce Back 
Loan after initially approving it.
What happened
Miss A was a personal customer of Barclays and opened a business account with the bank 
in October 2020 in order to apply for a Bounce Back Loan.
Miss A applied to Barclays for a Bounce Back Loan of £50,000 and the bank initially 
approved her application. The loan was drawn down on 25 November 2020. But a couple of 
days later, Barclays removed the loan funds while it conducted a review.
Barclays subsequently decided that Miss A wasnt eligible for the loan, so it terminated the 
agreement. 
Miss A complained but Barclays said that Miss As Bounce Back Loan application had been 
declined because it hadnt met certain eligibility checks. So Miss A referred the matter to us.
One of our investigators reviewed Miss As complaint but didnt think Barclays had done 
anything wrong. In summary, he said:
While loans provided under the Loan Scheme were backed by a guarantee from the 
government, the decision to lend still rested with the lender. And, in making that 
decision, they were required to carry out certain checks, including fraud, anti-money 
laundering (AML) and Know Your Customer (KYC) checks. 
Miss As application had failed Barclays checks so it had been declined. Looking at 
the information Barclays had reviewed when assessing the application, he thought its 
decision was reasonable. 
Although the loan had initially been provided, the terms and conditions of the 
agreement allowed for its cancellation in certain circumstances. So on determining 
that Miss A wasnt eligible, he didnt think the bank had done anything wrong in 
recovering the loan funds  including suspending the account while it reviewed 
things, which was also allowed for under the applicable terms and conditions.
Miss A didnt accept our investigators view. She said that Barclays had assured her all was 
in order and had initially approved the application  so she queried the basis on which the 
bank had later decided that she wasnt eligible. And she thought she had provided sufficient 
evidence to the bank to demonstrate her eligibility. So she asked that the complaint be 
reviewed afresh, and it was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. Ill explain why.
Under the rules of the Bounce Back Loan Scheme, lenders were expected to carry out 
certain checks, including anti-money laundering, Know Your Customer and fraud checks. 
Miss As application failed these checks, so it was right that Barclays ultimately declined to 
provide her the loan shed requested. Having reviewed the information on which the bank 
based its decision, I think it was reasonable. 
I understand why Miss A would like to know more about the basis of the banks decision, but 
it isnt obliged to disclose its reasons in any more detail than it already has. It wouldnt be 
appropriate for me to share anything further in this regard either. All I can do is reassure 
Miss A that Ive reviewed the banks actions carefully and am satisfied that it reached its 
decision fairly.
As Miss A should not have received the loan in the first place, I think it was appropriate for 
Barclays to take the steps it did to recover the loan  that is, to restrict Miss As access to the 
funds while it reviewed matters and to terminate the loan when it decided that Miss A wasnt 
entitled to it. These actions were allowed for under the terms and conditions of Miss As 
account and the Bounce Back Loan agreement respectively. 
Its regrettable that Barclays provided the loan initially. But the bank had been entitled to rely 
on Miss As self-declaration as to her eligibility for the loan  which it only later discovered 
cause to question. It then took steps to recover the loan swiftly  it had been provided on 
25 November, but was recalled on 27 November and Miss A was informed on 4 December 
that the application had been declined. 
Taking all of the above into account, I dont think Barclays did anything wrong in terminating 
and recalling the Bounce Back Loan from Miss A after initially approving it. So Im not 
requiring it to take any action in response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman