DRN-4089506
The complaint
Mr C complains about the advice given by Tuto Money Limited (Tuto) to transfer the 
benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal pension 
arrangement. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a 
financial loss.
What happened
Mr C was referred to Tuto in 2017 from another advice firm to discuss his pension and 
retirement needs. I think Mr C is mistaken when he said he responded to an online advert. 
Mr C, having recently turned 55, wanted to consider accessing his pension benefits early to 
raise a cash lump sum. Tutos advice process was done over the phone.
Tuto completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Cs circumstances and objectives. 
Amongst other things this recorded that Mr C was 55; he was married, he was employed; he 
rented his home; other than his preserved DB scheme pension, Mr C was contributing £500 
a month to a current workplace pension; and he was looking for a lump sum to consolidate 
debt, go on holiday and buy a new car. Tuto also carried out an assessment of Mr Cs 
attitude to risk, which it deemed to be low / medium. 
On 3 August 2016 Tuto advised Mr C to transfer his pension benefits into a personal pension 
and invest the proceeds in a managed growth fund, which also had the option of a capital 
guarantee. The suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation were:
Mr C wanted to release a cash lump sum to meet his objectives.
Mr C didnt have any savings and he wanted to use his tax-free cash rather than 
borrow the money to meet his objectives.
Mr C believed he had sufficient income provision in retirement from his current 
workplace pension.
Mr C wanted to provide lump sum death benefits to his wife rather than an income.
Mr C wanted flexibility in how he took his income in the future.
Mr C accepted the recommendation and shortly afterwards around £66,000 was transferred 
to his new personal pension. Mr C received his 25% tax-free cash lump sum and the 
proceeds were invested as per the recommendation.
In 2022 Mr C complained to Tuto about the suitability of the transfer advice. In summary 
Mr C said he felt the advice process was rushed and that if the long-term consequences of 
transferring on his retirement had been explained, he wouldnt have gone ahead. 
Tuto didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. In summary it said it didnt believe Mr C was rushed into 
things and he didnt complain about this during the review meetings it had with him. It said it 
believed the advice was suitable - Mr C didnt have any savings or other assets and he was 
in debt by £5,000. It said Mr C was told about the benefits he would be giving up by 
transferring and all of his retirement options were explained. It said Mr C had a workplace 
pension that he was contributing to which he felt would provide all of his financial needs in 
retirement  so Mr Cs financial standing in retirement would not be affected by using his DB 
scheme benefits to enhance his life at that time. 
Because Mr C remained dissatisfied he asked our service to consider his complaint. An 
investigator upheld the complaint and required Tuto to pay compensation. In summary they 
said they didnt think the transfer was financially viable given the growth rate required to 
match Mr Cs DB scheme benefits at retirement. And for this reason alone they didnt think a 
transfer was in Mr Cs best interests. They said Mr Cs objectives for wanting a lump sum 
were nice to haves and werent necessary  Mr C was managing his debt and he could 
already afford a holiday. They said Tuto didnt know whether Mr Cs workplace pension 
would provide the income in retirement he needed because they didnt investigate what it 
would provide. They said in their view Tuto had failed to demonstrate that transferring was in 
Mr Cs best interests. They said had Mr C been suitably advised, they believed he wouldve 
followed that advice and remained in his DB scheme.
Tuto disagreed. In summary it said it believed the case had been decided using a template 
without looking at the evidence. It said the investigator had not made any reference to the 
points it made in its final response letter to Mr Cs complaint. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Tuto's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator. My reasons are set out 
below.The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Tuto should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Cs 
best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his 
best interests.
Financial viability 
Tuto carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) showing how 
much Mr Cs pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the same 
benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield).
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. 
Mr C was 55 at the time of the advice. I cant see that Tuto recorded when Mr C intended to 
retire  but the analysis was based on a retirement age of 65. The critical yield required to 
match Mr Cs benefits at age 65 was 13.67% if he took a full pension  no yield was 
produced assuming Mr C took a cash lump sum and a reduced pension. This compares with 
the discount rate of 3.7% per year for nine years to retirement in this case.
For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle 
projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Cs 
low/medium/ attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. In my view there would be little 
point in Mr C giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to 
achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, given the critical 
yield was in excess of 13%, I think Mr C was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower 
overall value than the DB scheme at retirement, as a result of transferring and investing in 
line with a low/medium attitude to risk. The return required was significantly higher than the 
discount rate and was far in excess of the regulators upper projection rate. In my view, to 
have come close to achieving the growth required wouldve required Mr C to take a 
significantly greater level of risk than he indicated he was prepared to take. And even then I 
think hed likely still be worse off.
In my view Mr Cs capacity for loss was low. Mr C didnt have significant savings or other 
investments. And while he had a workplace pension he was contributing to, there is no 
supporting evidence to show that Mr Cs income needs would be met solely by this pension. 
I think its likely that Mr C would be reliant on both this and his DB scheme to meet his 
income needs through retirement. 
For this reason alone a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Cs best interests. Of 
course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice  something  
I assume Tuto believed to be the case given it expressed the opinion at the time that it was 
highly unlikely  the required growth would be maintained over a period of time. There might 
be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower 
benefits. Ive considered this below.
Flexibility  access to tax-free cash and income needsThe main reason Tuto recommended Mr C transfer his DB scheme benefits was to gain 
access to a lump sum for debt repayment, to buy a new car and a holiday. It also said that 
Mr C wanted to take his future income in a flexible way.
But I dont think Mr C required flexibility in retirement. This is because based on the evidence 
Ive seen, I dont think he had a genuine need to access his tax-free cash earlier than the 
normal scheme retirement age and leave his funds invested until a later date. Ill explain 
why.
The first reason Mr C wanted to use his lump sum for was to repay debt. During the phone 
call with the adviser, which I have listened to, Mr C said he had two credit cards with 
outstanding balances of around £3,000 and £1,200. Tuto made no attempt to establish any 
more information about the debt  for example how much Mr C was paying towards it each 
month and whether any of it was on special repayment terms such as a zero-interest rate 
offer. Looking at the income and expenditure analysis in the fact-find, while basic, theres 
nothing here to suggest the debt was unaffordable or that Mr C might be in arrears. Mr C did 
not appear to have any intention of retiring or stopping work early - so given his continued 
earning capacity, I see no reason why Mr C needed to repay what, in my view, was a 
relatively small amount of debt at this time. 
In my view there was no pressing or compelling need for Mr C to access his tax-free cash to 
repay this debt. Its entirely possible that Mr C couldve repaid it from his normal earned 
income over time. Alternatively Mr C couldve used a loan to better structure its ultimate 
repayment, which I have seen nothing to suggest wasnt a viable alternative. These were 
things a more detailed interrogation of Mr Cs circumstances wouldve uncovered and which 
Tuto ought reasonably to have carried out rather than immediately recommending Mr C 
transfer his guaranteed DB pension benefits to achieve things.
I can see in the advice paperwork, which Tuto referred to in its final response letter to Mr C 
as evidence of the suitability of the advice he received, that his debts totalled £5,000. But 
this is not what Mr C told the adviser during their phone call. As I said above, Mr C said his 
debts totalled around £4,200. The adviser recorded them as £5,000, inflating the figure. It 
strikes me that, based on what was said in the call, the adviser did this because he was 
looking to justify the transfer. Not only did they do this, but when they asked Mr C about any 
savings he had, to which Mr C replied that he had a couple of thousand pounds held with a 
friend, because it was deemed he didnt have immediate access to them, they dismissed 
them and recorded them as nil. But this was not the true position. I dont think this was acting 
in Mr Cs best interests. Mr C had savings, which he couldve used towards repaying his 
debt. But in any event, with a net debt position of around £2,000 it demonstrates, in my view, 
there was no urgency for Mr C to repay his debt.
That said, even if the true position was as recorded in the advice paperwork at the time, Im 
not persuaded that Mr C needed to access his pension benefits early to repay debt that was 
evidently affordable.
 
Mr C also wanted access to a lump sum to buy a new car and to go on holiday. But neither 
of these things were compelling reasons to transfer. 
Not only did Tuto not establish how much Mr C truly wanted for these things  it was purely 
based on him accessing the maximum lump sum possible - but its also clear from the phone 
call that Mr C didnt need a new car. He said he planned to give his current car to his wife 
and buy himself a new one. So it wasnt the case for example that Mr C urgently needed to 
replace his only means of transport to allow him to get to work, which might have demonstrated a need. But either way, Mr C couldve explored borrowing the money for this 
purpose which Tuto ought to have properly discussed with Mr C. And as for going on 
holiday, I dont think this can reasonably be described as a compelling reason to transfer. 
In any event, Mr C told the adviser that he put aside money monthly for holidays.
Overall, I dont think Mr C had a genuine need to access his tax-free cash earlier than the 
normal scheme retirement age and leave his funds invested until a later date  so I dont 
think it was in Mr Cs best interests to transfer out of his DB scheme. 
Tuto also recommended the transfer because it said Mr C wanted flexibility in how he 
accessed his income in the future. But I cant see evidence that Mr C had a strong, or indeed 
any need for variable income throughout his retirement. I cant see it was discussed with 
him. The only discussion about Mr Cs retirement income need was around how much he 
ideally wanted. Mr C said he ideally wanted £2,000 a month but said a more realistic 
expectation was around £800 a month. But Tuto didnt carry out an assessment of this or 
interrogate things further to establish what was realistic and achievable. 
I can see Tuto has placed great weight on what Mr C said about him not needing to rely on 
his DB pension for his income in retirement because he felt that his current workplace 
pension would meet his needs. But Tuto appears to have just accepted what Mr C said - I 
dont think it was reasonable for Tuto to make this conclusion in giving its advice. The 
adviser made no attempt to establish what income Mr Cs pension might likely provide him 
with  they simply said it was a good scheme. The adviser only knew that Mr C was 
contributing £500 a month towards it. But this doesnt give any indication of the schemes 
likely benefits at Mr Cs normal retirement age. I can see in the suitability report Tuto said it 
recommended that Mr C seek financial advice on his workplace pension  but in my view 
this shouldve formed part of the advice Tuto was providing Mr C with. In acting in Mr Cs 
best interests, Tuto ought to have properly considered Mr Cs retirement income needs 
looking at what pension provision he had, to determine whether it was a suitable 
recommendation for him to transfer his DB scheme benefits to a personal pension 
arrangement. In my view Tutos advice was purely focused on Mr Cs short-term needs and 
paid little attention to his overall income retirement needs, which it ought to have done. 
If Mr C took benefits from the DB scheme at 65, according to Tutos analysis hed be entitled 
to an annual income of around £5,400. In my view this was a not inconsiderable annual 
income and wouldve provided Mr C with a solid income foundation upon which his current 
workplace pension, and ultimately his state pension, in my view wouldve likely meant Mr C 
could achieve his retirement income need. In my view, Mr C stood a better chance of 
achieving his retirement income needs by remaining in his DB scheme.  
Death benefits
The other reason Tuto gave for recommending the transfer was to provide lump sum death 
benefits over providing an income.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr C. 
But whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr C might have 
thought it was a good idea to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, 
the priority here was to advise Mr C about what was best for his retirement provisions. A 
pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement  it is not a legacy planning 
tool. And I dont think Tuto explored to what extent Mr C was prepared to accept a lower 
retirement income in exchange for higher death benefits.I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr C 
was married, so the spouses pension provided by the DB scheme wouldve been useful to 
his spouse if Mr C predeceased her, despite what its recorded about him not wanting to rely 
on an income. I dont think Tuto made the value of this benefit clear enough to Mr C. This 
was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent on investment performance, 
whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. In any event, Tuto should 
not have encouraged Mr C to prioritise the potential for higher death benefits through a 
personal pension over his security in retirement.
Furthermore, if Mr C genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his spouse, which didnt depend 
on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, I think Tuto 
shouldve instead explored life insurance. And the starting point for this neednt have been 
for the full transfer value amount - essentially this would assume that he would pass away on 
day one following the transfer, which isnt realistic - it ought to have been to ask Mr C how 
much he would ideally like to leave to his spouse. And this couldve been explored on a 
whole of life or term assurance basis, which was likely to be cheaper to provide. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr C. And I dont think that 
insurance was properly explored as an alternative.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility and the potential for higher or different death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr C. But Tuto 
wasnt there to just transact or facilitate what Mr C might have thought he wanted or seemed 
like a good idea. Yet I think the evidence indicates this is precisely what happened. From 
listening to the phone calls between Mr C and Tuto, on more than one occasion they 
referred to being able to facilitate what Mr C wanted. But the advisers role was to really 
understand what Mr C needed and recommend what was in his best interests. I dont think 
Tuto did that.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr C was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr C was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this. Mr C shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of the 
scheme just to achieve a short-term objective, which included repaying debts that were 
affordable. And the potential for higher death benefits wasnt worth giving up the guarantees 
associated with his DB scheme.
So, I think Tuto shouldve advised Mr C to remain in his DB scheme.
Of course, I have to consider whether, if things had happened as they should have Mr C 
would've gone ahead anyway, against Tuto's advice. 
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr C wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against Tutos advice. 
I say this because Mr C was an inexperienced investor who in my view neither possessed 
the requisite knowledge, skill nor confidence to go against the advice they were given  
particularly in what was a complex pension matter. Despite what Tuto believed, this pension 
accounted for a not insignificant percentage of Mr Cs retirement provision. So, if Tuto had 
provided him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it 
wasnt in his best interests, I think he wouldve accepted that advice.Im not persuaded that Mr Cs desire for a cash-lump sum now that he reached the age of 55 
was so great that he wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, 
whose expertise he had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or 
in his best interests. If Tuto had explained that there was no pressing need for Mr C to 
access his benefits now or risk his guaranteed pension to achieve things, I think that 
wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont think Mr C would have insisted on transferring 
out of the DB scheme.
In light of the above, I think Tuto should compensate Mr C for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr C, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr C would have 
most likely remained in the occupational pension scheme if suitable advice had been given. 
Tuto must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
For clarity, Mr C has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age of 65, as per the 
usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should 
be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of 
notification of Mr Cs acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Tuto should:
calculate and offer Mr C redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr C before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr C receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr C accepts Tutos offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr C for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Cs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr C as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, Tuto may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum 
payments to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their 
pension. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would 
have been taxed according to Mr Cs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 
20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Tuto Money Limited to 
pay Mr C the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Tuto Money Limited pays Mr C the balance.
If Mr C accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Tuto Money Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr C can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr C may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman